15-08-2020||News||Covid-19: A plan for tourism to survive, revive, thrive||Covid-19 is the biggest challenge that the global tourism sector has faced till date. The United Nations World Tourism Organization estimates a reduction of 58% to 78% in tourist traffic across the world. This means that international tourist arrivals could drop by a billion. Typically, the tourism sector is among the first to be affected, and the last to recover during a health crisis.For the tourism sector in India, it is no longer going to be business-as-usual and we will need to redefine, refocus and change the game plan going forward. It is essential to measure the impact of Covid-19 and prepare a cogent strategy involving both the government and the industry stakeholders, which can be categorised into three phases: Survive (short-term), revive (medium-term) and thrive (long-term).The twin challenges in the survive stage are to save businesses and save jobs. The Centre must provide businesses with institutional access to working capital and enable liquidity through a deferment of loan repayments. The Centre intends to help small businesses to access working capital by underwriting a part of the loan amount. On the demand side, India has a robust domestic market which could soften the impact as compared with nations that rely largely on international tourists. India receives 11 million foreign tourists, which is small compared to its size and relative potential. Dubai receives well over 16 million tourists. At least 24 million Indian tourists travel abroad each year and spend an estimated $25 billion. We must incentivise domestic travel to retain these high- spending tourists, which should not be difficult given the international travel restrictions in place. Critical to the success of this would be to allay the anxieties of tourists by ensuring that robust protocols for safety and hygiene are in place. In the revive phase, the slow easing of international travel restrictions will result in intense competition as all countries will target the same markets. This calls for a nimble and aggressive strategy for specific micro-markets focused on intense localised communication through social media.We need to prioritise products and destinations that would be of interest in the target market and ensure that these deliver value for money. Even though a significant part of the business travel will be lost to technology, India should aggressively campaign with state support to host a handful of the biggest and best global conferences and conventions to send out the message that India is safe and is back in business.The thrive phase calls for an adaptation to a fundamentally changed tourism sector post-Covid-19. Consumer preferences and tourism policies the world over are expected to evolve towards achieving greater sustainability and community orientation. We will see a trend towards taking cognisance of environmental costs beyond economic costs; destinations that will move towards a zero carbon foot print along with higher levels of hygiene; tour operators and hoteliers gravitating towards more responsible and meaningful experiences through minimising food miles; showcasing the local for the global; and positioning the host community as the centrepiece of the tourist experience. The pandemic offers us an opportunity to hit the reset the button to make the tourism sector a sustainable engine for economic growth and development. Beyond the immediate pain of the pandemic, we should not miss the chance to make full use of the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-a-plan-for-tourism-to-survive-revive-thrive/story-07EpP7FreQtXDKSs7zxkuK.html
15-08-2020||City||Covid warriors recognised for their efforts||GurugramFrom doctors, lab technicians and ASHA workers, who have been at the forefront of the battle against the coronavirus disease, to members from the police force that played a crucial role in the enforcement of lockdown restrictions, individuals from different organs of the administration and departments were recognised by the government for their efforts in curbing the spread of Covid-19 on the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday. A total of 42 corona warriors from police, health and education departments and MCG were recognised for their efforts by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala as part of the Independence Day celebrations at Tau Devi Lal stadium in sector 38. Appreciating the efforts of the Covid warriors, Chautala said they had played a crucial role in tackling the outbreak of coronavirus and congratulated them all. Members from the Civil Defence Committee, Red Cross, and various panchayats were also awarded by Chautala for their contribution. Geeta Sharma, a lab technician at the Wazirabad Public Health Centre, was among the health workers who were awarded. She is involved in the collection of samples from those suspected of having Covid-19 and was recognised for her contribution in the testing process. The 49-year-old has been on duty since the pandemic broke, sometimes working without any leave for 15 days at a stretch. At the forefront of the testing process, Sharma takes a Covid test every month. “Ours is a high-risk job. We are in direct contact with patients, which necessitates that we get ourselves tested every month,” she said. Sharma, who has been working as a lab technician with the Wazirabad PHC for the past 11 years, said that the initial phase of the pandemic was challenging since most people had not estimated the outbreak would last for so many months. “The initial few months were challenging but things are being brought under control gradually. Increased public awareness has made our job easier than before. People understand the consequences of the diseases and cooperate with us,” said Sharma. Her day begins around 9 am and continues till evening, until a particular number of samples are tested. She conducts around 40-50 tests every day and keeps a record of patients’ details. Sharma said she was happy about receiving the award since it was a recognition of the efforts of health workers. “We have been working tirelessly since months. Getting this award will motivate us to continue with our efforts,” she said. Sangeeta, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), is another front line warrior who was awarded for her efforts in the testing process. The 31-year-old stays in touch with a Covid patient starting from the contact tracing stage till the recovery. “We trace the contact history, reach out to the family, provide them with masks, oximeters, medicines and keep a check on the patient throughout the home isolation process,” said Sangeeta, who has been on duty since March 22, when the first Covid case was detected in the city. Talking about the increased work pressure during the pandemic, Sangeeta said she and other ANMs were on duty throughout the day since their job required addressing all immediate concerns of the patient. “While officially, the public health centre timings are from 9 am to 6 pm, we have been working round the clock during the pandemic. We need to be available at all times for any duty that may arise,” said Sangeeta. For the past four months, she has been following a strict sanitisation routine and isolating herself from the family. “After returning from work, I stay in a separate room and only step out after disinfecting my clothes and belongings,” she said. Among the various challenges that she faced in the past four months, juggling work responsibilities with household chores cautiously without spreading the virus was the toughest. “First two-three months were very difficult. It took some time to make the family understand what my job was and why I had to be out at odd hours. They feared that I might end up spreading the infection at home. However, they gradually understood and cooperate readily now,” said Sangeeta. She said that the recognition was important since health workers had been working in challenging circumstances since the pandemic started. “Apart from the work pressure, there are emotional challenges of staying away from children. This award will make my family happy,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-warriors-recognised-for-their-efforts/story-WmPtiXcPcMSUV1p4kPtNkL.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||At I-Day event in Gurugram, Chautala shines light on job quota||To ensure 75% jobs in the private sector are reserved for those who are domiciled in the state, as announced in July, the Haryana government plans to introduce a Bill in this regard in the next assembly session, said deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday at the Independence Day celebrations held at the Tau Devi Lal stadium in sector 38.“The state government will also provide training to the youth to prepare them for competitive exams at the state and central level. Those students who get more than 90 per cent marks will be chosen for this assistance and the goal is that Haryana should increase its share in central government employment from present 7-8 percent to 12 to 15 percent,” said Chautala, adding that this will ensure that youth are able to get jobs outside the state as well. Haryana government on July 6 had approved a draft ordinance requiring private companies, societies, trusts and similar bodies to reserve 75 percent of new jobs with less than ₹50,000 salary to those domiciled in the state, with some exceptions. Under the proposed Haryana State Employment to Local Candidates Act-2020, all private units with more than 10 employees would be covered under this.On Saturday, the deputy CM also inaugurated 17 development projects in the district which have been developed or are being developed at a cost of ₹10.44 crore. Six of these projects are located in village Naurangpur, six in Bajghera, two in Dharmpur and one each in Nakhrola and Maujabad. Around 100 women from the Panchayati Raj institutions were gifted scooters for doing a commendable job during their tenure. Chautala also said that their government was working hard to bring foreign investment in the state to boost the industrial sector and a lot of work was being done in this regard. He also said that the state government has given three options to Maruti to shift its plant in Gurugram to either Sohna, Jhajjar or Kharkhauda in view of its planned expansion. Referring to the recent issue of illegal registries, he said that efforts are being made to ensure a better and foolproof registration system with minimum human intervention.Prior to his address, Chautala unfurled the national flag at Tau Devi.Lal stadium. He also felicitated the Covid 19 warriors from different departments for their efforts to contain the virus spread. The Independence Day celebrations were also held across the city with RWAs, NGOs and other civil society organisations hoisted the national flag, planted trees and distributed face masks to residents to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-i-day-event-in-gurugram-chautala-shines-light-on-job-quota/story-knQRZ6TPVjvDiv3OnL3EhN.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police to involve residents in its drive against drug abuse||leena.dhankhar@htlive.com  In order to crack down on the growing menace of drug peddlers in the city, the Gurugram Police has decided to rope in city’s residents’ welfare associations (RWA) and allow their members to share intelligence regarding the sale of narcotics in their areas. The police said a special team has been formed to interact with residents and conduct raids in those areas where drug peddlers might be active. A helpline number to share intelligence will be launched soon to report information pertaining to drugs, said the police. Officials added that the number would be monitored by a senior official, and people can even share information through WhatsApp calls and messages. The name of the resident sharing information will be kept a secret. The resident will also be rewarded on the basis of the information provided, the police said. Police commissioner K K Rao said a committee will be formed, involving experts, officials and local residents, in order to curb the drug menace in the city. “We have identified areas from where drug peddlers have been arrested in the last one year. Starting Monday, mufti-clad policemen will keep a vigil in these areas to keep a check on narcotics being supplied. We are hoping to crack these supply routes and arrest people supplying narcotics to peddlers in the city,” he said. The police said since school and colleges are closed due to the ongoing lockdown, peddlers have become active in residential areas. As such, a need was felt for greater engagement with the community so that this menace can be curbed. Rao said any information that could provide a tip-off pertaining to the sale of drugs in residential areas could be sent through messages or shared with the station house officers(SHOs) of the respective police station. “We will take prompt action on the tip-off and the informer will be rewarded based of the recovery and arrest,” he said. More than five teams, comprising five personnel each, will be deployed in 45 suspected residential areas to try and check the supply of drugs. The officers have also told their informers to stay alert and keep them posted. According to the police, the demand for drugs has gone up since the imposition of the lockdown in the city. Local drug peddlers sell marijuana in pouches of 100 grams that cost anywhere between ₹1,000 and ₹1,500 depending on the quality and type of customer. Earlier the cost of one pouch used to be ₹2,000 only, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-to-involve-residents-in-its-drive-against-drug-abuse/story-EFTz3c2VkLyo6Xo3q2cL1J.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||Badkal lake rejuvenation project delayed by a year||The Badkal lake rejuvenation project, first conceived in April 2018 as part of the Faridabad Smart City Mission, has been inordinately delayed on account of clearances from the forest department and land acquisition issues , and work on filling up the empty lake bed with recycled sewage water is now slated to commence only in August next year, confirmed officials privy to the matter. The project was initially supposed to be completed by October 2020. Rajesh Joon, additional divisional manager, Haryana tourism department and nodal officer, Surajkund Mela Authority, who is also closely involved in the Badkal lake rejuvenation project, said, “The clearances required from the forest department were a significant hurdle, but in-principle approval has now been granted. We are currently parsing through revenue records to establish the ownership pattern of the land, and are expecting final clearance from the forest department within the next two or three weeks. Work on filling up the water body itself will only start by next August.”Hindustan Times had reported, on November 21 last year, that the tourism department had sought diversion of 76 acres of forest land for the project. As per documents available on the Parivesh portal for environmental clearances, the forest department’s nod is in now in its final stage. Moreover, while the proposed sewage treatment plant (STP) that will supply the lake with water had been approved by the state government in November last year, land acquisition issues in the area where the STP is slated to be constructed also threw a wrench in the proposal’s progress, confirmed a senior technical advisor with the Faridabad Smart City Mission Limited (FSCML) , seeking anonymity. “We have begun construction of boundary walls, but the plant itself is yet to come up,” the official said. Emerging as a popular tourist spot in the late 1960s, the Badkal lake bed has been bone-dry for over a decade. In 2010, it was briefly filled up ahead of the Commonwealth Games in Delhi, but a subsequent report by the Delhi Parks and Gardens Society (DPGS), in 2014, declared the lake to be completely dry. By some estimates, there hasn’t been any water there since 2006.The lake’s 42-odd hectares are now overrun with scrubby mesquite trees. Rampant mining in the adjoining Aravalli hills has altered the region’s hydrogeology, ravaged the catchment areas and damaged the underlying groundwater aquifer. A 2010 research survey led by geologist Sudhanshu Shekhar, titled ‘Conservation of hydrogeological heritage : A case study of Badkhal lake’, stated, “Mining activities, including blasting over the years, have denuded the catchments areas, which led to soil erosion, creation and opening up of secondary porosity. Mining also generated huge amounts of debris which block the flow of rainwater into the lakes.”According to the current proposal, which was submitted to the government by IIT-Roorkee in March last year, the lake bed will be freed of all invasive tree species and compacted with a slurry of bentonite clay, to impede groundwater recharge. Following this, an STP will supply the lake bed with about 9.5 MLD of treated water per day, for about 200 days, which would result in a water body with a depth of six metres. “We will start clearing the lakebed of trees and shrubs as soon as we get a go ahead from the forest department,” Joon said.Joon also added that the Badkal lake rejuvenation project, if successful, will serve as a model for reviving tourism at other water bodies in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad. “Similar plans are underway to revive the Saras tourist complex at the nearby Damdama lake, but we have to get everything right with Badkal first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/badkal-lake-rejuvenation-project-delayed-by-a-year/story-SuMXv6Mt5Dwr5ICXN7KpKP.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram sanitisation worker tests positive||An employee of the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Friday just a day before he was to be felicitated on Independence Day by Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautat as one of the many “corona warriors” The official was deployed at its health wing in Sector 38 and was responsible for executing sanitisation and disinfection procedures in Covid-19 affected areas.The district’s Independence Day celebrationswas held at the Tau Devi Lal stadium near Rajiv Chowk . MCG officials privy to the matter said that besides sanitising and disinfecting areas with Covid-19 cases since March, the worker was also carrying out fumigation drives and anti-larvae operations across various parts of the city.A senior MCG official in the health wing said that the civic body has shared relevant information, including the locations where the employee was recently deployed, to the district health department for contact tracing. “Our worker is self-isolating and we have reached out to all our employees that came in contact with him recently to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. We will be continuing our operations without any interruption,” said Ashish Singla, CMO of MCG and the civic body’s coronavirus nodal officer.This was the sixth case where an MCG employee tested positive since the outbreak was first recofded in the district in March. Last month, three officials including the zonal taxation officer (ZTO) in the taxation branch of MCG’s sector 42 office tested positive for coronavirus. In June, an official each at MCG’s audit and IT branch in sector 34 office had also tested positive. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) of the district health department said, “Around 45 people who were being felicitated on Saturday were tested through rapid antigen testing on Friday evening as a precautionary measure. The MCG worker was the only one whose result came back positive.” He declined to comment further on the matter.Following the result, the worker was immediately directed to self isolate. MCG officials said he would be felicitated on a later day after he has recovered.“All sanitisation officials have been provided with basic safety equipment such as masks and gloves. In case, they are cleaning locations outside households of Covid-19 cases, they are also provided with PPE kits. The equipment only reduces the chances of contracting the infection, it does not safeguard a person 100%. Even in this case, despite following all the requisite safety measures, our worker contracted the infection,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-sanitisation-worker-tests-positive/story-qEj4Znf1Im64xQ2bkNLf0H.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi courts may open on a rotational basis from September 1, says HC||The Delhi high court on Saturday said it may resume physical on-site functioning at all seven of its district courts, as well as the high court itself, on a rotational basis from September 1. The reopening, being done on an experimental basis, would depend on the complete availability of public transport and provided that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi remains stable. The high court also said to begin with, only one-fourth of a court’s total capacity, in terms of benches and judges, may resume functioning. “On an experimental basis, around one-fourth of the courts can resume physical functioning on a rotational basis while the rest can continue taking up matters through videoconferencing,” an office order, issued by the high court registrar Manoj Jain, said.All courts have remained shut for nearly five months since the lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19, and although lockdown restrictions were eased from June onwards, courts have been holding only virtual hearings via video conferencing so far.The administrative and general supervision committee of the high court, headed by chief justice DN Patel, directed the committee for preparation of graded action plan, which was constituted for the phase-wise reopening of courts, to draw up a plan for the gradual opening of on-site courts from September 1 onwards.HT earlier this week reported that the Supreme Court may also start holding in-person hearings in at least two or three of its 15 courts as early as next week, as demanded by the Bar association, even as the top court wants additional safety measures put in place before the reopening.The administrative and general supervision committee of the high court has also decided to restrict its functioning as well as that of the district courts to urgent matters till August 31, in view of the pandemic. Earlier, the high court had restricted its functioning and that of the district courts till August 14.The order issued on Saturday further said courts of registrars and joint registrars have been directed not to pass any adverse order in non-urgent or routine matters, wherein the advocate or litigant concerned is unable to join the proceedings through video conferencing, till the time the physical functioning of the courts resumes.It also said that all cases listed before the high court, between August 17 and August 31, except those before the registrars and joint registrars, have been adjourned to the period between October 9 and October 23.Similar directions were issued with regard to restricted functioning in lower courts till August 31 and their gradual reopening from September 1 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-courts-may-open-on-a-rotational-basis-from-september-1-says-hc/story-LNGDuQz9Ft0A8PMMlYZGbI.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,276 new coronavirus cases, Kejriwal says situation ‘quite under control’||Delhi on Saturday recorded 1,276 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the caseload to over 1.51 lakh, while the death toll rose to 4,188 after 10 new fatalities occurred in the last 24 hours. Total number of active cases, marking an upward trend and a negative indication for the national capital looking at a road to recovery, rose to 11,489 on Saturday. At present, Delhi has over 16,500 beds available for those infected by the virus, out of which 3,901 beds in dedicated COVID care centre have been occupied by people under quarantine including those who have travelled to the city via Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. After 18,271 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, Delhi’s total number of tests conducted rose to 12,91,411. The state authorities have conducted 67,969 tests per million, the health bulletin stated. Total number of containment zones in Delhi, as of Saturday, are 538. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the Delhi government will not open schools unless it is “fully convinced” about the improved Covid-19 situation in the city.Delivering his Independence Day speech at the Delhi Secretariat, Kejriwal said the Covid-19 situation in the city is “quite under control” as compared to what it was two months back and thanked all the stakeholders, including the central government, ‘corona warriors’ and different organisations.He said in view of reports that some patients collapsed due to drop in their oxygen level even after recovering from the disease and testing negative, the Delhi government will start providing oxygen concentrators to them from next week.The chief minister said the safety and the health of school children are very important to the AAP government.“I meet people and get messages from them asking not to open schools. I want to assure them that we care about their children as much as they do. Unless fully convinced, we are not going to open the schools,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-276-new-coronavirus-cases-kejriwal-says-situation-quite-under-control/story-By5WQIMYUGFpr0K42PsJNI.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Over 1,500 birds injured by kite strings in the last fortnight||Feathers snapped, throats slit and strings entangled in their claws—a large number of birds in the national capital have reportedly fallen prey to kite strings in the last fortnight.Veterinarians and animal rescue groups have observed that this year, the number of birds injured by manjhas (kite strings) has increased.Sunil Jain, manager at the Charitable Bird Hospital in Chandni Chowk, said that between August 1 and August 15, they received at least 1,000 cases of manjha-related injuries. Last year in the same period, the hospital received around 700 such cases.“We have definitely admitted a higher number of birds injured by kite strings to the hospital this year. We assume that since more people are working from home these days, they are entertaining themselves by flying kites. However, a lot of varieties of strings are extremely dangerous for birds; many die during treatment from serious injuries and others are maimed for life,” Jain said.Other animal rescue helplines and veterinary hospitals have also observed a similar trend. The Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre has admitted at least 580 birds injured by kite strings during the same period.The Delhi Police said that they have been conducting raids at popular markets to book kite sellers who sell banned varieties of kite strings. Last week, ahead of Independence Day when the sale of kites was at its peak, the police raided over 50 shops in areas such as Chawri Bazar, Chandni Chowk, Lal Kuan and Chand Mohalla, and booked around 15 sellers. A Delhi Police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that the sellers were booked under Section five of the Environment Protection Act (1986), which gives the government the power to issue directions and orders for the protection of environmental interests.Experts said that the reason behind such cases is the rampant and unchecked sale of Chinese manjha, which is made of plastic and nylon, and Bareilly ka manjha, which is coated with crushed glass or metal. The Supreme Court, in November 2017, had refused to lift the ban on these types of kite strings brought into effect by the National Green Tribunal in 2016. The Delhi government had also given a separate order for a ban in 2017. “These kite strings are not only fatal for birds and animals but have also caused serious injuries to human beings. After many such incidents in 2017, the Delhi government banned the sale of both Chinese and Bareilly ka manjha. But they are still openly sold at local markets and, every year before the Independence Day, innocent birds become victims,” Sujata Singh, an animal rights activist, said.Explaining the injuries caused to birds by these dangerous varieties of kite strings, Singh said that most birds’ wings are damaged. Though there may not be immediate repercussions, if birds continue to fly, the injuries worsen and get infected.“The Chinese manjha and the Bareilly ka manjha are popular among people because they make it easier to cut an opponent’s kite easily. It is the sharpness of these strings that causes grievous injuries,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-1-500-birds-injured-by-kite-strings-in-the-last-fortnight/story-V8tGPeq5xOPOYwE20pjJTJ.html
15-08-2020||City||All shops open, Thane residents crowd markets; TMC monitors||After the shops were permitted to remain open from 9am to 7pm, the Thane market witnessed a large crowd on Saturday. Thane civic body officials appealed to citizens to maintain social distancing. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had issued an order on Thursday for shops to remain open while maintaining social distancing. The shop owners were asked to ensure everyone wore masks and adhered to social distancing norms. “We kept sanitisers at the entrance of our shops and not more than two customers were allowed at a time. We did markings to ensure social distancing norms were followed,” said Rasik Chedda, chairman, Ram Maruti Road Shopkeepers Association.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC said, “We had our officers patrolling at regular intervals to make sure all lockdown rules were followed. We also made regular announcements at popular shopping areas like Naupada and Manpada junction to wear masks and maintain social distance.” R Somavanshi, senior police inspector, Thane Nagar police station, said, “The lanes are narrow; hence it may seem crowded, however, we did not observe any violation of social distancing norms on Saturday.” Neeta Gaikwad, 52, a resident of Naupada, said, “The weekend and holiday made it an apt time to step out on Saturday. The roads were crowded than usual, but everyone maintained social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-shops-open-thane-residents-crowd-markets-tmc-monitors/story-tmQ0VWJ3bwTSeyrknXS6JJ.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal exhorts people to donate oximeters for villages||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to the public, members of the civil society and party workers across the nation to donate pulse oximeters to the AAP so it can set up ‘oxygen testing centres’ in rural India to reduce the number of Covid-19 deaths. Digitally addressing AAP volunteers across the nation, Kejriwal said the Covid-19 situation of Delhi is under control, but the situation in other parts of the country, especially villages, is still bad. Sunday being Kejriwal’s birthday, the chief minister appealed to AAP supporters to donate oximeters instead of sending him gifts. He also said AAP volunteers will be trained to check oxygen saturation levels in Covid-19 patients in these villages. “I want to appeal to all the AAP volunteers, supporters, donors, and well-wishers of the country to help us. We are planning to distribute responsibilities among our volunteers of providing oximeters in villages. This is a private effort. The person responsible for oximeters in a village will send them to the houses of the people in need, and they can test their oxygen level. They can then get admitted to a nearby hospital if the Covid testing centre is at a distance,” Kejriwal said.The AAP chief said he was concerned that over 60,000 fresh cases and around 800-1,000 deaths are being recorded in the country every day. “I would not say that we have won the battle against Covid-19 in Delhi, but we are in a much better position today, compared to two months ago, which has reduced the fear among people. We have taken several measures—we created plasma banks, introduced home isolation, increased testing, and beds in Delhi. But the number of cases are steadily rising in the entire country,” he said. “Every government, be it State or Centre, is addressing the situation in different ways. Now that Covid-19 is spreading in villages, it is a great matter of worry because, in the last 70 years, we have not been able to provide good healthcare facilities in our villages. It is easier to find doctors and hospitals in cities, but if Covid-19 spreads in villages, it will prove worrisome,” he said.Kejriwal said that after launching home isolation in Delhi, his government learned a lot of lessons. “For example, of 10,000 cases, only 1,000 cases were serious (on an average) and we treated the remaining 9,000 cases at home. If we had admitted all the 10,000 cases to the hospital, we would have required 10,000 beds which were not available,” he said. Along these lines, the AAP chief also suggested a three-step strategy that can be implemented in villages. “By implementing home isolation, asymptomatic people or people with mild symptoms will be treated at home. Second, if the village panchayat sends oximeters or oxygen cylinders to people’s houses, they can be saved if their oxygen levels fall,” Kejriwal said.The AAP chief continued that the biggest problem with Covid-19 was the reduced oxygen levels, which result in the loss of life. He urged the public to donate as many oximeters as they could to the AAP so it could distribute them in villages. “We will also set up oxygen testing centres in villages. We will train people on all precautions to take. We will explain how to wear a mask, sanitisation and other steps. First, if you want to donate oximeters to the Aam Aadmi Party, please contact us. And second, if you want to take the responsibility of your village, please let us know. All the state coordinators, district coordinators, please open as many oxygen testing centres in your villages as possible and try to save as many lives as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-exhorts-people-to-donate-oximeters-for-villages/story-lScKDSfSnPhGwKMAFj491I.html
15-08-2020||City||I-Day celebrations go online in Delhi colleges and universities||New DelhiUniversities and colleges in Delhi organised virtual events to mark the 74th year of independence even though the Covid-19 pandemic and mandatory social distancing norms limited the celebrations.Institutes such as Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi University, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University and Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi held small-scale flag-hoisting ceremonies on the campus. Delhi University colleges such as Delhi College of Arts and Commerce (DCAC) conducted virtual events to celebrate Independence Day.Anuradha Gupta, DCAC principal, said, “The flag-hoisting ceremony happened through web application and the national anthem was played online. We commemorated the sacrifices of freedom fighters and lesser-known scientists and entrepreneurs. Students recited poems and we screened a short film on nation-builders. We brought forward educationists, teachers and students on the platform. Discussions ranged from the National Education Policy to Atma Nirbhar Bharat and the need to be self-reliant.”Jamia organised a virtual poetry symposium on Friday evening. “Teachers and officers working in different departments of the university recited poems in six languages, including Sanskit, Persian, Hindi and English,” said media coordinator Ahmad Azeem.The JNU unit of the National Service Scheme conducted an online competition. “Generally, we have cultural performances but that was not possible due to the pandemic. So we have a contest inviting video submissions from across the country on people who have been social change makers. The videos will be uploaded on our social media platforms and the ones with most views and likes will be awarded on August 20,” said Abhivyakti Vivek, a postgraduate student and the NSS convener at JNU.The Delhi University Students’ Union organised virtual Independence Day celebrations throughout the week. From poetry recitals to debates and quizzes, DUSU invited students to participate in online events themed around the National Education Policy and “independence from colonial education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/i-day-celebrations-go-online-in-delhi-colleges-and-universities/story-bJmspkX0P6lMT1fRcCYKnI.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Happiness curriculum improved students’ outlook: Think tank||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the happiness curriculum had led to an improvement in students’ outlook, according to a recent report published by a global think tank. “A study by the global think tank Brookings Institution has found that the Happiness Curriculum launched in Delhi’s government schools led to positive improvements among our children. The Delhi education model continues to make all Indians very proud,” Kejriwal said. On Saturday, global think tank Brookings Institution released insights from its report on the happiness curriculum—the Delhi government’s flagship programme implemented in over 1,030 government schools. “The happiness curriculum has already shown an improvement in relationships both in and outside of classrooms in Delhi schools. Students are more reflective about small arguments with their peers, and more insightful in understanding home dynamics. We are excited to see what other changes will take place in the long term and how it may inform policies nationally and internationally,” the think tank stated in the summary of the report published on its website. The report—Development of student and teacher measures of happiness curriculum factors—also stated that students initially found the curriculum “very different from their traditional classroom experiences” and the Happiness Classes provided them “with opportunities for interesting activities and discussions.” Launched in 2018, the happiness curriculum is taught from nursery to Class 8. The classes include activities like meditation, street plays, story-telling sessions and other interactive exercises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/happiness-curriculum-improved-students-outlook-think-tank/story-I52P6c9IFRbvSE3dITeLdN.html
15-08-2020||City||Beat policing starts in GB Nagar, cops equipped with electronic gadgets||Noida Nearly seven months after launching the beat policing in Bisrakh police station limits as a pilot project, the Gautam Budh Nagar police on Saturday started the system in the entire district. The move is aimed at strengthening police and people interactions and controlling crime.Besides, police personnel have also been equipped with tablets and smartphones to do people-centric works online, senior officials said. Alok Singh, GB Nagar police commissioner, said that beat policing makes a strong local network and helps in checking crime. “The police department has also distributed 292 tablets/mobile phones to the police personnel, including beat constables. They will visit their areas and make strong network. These cops will be connected through Prahri mobile app developed by the UP Police,” he said. “Also, senior police officials will supervise their junior colleagues. The technology-led policing will facilitate works like tenant verification, domestic help verification, character certification, etc, which will be done online,” Singh said. The police commissioner further said that the local people can download a mobile app – UP COP – through which they can file online complaint, get information about their police station, senior citizen’s registration, cyber awareness, etc. The UP Police had launched the new -- UP Cop -- in June last year for better policing in the state. “People can fill the application form online. The police will deliver the certificates online after verification,” he said. The police commissioner said that the new experiment will immensely help people in getting better services and also maintaining social distance at the same time. In January this year, the district police had launched the beat policing in Bisrakh police station area. In beat policing, police personnel are deployed in their respective areas for a specific time period each day to meet residents in that particular area and cultivate sources and strengthen the policing network. They also meet local people, shopkeepers, and others and gather inputs. The police can act swiftly on the basis of inputs and pre-empt crime. The Noida Police Commissioner also inaugurated a police check post in ACE City in Bisrakh. The Uttar Pradesh government in January approved the commissionerate system of policing in Noida, which aims at giving more powers to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beat-policing-starts-in-gb-nagar-cops-equipped-with-electronic-gadgets/story-f95hLlu2DWcVyZFyjlHZCI.html
15-08-2020||Noida||Over 55% of GB Nagar’s home isolated patients cured of Covid-19||From July 23, when home isolation for Covid-19 positive patients was allowed in Uttar Pradesh, 619 patients have been on home isolation till Saturday in Gautam Budh Nagar district. Of them, 345 patients, or about 55.73%, have been declared cured and discharged from isolation. Not only that, inspired by the success in curing the home isolated patients, teams of doctors from other neighbouring districts have also started visiting Gautam Budh Nagar district to learn the model. According to the daily state Covid-19 bulletin, of the 867 active cases (till Saturday) in Gautam Budh Nagar district, 274 are in home isolation, which is 31.60% of the total active cases. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said taking cognizance of the success of the district’s successful model of home isolation, teams of doctors from other districts have also started visiting the district to learn their ways. “Recently, doctors from Baghpat and Bulandshahr districts visited our district. They visited our facilities as well as the integrated control room to understand our model of evaluating the fitness criteria of asymptomatic patients put on home isolation. Many other districts have also expressed their desire to visit us to learn its model,” he said. The district’s additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Lalit Kumar, who is also the nodal officer of the home isolation, said it is mandatory for all asymptomatic positive patients to report to L1 centres. “Our team of expert doctors thoroughly evaluate their fitness for home isolation at these centres. Once found fit for home isolation, the patients are asked to fill a Google form, listing all their personal details and health status along with their medical history. Then, the patients sign an undertaking and our doctors issue them the home fitness certificate. After completing this procedure, the patients are allowed to go on home isolation. If they remain asymptomatic, they are discharged from home isolation after 10 days,” he said. Dr Kumar further said a detailed database is prepared for all patients and a team of doctors, paramedics and teachers monitor these patients round the clock. “Our trained operators make audio and video calls to all these patients at least three times a day, to know their complaints, oxygen saturation levels, temperature and other details. In case the patient develops any symptom or if the oxygen level drops, then (s)he is assisted by the integrated call centre for hospital admission as two dedicated ambulances remain ready 24X7 for such patients. Till the date, five home isolated patients have been transferred to the Covid-dedicated facilities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-55-of-gb-nagar-s-home-isolated-patients-cured-of-covid-19/story-kDC2mwi7BkEtby0Edk68gK.html
15-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad gets its own lab, to ramp up RT-PCR testing||Ghaziabad Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the district on Saturday got its own laboratory for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing at the MMG District Hospital. The new laboratory will help increase number of RT-PCR tests and reduce time in getting test results, officials from the health department said.According to the officials, the RT-PCR lab has a maximum limit of conducting about 700 tests per day and reports can be received on the same day. Until now, samples were being sent for RT-PCR testing to different laboratories in Delhi, Noida and Meerut, they said. “We were getting RT-PCR test reports in two-three days from the neighbouring districts. Now, our new laboratory will be able to give results within a day,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Apart from the Covid-19 tests, we will be able to conduct tests for other diseases once the Covid situation declines,” he said. Till August 14, the district took up 149,961 samples, out of which test reports of 147,358 were received. The total number of testing includes 84,533 tests (about 56%) conducted with the help of rapid antigen kits, according to the official data.The Ghaziabad district at present is conducting about 3,000 Covid-19 tests per day. “As we have planned to increase RT-PCR tests in high incidence areas, the new laboratory will be very helpful. For the false negatives in rapid antigen tests, we have started conducting subsequent RT-PCR tests for symptomatic cases, and also for all (symptomatic and asymptomatic) patients with co-morbidities. Now, we are expecting that test positivity rate will also increase in comparison of the rapid antigen testing,” Dr Gupta added. Currently, the overall test positivity rate of the district is about 4.28%, according to the official figures. The 84,533 tests conducted with the help of rapid kits have yielded 2,114 positive results with a positivity rate of about 2.5%, while the 62,825 RT-PCR tests found 4,195 positive cases till August 14, with a test positivity rate of about 6.67%. According to experts, the RT-PCR tests have high sensitivity and can detect even minutest traces of dead viruses in the samples. “Since the RT-PCR test has more sensitivity, increase in number of testing will help us find more positive cases. This will help in better detection of suspected cases. On the other hand, the rapid kits have low positivity but their higher use will bring down the overall test positivity rate,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The UP government on July 1 had given its nod for a new RT-PCR laboratory for the Ghaziabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-gets-its-own-lab-to-ramp-up-rt-pcr-testing/story-3X4llqDOxOiOv97k6UMKaL.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Patil tests positive for Covid-19||State cooperation minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Balasaheb Patil tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Krishna Hospital in Karad, Satara district on Friday. He is the seventh minister from the state cabinet to be infected. In a statement issued by his office on Saturday, it was confirmed that the minister is stable and being treated at the hospital. Patil has also appealed to those who had come in his close contact with him over the past few days, to isolate themselves for a few days. Earlier, Ashok Chavan, Aslam Shaikh (both Congress), Jitendra Awhad, Dhananjay Munde, Sanjay Bansode (NCP), and Abdul Sattar (Shiv Sena) tested positive and recovered after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-balasaheb-patil-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-tQnXG2jAqX2KnxT0O1a5XI.html
15-08-2020||City||Employee makes up robbery story to steal ₹23.78 lakh; arrested along with brother-in-law||The Ghaziabad police on Saturday arrested a 45-year-old collection agent of a private firm, along with his brother-in-law, for allegedly trying to fake a robbery to steal ₹23.78 lakh from his employer. According to the police, prime suspect Dinesh Kumar worked as a collection agent at Loha Mandi and had gone to Meerut on August 13 to collect a payment of ₹23.78 lakh on behalf of his employer, Vikas Jain. However, his mobile phone went switched off around 7pm on August 13. “When Kumar failed to return home, his wife approached the police with a complaint and a case was lodged under IPC Section 365 (kidnapping). Investigations were underway when Kumar turned up at the police station on the evening of August 14 and told the police that he was robbed. Upon detailed questioning, he broke down and told them that he had planned to steal the money in order to pay his debts to different people,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad. According to police, Kumar had allegedly planned to fake the robbery along with his brother-in-law Pappu Singh, a resident of Aligarh. The officers said while returning from Meerut, Kumar went to Singh’s house in Aligarh and stashed the cash there. “Then he approached the Vijay Nagar police on Friday evening and told them that some men had robbed him of the cash and dumped him near Dasna. However, on the basis of questioning and electronic surveillance, police realised that Kumar’s story was false. Later, he broke down and told them that he had planned to steal the money,” said an officer from Vijay Nagar police station. Based on Kumar’s employer Vikas Jain’s complaint, Kumar and SIngh were arrested and booked for criminal breach of trust and cheating. The police said the two spent about ₹24,000 from the stolen amount while the rest of ₹23.54 lakh was recovered from Singh’s house in Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/employee-makes-up-robbery-story-to-steal-23-78-lakh-arrested-along-with-brother-in-law/story-wDfh8G43jLgt87W72zbHMO.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Uniform, stationary sales plummet as schools remain shut||Santacruz-based uniform manufacturer Mahesh Parmar is faced with a dilemma – he has thousands of school uniforms stocked in his godown and shops, but barely any customers so far. In November 2019, Parmar had started planning for the upcoming academic year (2020-21). With thousands of pre-orders lined up, he hoped to begin selling uniforms from April, as most schools reopen either in April or June. However, with the growing cases of Covid-19 in the city and the resultant lockdown, Parmar was unable to sell most of the uniforms this year.“I have been in this industry since 1983, but we have never seen such bad days. Our entire business requires investment from our own pockets first, which is later recovered when the uniforms are sold once schools begin. But since schools haven’t reopened physically yet, almost all of our business has gone down the drain. Our stocks are lying in godowns or shops, unsold,” said Parmar, owner of Arsey Uniforms.As schools in Maharashtra remain closed for nearly five months, connected businesses are witnessing challenging times. These businesses include uniform vendors, book distributors, stationery shop owners, and school bus operators.While many schools under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) boards began their new academic year virtually in April, schools under the state board reopened online in June. The initial few months, however, have gone into figuring the new teaching-learning medium, as a result of which most students are yet to buy school essentials.“There are multiple issues which have led to low business. The lockdown and resultant restrictions meant shopkeepers could not sell their products. But even after they reopened, demand had fallen as most parents chose to make do with existing stationery and notebooks. As far as textbooks are concerned, students have access to PDF copies, which they often use for online learning, thus leading to a dip in demand for physical copies,” said Narendra Nandu, president of the Bombay Booksellers’ and Publishers’ Association. As several parents are already facing financial challenges, buying school essentials is not their top priority.“We bought a few textbooks and are using leftover notebooks from the last year. This year, we did not buy new uniforms because the school has not made it mandatory to wear them for online classes,” said Sanika Jain, a Borivli based parent. At Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle, students are required to attend online classes wearing their uniforms. “It is not mandatory for parents to buy a new set. They can use the old ones if they wish to. If they want to buy a new one, we have facilitated it,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal.Uday Nare, teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School, said students can wear what they like as long as the clothes are not too informal. “We have just asked them to wear decent clothes. There is no compulsion to wear a uniform,” he said.Early this month, the School Bus Owners Association (SBOA) also urged the state government to provide a relief package, claiming that more than 50,000 school buses and around 1.5 lakh bus staffers were in financial distress.“It’s a bleak situation, with transport fees not coming in. In the absence of business, staff associated with buses cannot be retained,” said Anil Garg, president, SBOA, in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uniform-stationary-sales-plummet-as-schools-remain-shut/story-ZQQzhRr0QoC4MxLLoqXLVP.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Let JEE, NEET be held in September: Students from Maharashtra, Gujarat in Apex court||A week after undergraduate (UG) medical and engineering students from 11 states across the country filed a petition in the Supreme Court (SC) seeking the postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), students from Maharashtra and Gujarat have filed an intervention in the matter.The intervention requests the court to allow the two national-level entrance exams for professional courses to be held as per schedule in September. It further states that any further delay in conducting these entrance tests will cause more anxiety among students who have been studying and preparing for the exams from the past two years at least. Advocate Shrirang Choudhary, the briefing lawyer for students from the state, who have intervened in the matter at SC, said, “The state of Maharashtra has already postponed MPSC (Maharashtra Public Service Commission) exams which had been scheduled for September 13 in order to avoid any clash with the NEET exams. Postponing the NEET exam would be detrimental to the interest of lakhs of students who are placed in a similar situation with that of the present applicants. Lakhs of students have invested more than two years of their efforts and time in preparation. The applicantshas faced uncertainty for more than three months before the NEET exam schedule was announced. Any further postponement of the exam would result in further agony.”Around 16 lakh students have registered for NEET-UG this year, while close to 9.3 lakh students had registered for JEE-Mains (Paper I) that was conducted in January. An equal number of students were expected to appear for the second phase of the exam, which are scheduled for April-May each year. This year however, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the National Testing Agency (NTA) kept postponing the exam dates. In NTA’s latest circular, both the exams have been scheduled to take place for September. While several students and parents around the country have shared their concerns over conducting exams for lakhs of students across the country even as the Covid-19 cases are on a rise, an equal number of parents of students are also hoping that the exams are held as per the schedule so that the delay in the postponement of exams comes to an end. “Medical admissions are time bound, and therefore, it makes no sense to further delay NEET, which will eventually delay the admissions process as well. Leaving an entire batch of medical seats vacant will be unfair because next year, the intake capacity of medical institutes will remain the same but the applicants will double in number, which will lead to more chaos,” said activist Sudha Shenoy, who is the parent of an aspirant. She added that students should be given the option to either appear for the exam in the month of September or give the entrance exam and take admissions for the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/let-jee-neet-be-held-in-september-students-from-maharashtra-gujarat-in-apex-court/story-hyFeZ1KP6qS6fEwj824yvI.html
15-08-2020||Noida||Health dept introduces SOPs for effective surveillance in containment zones||The health department on Saturday brought out a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for teams taking up surveillance activities across 327 containment zones in the district. Officials said the idea behind introducing SOPs for containment zones was to make surveillance more effective as several symptomatic patients in recent times have escaped the surveillance cover in recent times. Officials said one of the vital aspects of the SOPs is to involve the local police in case people do not cooperate with the teams conducting door-to-door surveys. At present, surveillance activities are being taken up by 862 teams in the district who visit the containment areas to trace suspected patients, such as people suffering from influenza-like illnesses, those having symptoms of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and people having co-morbid conditions. “People often refuse to cooperate with the teams and do not pass on the correct information. This leads to suspected cases slipping out of the surveillance cover. Now, as part of the SOPs, our teams have been asked to make inquiries from the nearby households or influential local people about suspected cases if they refuse to cooperate,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO). “In case the teams find any suspicious information, they have been asked to pass it on to the local police. Every suspected case can turn out to be a potential Covid-19 case. Further, there is also a possibility that suspected patients might develop severe health complications later. As such, involving the local police will strengthen our surveillance mechanism,” he added. Out of the 862 teams, comprising of two members each, specified teams are sent to the containment zones once the cases are reported. After a special drive was conducted between July 2 to July 12 on the directions of the UP government, the containment activities were beefed up after July 13. According to official records, about 5,860 teams have been deployed so far who have taken up surveys of 4,76,559 houses, covering a population of 18,89,405. They have detected 500 symptomatic cases so far. Out of them, 451 have been tested. A total of 53 persons have turned out to be positive, while test results are awaited for the rest. “As part of the SOPs, each team has been given a written set of instructions about the question they will ask during household visits. For people in home isolation, they teams will check if the sticker pasted on the house is intact or not. Apart from general inquiry of the immediate neighbours, the teams will also inquire from other locals about the patients in home isolation,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, nodal officer (Covid), state health department. According to official records, till August 15 about 563 symptomatic patients have been allowed permission for home isolation and 306 of these have already completed a period of 10 days. At present, the district has 1,026 Covid positive patients, of whom 257 patients are in home isolation. A total of 25 persons in home isolation so far have been warned for not following home isolation rules.“Under the new rules, the surveillance teams can also approach registered and unregistered clinics in residential areas to find out the names of the patients who have come to these clinics complaining of symptoms. They have also been asked to approach local chemist shops to find out who all are buying medicines related to cough, cold or fever, etc. The idea is that no suspected case should be left out of the surveillance cover,” Dr Gupta added. Recently, several cases were reported in which patients who could not be traced by surveillance teams developed complications later on. For instance,a 37-year-old man who was running high fever was admitted to an L3 hospital in the district but succumbed to his medical conditions on August 9 after five days of treatment. In another case, a 30-year-old woman, who was having health complications for about 10 days, had come to district women hospital after having delivered at her home. She died on night of August 10 after she was referred to a hospital in Meerut, where she tested positive for Covid-19. Both the cases went undetected by teams of the health department carrying out surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-introduces-sops-for-effective-surveillance-in-containment-zones/story-1srhvtkTj1JdADlMzE9ZZI.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||To save cash, SDMC may rent community halls to private firms||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation will rent out more than a fourth of its community halls, as part of a series of moves to reel in its expenses and generate more revenue. Under the plan, approved by the civic body’s standing committee on Tuesday, halls that saw few or no bookings will be outsourced to private agencies. However, corporation officials said the halls can only be turned into select facilities, such as coaching centres, banks, ATMs, among others.SDMC officials said the civic body was spending more money on maintaining these properties than the income generated. The civic body manages around 95 community halls with a total expenditure of around ₹5 crore to ₹6 crore. While the civic body has not fixed a timeframe for the plan, it will depend on when the SDMC House rubber stamps the move. However, officials said it may take a few months before it is finally implemented. “As per our assessments, nearly 25 of the 95 have seen very few bookings, and we are losing money on them. So we have decided to outsource these facilities to private companies for different type of activities such as installation of mobile towers on rooftop, opening of coaching centres, banks and ATMs among others. This will bridge the revenue deficit,” a senior SDMC official said. Officials in the north and east civic bodies said they had no such plans for their community halls. The SDMC has put in motion a slew of plans to replenish its coffers. Earlier, it passed a proposal to levy a professional tax on self-employed persons — a first for Delhi, and doubled the tax on rented commercial property. It also increased de-sealing fees for big businesses. The official added that the civic body undergoing losses after the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. The official, however, did not specify the amount.Another SDMC official said booking charges depend on their location. Halls have been divided into categories A, B,C, D and E, based on the area. The booking charges for an event for a category A community hall is ₹42,500 (for areas such as Greater Kailash and Defence Colony), while the cost is ₹27,000 for a category B hall, ₹22,000 for a category C hall, ₹13,000 for D category halls, and ₹8,500 for E category halls. Raj Dutt Gahlot, the SDMC’s standing committee chairman, said some community halls saw fewer bookings due to their locations, as well as residents’ preference for banquet halls and lawns for weddings and other such events. “Outsourcing will be started on pilot basis with only four community halls — at Meharchand Market, Katwaria Sarai, Gaushala Road in Najafgarh and A-Block Hastsal in Uttam Nagar. Other such halls would be added after witnessing the response of the pilot project. These community halls will be outsourced for the maximum period of five year on one contract. After ending of the lease, fresh tendering will be done for the purpose,” he said. Atul Goel, president United Residents Joint Action (URJA) — an umbrella body of RWAs across the city — accepted that SDMC needed to find alternative sources of revenue, but said it should not affect the social utility of such facilities. “There is no problem in outsourcing such community halls, but the weekly meetings of the RWAs, which take place at community halls, should not be affected. The low usage is mainly because facilities are not good at community halls as compared to banquet halls. The civic body should improve facilities and maintenance there and make them more affordable,” he said. KS Mehra, former commissioner of the unified MCD hailed the idea. “The civic bodies’ finances are in a poor state, especially after the Covid-19 pandemic. This move will bring more revenue to the corporation. There is no harm, and there is a need to evolve and make the best use of the resources to generate more revenue.” Gahlot said the proposal will be placed in the body’s House meeting for a final approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-save-cash-sdmc-may-rent-community-halls-to-private-firms/story-quwxdEDUcbT38N1n4ZXRLP.html
15-08-2020||City||Thane’s recovery rate 89%; doubling rate up to 90 days||In the past month, the Covid-19 situation in Thane city has seen a marked improvement. The city, which had a doubling rate of 24 days in July, now has a doubling rate of 90 days. The recovery rate has also increased to 89%, which the Thane civic commissioner claimed is the highest in Thane district.The number of new cases has decreased over the past week. Among the 22,934 positive cases within Thane city, 20,299 have recovered so far. There have been 729 Covid deaths so far, and currently, there are 1,906 active cases in Thane city.According to statistics provided by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), around mid-July, Thane city saw a spike in positive cases with 400-417 new cases reported daily. However, within a month, the figures have halved to 200 to 250 cases daily in the past week. The citywide lockdown implemented from July 2 to 19 helped to bring down the number of positive cases.Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “At 89% recovery rate, we are the highest within Thane district. This has been possible due to a specific discharge protocol set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which we follow apart from other measures. As per the discharge protocol, we ensure that every patient is monitored for 15 days after being discharged. Moreover, we ensure that there are no symptomatic patients at home before we discharge the recovered ones.” Vishwanath Kelkar, civic health officer, said, “We have a protocol wherein each positive case is contacted within 15 minutes of the test report, and the contact tracing process begins immediately.”The ‘Test, Track, Trace, Treat and Isolate’ protocol is executed by over 600 individuals working on the ground level. “We have around 150 teams only for conducting containment screenings and surveillance. The results are updated in real-time. To date, we have screened over 16 lakh residents of Thane. We have another team of 150 who are focused on testing; this includes identifying those who require testing, getting them tested, and based on the results, assigning them to home or institutional quarantine, or moving them to a Covid treatment centre,” said Sharma. Another team of 150 goes door-to-door to check on those who are quarantining at home. Based on their situation, Covid staff suggests medical care or further assistance. A 150-member team is on tele-calling systems to keep a check on those in home quarantine as well as the recovered patients.“These are methods to ensure no one is left out, and any critical patient is identified immediately,” said Sharma.These teams include staff from Thane Municipal Transport (TMT), various government departments, contractual staff from TMC, teachers, volunteers from social organisations and members of political parties. Fewer cases in slums, high-rises a concernThe doubling rate in Ghodbunder area, which houses some upscale residential complexes, is now 30 days, though the civic body is still concerned about the case count. The corporation claimed that since the lockdown was eased, cases have increased in high-rises, as opposed to slums.“Soon after the unlock mission was announced in June, those in high-rises started stepping out. This led to an increase in the number of cases. As exposure began at a later stage, the spread of infection increased in these areas. With the help of our survey and efforts based on the Dharavi model, we managed to bring down the cases in high-rises as well,” said Sharma.As of now, Naupada and Kopri ward have the highest number of cases but Majiwada-Manpada ward witnessed a spike in cases in the first week of August. Anuradha Babar, assistant commissioner, TMC, said, “Initially, we focused on institutional quarantine of positive cases and high-risk contacts from slums. We are following the same plan in high-rises now.” More vacant beds at Covid centresWith fewer positive cases reported and only 1,900 active cases within the TMC jurisdiction, 1,083 normal and 134 ICU beds are vacant. The dedicated Covid facilities are now being opened up for other municipal corporations. Around 20% occupancy of the Thane civic body’s Covid beds is from neighbouring areas now.This has not stopped the civic body from increasing its bed capacity. In the past week, 150 ICU beds were added at Global Hospital and 10 beds with ventilators have been included across Thane city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-s-recovery-rate-89-doubling-rate-up-to-90-days/story-5ocD5ittp0hyaIXRu61ozO.html
15-08-2020||City||Sudeeksha Bhati’s death case: Kin says two suspects ‘detained’||Kin of Sudeeksha Bhati, who died in a road accident in Bulandshahr on August 10, on Saturday said the police have detained two suspects and have asked the family members to identify them. The Bulandhsahr police, however, have not made any official confirmation about the detentions. Jitendra Bhati, Sudeeksha’s father, said he received a call on Saturday afternoon from the Bulandshahr police saying they have detained some suspects in connection to his daughter’s death. “Sudeeksha’s cousin has gone to Bulandshahr along with some villagers to identify the suspects. We do not know more about the suspects, and just hope they are the same persons who killed our daughter,” Jitendra said. Diksha Singh, circle officer, Bulandshahr, said the police have verified the details of over 350 Royal Enfield motorcycles registered in the neighbourhood of the accident site and questioned their owners. “We have questioned some suspects and got some leads. We can’t comment on detention or arrest at this stage,” said Singh who is heading the investigating team probing the accident. Sudeeksha, 19, a class 12 topper in Bulandshahr, was pursuing a graduate degree in the United States. She died in a road accident on August 10 when she was going to her maternal uncle’s place on a motorcycle. Her family had alleged that two motorcycle riders were chasing her on before the incident took place.Bulandshahr police registered a case of rash driving and death due to negligence in this case and the charge of harassment was not pressed in the FIR. Meanwhile, Noida Police have advised local people not to gather at Sudeeksha’s house in large numbers since two visitors had tested found positive on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sudeeksha-bhati-s-death-case-kin-says-two-suspects-detained/story-PRhuDRS5wBz3z55Pny6OTP.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Rain pushes up lake levels to 71%; Mumbai civic corporation to review water cut decision||Good rainfall in catchment areas that supply water to Mumbai has resulted in resulting water levels going up to 71% on Saturday. Two days ago, the water level of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai was at 60% of total capacity. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the seven lakes have 10.37 lakh million litres of water at present, which is 71.72% of their total capacity of 14.47 lakh million litres. The overall lake level for the corresponding period in 2019 was 93.15 % and 89.42% in 2018. Bhatsa dam, which caters to 55% of the city’s total water requirement, is at 70.93% of total capacity, compared to 91.60% at this time in 2019. BMC supplies 3,750 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. Aside from Tulsi and Vihar lakes, which are located within Mumbai’s limits, the other catchment areas of lakes and dams are in neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. Tulsi and Vihar lakes have already overflown. On Sunday, the water level at the lakes crossed 50%. The levels have doubled over the past 20 days. On August 6, the levels stood at 37%. BMC has said it is monitoring lake levels on a daily basis and the 20% water cut announced on August 5 will be reviewed by the end of the month. There were no water cuts in 2019, owing to good rainfall in catchment areas. BMC had imposed a 10% water cut in 2018, and a 20% cut in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rain-pushes-up-lake-levels-to-71-mumbai-civic-corporation-to-review-water-cut-decision/story-IblGsJkmy7Fb9A8njnRHnM.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Two held for forging railway ID cards, taking free rides||Two men from Maharashtra were on Friday arrested at Nizamuddin railway station for allegedly carrying fake TTE (train ticket examiner) identity cards. Police said the two were caught as they were going to board a train to Amritsar, adding that the two men were using the fake ID cards to get free rides inside trains. Police identified the two as Martand Rubab Kamble, 21, from Sangli in Maharashtra and his associate as Omkar Bairagi Waghmode, 20, from Raigarh, Maharashtra.Deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar said the security at the railway stations in capital had been tightened because of Independence Day. “Tickets and IDs of passengers were being checked at main hall entry gate of Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station. Our staff spotted two suspicious men who were stopped for checking. When asked for their identity cards, the duo introduced themselves as railway staff and said they have to board Golden Temple Express train,” Kumar said.The DCP said, the policemen posted at the entry gate, however, found the two men suspicious. “The two men were asked to produce their government ID cards and when their ID cards were minutely examined it was found to be fake,” he said.During interrogation, the DCP said, Martand Rubab said he used to earlier work with a railway vendor in a cyber cafe. “He was aware of the railway operations and how he could disguise as railway employee and travel far of destinations. He then made a fake railway employee ID and started travelling for free. The two then sold items inside the train. He then also roped in his cousin Omkar and using fake IDs started travelling in trains. We are probing of they used their identity cards for any other illegal activities,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-forging-railway-id-cards-taking-free-rides/story-hwafUzbjKSWhtTXihP6hiM.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||DU takes ‘strong exception’ to graft allegations, govt stands its ground||The Delhi government on Saturday reiterated its stand that it had received from parents and students complaints of financial irregularities in 12 Delhi University (DU) colleges funded by the state.The government’s remark, the second time in over a week, came a day after DU’s Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said in a statement late Friday night said the university had taken “strong exception” to allegations of graft levelled against the 12 colleges.Last week, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said the “inability of the Delhi government-funded DU colleges to pay salaries to staff despite a 70% increase in budget allocation in the last five years indicated corruption”. He said around 23% of the funds allocated for 2020-21 had been released.Reiterating the charges, the government said on Saturday, “Why has DU not paid staff salaries for the last three months is a matter that raises doubts… the people of Delhi have the right to know where the money released by the Delhi government went.”The government said it had ordered a financial audit of seven government-funded colleges, of which six are fully aided while one gets partial funds. “For a long time, many parents and students of these colleges have been complaining about financial irregularities,” the government said in the statement. “If Delhi University feels that there is no financial mess, then there is no need to fear; the truth will come out in the audit.” On Friday, Pani said that annually, three types of annual audits are conducted—an internal audit (by auditors from an approved DU panel), an ELFA audit (by Delhi government) and an AGCR audit (by CAG) -- in each college and all reports so far reflect that the financial affairs had been managed according to existing norms.Pani said there had been an 80-100% increase in salary expenses over the past five years due to many factors, including an increase in the pay of contractual non-teaching staff and ad hoc faculty, implementing the seventh pay commission and EWS quota, annual increments, increase in dearness allowance as well the addition of new courses.The university also said that inflation, and an increase in water, electricity, sanitation and security bills of four colleges that shifted to new campuses had led to a 300-500% increase in non-salary expenditure.“The governing bodies of all 12 colleges have been formed as per DU rules and regulations. According to DU rules, there is no link between the formation of governing bodies and the release of grant-in-aid,” Pani said, appealing to the government to release funds and “end the suffering of the staff of these colleges.”Last week, HT had reported that while some of the 12 colleges had paid salaries to their teaching staff for May by diverting funds from other accounts, a majority of them were yet to be paid for the last three months.The DU administration and Delhi government have been at loggerheads over the formation of governing bodies in government-funded colleges for over a year now. The 10-member governing bodies comprise people nominated by both the university and the government and take decisions such as the appointment of staff members.On March 13 this year, DU’s executive council recommended sending the names of six Delhi government nominees back to the state government for reconsideration. A week later, the government said these six names were to remain on the list. On May 13, the university forwarded a list of nominees to colleges, except for the six names in contention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-takes-strong-exception-to-graft-allegations-govt-stands-its-ground/story-jjbXaHV2hVEqRzY3ndjHoK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||TISS to file an affidavit reaffirming no discrepancies in scoring pattern||Following the Bombay high court (HC) stay on admissions to postgraduate courses, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai has decided to file an affidavit reaffirming that there was no discrepancy in the scoring pattern. “Some candidates who did not get through in the selection process have approached the court. We will also file an affidavit. We stand by the marking system,” said a senior official from the institute. On Thursday, the HC stayed admissions to Masters courses at the institute after a group of aspiring candidates filed a petition claiming discrepancies in scores. In July, after the first list of selected candidates was announced, several candidates pointed out that the weightage of their scores in the National Entrance Test (NET) and the personal interview were miscalculated. The administration has maintained that there was no discrepancies in the marking of selected candidates except for three courses - Masters of Arts in applied psychology (with specialisation in clinical and counselling practice), media and cultural studies, and library and information science in Mumbai. HT had reported on July 26 that the institute added a few seats to these three courses to accommodate candidates whose scores in the evaluation process was miscalculated and rectified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-to-file-an-affidavit-reaffirming-no-discrepancies-in-scoring-pattern/story-5wmiBb39lmnCpGTrm23AlL.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old booked for rape||Gorai police on Wednesday booked a 25-year-old electrician for allegedly sexually assaulting a 25-year-old house help. The case was registered after the police received a written complaint that the suspect has been assaulting her since 2015 under the pretext of marrying her.According to the woman, she is eight months pregnant and the accused refused to marry her, after which she decided to file a complaint against him. A police officer said no arrest has been, made and they are probing the case. The woman in her statement said that they met on social media and then became friends. The accused later promised that he will marry her, and sexually assaulted her on multiple occasions. In the first week of August when the woman was eight months pregnant, the accused refused to marry her. She then approached the police. An officer from Gorai police station said, “We have booked accused under section 376 (2) (N) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that person’s natural life, and shall also be liable to fine) and 417 (punishment for cheating) of Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-booked-for-rape/story-jXtRFlHuE9s9QqWdwzWbkN.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Manager of Japanese eatery booked for stealing Sushi knives, 50 liquor bottles||Tardeo police have booked a manager of a south Mumbai restaurant, known for its Japanese cuisine, for allegedly stealing 50 liquor bottles, a set of Sushi knives among other things from the restaurant when it was closed due to lockdown.Aftab Iqbal Moon, one of the three partners in the restaurant, Keiba, at the Mahalaxmi racecourse, in his complaint stated that the restaurant was closed since March due to lockdown. However, when he visited the restaurant on August 11, he found that 50 liquor bottles, a set of Sushi knives, a microwave oven and several edible items total worth ₹4.23 lakh are missing, the police said.When Moon enquired with the watchman of the restaurant about the missing things, he was told that the manager, Jackson Thumpit, had taken the items.Moon then informed his two partners — Neeti Goel and Ronak Rochlani, and they called Thumpit and asked him about the missing things. However, Thumpit did not give satisfactory answers and switched off his mobile phone.Moon then lodged a complaint with Tardeo police on Wednesday.The police have registered an offense under section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code against Thumpit and are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/manager-of-japanese-eatery-booked-for-stealing-sushi-knives-50-liquor-bottles/story-Q7bs9fnrz7LE3f2FmawcNI.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||60 ONGC workers from single platform test positive; 31 infected earlier||As many as 60 Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) employees from a single platform at Bombay High have tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said the infected employees were being brought back to Mumbai and the management was contemplating closing the platform due to a large number of infected workers. However, ONGC has denied shutting down any platforms on the oil rig. ONGC said that it has been maintaining a stringent Covid-19 compliance operation system. “Recently some employees of two offshore platforms (BHS and Neelam) have been found Covid positive, even though they have passed through a very stringent system of crew changeover procedure for over a month back when they had gone to the respective platforms,” read a statement issued from ONGC.However, a source informed that atleast 60 workers were tested positive from BHS platform alone apart from Bedlam platform.Additionally, 31 of the ONGC workers had tested positive for Covid-19, last week. Most of them belonged to Neelam Complex offshore platform and were admitted to a Mahim-based hospital. A senior ONGC official said that during the lockdown, ONGC had picked up its crew from their vehicles up to the designated exclusive hotel near the hub-airports (in their respective cities) where they stayed in separate rooms before they flew to Mumbai. ONGC flew their employees and contractual staff travelled by special chartered aircraft were arranged for bringing the crew to Mumbai. “After arriving in Mumbai, these crews were put in exclusive hotels in isolation. After five days of stay, their Covid-19 samples were collected by authorized labs and only after ensuring Covid negative results, they were again transported to Juhu helibase and were then flown to offshore installations. Similar actions are also being taken for the secondary workforce and contractual staff. This practice of crew change has been continued since then,” said an ONGC official.The company’s spokesperson said, “It is pertinent to mention that due to the nature of the job and limited space on offshore installations, proximity is imperative in oil field operations. Despite that, because of adhering to stringent standard operating procedures, we have been successful in keeping our almost entire operation unaffected by the pandemic. However, some cases have surfaced in recent times. Particularly, the prevalent asymptomatic cases have made the situation more challenging. Some cases have surfaced after more than a month of crew joining the duties at installations. Therefore, it is very difficult to trace the origin of such infections”The crude oil and gas corporation, however, denied shutting down its operation at any of the affected platforms and emphasized that the infected workers were both permanent and contractual. The spokesperson said that effective crew management is being done to ensure the safety of employees and the workforce who tested positive have been brought to the base and are being provided with required medical care and treatment.A plastic sheet has been recently placed to mark partition between the cockpit and the passenger area in helicopters that have been ferrying the Covid-19 positive patients. However, few pilots have raised concerns over their health. A retired helicopter pilot said, “A helicopter is not designed like an aircraft to have no contact with any passenger. Hence pilots worrying for themselves while flying the infected is justified. However, the use of PPE surely helps reduce the stress of being infected by Covid-19”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/60-ongc-workers-from-single-platform-test-positive-31-infected-earlier/story-LxaMEZt2HHM6GBXDtKNkQK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||HC grants bail to 18-year-old booked for raping friend||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday granted bail to an 18-year-old, who was arrested for raping his girlfriend, after observing that the survivor did not complain about the alleged crime till their relationship turned sour.“The first information report (FIR) prima facie reveals that the survivor did not complain about the alleged rape till the relationship took a turn for the worse and both mutually decided to part ways,” justice Bharati Dangre said while granting bail to the man, booked by the cyber cell of Mumbai Police on July 7.The survivor complained that she was introduced to the accused while she was in junior college when the two were minors. When they got into a relationship, the two used to visit each other’s residences. She alleged once when she visited the house of the accused, he allegedly sexually assaulted the woman.Though she maintained that the act was without her consent, she did not lodge any complaint about the incident at the time. She approached the police only after their relationship turned sour and they decided to part ways in the last week of June. The trigger for lodging of the complaint, the girl claimed, was that the accused sent some of his intimate photos with the survivor to her mother, and also threatened to send the photos to other family members.“This is a typical case of teenagers moving too fast and being eager to explore the world,” said justice Dangre.Justice Dangre has now ordered the teenager to be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of ₹25,000 and surety of the same amount.The court said the accused’s mobile phone has been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-bail-to-18-year-old-booked-for-raping-friend/story-NYta508xCUTfZJIOICGm7H.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||‘70% wetland loss key reason behind monsoon flooding’||The city’s annual flooding woes can be attributed to the loss of more than three-fourths of its wetlands due to rapid urbanisation and illegal encroachments, a member of the national wetland conservation governing body said on Saturday.Afroz Ahmad, member of National Wetland Committee and advisor to Maharashtra government’s environment and forest departments, presented his views while inaugurating ‘Wetlands of Sindhudurg’, India’s first wetland website (sindhudurgwetlands.in) that documents inland wetland sites across the south Konkan district. The website provides information on environmental and socio-cultural aspects of wetland conservation as well. The environmental scientist highlighted how Mumbai had witnessed wetland reclamation, more than any other major Indian city over the past 50 years.“Mumbai’s shoreline itself, which has a 6-metre depth, is also termed as a wetland. Reclamation there has made the city vulnerable. Moreover, river floodplains and catchment areas have already been built upon. This is the reason why maximum flooding takes place. There is no water absorption anymore,” said Ahmad, co-author of the Centre’s guidelines for Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017.Ahmad’s assessments were in line with a study by Wetlands International South Asia (WISA) that showed Mumbai had lost 71% wetlands from 1970 to 2014, followed by Ahmedabad (57%), Bengaluru (56%), Hyderabad (55%), Delhi and National Capital Region (38%), and Pune (37%). “Comprehensive wetland inventories are not yet available, but some datasets indicate Mumbai witnessed very high wetland loss through reclamation but so have other major cities. Post 1970s when cities started expanding, they started eating into the wetlands,” said Ritesh Kumar, director, WISA. According to the National Wetland Atlas 2011 (Maharashtra), made under the 2010 wetland rules, Mumbai had 475 wetlands — 412 in the suburbs and 63 in south Mumbai — spread across 14,045 hectare (ha). However, under the amended 2017 rules, Mumbai will have only one major notified wetland — spread across four zones at Powai Lake (181.9ha), according to the state environment department.“It is advisable that all wetlands, including those identified in the atlas, and lakes be protected as heritage sites. Develop brief documents and action plan for their management immediately,” said Ahmad. He added that with 373 wetlands covering an area of 13,979ha comprising 33% creeks and 31% rivers, Sindhudurg was among the first districts in India to develop community-driven wetland brief documentation committee and listing wetlands taluka-wise as an inventory. “The findings are available on the website, which will be a handy tool for policy makers and state officials to oversee conservation. It can also help in developing appropriate area-centric policies for tourism, skill development and resource utilisation,” said advocate Omkar Keni, one of the website contributors.The Sindhudurg model, which is now on a public platform, needs to be replicated for Maharashtra and across India, said Dr Ahmad adding, “With the pandemic giving its message to India to not toy with nature, conservation is the need of the hour as natural wetlands are being lost rapidly.”WHY KONKAN NEEDS TO PROTECT ITS WETLANDSNatural wetlands are permanently or seasonally saturated in water and create habitats for aquatic plants. They retain large volumes of water and their slow release makes them important for combatting extreme weather conditions like floods and droughts. Wetlands also contribute to water purification, water regulation, biodiversity, aesthetics and recreation, according to the United Nations. According to the National Wetlands Atlas, published by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in 2010, the Konkan region of Maharashtra has 4,799 wetlands. However, experts said they are at threat across the state due to natural factors. “Owing to low organic matter, there are limitations in the form of soil, mostly of basaltic origin and lateritic soil, along the Konkan region. Due to this, they have poor water-holding capacity while seasonal river systems have small length. The soil explodes in the form of springs during heavy rain events. Wetlands in such areas are indispensable and deserve top priority,” said Dr Ahmad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/70-wetland-loss-key-reason-behind-monsoon-flooding/story-cvSIRYCvDI3fmJyVnkVJaM.html
15-08-2020||City||NMMC gets 50 additional ICU beds||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioned 50 ICU beds including 20 ventilator beds at Dr DY Patil hospital in Nerul on Saturday, on the occasion of Independence Day. This is the first phase of the plan to have a total of 200 ICU beds and 80 ventilators beds at the hospital, that will be provided free to the patients. NMMC had on August 3 signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the hospital for the facility to be developed in 4 phases. Abhijit Bangar, the municipal commissioner said, “NMMC has been setting up 50 ICU beds including 20 ventilator beds in the first phase as per MoU signed with Dr DY Patil Hospital, Nerul. This facility was made operational today and will be helpful for patients with severe symptoms. The remaining 150 beds will be available in the next three phases by September 20.” At present NMMC has provided 202 ICU beds in the city, the city will have 402 beds by September. At present NMMC has 93 ventilators and now with 80 more, the total figure will go up to 173.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-gets-50-additional-icu-beds/story-7PZoHBESG8Hm45mkJXvTEJ.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Japanese restaurant manager in South Mumbai booked for stealing sushi knives, 50 liquor bottles||Manager of a south Mumbai restaurant, known for its Japanese cuisine, has been booked by Tardeo police for allegedly stealing 50 liquor bottles, set of Sushi knives among other things from the restaurant when it was not operational during the lockdown. One of the co-owner of the restaurant learnt about the alleged theft after he opened the restaurant this month, police officials said. Aftab Iqbal Moon, one of the three partners in the popular restaurant Keiba at the Mahalaxmi racecourse, in his police complaint has stated that the restaurant was closed since March due to lockdown but when on August 11, he visited the restaurant he discovered that 50 liquor bottles, a set Sushi knives, microwave oven and many other edible items total worth Rs 4.23 lakh are missing, the police said.Upon enquiring the watchman, Moon learnt that the manager Jackson Thumpit had taken away all the items.The police have registered an offense under section 381 (Theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the manager and further investigating the case, said a Tardeo police officer. Moon then informed his two partners — Neeti Goel and Ronak Rochlani, and they called Thumpit and asked him about the missing things. However, Thumpit did not give satisfactory answers and switched off his mobile phone.Moon then informed Tardeo police and registered an offense on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/japanese-restaurant-manager-in-south-mumbai-booked-for-stealing-sushi-knives-50-liquor-bottles/story-A1wqfhUpvs3iOPDC08hBNL.html
15-08-2020||City||Maharashtra accounts for one-fourth of India’s cases, Fadnavis calls state a new Covid capital||PUNE Maharashtra leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis termed the state as the latest Covid capital of India citing the rising number of cases and fatalities.The former chief minister was in the city on Saturday to inaugurate a 15-bed Covid care centre for journalists.“Unfortunately, Maharashtra has become the Covid capital of India with 24 per cent of patients and 41 per cent deaths being reported from the state alone,” he said, adding that the government needs to increase testing to control the situation.As on Friday, Maharashtra has reported 5,72,734 cases with 19,427 deaths compared to 2,520,987 cases and 49,108 deaths in the country. Within the state, Mumbai, Pune and Thane have reported maximum cases.Fadnavis insisted on increasing RT-PCR tests in Maharashtra saying that the current focus is on rapid antigen tests.“While there is a need for an increase in overall testing, more RT-PCR tests should be carried out in Maharashtra. The current ratio of 1:2 RT-PCR tests and rapid antigen tests should be brought to 1:1,” said Fadnavis.The BJP leader also insisted on small Covid facilities instead of jumbo centres being set up in the state. In Pune, two jumbo facilities are coming up following the state government’s nod.‘Whatever my party will decide for me, I will work accordingly’On shouldering the crucial role for upcoming Bihar polls just when Sushant Singh Rajput’s case has heated political discourse, the former chief minister said that the case has nothing to do with his appointment and it is “just a coincidence”.“In our party, various leaders are tasked with various responsibilities during elections. Similarly, I have been asked about the polls there. Whatever my party will decide for me, I will work accordingly,” said Fadnavis.Fadnavis also praised the Maharashtra police saying there is no comparison between them and Bihar counterpart. He was replying to a query about his views on Maharashtra police after Bihar alleged that Mumbai police are not probing Sushant’s suicide case properly.“I have already said that we fully believe in Maharashtra police. I have worked with them for five years and I know their capability. However, on various occasions, police have worked under political pressure and we expect them to work freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-accounts-for-one-fourth-of-india-s-cases-fadnavis-calls-state-a-new-covid-capital/story-aQB1Ms40kAZ4IPZZ29v33J.html
15-08-2020||City||Third jumbo Covid facility likely to come up in rural Pune||PUNE The district administration is likely to construct the third jumbo Covid-19 care facility in rural Pune following surge in cases in these areas. While work is in progress at two jumbo facilities at College of Engineering Pune and Annasaheb Magar ground, Pimpri, the setting up of facility at All India Shri Shivaji Memorial Society (AISSMS) ground is on hold. Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, said, “Pune city’s hospital bed situation is now at a comfortable level, but the administration is concerned about surge in Covid cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts of the Pune district.” Rao said, “We are thinking to shift the third jumbo facility to rural parts and a decision will be taken in the next few days. We are planning to erect the facility at Chakan as it will be helpful for residents in Pune rural as well as Pimpri Chinchwad.” The official said that third jumbo facility may have 800 beds, but the administration is planning to divide it into two or three parts. “Mostly one facility will be in Chakan and another in the eastern part of the Pune district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/third-jumbo-covid-facility-likely-to-come-up-in-rural-pune/story-2WTqRONx4lcSvn9GL6PyCM.html
15-08-2020||City||Tax charter: Answer in details, procedures and strict implementation||Twenty-two years after the first Charter on taxpayers’ rights and income tax department’s obligations came into existence, there is promise of these entitlements finally becoming a reality. While the earlier charters were purely voluntary and were not enforceable and remained mostly on paper, the new charter unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday has the backing of the Income Tax Act. With the incorporation of Section 119A in the Income Tax Act, mandating the Central Board of Direct Taxes to adopt and declare a Taxpayers’ Charter and “ issue such orders, instructions, directions or guidelines to other income-tax authorities as it may deem fit for the administration of such Charter”, the voluntary charters of all these years give way to a mandatory legal requirement, enforceable by law. This is a very positive development. One looks forward to the Board drawing up not only stringent service delivery standards with specific timelines, but also an effective mechanism for strict monitoring and compliance. The Board should also draw lessons from the reviews of the earlier charters and ensure that tax payers are fully aware of the details of the charter and have an effective redress mechanism for complaints on non-compliance. The government also has to keep in mind the reasons for the failure of the Income Tax Ombudsman and create an effective and independent system of time-bound grievance redress.It is equally important to ensure that the tax authorities comply with the Charter in letter and spirit. In fact complaints of non-compliance from tax payers should form an integral part of the performance appraisal for the income tax department staff. “The department shall hold its authorities accountable for their actions”, says the Taxpayers Charter. It should also hold them accountable for their inaction or failure to conform to the Charter. It was in November 1998 that the income tax department first came out with a Taxpayers or a Citizens Charter. It was part of an overall administrative reform programme (similar to the Citizens Charter programme of the United Kingdom) initiated by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances ( DARPG) to improve service delivery by all government departments and ministries and bring in transparency and accountability in the administration. The Income Tax department described the Charter drawn up by it as “A declaration of our commitment to excellence in our service to taxpayers”. The one-page charter promised to be a) fair, b) helpful and c) efficient. Under its promise of efficiency, for example, the department said “it would acknowledge all communications from taxpayers on the spot and in any case within seven days and furnish final replies within 30 days”. It promised to redress all complaints within 30 days, issue refunds within 30 days of determination, and also keep all personal and business information/materials furnished to the department, confidential.The promises, however, remained unfulfilled-- in fact a review of the Citizens Charter programmes of various departments and ministries, done by the Indian Institute of Administration in 2008, at the behest of DARPG, made scathing observations about the poorly drawn up charters and an even poorer implementation. Subsequently, many departments reviewed and revised their Charters. The Income Tax department too revised it in 2007, again in 2010 and subsequently on April 29, 2014. However, two factors -- absence of statutory backing and the taxpayers’ lack of knowledge of the Charter -- allowed the income tax officials to often ignore the promises made. In fact a letter written by the Central Board of Direct Taxes in January 2014, asking assessing officers to respect the Citizens Charter in respect of TDS matters, is a case in point.Now that the Charter has been enshrined in the Statute, will it usher in a tax regime that respects the taxpayer and guarantees a fair deal, devoid of corrupt or unfair practices? The answer lies in the way the details are drawn up , the procedures and mechanisms provided and the strict implementation of the Charter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tax-charter-answer-in-details-procedures-and-strict-implementation/story-cZN63Pj8Nm2npUoAaDDk5K.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Of Parottas, Pizzas & Presidential ‘running mates’||What’s with this seeming the season of ‘running’! While particular Princes of British royalty have been running (never mind if it’s only as far as the palatial portals) to fetch Poppadums landing from an Indian takeaway and while US Presidential wannabe Joe Biden has been dabbling in the other kind of running – unveiling a “running mate” of Indian descent Kamala Harris, any guess what our Lollitas, Lamba jis and Lally Singh jis have been running after?Remember, Lamba jis and Lally jis being fixated over frozen foods of Lockdown called Parotta or the lighter Parota (lighter not in terms of calories but only lighter by a letter)? Well, ever since their moment of the “Mirror, mirror on the wall,” reminding them to mind their middle-class middle anatomies, they petulantly parted with their Parota partiality and did its copious consumption stall.The Parotta’s loss has been the Pizza’s gain (not to say the Pizza isn’t itself contributing to gain, the one accruing on bulbous bellies built by the Parotta or Paratha). That exactly is what the Lollitas, Lamba jis & Co are running after – their Big Fat First Post-Lockdown Pizza.Alas, if you thought all that India Quarantining’s readymade frozen Parotta gorging and gluttony has now propelled Lamba ji or Lally ji (L&L) to go gallivanting – bestirred out of bloating by a Jog-the-Hog kind of workout wisdom – to fetch that post-Lockdown Pizza from the nearest takeaway, perish the thought.Blame it on Duke of Cambridge Prince William who sort of set a precedent of purely perambulating to the palatial portal for Poppadums, the only place Lamba ji or Lally Singh ji are breathlessly running to too – hold your breath – is the door!And how!So, the stage is set for the arrival of the Big Fat First Post-Lockdown Pizza, thanks to Domino’s or Zomato’s contactless delivery in Unlock. Thence begins the countdown, the minutes being clocked by Lamba ji or Lally ji with as much bated breath as if it were the legendary Sachin Tendulkar staging a spectacular stadium comeback.Going by the adrenalin and anatomical animation defining their body language, it would surely seem so, that it is Sachin and not “Supreme” (pizza) that’s staging a return – Lamba ji or Lally ji squiggling to sprint out of their sedentary state every time the smartphone trills, the way a cricket-crazy fan squirms in the seat with his sights straddling the pavilion and pitch in a pupillary pining that only a ‘sport-a-holic’ or ‘Sachin-a-holic’ soul knows (in case of L&L, a pizza-holic soul).Else, Lamba ji or Lally ji may be seen navigating a brisk walk while waiting for the delivery boy. Good for the middle anatomy of the middle class, one would think. But the catch being, the only places Lamba ji or Lally ji usually seem to stroll about in semi-Lockdown and in (pizza-pining’s) semi-stupor is from room to room, up and down the corridors (which are the New Normal’s Miniature Parks) or, oops, on Lollita’s toes.When the call from the security guard finally comes intimating the arrival of the delivery boy from Swiggy, Domino’s & Co, Lamba Ji and Lally ji jounce up as if it were the Umpire’s voice booming, bellowing the breathtaking ‘Return of Sachin’. Their sentiment again is so akin to that of a Sachin-o-holic sports fan who may be sighted heaving and hurling himself out of the stadium seat to scurry towards the pavilion for Sachin’s wishful comeback. In similar style, sprinting towards the door is Lamba ji or Lally ji even before the landing of the lift that’s ferrying the delivery bloke. But before the sprinting for “Supreme”, Lamba ji & Co may be seen spraying sanitiser on the skin as liberally as if partaking in Kumbh Ka Shahi Snan. Or, worse, Lamba ji & Co’s lavishness with the liquid looks as if they’re going on a date with Pizza and the sanitiser is New Normal’s Eau De Cologne.By the time the bell rings and Lamba ji or Lally ji lunges for the last leg of the ‘pizza-thon’, the delivery boy has done his deed and dashed off. It’s a blink-and-miss date.Lo behold, even before Lamba ji & Co land at the landing, there is someone already tearing ‘n’ tucking into the Big Fat First Post-Lockdown Pizza standing at the gate.The Curious Case of being checkmated by his chit of a Chihuahua called Chameli, the ‘running mate’!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-of-parottas-pizzas-presidential-running-mates/story-WeBi5U6Ch0Py6phAreoKZN.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Catchment areas record 428mm rainfall||Moderate rain in the city and heavy rain in the ghat region was seen on Friday which kept the monsoon active in the city. In the city, a total of 57.6 mm rain was recorded in 24 hours while the catchment area saw 428 mm rain in the four dams regions of Panshet, Warasgaon, Khadakwasla and Temghar. The Khadakwasla dam which had released 16,479 cusecs on Thursday increased to 9,000 cusecs on Friday night. Few areas in the city also received intense spells of rains, with Pashan registering 22.1mm, Shivajinagar registering 18.5mm and Lohegaon registering 17mm respectively. “The conditions remain favourable for continuous moderate rain in the city and heavy to heavy rains in the ghat areas,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department. The maximum temperature of the day was 26.7 degree Celsius and minimum was 21.3 degree Celsius. Until now, Pune has received 503.8 mm rain which is 117.8 mm more than normal rainfall (386mm). Mahabaleshwar had received 40 mm rain until 5:30 pm on Friday while Jalgaon had received 27mm rainfall. Box 1: Rainfall in city for last 24 hours Shivajinagar: 18.5mm Pashan: 22.1mm Lohegaon: 17.0mm Total rain in city in last 24 hours: 57.6 mm Box 2 Rainfall in dams in last 24 hours Panshet: 142mm; Warasgaon: 134mm; Kahadakwasla: 42mm; Temghar: 110mm Total rain in four dams in last 24 hours: 428 mm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/catchment-areas-record-428mm-rainfall/story-cnsdGvVvneRMZ4dYokfPlK.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Pune city reports 1,192 fresh positive Covid cases, 56 deaths||The state health department, on Friday, reported 1,192 fresh positive Covid-19 cases in Pune, which takes the progressive positive total, as per the state’s information, to 76,645. Also, the state health department reported 56 Covid-19 related deaths in Pune on Friday which puts the death toll, as per the state’s data, at 1,985. As per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) figures released on Friday, the city saw 1,177 fresh Covid-19 positives reported, which takes its progressive positive total to 71,503. Twenty-seven Covid-related deaths were reported by thee PMC, which puts the death toll to at 1,683. Currently, there are 14,720 active cases, of which 750 are critical cases; with 467 on ventilators and 283 in ICUs without ventilators. A total of 2,452 people are undergoing oxygen treatment in city hospitals. As 1,142 people were discharged within 24 hours, the total number of cases declared as cured is now at 55,100. A total of 5,673 tests were conducted on Friday, which takes the count of total tests conducted to 3.48 lakh. Details of the 27 deaths include, six from Sassoon General Hospital, five from Poona hospital, four from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, and three from Naidu hospital, One death each was reported from NM Wadia hospital, Ratna hospital, Symbiosis, Global, Sancheti, Kashibai Navale hospital, Surya Sahyadri hospital, Sanjeevan hospital and Noble hospital. Fifteen deaths were also reported of patients residing outside PMC limits, but being treated in city hospitals. These include seven from Sassoon, two from Deenanath Mangeshkar, and one each from Jehangir hospital, Naidu hospital, KEM hospital, Parmar hospital, AICTS and Vinod Memorial hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-reports-1-192-fresh-positive-covid-cases-56-deaths/story-8NRoZRXWMkrTFgLh3ntZ1O.html
15-08-2020||Jaipur||Heavy rain lashes parts of Rajasthan||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Rajasthan in the last 24 hours, the Meteorological department said on Saturday. According to the MeT department, 250 mm rainfall was recorded in Jamwa Ramgarh near Jaipur in the last 24 hours, which was the highest in the state.Meanwhile, Jaipur received 18 cm rainfall, followed by Amber (15 cm), Bassi (13 cm), Pisangan in Ajmer (11 cm) and Srimadhopur (10 cm), it said.Kota, Jodhpur, Pali, Nagaur, Sawai Madhopur and many areas of Bharatpur also received showers, the MeT department said.An alert of heavy rainfall in Ajmer, Sirohi, Jalore, Pali and Jodhpur district in next 24 hours was issued by the Meteorological department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-rajasthan/story-GoWNNjIht7xuGgnUk1pjgL.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Of 496 Covid-19 patients in critical care, 222 suffer from diabetes, hypertension, or both||Of the 496 Covid-19 patients in critical care, listed with the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), at least 222 suffer from diabetes, hypertension, or both. The data is collated from the PMC’s iHealWell app which tracks critical patients in 50 hospitals across the city. The data also shows a stark difference in terms of the gender of Covid-19 patients, with 67 per cent of them being male, and 32% being female. The 51-60-year-old age group is the most affected in terms of number of patients in critical care. Of the 496 patients in critical care admitted in hospitals, 84 have both diabetes and hypertension; while 80 have only diabetes; and 58 have only hypertension. Both diabetes and hypertension have emerged as the most common comorbidities causing the most damage among Covid-19 patients. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “PMC can get real-time insight for all critical patients admitted in 50 hospitals, including the patients’ line of treatment, their condition and hospital compliance in terms of beds. We can see that diabetes and hypertension are the most common comorbid conditions. With regards to bringing in more transparency we have also appointed deputy collectors, PMC HoDs, auditors and medical officers in 25 major hospitals to check and verify bills of Covid-19 patients. We have also made the concerned email ID, dedicated helpline number and Whatsapp number public for grievances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/of-496-covid-19-patients-in-critical-care-222-suffer-from-diabetes-hypertension-or-both/story-JoEryu0hVglCrBCgPCgPPK.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Functioning of Delhi High Court, district courts restricted till August 31||The Delhi High Court decided on Saturday to restrict its functioning as well as that of the district courts only to urgent matters till August 31 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the high court, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, also directed that subject to complete availability of public transport and the situation in Delhi remaining stable, a plan be evolved for a gradual opening of physical courts from September 1 onwards.“To begin with, on experimental basis, around one-fourth of the courts can resume physical functioning on a rotational basis while the rest can continue taking up matters through video-conferencing.“A comprehensive plan on the above lines will be prepared by the undersigned (Registrar General) and placed before the ‘Committee for Preparation of Graded Action Plan’ and thereafter, before the Full Court for consideration,” an office order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain said.Earlier, the high court had restricted its functioning and that of the district courts till August 14.The office order issued on Saturday further said the courts of registrars and joint registrars have been directed not to pass any adverse order in non-urgent or routine matters, where the advocate or litigant concerned is unable to join the proceedings through video-conferencing, till the time the physical functioning of the courts resumes.It also said all the cases listed in the high court from August 17 to August 31 except those before the registrars and joint registrars have been adjourned to the corresponding dates between October 9 and October 23.“The courts of Registrars and Joint Registrars of this court shall take up matters listed before them through video-conferencing.“However, evidence shall be recorded only in ex-parte and uncontested matters, where the same is required to be tendered by way of an affidavit,” the office order said.Similar directions, as in the case of the high court, were passed with regard to a restricted functioning of the subordinate courts till August 31 and their gradual reopening from September 1 onwards.The high court had, on March 25, restricted its functioning as well as that of the district courts till April 14. It was subsequently extended to May 3, May 17, May 23, May 31, June 14, June 29, July 15, July 31 and August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-functioning-of-delhi-high-court-district-courts-restricted-till-august-31/story-0dBLH0hlLpYuNlBR9a7eJL.html
15-08-2020||Pune||No Ganesh immersion processions this year in Pune: Ajit Pawar||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar gave a clear warning to not allow any Ganesh immersion processions in Pune during this year’s Ganeshotsav. Pawar on Friday took a review meeting at the council hall and appealed to all elected members to appeal to Ganesh mandals and citizens to not carry out any processions during Ganesh festival. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The Central government on Thursday did a video conference with 18 district collectors from Maharashtra including Pune and instructed to not allow any religious and political functions in the coming days.” Rao said, “The Central government has clearly instructed that as the unlock process has begun and the economy is coming to normal, it is difficult to maintain the containment zone policy. On this background at least there should be strict actions for not allowing religious, political or any other functions where more people will come together.” Rao said, “All the administrative officers including the police clearly took a stand to not allow any processions during this year’s Ganesh festival.” Rao said, “The five main Ganpati mandals and other Ganesh temples are cooperating with us and assuring that they would not carry out the processions. Even we are in touch with most of the Ganesh temples. We are appealing the people to cooperate voluntarily, even if it isn’t allowed legally.”Pune is famous for its Ganesh festival and a big immersion procession in the state. The Dhol, Tasha and long processions are an attraction but this year nothing will be allowed in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-ganesh-immersion-processions-this-year-in-pune-ajit-pawar/story-olaXTrNuHQQSj1UIJp7FHJ.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Pune district administration to prioritise donors’ relatives if they are in need of critical care, plasma donation||The Pune district administration has decided to prioritise plasma donors’ relatives, if they are in need of critical care and plasma donation.Pune district’s guardian minister Ajit Pawar said, “Plasma donations need to increase in Pune as it helps save lives of critical patients. Administration must make efforts to increase plasma donations.”Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Till date, a total of 500 plasma donations have been made in Pune, of which 154 plasmas have been used. It is true that plasma therapy is helping, but it’s not a complete solution as seven patients who were given plasma died. The administration has decided to start driving its plasma donation campaign from August 15.”Rao said, “Doctors said that the main reason for poor plasma donation is that citizens think that if their relatives require it, they should be ready. To overcome this, we decided that if someone donates plasma, whenever required, plasma will be given to such a person’s close relative on a priority.”The administration’s donation drive is aimed at plasma donations from police personnel and government employees first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-administration-to-prioritise-donors-relatives-if-they-are-in-need-of-critical-care-plasma-donation/story-RYEWhaNecf3cWr1DiL4qfM.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Administration to serve notices to industrial units in Chakan, Rajgurunagar, for violating Covid-19 guidelines||Pune district administration will issue notices to industrial units in Chakan, Rajgurunagar, and others under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for not following Covi-19 guidelines.Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, said, “We have received complaints that industries are not following guidelines and safety precautions issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Centre and state government.”“They are not informing the local administration if an employee tests positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus,” said Rao.Rao said, “Elected members raised the issue in the Covid-19 review meeting which was headed by Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar. Complaints are mainly from Chakan area.”Rao said, “Notices will be issued to industries in rural areas for not following the guidelines. If they still flout the norms strict action will be taken against them.”“The industries in Pimpri Chinchwad area and Hinjewadi IT Park are taking better safety precautions,” he said.Surge in cases in rural areaPune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, while Covid-19 positive cases in Pune city are in control there is a surge in cases in rural areas. There are even complaints from patients about hospitals overcharging.“As the cases are on a rise the main worry is about the healthcare facilities. We are planning to centralise allocation of hospital beds in rural areas,” he said.Rao said, “We have decided to bring new 52 hospitals in rural areas under Mahatma Phule Jan Aaroya scheme so that residents can avail free treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/administration-to-serve-notices-to-industrial-units-in-chakan-rajgurunagar-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines/story-ZM2HXiwzQLDLqhm06Mg4JP.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Independence Day 2020: Readathon, lit meets in virtual plans of RWAs||“Before the pandemic, every year on August 15, the residents of my society would get together in the morning hours around the common assembly area, and hoist the Tricolour while singing the National Anthem in unison. And then, there would be a round of sweets to seal the Independence Day celebrations,” says Santi Sankar, a resident of MG Road, Gurugram.” This year, though the celebrations will be virtual, it hasn’t doused the spirit! Sankar adds, “We have found unique ways to salute those who laid down their lives for the nation.”  A number of societies and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) are celebrating I-Day virtually this year, such as by hosting virtual readathons. “Women in my condo will have a get together over video call to read out patriotic poems or sing nationalist songs. I’ve even rehearsed the lyrics of Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon,” adds Sankar. . . Some residents also plan on holding digital conferences to discuss Indian literature. “I’ve a book club in my residential area, as part of which we have decided to discuss our favourite piece of Indian literature over a video call, to celebrate I-Day. This way, not only will our book club remain active in times of social distancing, but we will also get to celebrate the works of Indian writers and remember their contribution during the freedom struggle,” says Urmika Sahai, a resident of Vasant Kunj, Delhi. Some youngsters are looking forward to listening to real-life stories from the elderly, as the latter have been invited by heads of their societies to share personal tales of freedom. “My RWA has organised a wonderful initiative, wherein we are getting videos recorded from our grandparents narrating their partition stories and India’s struggle for independence. Our RWA will compile and stream them on video portals and also mail them to us,” says Niranjan Rao, a resident of MG Road, Gurugram, adding, “My dadi is super excited to participate in this!” And the kids have also found a way to not let their excitement fade due to celebrations going online. “A couple of my society friends and I have decided to connect virtually and cheer the kids as they perform over video call,” says Priti Dogra, residing in Gurugram sector 23, adding, “My kid will dance to Rang De Basanti (Rang De Basanti; 2006), while my neighbour’s kid will play Teri Mitti (Kesari; 2019) on his piano. There is no reason the pandemic should put a dampener on kids’ enthusiasm.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/independence-day-2020-readathon-lit-meets-in-virtual-plans-of-rwas/story-1ajI70f8JnbWhUJCch8tJK.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM salutes bravehearts of Galwan Valley, honours corona warriors||Panchkula: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar paid homage to the Indian soldiers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty while fighting the Chinese intrusion in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh in June. Addressing the state-level Independence Day function in Panchkula’s Parade Ground after unfurling the Tricolour, Khattar said, “This is a day to remember our martyrs who sacrificed their lives to make India independent. I salute the bravehearts of Galwan Valley who made the supreme sacrifice while safeguarding our borders.” This year, the Independence Day celebration was a low-key affair amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The occasion was marked by a guard of honour and march past by Haryana Police personnel after which a few schoolchildren rendered the national anthem. RAM MANDIR, SECTION 370 REVOCATION FIND MENTION In his speech, Khattar said, “Ten days before Independence Day, on August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Maryada Purushottam Bhagwan Shri Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. This has ended a 500-year-long wait and struggle.” He said on August 5, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi abrogated Article 370, revoking special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and took a step closer to Akhand Bharat. He welcomed the Citizenship Amendment Act and the arrival of the five Rafale fighter planes in Ambala on July 29. He honoured corona warriors for fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic and said, “I thank all corona warriors, from doctors to sanitation workers and the police for performing their duty with dedication in this hour of crisis.” Highlighting the achievement of the state government, Khattar said, “We have been successful in providing honest and corruption-free governance. More than 70,000 jobs have been given on merit basis only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-salutes-bravehearts-of-galwan-valley-honours-corona-warriors/story-sVbEvxQlMLCBC0Bn1UZlQJ.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM calls for readiness to combat border threat from Pakistan, China||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that “Punjab would always be at the forefront of fighting the enemy at the borders” considering the threat posed by China and Pakistan.With tensions at the borders continuing, India had to be prepared to deal with any eventuality.“While Pakistan continues to resort to firing every day, China, on the other hand, talks about friendship but remains a danger to our nation. The recent barbaric attack on Indian soldiers by the Chinese forces. India has always given Pakistan a befitting response, which is the only way to deal with them,” the Punjab CM said and added, “China also needs to be handled with the same iron hand.”Recalling the contributions of the millions of Indians to the freedom struggle, CM Singh said Punjabis had always been at the forefront of every battle.“The cellular jail in Kaala Paani (Andaman Islands) have the names of tens of hundreds of Punjabis etched in immortality. Even though the I-Day celebrations this year were low-key due to the Covid pandemic, this was the time to remember the sacrifices of all those who had made freedom possible for us. It was also the time to salute the defence forces guarding the nation’s borders from the enemy.”Paying his tributes to Punjab’s freedom fighters, Captain Amarinder reiterated his government’s commitment to extend all benefits of freedom fighters to their next generations (grandchildren). At the same time, he also saluted the Health Workers and Paramedics who were continuously fighting the invisible Covid enemy, along with the NGOs and religious organisations that have worked tirelessly to provide free food and medicine during the period of lockdown.The Punjab CM also acknowledged the great work done by the farmers, who have produced the food that fed the nation during the lockdown period and government officials who are serving the people in these difficult times.The chief minister recognised the people of Punjab for their cooperation in observing precautions that were helping in containing the pandemic, the students who had adapted to the online teaching methodology, as well as the teachers who were working day and night to create online content to ensure that the studies of their students do not suffer.He also lauded the industrialists who had shown remarkable resilience in recovering from the extreme slowdown caused by the pandemic, and the industrial labour which had placed its faith in the state of Punjab and returned to work with the same dedication as before after the initial panic which forced them to leave for their home towns through the trains arranged by the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-calls-for-readiness-to-combat-border-threat-from-pakistan-china/story-uMqxCA50CTj03fuWZyq9WO.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh will be developed as a medical hub: Administrator VP Singh Badnore||Chandigarh: The Union Territory of Chandigarh will be developed as a medical hub. Addressing the Independence Day function here after unfurling the Tricolour at the Parade Ground, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore said: “Today, we are collectively facing the Covid-19 pandemic, a global health crisis. The war against the virus is a challenge and we are prepared for it. A lesson is well learnt, and we are geared up to make Chandigarh a medical hub with exceptional facilities to tackle any such health threat.” Adding a word of caution, he said: “Until a vaccine is developed, we will have to take precautions. It is the duty of every citizen to respect nature and follow rules. Let us fight this together and emerge stronger.” COMMENDATION FOR CORONA WARRIORS Announcing commendation certificates for Covid warriors, he said, “Your selfless contribution and tireless efforts have helped in averting a serious threat, that is yet far from over. I am certain that you all will keep these spirits alive and come together as before in containing the spread of coronavirus,” he said. He said that the World Health Organisation has recognised the success of Chandigarh Administration, particularly in containing the spread of infection in Bapu Dham Colony. He commended the mayor, councillors, municipal corporation commissioner and staff who contributed to the war against coronavirus by providing essential commodities at the doorsteps of residents during the curfew. Badnore complimented Chandigarh Police for ensuring checking at inter-state borders and maintaining perimeter control of containment zones besides enforcing social distancing, mask wearing and curfew timings. He appreciated teachers for the smooth transition to online teaching during the pandemic so that classes were not disrupted. He urged citizens to remain alert and cautious. FINANCIAL AID FOR EX-SERVICEMEN INCREASED Badnore said financial assistance for ex-servicemen, who had retired or were released from service without pension and are above 65 years, has been increased from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000 a month. Financial assistance of widows of subedar major rank or of the same rank in the navy and air force has also been enhanced from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 a month. Badnore said the construction of Government High School in Manimajra was at an advanced stage and work on building an additional 216 houses for Chandigarh Police personnel will begin soon. The new mini sports complex in Sector 8 is complete and another such complex is nearing completion in Sector 27. The construction of a new international shooting range in Sector 25 and mini sports infrastructure for billiards and snooker in the Sports Complex of Sector 42 will begin shortly. The Chandigarh Housing Board plans to rent out 2,500 vacant small flats in Maloya for migrant labourers under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-will-be-developed-as-a-medical-hub-administrator-vp-singh-badnore/story-eIyH4QZLNFXk76pUa1YCiO.html
15-08-2020||Lucknow||Parts of Uttar Pradesh receive light to moderate rains||Light to moderate rain and thundershowers occurred at a few places over eastern Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over the western part of the state over the last 24 hours, the Meteorological Department here said on Saturday.Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning also occurred at isolated places over the state during the period, it said.Heavy rain is very likely at isolated places over the state on Sunday, the weather department said.Rain or thundershowers are very likely at many places over the state on Monday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/parts-of-uttar-pradesh-receive-light-to-moderate-rains/story-8vWmrp9evSDEBhZ2NY0g9O.html
15-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot celebrates 74th Independence Day||On the occasion of 74th Independence Day, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot hoisted the national flag at his residence here on Saturday.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also celebrated Independence Day by hoisting the tricolour at Bharatiya Janata Party office in Bhopal.This year, celebrations have been kept minimal in view of the spread of Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoisted the national flag at the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi and addressed the nation this morning. He was received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at the iconic monument.The Prime Minister then inspected the Guard of Honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-celebrates-74th-independence-day/story-49kt7CAwhRrwM86VeQoiuN.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM virtually inaugurates two projects for Mohali||Mohali: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced the inauguration of a 66 KV sub station and the construction of the building of Punjab Biotechnology Incubator. He made the announcements while addressing the state-level Independence Day function in Mohali. The 66KV sub-station will be set up at Sector 82 in IT City, Mohali, while the Punjab Biotechnology Incubator building is being built at a cost of Rs 31 crore in Knowledge City, Sector 81. The construction of the incubator building was started recently by PWD (B&R), and work is in progress on the basement. MOHALI CIVIL SURGEON, DISTRICT EPIDEMIOLOGIST GET SPECIAL MENTION The chief minister made special mention for the people who had performed exceptional service during the pandemic and said they will be awarded on January 26. He made special mention of Dr Manjeet Singh, the civil surgeon of Mohali, who led from the front and went personally to high-exposure/containment zones despite battling leukemia. He praised the efforts of Dr Harmandeep Kaur, the district epidemiologist, who had to move her one-year-old child back to her parental home to ensure safety as she worked day and night in the field while doing extensive contact tracing, testing, and ensuring preventive measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-virtually-inaugurates-two-projects-for-mohali/story-srW0RSnqA4NOhEi0tnWRIJ.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants bail to teenager booked for raping girlfriend||The Bombay high court on Thursday granted bail to an 18-year-old, arrested for raping his girlfriend, after noticing that the survivor did not complain about the purported crime till their relationship turned sour.The FIR, prima facie reveals that the survivor never complained about the physical relationship till the relationship took a U-turn and both mutually decided to part ways, justice Bharati Dangre noted while granting bail to the teenager, booked by Cyber Cell of the Mumbai police on July 7.The survivor complained that she was introduced to the accused when she was studying in junior college. The acquaintance slowly turned into a love affair, and the two used to visit each other’s homes. She alleged once when she visited the house of the accused, he took advantage of the fact that no one else was present in the house and established a physical relationship with her. Though she maintained the act was without her consent, she did not lodge any complaint about the incident. The complaint was lodged only after the relationship turned sour and they parted ways sometime in last week of June. The trigger for lodging of the complaint, the girl claimed, was that the accused sent some of his intimate photos with the survivor to her mother and also threatened to send the photos to her other family members.“This is a typical case of teenagers moving too fast and eager to explore the world hurriedly,” said justice Bharati Dangre talking about the entire episode.“The sheer hurry without maturely understanding each other is typical of adolescence and before the relationship took a concrete shape, the applicant and complainant became physical,” said the judge. “The applicant, one of the party to this hurried relationship is in trouble as he is arraigned as an accused for a serious offence of rape and is booked under one of the stringent laws – POCSO Act.”Justice Dangre ordered the teenager to be released on bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs. 25,000 and a surety in the same amount.Before ordering his release on bail, the court confirmed that the investigation officer has seized his mobile phone and that he has not forwarded the intimate photos to anyone else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-teenager-booked-for-raping-girlfriend/story-wHr9d7g3ge5XimDenp3icI.html
15-08-2020||Lifestyle||Independence Day 2020: Restaurants offer droolworthy offers on dine-in and takeaway||This Independence Day, a host of restaurants are offering deals and discounts on their menu. From tricolour dishes to special rates, they have left no stone unturned to ensure that diners in the city have a kickstart into the weekend. Even during these times of pandemic, these eateries are striving to spread joy with special food offers. Take a look:Feast of Diversity Indulge in the taste of India this Independence day and celebrate the flavours of freedom Glasshouse, Hilton Garden Inn, Gurgaon, Baani Square. Treat your tastebuds with a delightful spread of authentic flavours of different regional cuisines of India made in tricolour along with 15% off on your dine-in bill. Some dishes in the menu include Tricolour salad, Tirangaa Paneer Tikka, Tirangaa Pulao, Tricolour Rasgulla and many more.Where: Glass House, Hilton Garden Inn, Gurgaon Baani SquarePrice: ₹ 2,000/- per personTiming: 9am to 10pmWhen: Saturday, August 15, 2020Rewinding the clockAt Daryaganj restaurant, avail all desserts at the prices applicable in the year 1947, i.e., 16 paise. For one week, starting August 15, the restaurant will turn back time. “Our brand’s foundation was laid in the year 1947 after Partition when a refugee late Mr Kundan Lal Jaggi started an iconic restaurant in the locality of Daryaganj in Delhi and invented world famous dishes like butter chicken and dal makhani. As a celebration of that, all our desserts will be sold at the same price of 16 paisa as it was at that time in his restaurant,” says co-founder Amit Bagga.Spirit of the TricolourOishii Wok is celebrating the colours of the National flag with dishes prepared from natural colours. Using ingredients like carrots and spinach they have prepared tricolour dumplings. “We are geared up to celebrate nationalism with these new innovations,” says owner Rohit Kumar.Where: Oishii Wok, DLF Phase IV, GurugramWhen: August 14-16Freebies with every orderL’Opéra is gifting a box of tricolour macarons with all orders placed on its website or phone using the code INDEPENDENCE2020. Additionally, all customers visiting L’Opéra outlets on August 15, 2020 will be gifted a sachet of madeleines with their purchase. Read: Happy Independence Day: From tiranga macarons to tricolour idlis try these interesting recipes for I-Day₹74 CombosThis 74th Independence Day, Five Star is offering burger combos at ₹74. The offer entails different combinations on burgers, fries and rolls.Where: Five Star, Shop No. R4-107 & 120, 1st Floor, M3M Urbana, Golf Course Extension Road, Sector 67, GurugramWhen: August 12-16, 2020Timing: 12.30pm-9pmInteract with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/independence-day-2020-restaurants-offer-droolworthy-offers-on-dine-in-and-takeaway/story-0tlKytSrIfqyVVyRT2JgLJ.html
15-08-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM vows to build ‘Kalyana Rajya’, asks people not to fear Covid||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday called on the people not to worry or be afraid of Covid-19 infection, as he vowed to build a “welfare state” with development as the only mantra, while fighting the pandemic.In his message to the people of the state on the occasion of 74th Independence Day, the chief minister while pointing out the challenges faced by rain, floods and drought along with Covid-19, also defended the reforms brought in by his administration.He also remembered and paid tributes to all corona warriors, including the government machinery, private establishments, industrialists and volunteers who have been working relentlessly in these trying times.“Our aim is to build a Kalyana Rajya (Welfare state) with the avowed principle of development as the only mantra.While fighting the global pandemic Covid-19, we are taking giant strides towards realizing Mahatma Gandhis dream of building a Ram Rajya and will practise Rajadharma in true earnest,” Yediyurappa said.Realising the responsibility thrust upon us and keeping in mind the welfare of people in these critical times, we have taken many pro-people decisions, he said, adding “the people of the state have given complete support to the decisions that my government has taken. I am indebted to all of you.” It was a subdued Independence Day celebration in the state capital with no school children or public in attendance, only select invitees including elected representatives, officials, also some Covid warriors and those who have recovered from the infection were present.Noting that Covid-19 was a global pandemic, a global scourge, the CM said this has affected not just the health sector, but continues to affect every single industry, and the pace of life that had slowed during the lockdown is slowly recovering now.“I too was infected by the coronavirus, and I have fully recovered. I would like to send a message on this occasion that the people need not worry or be afraid of this infection,” he said.The 77-year old leader was on Monday discharged after about 10 days in the hospital, following his recovery from the infection.Besides record rain, floods and drought, the centurys most disruptive and dangerous pandemic, Covid-19 has posed huge challenges, Yediyurappa said with economic recession, job losses, loss of revenue to the government, and social and economic activities grinding to a halt, people of the state are in distress. “Our government has implemented many schemes and projects to ensure peace, relief and tranquillity in society and help people see a ray of hope in this hour of gloom,” he said. The chief minister said his government has been giving a boost to entrepreneurs through the Industrial Facilitation Act, which greatly improves the ease-of-doing business and encourages industrial development in the state. Not just that, we have been encouraging the youth of the state to develop skills.Along with that, rules have been simplified to purchase agricultural land that’s required for industrial purposes, he said, adding that we have created an opportunity for both farmers and industrialists to mutually benefit from the direct purchase of land.Also noting that the government has made big changes in the co-operative sector which is the backbone of the agriculture economy, Yediyurappa said, with an objective of allowing farmers to sell their produce at a market of their choice, the government has made changes to the APMC Act.Opposition Congress and JD(S), also few organisations have been critical of government’s ordinances amending land reforms, APMC and industries related laws, calling them anti farmer, people and labourers.Highlighting measures taken by his government to remove regional imbalance and for the development of the backward Kalyana Karnataka region, Yediyurappa said airports in Bidar and Kalaburagi have commenced operations to encourage industrial activities in this region.Work on setting up an airport in Shivamogga has gathered pace, and the government has given administrative approval to launch work on Karwar and Vijayapura airports, he said.Observing that agriculture, welfare of backward classes and minorities are among the priorities of his government, the CM also said the Centre’s Aatmanirbhar Scheme is a ray of hope for all of us, and as PM Narendra Modi has said, Karnataka too has been taking bold steps to convert every crisis into an opportunity.Pointing to the talks held with more than 40 prominent companies during the World Economic Forum summit held in Davos, seeking their investment in Karnataka, he said, later during Covid-19 too we have approved 101 industrial projects worth Rs 27,000 crore at the state level.Also complementing Prime Minister Modi for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, Yediyurappa revealed his government’s plans to build a Yatrinivas in Ayodhya for devotees from Karnataka who travel there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-vows-to-build-kalyana-rajya-asks-people-not-to-fear-covid/story-qsVC2Bz905xsHjJrAr0CKI.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Will not rest till Punjab’s economy is back on track, says chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh||Mohali: With Punjab’s revenue dipping by half in the first quarter, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh vowed to bring the state’s economy back on the growth track and announced a slew of welfare measures, including the creation of six lakh jobs for youngsters in two years, while addressing the state-level Independence Day function in Mohali on Saturday. “Despite the economic slowdown resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to 50% decline in revenue collection in the first quarter of this financial year, the state government has successfully initiated several steps to combat the crisis. A Rs 26,000-crore boost was given to the farming sector to ensure efficient wheat procurement,” Capt Amarinder Singh said after unfurling the Tricolour. The event at Government College, Phase 6, Mohali, was a low-key affair with the function, attended by government officials and police personnel, limited to the unfurling of the flag and speech of the chief minister amid Covid-19 curbs. The speech was streamed live on social media. VIRTUAL MEGA JOB MELA NEXT MONTH He announced that 50,000 government jobs will be provided to youngsters next year and another 50,000 in 2022. “A virtual mega job mela will be organised next month with the aim of the placement of 50,000 youngsters in the private sector,” Captain Amarinder Singh said, adding that the Punjab government has already helped 13.6 lakh youngsters get employment/self-employment under its flagship Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme. Reiterating his government’s commitment to providing incentives for the industry to attract more investment to the state, he said that investment worth Rs 63,000 crore had been realised on the ground with the potential of two lakh jobs. DEBT RELIEF, NEW LAND LEASING LAW The chief minister said that the state government will give debt relief of Rs 520 crore to landless farmers and workers. A sum of Rs 4,700 crore had been disbursed among 5.62 lakh farmers under the debt waiver scheme. “Punjab will soon enact a new land leasing law to secure ownership of farmers and the rights of tenants on agriculture land,” he said. With the launch of the smart ration card scheme soon, he said 1.41 crore beneficiaries will become eligible to get ration from fair price shops. Capt Amarinder Singh announced the construction of 1,300 km of state and national highways with an investment of Rs 12,000 crore in two years. While 28,830 km of rural links roads have been repaired over three years at a cost of Rs 3,278 crore, the next two years will see repair of another 6,162 km of link roads with an investment of Rs 834 crore, he said, adding that patchwork of an additional 17,000 km of link roads will be undertaken for Rs 82 crore. RESTORING SPORTING GLORY Underlining the need to restore Punjab’s glory in sports, the chief minister announced the construction of 750 rural sports stadiums in two years. He declared a Rs 2,500-crore investment in Phase II of the smart village campaign (SVC), for which Phase I covering 19,132 rural works has been completed at a cost of Rs 835 crore. All rural households will have piped potable drinking water in two years with an expenditure of Rs 1,200 crore. Citing the importance of online education, Captain Amarinder Singh said 1.74 lakh Class 12 students of government schools were being given smartphones this year. WEAR MASKS, GET TESTED, PROTECT ELDERLY Expressing confidence that Punjab would overcome the Covid pandemic, the chief minister urged people to take special care of the elderly, while ensuring strict adherence to wearing masks and avoiding large gatherings besides frequent washing of hands. He said early testing was the first step towards defeating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-not-rest-till-punjab-s-economy-is-back-on-track-says-chief-minister-capt-amarinder-singh/story-oVy9ezBYczd1OWFp9TfcrL.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugramwale: A life in everyday feminism||Her days are so hectic that she hasn’t really found the time to look back and trace the arc of her life. Therefore, Sunita Kushwaha has never thought of herself as a feminist. But that’s what she is. She was raised in a conservative UP village where women would hardly get out of their homes, and would appear in public only in a ghunghat, their face completely hidden beneath the veil. But look at her now—everyday she interacts face-to-face (these days it’s mask-to-mask, though) with hundreds of strangers. She is a “ladies security guard” in a Gurugram mall. She is 32. It’s her third year on the job. Though she has been living in the city for eight years.“I’m also a wife and a mother,” she says, talking on WhatsApp video this afternoon, during a small break in her 11am to 7pm shift.Like many women with day jobs, Ms Kushwaha enjoys the benefits of having a supportive child. “By now, Akansha has learnt to like her own company in the house during the day.”Ms Kushwaha’s husband, Ram Milan, is a maintenance man in a motor showroom, and he too is out during the day, working. In any case, her “bhabhi” (sister-in-law) lives just next door and keeps an eye on the daughter, who often crosses over to the relative’s house to pass her hours—especially during these days when the schools are closed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Ms Kushwaha insists that her husband is a very helpful mate, respects her co-role as a family breadwinner and helps her partly with the household chores.“We wake up every morning at 5.30 and prepare the lunch together—I make the atta dough for the rotis and he chops the vegetables.” The couple’s home comprises of a single room, and the kitchen has a gas range placed upon a corner table. Ms Kushwaha’s residence is in Wazirabad, a 15-minute walk from the shopping mall. In the pre-corona era, she would first drop her daughter at school but now she leaves for work alone, while keeping lunch and snacks, like biscuits and namkeen, in accessible parts of the house, so that her daughter’s hands can reach them easily. “Every day after lunch, when my daughter feels bored, she calls me—we have given her a mobile—to ask how I am doing and to chat for a bit,” she says, laughing.Ms Kushwaha reaches home not long after 7pm, and straight gets down to the household job—washing the laundry (by hand) and cooking the dinner.But isn’t she already exhausted after her day of work?Ms Kushwaha doesn’t make any comment. She later says: “This job is important for me because it helps with our expenses.” She waited for her daughter to start the school before launching herself into her current career. And here the lady adds that she has a dream for her girl. “Actually it’s Akansha’s dream.... I think she saw it in some TV serial... she wants to be a doctor and wishes to open a clinic in a village because she thinks that villages have no good hospitals.”But now, Ms Kushwaha must get back to her duty. Today she is stationed by the mall’s entrance. A visitor enters. She quietly measures his temperature and squeezes the sanitiser spray on his hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugramwale-a-life-in-everyday-feminism/story-pO9WQGvf5T0mk0frCCDr3J.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab brings all cities under night curfew||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday announced extension of the night curfew from 9pm to 5am in all cities across the state. The decision has been taken, said Amarinder, following spike in Covid cases and the impending peak in the coming weeks. During his Facebook Live programme #AskCaptain, Amarinder said night-time curfew will now be applicable to all cities, with exemption for industries. The CM also announced to divide cities in sectors with a nodal officer for contact tracing to assist the health teams. Amarinder also announced weekend (Saturday & Sunday) ‘stay at home’ in Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar for the next fortnight, after which the situation will be reviewed. It has been decided that every marriage palace, restaurant, office, where more than 10 people gather, will appoint one Covid monitor to ensure full compliance of masks, sanitisation and social distancing, said the chief minister, at his weekly Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. He warned that teams will come and inspect these places, and violators will be penalised. Further, all persons who have high social contact will be tested within the coming week, and Corona conquerors (who have recovered) from health, police and other departments will be put on frontline duty, said the chief minister. The directions came amid continuing increase in Covid cases, with the last 7 days reporting an average of 1,000 a day. The maximum cases last week came from Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Mohali. The chief minister said the mortality due to Covid can be checked if people go for early testing and report to hospitals within 72 hours once detected positive. “Treatment should begin within this period if lives are to be saved. Don’t be a doctor yourself, leave it to the doctors to diagnose the problem and suggest the treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-brings-all-cities-under-night-curfew/story-NqiAhm5CJsNXcr8H1fRL2M.html
15-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC to deliver order on BSP MLAs’ merger on Monday||The Rajasthan high court will deliver its verdict on the petitions filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP challenging the merger of six MLAs, who contested on BSP tickets but merged with the ruling Congress in the state assembly, on Monday.After hearing the arguments, the single-judge bench of Justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal started dictating its decision on Friday but could not complete it due to the paucity of time. It will resume on Monday. The petitioners have challenged the merger of six MLAs--Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha--with Congress and sought a stay on the execution on the order passed by the speaker. The MLAs submitted an application for the merger on September 16, 2019 and the Speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019. BJP MLA Madan Dilawar challenged the merger and filed a petition before the Speaker in March this year, which was rejected on July 24. Dilawar challenged the decision of the Speaker in the high court and demanded a stay on the merger. A similar petition was filed by BSP.Counsel for the speaker, Prateek Kasliwal, said, “The decision on the merger of the MLAs was an administrative one. No objection was raised by the BSP in front of the speaker in past. BSP’s counsel Dinesh Garg said, “As per law, parties merge, but not legislators. They are liable to be disqualified...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-hc-to-deliver-order-on-bsp-mlas-merger-on-monday/story-vBHPUSBUpmqvz8po1OitAO.html
15-08-2020||Noida||UP scholar case: 2 mourners who visited Bhati family test Covid positive||At least two mourners, who visited the family of Sudiksha Bhati after her death, have tested positive for Covid-19, the police said on Friday. Bhati family has called it a conspiracy against them.Sudiksha, who was a bright student and bagged scholarship to pursue higher education in the United States, had died in a road accident in Bulandshahr on August 10. Her family alleged that she was being harassed by two bike-borne men at the time of the accident. However, the Bulandshahr police have registered an FIR against two unknown persons for rash driving and death due to negligence.“For now two people have tested positive and all necessary measures are being taken to control the situation. Several more tests have been carried out and even the family will be tested,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.A police spokesperson said the family has had many visitors in the last few days. One of the two who tested positive is a resident of Ghaziabad. Other villagers were then tested and one was positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-scholar-case-2-mourners-who-visited-bhati-family-test-covid-positive/story-ViIOj1VTBPgqwnQVgGJG2J.html
15-08-2020||City||Custodial death of Ludhiana man: SHO among three cops booked after six months||Almost six months after a vehicle-lifting suspect died in police custody in February, police have booked the Division Number 5 SHO and two ASIs for his custodial death.The action came after a local court on Friday dismissed an application filed by the police seeking a stay on a previous court order to lodge the FIR.The trio – SHO sub-inspector Richa Rani, ASI Charanjit Singh and ASI Jaskaran Singh – have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code and the Contempt of Court Act.Deepak Shukla, 27, an insurance company employee, had died at the civil hospital on February 27 after being allegedly tortured by the Division Number 5 police in custody.His family had approached the court on February 26, hours before his death, alleging police torture. Though Deepak was moved to the civil hospital on the court’s order, he had died on February 27.Following protests by his family on February 28, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal had suspended the SHO, the two ASIs and one constable Mandeep Singh. But, the SHO was reinstated after a few days.On the family’s plea, a court on March 6 had ordered the police to lodge an FIR against the SHO, the two ASIs and other police personnel, but the police did not take any action and sought a stay by the court on lodging the FIR.Dismissing their plea on Friday, the court of additional session judge Arun Kumar Aggarwal stated that though the accused cops had claimed that it was the jail authorities and not them, who failed to follow the court order and jail manual, the factual aspects of the case were a matter of investigation after registration of the FIR.ANOMALIES IN PROBEDeepak’s uncle Rakesh Shukla had informed the court that on February 22, police had called Deepak’s wife Preeti and informed her about his arrest in a vehicle-lifting case. Even though Deepak was arrested on February 22, police did not present him in court until February 24, when he was sent to judicial custody.Even then, the police kept him in illegal custody and shifted him to the jail only on February 25. Rakesh had also claimed that the police had earlier sought a bribe of Rs 1.15 lakh for not registering a case against Deepak, and that they had paid them Rs 25,000.The police had subsequently informed the court that they were late in taking Deepak to jail due to delay in his medical examination, following which the jail staff refused to admit him.To this, the court had questioned them that if they were late in taking the accused to jail on February 24, why did they wait till 1pm on the next day to transfer him.Further, the jail record did not have any mention of Deepak being taken to jail on February 24. The record reflected that he was taken there at 5pm on February 25. There, Deepak had complained of severe pain in his legs and nausea and was taken to the civil hospital for treatment on February 26, but he died. The autopsy report had suggested that the body had seven injury marks.The family had later also filed a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking FIR against the errant cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/custodial-death-of-ludhiana-man-sho-among-three-cops-booked-after-six-months/story-sD4xaIYARGoGlTuux8FtDN.html
15-08-2020||City||Immigration fraud: Two booked for duping Sonepat man||Two persons were booked on Friday for allegedly duping a Sonepat man of ₹25 lakh by sending him to the United States of America (USA) on forged documents, police said.In his complaint to the police, Amit Kumar of Sonepat’s Bighal village said that his friend Rahul of Karnal’s Kamla village had asked him to go to the US and promised of arranging a ‘good job’ for him there.“Rahul introduced me to Praveen of Panipat in 2019 and told me that the duo had good connections in the US and they have been providing jobs to Indian youths for the last many years. I paid them ₹25 lakh in multiple instalments. They sent me to other countries and finally, I reached the US 18 months ago on forged documents. Police caught me there and sent me behind bars. Since then, I had been languishing in a US jail and managed to return recently,” he added. Investigating officer Ved Pal of Sadar Gohana police station said they have registered a case under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/immigration-fraud-two-booked-for-duping-sonepat-man/story-u86sqexvpFP5r1kvQAiAvL.html
15-08-2020||City||Welfare of farmers and poor is top priority of government: Dushyant||Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday said that welfare of farmers and poor is the top priority of the state government and several policies and schemes are being implemented in this regard.Dushyant, who was addressing a gathering in Kurukshetra’s Shahbad, said the state government was committed to procuring every single grain of Haryana’s farmers on MSP. “We are making a system to empower the farmers and poor of the state,” he added. Reacting to the threat of statewide protests by commission agents and farmers against the central government’s ordinances for agriculture marketing reforms, Dushyant said the decisions are being taken to ensure that all farmers could get the benefit of MSP. “The new decisions will not affect the old relationship between arhtiyas and farmers,” he added.He said in the kharif harvesting season, the government will ensure that all farmers could sell their produce soon after it reaches the mandis. He said that the government was also planning to start special training sessions for students who scored above 90%.”He said that the government was also planning to advance the crushing operations at cooperative sugar mills. The deputy CM said the state government has decided to set up libraries in villages if panchayats provide land for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/welfare-of-farmers-and-poor-is-top-priority-of-government-dushyant/story-QDXh8ubGDvdbdQlF07JpYM.html
15-08-2020||City||Terminated physical training instructors take out protests in Haryana||Terminated physical training instructors (PTIs) on Friday staged a protest at the Karnal district headquarters, demanding their reinstatement.Accompanied by their children and family members, the protesters raised slogans against the government in Karnal and Panipat, accusing it of taking away their jobs after taking their services for nearly 10 years.Heavy police force was deployed and they were taken into buses when they reached the mini-secretariat in Karnal. Members of Haryana’s Sarv Karamchari Sangh also extended their support to 1,983 PTIs, who were terminated following the Supreme Court’s order in May this year.‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ in Ambala High drama was witnessed outside the DC office in Ambala as the protesting PTIs took part in a ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’. Amid high security, the protesters reached the DC office, seeking an audience with Ashok Kumar Sharma. However, the DC refused to meet them, which led an argument. “Today’s protest was a warning for the government that our agitation will go on with more power till our demands are met,” a protester said. The protesters were later detained and taken to the duty magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/terminated-physical-training-instructors-take-out-protests-in-haryana/story-Y5qYPhj9UuIyGdFUmPCHgL.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Police medal for 12 Haryana cops||On the eve of Independence Day, 12 Haryana Police officials have been selected for the President’s police medal for distinguished service and police medal for meritorious service. Police spokesperson said that Arshinder Singh Chawla, ADGP administration, will be awarded the President’s police medal for distinguished service, while 11 other cops have been selected for the police medal for meritorious service. The police medal for meritorious service will be awarded to Ram Lal (inspector, Chandigarh), Rakesh Mani (sub-inspector, Rohtak), Mohinder Singh (SI, Panchkula), Jagdish Parshad (SI, Madhuban), Ravinder Singh (SI, Rewari), Nihal Singh (SI, Faridabad), Maha Singh (SI, Panchkula), Ram Kumar (SHO, traffic, Shahzadpur, Ambala), Karambir Singh (ASI, cyber cell, Karnal), Rajesh Kumar (ASI, crime, Panchkula) and Shiv Kumar (ASI, state crime bureau, Panchkula).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-medal-for-12-haryana-cops/story-wnTaAUdmRaFudYebvu0IHJ.html
15-08-2020||City||Decision on reopening of gyms in Maharashtra likely to be taken today, says minister||Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Friday said that the state is likely to take a decision on the reopening of gymnasiums by this weekend. “Gym owners have been making demands to open the facility for citizens. I have signed a file [pertaining to the reopening gyms] and now it is with the chief minister. I think a decision is expected be taken on the auspicious day of Independence Day,” he said while speaking to news channels. There has been a growing demand from political leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray to reopen gyms in Maharashtra. The Centre in its latest notification issued earlier this month has allowed gyms and yoga institutes to lift their shutters from August 5 under the third phase of unlocking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decision-on-reopening-of-gyms-in-maharashtra-likely-to-be-taken-today-says-minister/story-E9vC6gsTq7hPKARqy89ekM.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||2 wanted in 10 house break-ins arrested in Mumbai||The Mumbai crime branch’s unit 10 arrested two persons who committed more than 10 house break-ins Mumbai, Thane, Dombivli, Nashik and other places during the lockdown. Both were arrested after they broke into a house in Powai on August 9 and stole gold and silver worth ₹3 lakh. Police officers recovered silver worth ₹1.5 lakh from the accused.The arrested accused identified as Shamsul Abdul Quddus Haque, 40, a resident of Bhivandi, and Irfan Salim Khan alias Badal Eknath Patil, 36, from Mumbra, are habitual thieves and have several previous cases registered against them in Mumbai, Thane, and Nashik.According to police, Shamsul was the mastermind and would roam around in different areas to find houses that are locked. He would carry tools to break open the lock of the doors. He met Khan through a common friend and made him an associate.The duo allegedly broke into a house in Maya Niwas building near IIT-Bombay in Powai when the residents were not at home. They stole gold and silver ornaments worth around ₹3 lakh. The owner of the house Jyoti Rajput went out for groceries on August 9, and when she came home, she found her door was open, and the locks were broken. She found her gold ornaments missing from the cupboard.Rajput approached Powai police station and filed a complaint. Officers of unit 10 were conducting a parallel inquiry, and they nabbed both the accused on August 11 when they were roaming in Filterpada. They were brought to the unit office, and during the inquiry, the accused confessed to the theft. Police recovered the stolen silver worth ₹1.5 lakh, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of the crime branch. The accused confessed to committing more than 10 thefts during the lockdown. The accused were handed over to Powai police station on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-wanted-in-10-house-break-ins-arrested-in-mumbai/story-Sc9PI8zbmbMV1NgLh5WRaM.html
15-08-2020||City||Colleague among 3 held for killing Yamunanagar photographer for camera||Three days after the mutilated body of a 19-year-old photographer was found in Yamunanagar, police on Friday claimed to have cracked the murder case with the arrest of three men, including a victim’s colleague. The motive behind the murder is said to be the victim’s camera, the police said. Police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said the CIA-1 has arrested Vaibhav’s colleague Sonu Saini, a resident of Lohar Mohalla, along with his two accomplices Pankaj alias Amit and Nishu, both from Tejali Gate in Jagadhri. Crime branch in-charge Rakesh Matoria said, “As per the initial probe, it has come to the fore that it was Sonu, who had called Vaibhav. When he reached the Manakpur industrial area, he was first strangled and then his neck was slit with a cutter.” “The trio was produced in a court, which sent them in five-day remand. The camera and mobile of the victim are yet to be recovered,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/colleague-among-3-held-for-killing-yamunanagar-photographer-for-camera/story-SWUXeQqB7YbuveFUEf9duM.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||4,000 apply for e-passes from Mumbai for inter-state travel ahead of Ganeshotsav||Mumbai Police have received around 4,000 e-passes from August 8 to 12 from devotees who wish to travel to other parts of the state, mainly to the Konkan region, on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, said Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general (law and order). The passes are being issued only to those who are traveling in private or hired vehicles, said the police.After the state government’s order easing restrictions on travel for the festival, Mumbai Police on August 8 permitted applications for e-pass for inter-district travel on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. The applicants also have to agree to mandatory reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests 48 hours prior to the travel. The e-passes were given only to those who were tested negative, a police officer said. The travelers also have to be in a 10-day quarantine period after entering the district concerned from Mumbai. A senior police officer said that those from containment zones could not apply for the e-passes.“The passes are mostly issued for groups of people, so the actual number of devotees travelling outside the city would be more than 10,000-12,000,” another police officer said.The police said they are strictly ensuring that the devotees implement all safety measures and social distancing norms are followed while travelling. “As the rules were announced in advance, we received a good response from the devotees. Only those applications in which all mandatory norms are complied with are accepted. Vehicles with high capacity are allowed to ply only with half the capacity,” said Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region).All the zonal deputy commissioners of police in Mumbai are the nodal officers for issuing the e-passes.Inter-district movement is restricted owing to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.However, as lakhs of people annually travel from Mumbai, Thane and Pune to their hometowns in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts for the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival – which falls on August 22 this year – the state government provided certain exemptions for devotees to travel to their hometowns.Last year, around 6 lakh people from Mumbai visited their hometowns for the festival. Last year around 2 lakh devotees visited Konkan and other districts for Ganeshotsav in private vehicles, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-000-apply-for-e-passes-from-mumbai-for-inter-state-travel-ahead-of-ganeshotsav/story-cPsXKA5M8FOlnIB7iMZJtK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||AI Vande Bharat flight from Mumbai delayed as pilot sacked a day before operations||Air India flight AI1993 that was scheduled to depart to Dammam, Saudi Arabia, from Mumbai airport as a part of the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) was delayed on Friday morning by three hours after the pilot who was to operate the aircraft was terminated by the airline the previous night. The pilot is among the at least 50 other Air India pilots who were who were sent termination letters on Thursday around 11.30pm in which the airline blamed the Covid-19 situation for its financial condition. An Air India spokesperson said, “The pilots, who were employed on permanent and temporary basis, had resigned for better opportunities. Their resignations were accepted by the airline, which they [pilots] had later requested to revoke. Their requests, however, were not accepted. The matter is sub judice and nothing more can be said about it.” The termination letter accessed by HT stated that the airline is no longer accepting the withdrawal of termination letters. According to airline sources, these 60 pilots had resigned in December, but over the course of the next few months, took their resignations back before the expiration of their notice period which is six months as per civil aviation rules laid down by aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).As per the national carrier rules, pilots can withdraw their resignations during their notice period. Earlier this year, some among the 50 pilots had moved the Delhi high court (HC) after the airline refused to revoke their resignation letters before their notice period ended and continued to operate evacuation flights. The current lot of pilots said the termination of permanent employees raises concerns over job security at a fully-owned central public sector undertaking (PSU). The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Guild (ICPA) – Air India’s union of Airbus pilots – wrote to the airline’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, requesting his immediate intervention on the “illegal” termination of the pilots. The union stated that even the pilots who tendered their resignations in July last year and later withdrew them within the mandatory six-month notice period, have been relieved from service all of a sudden on Thursday night. The union mentioned that the crew was not informed of the acceptance of resignation.Stating the fact that terminated pilots operated flights on Friday, the letter read, “For the safety of our traveling public alone if not on humanitarian grounds, these pilots should not have been made to operate flights under such traumatic circumstances. This vengeful exercise carried out by personnel department last night [Thursday night] to illegally terminate pilots directly compromises the safety of our flights. This has been done brazenly against the official commitment of the board and MoCA [ministry of civil aviation.”The airline did not comment on rostering the terminated pilots on Friday. Airline sources said terminated pilots operated two domestic flights early on Friday morning. “The airline sent the same termination letters to all these pilots around 11.30pm [on Thursday]. As a result, two Bangalore-bound flights from Delhi were operated by the terminated pilots, which is not only a result of mismanagement by the airline but is also illegal,” said a Delhi-based staffer. A senior pilot pointed out that it is not only illegal but also unsafe to terminate a pilot hours before he operates a flight, as human factors such as stress can cause safety concerns to the journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-vande-bharat-flight-from-mumbai-delayed-as-pilot-sacked-a-day-before-operations/story-oh4OaJ2w5p76wMeoxaalfN.html
15-08-2020||City||Heavy rainfall inundates fields in Sonepat, Rohtak||Rainwater has inundated major portions of bajra, guar, cotton, sugarcane and paddy fields in low-lying areas of Rohtak and Sonepat. With the water showing no sign of receding even after a week in Rohtak and two days in Sonepat, farmers are worried that their crops have been destroyed.They have blamed the district administration for not clearing the drains.Dalel Dhaka, a farmer from Sundana village in Rohtak, said he had sown bajra on 13 acres and cotton on four acres.“The heavy rainfall has damaged my crop and 4-5ft water is still logged in my fields. The state government should provide us a suitable compensation so that our expenditures can be borne,” he added.However, the situation worsened in Sonepat as several parts of the district saw flood-like situation after Thursday’s downpour. Another farmer Sunil from Kharkhauda block said he had shifted to cotton and bajra from paddy after getting inspired from Haryana government’s ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme this year and both of his crops were ready for harvesting by the first week of September.“The rain has brought misery to us as the water is still standing in my fields and it is likely to damage nearly 90% of the crop. The exact crop loss will be determined in the next three to four days once the water resides. At one stage, we were very happy to shift to alternative crops instead of paddy and hopeful of getting good profit, but the rain has ruined our plans,” he added.Ashok Kumar, a farmer from Rohtak’s Ritoli village, said paddy on his five acre land is under water for the last six days.“Heavy rainfall was beneficial for the early sowing of paddy, but it damaged the late varieties. Every year, we have to bear losses as water level is high in our area and the government has failed to make any arrangements,” Kumar added.Sonepat deputy director (agriculture) Anil Sehrawat said they were getting complaints of crop losses from Gohana and Kharkhauda farmers.“The exact loss will be accessed once the water is drained out. We have directed agricultural and revenue officials to visit the affected areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-inundates-fields-in-sonepat-rohtak/story-MBh8vY40HTSY7ZV2DHM3aP.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid situation in state not yet conducive to reopen temples: Bombay HC||Reiterating that the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is not yet conducive to reopen the places of worship, the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday refused to interfere with the state government’s decision to not allow temples to reopen as of now. The two-member bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Surendra Tavade, was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Associate for Aiding Justice, seeking the reopening of places of worship of all faiths. Advocate Dipesh Siroya, representing the NGO, submitted that as the central government allowed the reopening of temples and the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has also improved, the state government should permit temples to reopen. He said that the government may not allow religious functions to be held in temples and also restrict the number of devotees entering the religious institution, but can certainly allow people to enter temples to worship the deities. Assistant government pleader Nisha Mehra opposed the PIL by pointing out that the state government had rejected representations for opening up of temples on August 12, and a co-ordinate bench has refused a prayer for interim relief to reopen Jain temples for a nine-day festival of the community. After hearing the petition, the bench refused to accept the claim that the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has improved. “Please pray at home, and if you have some love left for humanity, please don’t press these prayers,” said the bench. “If the situation improves, this court, being the temple of justice, will be the first to reopen, before any other temple opens up for devotees,” it added. When the bench opined that it will accept the decision of the co-ordinate bench, Siroya claimed the decision was only as regards Jain temples, but the PIL was seeking reopening of all places of worship. However, Mehra clarified that the decision was not restricted to only Jain temples, but was applicable to other faiths as well. The bench has now posted the PIL for further hearing on August 18. It directed Siroya to clarify the status of the petitioner body, after noticing that it has been registered as a company. “How can a company espouse cause religious rights?” the bench asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-situation-in-state-not-yet-conducive-to-reopen-temples-bombay-hc/story-CK4fGHpbAkQEY9eFtiwSKJ.html
15-08-2020||City||Shops can remain open on all days in Navi Mumbai from today||Shops within the jurisdictions of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be allowed to remain open on all days from Saturday from 9am to 7pm. After the lockdown, the civic bodies had permitted shops to remain open on odd-even basis. Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “The shopkeepers and customers need to maintain social distancing and other norms. The order is not applicable in hot spots and containment zones, where shops will remain open as per the odd-and-even system.” PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “We have been receiving a lot of representations and requests for allowing shops to remain open on all days. Thus, we have permitted them to remain open on all days. Barring malls, market complex, gyms and swimming pools, all other shops within PCMC jurisdiction will be allowed to open everyday from August 15 as per the specified guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-can-remain-open-on-all-days-in-navi-mumbai-from-today/story-IpGJdGjeEnSceqGLN4QesI.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Students unhappy with Bombay HC’s refusal to stay final-year PG medical, dental exams||The Bombay high court’s decision on Friday to deny interim relief to final-year postgraduate (PG) medical and dental students has not gone down well with many. While the court has clarified that final exams for dental and medical students will be conducted as per schedule in August, students said they are unprepared, especially since most of them have been at the forefront of Covid-19 relief work for the past five months, across state hospitals.“Students worried about their health and safety of their family members since they had to sit for examinations along with hundreds of other students. Additionally, most of them have been working 12-14 hour shifts every day for the past few months. This should have been considered by the court before denying them relief from exams this year,” said the parent of a PG medical student, adding that most students are under a lot of stress because of the uncertainty of the situation.According to the last circular released by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) exams are slated to commence from August 17, while PG medical exams are scheduled to start from August 25.Medical aspirants have been seeking relief from final-year exams for some time now. MUHS, however, had been very clear on its decision to hold exams, with some delay due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the state. At present, colleges have been asked to finish submitting internal marks of all students and MUHS has started issuing hall tickets to all registered candidates.“The Ministry of Home Affairs has been very clear that education institutes in Maharashtra will remain shut until the end of this month. How does MUHS plan to hold exams this month,” said Siddharth Ingle, president, Maharashtra Students Union (MASU).At present, the Supreme Court (SC) is already hearing a set of petitions filed by various student groups from Maharashtra, seeking directions to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to withdraw its decision to make end-of-term final-year exams compulsory. However, these petitions do not include medical exams. “Medical students might have to approach SC for help now,” added Ingle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-unhappy-with-bombay-hc-s-refusal-to-stay-final-year-pg-medical-dental-exams/story-uMk4jiD4ZFguHCSDNj5ZfK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to stay medical, dental examinations in Maharashtra||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday refused to stay final-year examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses, starting from August 17 and August 25, respectively.“We don’t think it is proper to stay the examinations,” said the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Surendra Tavade. “There could be students, other than the petitioners, who are willing to appear for the physical examination and might have prepared for the same. It would not be proper to stay the examinations behind their back.”The bench was hearing a petition filed by 24 students of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) and Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) courses from different districts of the state, challenging the decision of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to hold final-year examinations, requiring physical presence of students for both, practical and theory papers.Their counsel, advocate Kuldeep Nikam, submitted that due to the unprecedented and alarming situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra, it would be difficult for the students to physically appear for the examinations.He added that the petitioners and other students were not averse to appear for online examinations, as has been suggested by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Nikam also pointed out that on Thursday, two medical students tested positive for Covid-19.“You are doctors. If you are not prepared to appear physically for these examinations, how will you treat patients in hospitals?” the judges asked.It also clarified that if any of the petitioners do not appear for the examinations starting August 17 and August 25, and later the court finds that they were justified in refusing to appear for the physical examinations, it will order MUHS to hold separate examinations for them.MUHS counsel, advocate Rajshekhar Govilkar, however, pointed out that all deemed universities in Maharashtra have already held their final-year examinations, and if postgraduate students do not appear for these examinations, they will not be able to apply for admission to super-speciality courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-medical-dental-examinations-in-maharashtra/story-IlC8DmMsi41KkZfBEQOnXO.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||5,583 Covid patients are in critical condition: Maharashtra health department||Maharashtra has 5,583 Covid-19 patients who are in critical condition and have been put on oxygen or ventilator support across various facilities in different parts of the state. Around half of these patients (2,589) are in Mumbai and Pune, followed by Jalgaon, Solapur and Nashik, where the growth in cases and fatality rates are high.According to the health department data submitted to the government on August 10, the state has 687 critical patients on ventilator support. There are 2,960 patients in critical condition who are on oxygen support inside intensive care units (ICUs), while 1,919 patients are on oxygen support outside ICU. The total Covid-19 patients who are in a critical condition form 3.77% of the total active cases (147,735) in the state on August 10. Seventeen patients who are in critical condition are also Covid patients but they have been given ventilator or oxygen support primarily because of complications from another ailment that they are ailing from. Of the critical patients, 69% are in the 41-70 age group, while 28% are 51-60 years. Seventy-one percent of these patients are male. According to the data, the districts or municipal corporations which have recorded high Covid fatality rates also have high number of critical patients. In Mumbai, 1,355 patients in critical condition are undergoing treatment at 67 hospitals. In Pune City there are 801 critical patients, while the number is 207 at Pimpri-Chinchwad and 226 in Pune Rural. Jalgaon has 404 critical patients, while Kolhapur and Solapur have 219 and 321 critical patients, respectively.Dr Sadhana Tayade, director, directorate of health services, said, “We admit most of the serious patients in the ICU so that they are given utmost attention. We have been giving oxygen support to the patients who require it, as lack of oxygen level is the foremost symptom of the disease. Patients with pneumatic patches are kept on oxygen support. The percentage of the patients on the ventilator is less than 2% of the total number of critical patients. However, it is true that the recovery of the patients on the incubative ventilator is the tough job.”According to the officials from the health department, some of the distant districts, where the growth and fatality rates are high, the health services support is not upto the mark. “The late referral of patients to Covid facilities is the major reason why the number of critical patients is high. In rural and semi-urban areas, the unwillingness to report the symptoms is a major hurdle,” an official said, adding that the number of critical patients in Mumbai will always be high as patients from neighbouring districts are referred to the city for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-583-covid-patients-are-in-critical-condition-maharashtra-health-department/story-QjjoEGJ4BstGhVW5XscAnI.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai saw most Covid-19 deaths in May; fatalities on decline, says civic corporation||Following an exercise to map recorded Covid-19 deaths to the dates on which they actually occurred, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) said that the city’s case fatality rate peaked in May and has since sloped downward. With 2,269 deaths, the city saw the highest number of Covid-19 casualties in May, followed by June (1,922) and July (1,773). BMC estimates August may see between 1,300 and 1,400 deaths. On August 14, Mumbai recorded 47 deaths from Covid-19, taking the toll to 7,038. There were 979 new cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,28,535, of which 19,337 are active. The case fatality rate in Mumbai is 5.4%, compared to 3.3% in Maharashtra. The recovery rate is 79%. According to BMC, prior to the spike in fatalities in May, the city had 15 deaths from Covid-19 in May and 475 in April. The civic body has attributed the improvement in case fatality rate since May to interventions such as the Mission Save Lives, started by BMC on June 30; timely testing for Covid-19; and an evolving line of treatment for serious and critical cases of the infection. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is also in charge of BMC’s health department, said, “Our medical interventions, evolving treatment protocol and other interventions by the civic body have helped bring down the deaths. We are now administering tocilizumab, remdesivir, favipiravir, among other drugs. Plasma therapy has also helped. People are now more aware too.” BMC has been mapping deaths due to Covid-19 on the actual days they occurred, instead of when they were reported to its epidemiology cell by private and public hospitals. In June and July, the civic body faced flak for reconciling deaths from April and May. On June 15, the state government disclosed that 862 additional Covid-19 deaths had occurred in Mumbai. BMC later clarified these deaths had occurred in April and May, but there was delay in the hospitals conveying this information to the epidemiology cell. Until July 3, BMC had reconciled 751 more deaths from May and June. Kakani said, “The civic body is concerned about the date that a death occurred, instead of the date that it was reported to BMC. Now we know which month had the most deaths, even though some death figures were reconciled later.” Although May saw the highest number of deaths, the case fatality ratio (number of deaths in comparison to number of cases) was highest in March. The case fatality rate in March was over 9.5% while in April and May, it was over 6.5%. In June, the case fatality rate was 5%, followed by 4.5% in July was 4.5% and 4% as of August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-saw-most-covid-19-deaths-in-may-fatalities-on-decline-says-civic-corporation/story-624LosXcu1mSSdJM5BdyHP.html
15-08-2020||City||Covid-19 testing: 0.17% false negatives in Maharashtra, reveals data||Amid scepticism over high false negatives in rapid antigen test, the state government data shows that 0.17% of the samples tested in Maharashtra failed to identify Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. At 3.4%, Mumbai suburbs recorded the highest false negative cases in the state. A false negative is when the antigen test identifies an infected person as negative for the presence of the virus, but the report comes positive in the RT-PCR test. As per rules of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), those with symptoms who test negative for Covid-19 by RAT should be tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test should be considered as a true positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test. Since the end of June, 675,035 individuals have undergone tests using antigen kits. Of the 592,167 who tested negative for the virus, 4,235 symptomatic individuals had to undergo a confirmatory reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), considered the gold standard. Of these, 1,011 tested positive for the virus in RT-PCR. “No test provides a 100% guarantee, and this too has its loopholes. Thus, we conduct follow-up RT-PCR tests to rule out any chances of infection. So far, results have been promising. When Delhi started using the kits, there was similar scepticism,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. In Mumbai city, of the 47,931 people who tested negative, 275 (0.57%) turned positive in the RT-PCR test. However, Mumbai suburbs has the highest false negative cases in the state. Of the 5,571 negatives, 194 or 3.4% turned positive in the follow-up test. “Every day on an average, we test over 3,000 people with the kits. False negatives are extremely uncommon. Now, we have also tied up with private labs to provide the facility at home,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “The false negativity rate for RT-PCR is almost 23% but overall, the rate is not even 1%. How is it possible,” asked Dr Abhijit More, who is co-convenor of the Jan Arogya Abhiyaan. A health officer said , “We will soon hold a meeting along with private labs to form parameters to conduct the test.”Mumbai is followed by Thane with 0.7% false negativity rate, where out of the 57,260 individuals tested, 401 turned positive in RT-PCR test after testing negative in the antigen test. It is followed by Palghar (0.51%). In Pune, of the 96,086 individuals who tested negative in antigen test, only 67 (0.06%) of them have turned positive in RT-PCR. Even though it is a sign of relief for government officials, health experts claim the “abnormally low” false negative numbers don’t show the real infection rate.For instance in Nashik, where 41,085 tested negative in antigen test, only one of them tested came positive in RT-PCR. Similarly, in Aurangabad, where 99,700 people got negative reports in antigen test, only 4 were tested again in follow-ups. Out of them, one tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-testing-0-17-false-negatives-in-maharashtra-reveals-data/story-rlCfWqOpWSeMwmBQIg3QHO.html
15-08-2020||City||The state of rapid antigen tests: Positivity rate in Maharashtra stands at 12.28%||More than a month after the introduction of rapid antigen tests to boost testing in Maharashtra, the state’s positivity rate, which indicates the prevalence of Covid-19 infection, using the kits stands at 12.28%, according to the data from the state health department. Rapid antigen tests involve checking nasal swab samples for antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the virus Sars-Cov-2 that causes Covid-19 virus. It is performed outside the conventional laboratory setting, and gives results within 30 minutes. RT-PCR, the gold standard for Covid testing, takes over eight hours. According to protocol, every positive report from the rapid antigen testing is be treated as ‘true positive’, while negative samples of symptomatic people will have to be mandatorily re-tested by RT-PCR process. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive compared to the total tests. Of the 675,035 individuals tested across 36 districts in the state till August 13, 82,868 have tested positive for the presence of novel coronavirus. A total of 56,852 individuals have been tested with antigen kits in Mumbai city and suburbs, of which 3,350 have tested positive – a positivity rate of 6%. In the rest of the state, high positivity rates were recorded in Ratnagiri (37.20%) and Parbhani (32.47%), despite fewer cases compared to other parts of the state, a cause for concern for government officials. Mumbai city, once the epicentre of the Sars-Cov-2 virus outbreak, has recorded a positivity rate of 6% which is among the lowest in the state, while it is almost 13% in Mumbai suburbs. Health experts said the difference in positivity rate in the city and suburbs is because the pandemic curve has shifted to the outer boundaries of the main city. “A positivity rate of 12% in the state is on the higher side because Delhi has around 7% positivity rate using rapid antigen tests. As many districts like Pune and Thane are at the peak of the pandemic curve, it is expected to have a higher positivity rate. It will come down gradually, just like Mumbai,” said a senior officer from the health department. The city comprises areas from Churchgate to Bandra on the western railway line, CST to Sion on the central line and CST to Chunabhatti on the Harbour line. Mumbai suburbs extend between Khar and Dahisar on the western line, Kurla to Mulund on the central line and Kurla to Mankhurd on the harbour line. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) with the intention of testing aggressively to identify people with Covid-19 started the antigen tests from July 3. Till August 13, 50,462 people underwent the test in Mumbai city, of which 2,531 tested positive. During the same period, in Mumbai suburbs, 6,390 took the test, and 819 came positive. “When the pandemic started, it was mainly limited to south Mumbai with international travellers, but gradually started to spread. Now, the suburbs have more active cases than town, which explains the high positivity rate. With the gradual unlocking of the lockdown, the movement of people has increased. Thus, the virus which was limited till south and central Mumbai has shifted to the northern side,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “The test has helped us increase daily testing to more than 10,000 samples. Earlier, we started it in the northern wards of Mumbai and a few Covid-19 specific hospitals, but now, it is being conducted in all wards. Unlike RT-PCR, it is easier to use and we have plans to procure more kits,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, warned against overuse of the kits. “As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), antigen tests have a moderate sensitivity of around 50%. So, if we start using it more than RT-PCR, we might lose many infected patients” he said. Ratnagiri, a port town which is around 350km away from Mumbai, has recorded 2,449 Covid-19 cases since March, far lower than Mumbai, but it the highest positivity rate in the state. Till August 13, 414 people were tested using the kits, of which 154 (37.20%) were positive. Health officers attributed the high positivity rate to the presence of more number of asymptomatic patients. Dr Kamalpurkar, district health officer (DHO), said, “We are getting maximum number of positive cases from containment zones and hospitals. Despite having lower number of Covid-19 cases, we are trying to expand our daily testing of antigen kits for faster diagnosis.” It is followed by Parbhani with 32.47% positivity rate (661 of 2,036 tested positive). It is followed by Pune. Of the 124,533 tests, the highest in the state, 28,447 (22.84%) came positive. Kolhapur stands fourth with 21.81% positivity (1,116 of 5,117 positive). Jalgaon recorded 20.29% positivity rate, with 3,729 of 18,382 coming positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-state-of-rapid-antigen-tests-positivity-rate-in-maharashtra-stands-at-12-28/story-5g2cEBvdtKk4qHRdadccqN.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects rape convict’s bail plea||The possibility of consent cannot be countenanced in case of a 13-year-old rape survivor, the Bombay high court (HC) said while rejecting the bail plea of a rape convict during pendency of his appeal.“The prosecutrix (survivor) at the time of the incident was 13 years of age, and therefore, the argument that it could be a consensual act cannot be accepted,” said justice CV Bhadang while rejecting the application of Sagar Sahi, a driver of a non-governmental organisation working for the welfare of children.Sahi has been convicted last year for raping a 13-year-old in 2015 and was sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment. He had moved a plea before HC seeking bail during pendency of his appeal against the conviction and the sentence.It was argued on his behalf that the medical report would show that there were no external injuries on the survivor. Expressing possibility that the act could be a consensual one, the convict’s lawyer submitted that it was necessary to bring on record the call data record of the conversations between the convict and the survivor and added that the investigating officer had not done so.Justice Bhadang, however, refused to accept the contention regarding consent and added that absence of external injuries cannot be, prima facie, considered material in favour of the accused in view of the definition of rape under section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The judge further said that it was an irony that a driver employed by an NGO working for the welfare of children has been charged and convicted for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-rape-convict-s-bail-plea/story-YxEvR62mtFbqPTSxoPnRuK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Four cops suspended for assaulting 22-year-old to death||Four constables attached to Juhu police station have been suspended on Friday for allegedly assaulting a 22-year-old to death. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Bandra division had informed the Bombay high court (HC) in July that he had identified the four police personnel from Juhu police station who assaulted the victim Raju Velu Devendra.The accused are naik Santosh Ganptrao Desai, naik Anand Sitaram Gaikwad, constable Digambar Sakharam Chavanm and constable Ankush Ambadas Palve.Police sources said internal inquiry revealed that the four policemen assaulted Devendra after he was found outdoors during the Covid-19 lockdown. Devendra was subsequently found dead.Juhu police had, however, maintained that in the intervening night of March 29 and 30, Devendra was spotted by locals while allegedly trying to enter a house near Mutthi Swami Chawl in Vile Parle.According to Juhu police, he attempted to flee by climbing the roof but slipped and fell on the ground. A mob chased him to an open space and beat him up, which led to him losing his consciousness. A patrolling police van later took him to Cooper Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, Juhu police claimed. The police had also registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 141 (unlawful assembly), 142 (intentionally joining unlawful assembly), 143 (member of unlawful assembly), 144 (joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code against eight people.The matter, however, reached the high court later when advocate Firdause Irani brought to the notice of the high court Devedra’s death, which according to his family members, was caused due to police brutalities, in an attempt to highlight the police high-handedness in enforcing lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.It was only after the high court took serious note of police brutalities that the ACP of Bandra division admitted that Devedra’s death was not a case of mob lynching and that he was assaulted by four policemen. The ACP had also assured to take disciplinary action against the erring policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-cops-suspended-for-assaulting-22-year-old-to-death/story-KcnwBNgzvq7ThlIfkLPhiK.html
15-08-2020||City||Two Navi Mumbai cops awarded medals||Two Navi Mumbai senior police inspectors, both of whom hailed from poor economic background, have been awarded the Union home minister’s medal and the President’s medal. Navi Mumbai Police’s crime branch officer Kondiram Popere was awarded the Union home minister’s medal for cracking the improvised explosive device (IED) attack near a Kalamboli school in 2019, while senior inspector Ashok Rajput was awarded the President’s medal for 27 years of service. Popere, 58, joined the Maharashtra Police in 1991 as a sub-inspector at Chembur police station. Belonging to a scheduled tribe family from Akola, Popere is the youngest of three siblings. His elder brother retired as a government teacher while his sister owns a farm now. “My father died when I was two. At times, I used to work with my mother on a farm as a labourer. I studied in a government school and went on pursue a master’s degree in Law. I joined the police force in 1990 after working as a clerk at a government bank. I always wanted to serve the public and do something better with my life,” said Popere. Popere worked in Mumbai, Nashik, Thane and the state’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID), before he was posted in Navi Mumbai in 2014. His experience in the CID proved handy when an IED was planted near New Sudhagad School in Kalamboli in June last year. Posted in the unit-2 of the Navi crime branch, Popere led the investigations amid the terror scare. The anti-terror squad was roped in too. “Fortunately, the IED was not wired properly and did not explode when the bomb timer went off. After rummaging CCTV footages and checking for terror activities in online chat rooms, we found a vehicle near the hand-cart on which the bomb was planted. The vehicle led us to the main accused,” added Popere. Navi Mumbai Police on July 3 arrested the mastermind Deepak Dandekar, 44, along with Manish Bhagat, 45, and Sushil Sathe, 35. The trio had planted the IED to extort ₹2 crore from a builder who lived near the school. Popere’s 28-year-old son is an assistant manager at a bank, while his daughter, 24, has completed her engineering studies. On Friday, Rajput, senior inspector of Panvel rural police station, was among 40 police officers from Maharashtra to get the President’s medal for meritorious service on the eve of Independence Day. Like Popere, Rajput too was brought up in a poor family. He studied at zilla parishad school in Shindi village, Jalgaon before he joined as a sub-inspector in Nagpur. Rajput has worked in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad as well as the CID and the anti-corruption bureau in Aurangabad. Rajput, 52, has helmed various sensitive murder and dacoity cases including the 2010 murder of deputy sarpanch Prakash Kandekar who was gunned down due to political rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-navi-mumbai-cops-awarded-medals/story-aaiWkBUr7cM1vy0un3tAiN.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Smoother commute: MMRDA plans transit system to, from BKC||In a bid to resolve the commuting woes for office goers travelling towards Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is looking to strengthen the first- and last-mile connectivity from Bandra and Kurla stations to the business centre. The authority is looking to appoint a consultant to create a plan for a transit system at BKC. MMRDA metropolitan commissioner, RA Rajeev, said, “We are looking at a cost-effective solution and are open to various modes as we want to ease the commute between the two stations and BKC.” While MMRDA had signed a memorandum with a private bike-sharing company to roll-out services between the two stations and BKC before the Covid-19 outbreak, Rajeev confirmed that the proposed system will be in addition to the bike-sharing facilities. Despite being Mumbai’s top commercial hub, the connectivity to BKC is a task if one does not own a private vehicle. The traffic scenario in BKC is also a huge concern. A 2017 study of the G block of BKC indicates that around 50,000 vehicles enter the block during peak hours in a day. MMRDA is laying special focus on establishing last-mile connectivity across Mumbai. It recently approved a plan for establishing a multi-modal integration at 30 stations of Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) corridor and Metro 7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) corridor, expected to be operational by May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/smoother-commute-mmrda-plans-transit-system-to-from-bkc/story-oRYiYcSNsVkBo7uEkW0hDK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Underwater check for WR’s Vasai and Vaitarna bridges||In a first, the Western Railway (WR) will carry put an underwater inspection of existing bridge structures on its railway network. The inspection will be undertaken on the Vasai Creek bridge and Vaitarna bridge on the zonal railway.The inspection, which will be conducted using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and computerised LCD screen that will be used for piloting the vehicle, to detect defects, cavities, cracks, damage to piers of concrete and steel structures of the bridges.The ROV will be controlled through a joystick and the graphic interface on the vehicle will display live feed from the cameras of the vehicle along with depth and position of the bridges.“The high definition live videos will be seen during execution of the inspection of the bridges. Defects will be geo-tagged while the exact location will be provided by the vehicle,” said a senior WR official.Both the Central Railway (CR) and WR conducted inspection of road overbridges, foot overbridges and bridge structures adjacent to railway tracks after the collapse of the pedestrian pathway of foot overbridge at Andheri railway station in 2018.The inspection was carried along with experts from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. After the inspection of the bridges, Delisle road overbridge was shut and dismantled by the WR based on the structural audit and the suggestions made in the report. Later, the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRIDC) signed an Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the construction of 11 road overbridges and one road underbridge (RuB). These include Tilak bridge between Dadar and Matunga railway stations, and road overbridges at Ghatkopar, Byculla, Mahalaxmi, Currey Road and Lower Parel stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/underwater-check-for-wr-s-vasai-and-vaitarna-bridges/story-c7oJIhLqPKbcS9A0RLjapO.html
15-08-2020||City||MNS workers booked for trespassing||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s (MNS) Dombivli president Rajesh Kadam and four other MNS party workers were booked by the Tilaknagar police on Thursday, for allegedly trespassing Dombivli Gymkhana which is a proposed Covid centre by Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), without permission. The party had alleged that ventilators were lying unused at the Gymkhana for over a month.Kadam and four others were booked for criminal trespass under section 447 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The complaint lodged by the security guard of the Gymkhana with police states that Kadam along four others entered the Gymkhana premises on Tuesday, took the ventilator box and kept it on their vehicle and again returned it back to the Gymkhana. Kadam also shot a video of the unused ventilators. “Our intention was just to expose the civic body on their failure to provide proper facilities to the Covid patients. When there is a requirement for ventilators, there are several ventilators lying unused for months and we wanted to expose that. If the Gymkhana Covid centre is yet to be ready, then the civic body should use the ventilators at other centres,” said Kadam. “Based on a complaint received from the security person of the Gymkhana, we have booked five of them. The investigation is on,” said an officer of Tilaknagar police station, who did not wish to be named. Followed by this MNS MLA Raju Patil, met the KDMC commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi on Friday asking him to withdraw the complaint against Kadam and four others. “We have asked the civic body chief to withdraw the case as the party workers were just exposing the negligence by the civic body,” added Patil. When tried contacting KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi and Pratibha Panpatil, the epidemic officer did not respond after repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mns-workers-booked-for-trespassing/story-MXcnyl5oLj4JCL3U89Qk6O.html
15-08-2020||City||Heavy rain leads to 1,016 craters on Thane roads||With Thane receiving heavy rainfall for the past one week, the condition of the roads in the city is pathetic with potholes developed in most roads. A total of 1,016 potholes, covering a total area of 2,268 square metre (sqm), were found over the past one week in the city, according to a survey conducted by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The civic body has started the work of filling up potholes since June end, however, the work is moving slowly due to unavailability of labourers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget for this year’s road repair work is also lesser as compared to previous years. The budget for filling potholes and monsoon road repairs was ₹3.5 crore in 2019 whereas this year’s budget is ₹2.25 crore.In 2019, three pedestrians, including a five-year-old boy, lost their lives in pothole accidents. A TMC official said, “Till Thursday, the city had 1,016 potholes covering an area of 2,268 sqm. Most of these potholes are on the roads in areas such as Ghodbunder, Diva, Wagle Estate and Naupada-Kopri wards. We have filled 686 potholes covering 1,376 sqm road surface and are yet to fill 330 potholes in different parts of the city.” The official added, “The budget (for road repair works) has decreased. However, we have not compromised on the repair works. Most of the potholes on roads under TMC are filled. We have also written letters to other authorities such as the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation, public works department and Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority to repair roads under their jurisdiction.” Ankush Hadkar, a 38-year-old Kalwa resident, said, “This year traffic congestion due to potholes is less as not many people are commuting. However, potholes can still lead to major accidents as most roads in the city are in bad condition. The road near Kamgar Hospital is riddled with potholes, as are some of the roads in Naupada and Teen Hath Naka. Most roads in Kalwa, too, are in pathetic condition. Commuters will have to face a nightmare if the lockdown is raised.” BOX Total Potholes: 1,016 Area of potholes: 2,268 sqm Potholes filled: 668 Area of potholes filled: 1,376 sqm Potholes yet to be filled: 330 Area of potholes to be filled: 891.8sqm Past incidents August 15, 2019: Five-year-old Vedant Das was killed after his father’s two-wheeler skidded over a pothole between a cement concrete and asphalt road on Ghodbunder Highway. The father-son duo was headed to a relative’s place in Borivli. The truck driver was later arrested. July 17, 2019: A 46-year-old woman died after she was run over by a dumper on Mumbra bypass. She was riding pillion while her husband was driving the motorbike when the bike skid on a pothole. October 15, 2019: Asim Siddhique, 22, a resident of Mumbra, died after being hit by a trailer in Mumbra. Siddhique’s relatives alleged that he lost control of his bike due to a pothole on Shilphata Road when the trailer hit him from behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-leads-to-1-016-craters-on-thane-roads/story-acJjV7Spn0XpMHXOGU4HjP.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||MahaRera: Parking space builders’ contractual obligation towards buyers||Builders who fail to provide proper parking spaces to homebuyers could face stringent action from the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera). In a significant ruling, on August 7, MahaRera came down heavily on a Pune-based realty firm for failing to provide standard-size parking space to the complainant buyers, saying parking space was a contractual obligation on the part of builders towards buyers. It also directed the firm to provide a sufficient driveway so that buyers can bring their cars out of their parking slot smoothly. Buyers Sandip Jambhale and Prashant Shingan had filed a complaint with MahaRera against builders Shri Venkatesh Sharada Infracon, alleging the builders’ project Parijat Building A in Ambegaon, Pune did not provide sufficient car parking space to residents. Jambhale and Shingan also complained that the side margins required around the building had been narrowed down. An architect appointed by MahaRera visited the building in January and submitted a report on their findings to MahaRera. Based on the architect’s report, MahaRera member BD Kapadnis ruled that a builder is contractually obliged to provide proper parking space. Responding to Jambhale’s complaint, Kapadnis said, “It is necessary for the respondent [the builder] to provide Mr Sandip [Jambhale] the parking space, which must have sufficient way to take four-wheelers to the parking space and the parking space should be of standard size as laid down by the bylaws so that a car of standard size should be parked therein easily.” With regards to Shingan’s complaint, Kapadnis said the builder cannot provide parking in the upper level as it was meant for two-wheelers. “The respondents cannot provide a car parking of four-wheeler on the upper level parking. It will be in contravention of section 14 because it violates and contravenes the sanctioned plans or specifications therein,” he said. Kapadnis further observed that during the site visit, the architect had noted the driveways “are not as per the dimensions required by the bylaws and therefore, it is difficult to drive four-wheelers to the parking space allotted to the complainants”. Shri Venkatesh Sharada Infracon has agreed to provide adequate car parking spaces to both complainant buyers. Housing activist Ramesh Prabhu said, “Parking space is an essential amenity and it is obligatory for builders to provide a decent parking space to buyers. This ruling will force builders to improve the overall quality of their buildings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharera-parking-space-builders-contractual-obligation-towards-buyers/story-o335tGT7DppJoXActvtkmM.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||BJP opposes ₹40-lakh repair work at BMC chief’s bungalow||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has opposed the proposed repair works worth ₹40 lakh for municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal’s official bungalow at Carmichael Road near Tardeo in south Mumbai. The BJP has said that in the past, too, a lot of money has been spent on repair works and the same should be avoided in the current scenario in view of the fund crunch faced by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) due to the Covid-19 pandemic.However, BMC administration has said the repair work was proposed months ago but could not start owing to the pandemic. BMC allots bungalows to the municipal commissioner and the three additional municipal commissioners.The BMC’s chief’s bungalow is a heritage structure which undergoes repair works from time to time. A BMC official said, “Internal and external repair works were proposed last year during the tenure of former BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi. However, the current chief has made few suggestions, and we have incorporated the same. There is nothing new being proposed.”BMC has proposed internal works for the BMC chief’s bungalow including renovation of toilet block, internal plumbing works, false ceiling, painting and furniture work. BJP corporator Vinod Mishra said, “Only a couple of years ago BMC had spent lakhs on repair work during the tenure of former BMC chief Ajoy Mehta, and now repair work is being undertaken again. We understand that there might be some changes that BMC might want, but this is not the correct time. BMC is facing a financial burden and has stopped recruitment. In such a scenario, why is BMC spending on something that can wait for a while?” Meanwhile, Chahal said, “The roof of the bungalow is covered with plastic sheets held by bamboos, but still there are water leakages at many places. Anyone is free to visit the bungalow and decide if the repairs are necessary or not.”BMC in a clarification issued on Friday said, “The bungalow is more than 100-years old and is a heritage structure. The administrative approval from the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC) has come and the planning for the repair work is ongoing since a year now. During monsoon, the bungalow is prone to water leakage. Due to leakage, there are other problems such as moisture in walls, cracking of walls, frequent deterioration of furniture in the bungalow, dryness in the walls including wooden windows and doors are common. The bungalow has not undergone any major repairs in the past several years, and overall the administrative process for repair and conservation started in the year 2019 itself. Given this, it is clear that there is no fact in the allegation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-opposes-40-lakh-repair-work-at-bmc-chief-s-bungalow/story-wdQBpVu4jd2Wcnfkanh6eK.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||HC stays PG admissions at TISS||The Bombay HC on Thursday stayed admissions to post graduate courses at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). The decision comes following a petition filed by some PG aspirants who alleged discrepancies in scores of some students who participated in the personal interview (PI) rounds to seek admission to a PG course at one of the four campuses of TISS. Students also alleged problems in allocation of seats of reserved categories to those from the general category. This matter will next be heard on August 18 and the institute has been asked to not continue admissions to PG courses till then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-stays-pg-admissions-at-tiss/story-GogE4cSqSWtHsakm9yLi7N.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||HC nod for state to appoint administrators for gram panchayats||The Bombay high court (HC) allowed the state to appoint administrators for gram panchayats whose terms have expired after it was assured that only government servants would be appointed for the role. The assurance was made by the state through an affidavit filed in reply to around 40 petitions, challenging the July 13 decision of the government, which empowered chief executive officers (CEOs) of zilla parishads to appoint administrators in consultation with guardian ministers. The appointment was necessitated as elections could not be conducted in view of the Covid-19 situation. The court, however, stressed that private individuals should not be appointed as administrators and also asked the state to consider the suggestions of the petitioners to appoint gram sevaks or officials of other state departments as administrators. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik, while hearing all the petitions that were filed at the seats of the HC at Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad, was informed that the grievances of the petitioners had been addressed in the affidavit. The state’s affidavit said that the government had a large pool of extension officers from the health, agriculture, education and panchayat departments, who could be appointed as administrators. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni further submitted that the CEOs would only have consulted the guardian ministers with regards to the ground realities and also the reputation, competence and capabilities of every person under consideration for the role. He further submitted that ultimately the CEO of the zilla parishad concerned would be selecting the administrator and not the guardian minister of the district. Kumbhakoni then drew the attention of the bench towards the category of officers who would be considered for being appointed as administrators and said that conditions were imposed for such officers too, and no officer would be given the responsibility of more than three gram panchayats at a time. In all, there are around 14,000 gram panchayats in the state, whose terms expired on May 5, while the term of some expired on Friday. Kumbhakoni added that only if there were no suitable officers to fill the post of an administrator, would private persons be considered for the role. Some of the petitioners submitted that in such a scenario, the CEO should consider officers from departments other than those mentioned in the affidavit. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the submissions made by Kumbhakoni were fair, and the state government could go ahead with the appointments from the four categories: extension officers from health, education, agriculture and panchayat departments. The court also asked the state to consider the suggestions of the petitioners to appoint gram sevaks or officers from other departments as administrators. The bench then posted the matter for hearing at a later date after observing, “We hope that AG (advocate general) abides by [his] statement and would not appoint any private individuals to gram panchayat whose term ends today [Friday] and already expired.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-nod-for-state-to-appoint-administrators-for-gram-panchayats/story-IXtPQeohH0xUokc3weVfhL.html
15-08-2020||City||District panel finds BJP corporator guilty of forging caste certificate||A Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) corporator has been found guilty by the district caste verification committee (DCVC) for submitting forged documents to obtain a caste certificate during the mayoral elections. On Monday, the DCVC declared Neela Bernard Taneja-Soans’s caste certificate invalid and ordered the Thane Rural police to file a case of forgery and cheating against her. Soans said she will appeal against the DCVC order before the Bombay high court. “I will be updating on the issue shortly as due to the Covid-19 outbreak, my visits are restricted. I am hopeful of getting justice,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-panel-finds-bjp-corporator-guilty-of-forging-caste-certificate/story-iuS7EP4dnhm5k55A4WFAqL.html
15-08-2020||City||Palghar residents observe Hutatma Diwas||The locals of Palghar on Friday observed Hutatma Diwas (Martyrs’ Day) to pay tribute to five freedom fighters who laid their lives during the Quit India movement on 14 August, 1942. The five martyrs, on this day, were shot dead by the British police at Hutatma Chowk. The day is also observed as 77th annual voluntary bandh.At 12.39pm, the residents offered prayers in the presence of government officials, politicians and the general public. Dr Ujwala Kale, president of Palghar Municipal Council (PMC) offered the floral tributes. All shops and commercial establishments, including hotels, observed a voluntary bandh in honour of the martyrs.The five martyrs - Govind Thakur, Kashinath Pagdare, Ramprasad Tevari, Sukur More and Ramchandra Churi, all aged between 17 to 20 years, were shot by the British police, on August 14, 1942, at 12.39pm.The Quit India call was given by Mahatma Gandhi at the August Kranti Maidan on 9 August, 1942, and the residents of Shirgaon, Dhansar, Tembhode, Alyali, Murbhe, Ucheli, Palmtembhi, Kharekuran, Popurva, Unbhat, Satpati and other surrounding villages took out a morcha to the Palghar tehsildar’s office. “The British police, however, ordered them to not proceed. The five martyrs who still went ahead were fired upon by police. Since then, the city observes the voluntary bandh from 6am to 6pm,” said Ramakant Patil, social activist and journalist.Hospitals, medical stores and dairies are exempted from the bandh, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-residents-observe-hutatma-diwas/story-KgDG9BHv5rfVSeQXuEY7hO.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: CBI court rejects Rana Kapoor’s pre-arrest bail||The special CBI court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with the case registered over his alleged deals with Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). The special judge SU Wadgaonkar while rejecting the plea observed that the accused/applicant is a principal accused and played an active role in the crime in question. The special court considered that the investigation is kept open even after filing the charge sheet, as the probe was affected due to spread of pandemic Covid-19. Just before the national lockdown was announced by the government, the CBI had obtained a production warrant for Kapoor to obtain his custody in the bank fraud case. However, the agency decided to wait amidst the lockdown.Pending the execution of the warrant, Kapoor approached the special CBI court for anticipatory bail. Before his plea was heard, CBI filed a charge sheet in the case. Hence, while seeking pre-arrest bail, Kapoor’s lawyers argued that the agency had asked for issuance of summons to Kapoor and his family, and they pleaded that the custodial interrogation was not needed by the agency. The special court refused to accept the contentions and also noted that there is a reasonable ground available to show that custodial interrogation of Kapoor is required by the agency. As per the case registered by CBI, Yes Bank had invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) between April and June 2018, in return for which Kapoor was allegedly paid ‘kickbacks’ amounting to ₹600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan in form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd. DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and a major shareholder, alleged CBI. The loan was sanction on the mortgage of sub-standard property having meagre value. Further, the agency claimed that Yes Bank also sanctioned a loan ₹750 crores to M/s RKW developers which is DHFL group of company. The loan was sanctioned for the purpose of Bandra Reclamation project. The Whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil Wadhawan since the entire amount was transferred by RKW developers to DHFL without making an investment in the Bandra reclamation project. Recently, the special CBI court under Prevention of Corruption Act refused to accept charge sheet as the agency has not obtained sanction to prosecute Kapoor. The case was transferred to special CBI magistrate court. The court while transferring the case held that the agency has not even initiated a process to obtain prosecution sanction against Rana, who is a public servant under the Prevention of Corruption Act (PC Act). The prosecution sanction is a must to invoke the provision of PC Act against any public servant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-cbi-court-rejects-rana-kapoor-s-pre-arrest-bail/story-gjbYpGYRvUTePdQmfBOUbJ.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for stealing, attacking shopkeepers||Amboli police have booked a 51-year-old Andheri resident for stealing and attacking two shop owners on Thursday. The accused Vishal Babulal Jain walked into a shop on August 6 and stole a packet of earbuds. On August 13, he returned to the shop and was then confronted by the shopkeepers Monish Gala, 25 and Sheyash Shah, 25. Jain, then attacked them with a knife cutter. Gala suffered injuries to his left hand and leg, while Shah suffered injuries to his throat and stomach. Gala in his statement to police officials said, “He took the packet of earbud and said that he had forgotten his purse in his car. But he did not return. We realised that he had stolen the packet.” On August 13, when Jain came back to the shop, Gala confronted him. Jain then started running. However, Shah and Gala cornered Jain near a bus stop at JP Road in Andheri. “He immediately took out a knife cutter from his pocket and attacked us,” said Gala. Jain could not escape as Versova police and Amboli police reached the spot. “Both Shah and Gala were admitted to a private hospital, and are out of danger,” said a police officer from Amboli police station. The accused has been booked under section 307 (Attempt to murder) 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (2) [Punishment for criminal intimidation] of Indian Penal Code and section 37 (1), 135 of Maharashtra Police Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-stealing-attacking-shopkeepers/story-SSOsRyMRZmNpySLjyQBQiJ.html
15-08-2020||City||Two drown in Murbad waterfall; search for one body still on||Two persons on Thursday drowned in Chondhi waterfall in Murbad. The local fire brigade team found the body of one deceased, while the search for the second body is still on.According to police, despite waterfalls being banned for revellers during the lockdown, six friends from Mauje Gadage and Ambole village went to Gorakh Gad and later to Chondhi waterfall, in the afternoon for a picnic.Dattatray Borate, senior inspector from Murbad police station said, “The two deceased, Umesh Borkuntle, 22 and Kartik Gadge, 20, entered the waterfall for a swim. The water level was high due to heavy rainfall. Also, there was a 20-feet deep ditch below the waterfall, which the two were unaware of. The water current in the ditch was strong, due to which they were pulled in to them. The friends saw them drowning and ran towards Khopivli village to seek help from the locals.” However, by the time the villagers reached the spot both of them had drowned. The fire brigade officials pulled out the body of Borkuntle, but the body of Gadge is still missing.Murbad police have registered an accidental death report in the case. Borate said, “We have called disaster management cell officer of Raigad for assistance. This waterfall is deep inside the forest and the path is inaccessible. The six men went to the waterfall for the first time and were unaware of the water currents. Our efforts are on to search the second body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-drown-in-murbad-waterfall-search-for-one-body-still-on/story-4pOHRhKU9mBwHVjGTLNPeL.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||State board releases tentative schedule for Class 10, 12 ATKT exams||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) announced plans to conduct the Class 10 and 12 examinations for students with ATKT (allowed to keep term) in October this year.In a letter sent to the secretaries of all the divisional boards, MSBSHSE has proposed to hold ATKT exams for Class 10 from October 6 to 23. The proposed schedule for Class 12 exams is from October 6 to 29.Every year, the state board allows students who have failed to clear their board exams, to appear for the ATKT exams, which are normally held in July.The results of these exams are declared in August, and students who pass can join junior colleges in the same academic year. The move is to ensure that students do not lose out on a year. However, this year, due to the delay in declaring board results in the wake of the Covid-19 situation, the schedule for ATKT exams has not been announced yet.Officials at the state board said that the timetable is tentative and is subject to changes. “It has been sent to various divisions for suggestions and objections. It is part of the routine process. The board will announce final dates as and when it is decided,” said an official from the board.According to the timetable, practical and oral exams of students who appear for ATKT have to be conducted in October itself.This year, admissions to first-year junior college have also been delayed due to the late declaration of results. While colleges usually start their new academic year in August, this time, they will do so in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-board-releases-tentative-schedule-for-class-10-12-atkt-exams/story-CA3RMIkRPCabSWrSEFFC1H.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||NGT asks four firms to pay ₹286 crore for polluting Mahul||Four industrial firms in the Mahul-Chembur area have been directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to pay ₹286.2 crore as compensation for environmental damage caused by air pollution over five years. The bench was hearing a 2014 application that sought the closure of an industrial firm located less than 10 metres from Mahul and Ambapada. In an order published on Thursday, the NGT principal bench headed by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel directed Aegis Logistics Limited (ALL) to pay ₹142 crore; Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., ₹76.5 crore; Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., ₹67.5 crore; and Sea Lord Containers Limited (SLCL), ₹ 0.2 crore, as compensation. The 2014 application, filed by Charudatt Koli, Dayaram Mahulkar, Mohan Mhatre and Dattaram Koli, had sought the closure of SLCL, which is an additional unit of ALL. The compensation amount was based on calculations (see box) made under a report from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in-house technical committee. The matter was heard by the bench on June 30 and the order was published on Thursday. “While it is true that there may be many reasons for presence of VOCs [volatile organic compounds] in the atmosphere like vehicular emissions, etc., it cannot be denied that the said four companies contribute substantially and predominantly to the VOCs in Mahul and Ambapada villages. The prolonged exposure… may weaken lungs and other organs. Conditions prevailing in the area are sometimes likened to that of a ‘gas chamber’,” read NGT’s order. VOCs – including benzene, toluene, xylene, ethyl benzene – are harmful toxic pollutants that cause exposure-related health effects in human beings. Among the major contributors to air pollution in Chembur are logistic services storing oil, gas and chemical items; and oil companies releasing VOCs during loading, storage and unloading or handling of hazardous chemicals at various stages. While directing the firms to submit the funds to different accounts, NGT has directed the constitution of a 10-member joint committee to prepare an action plan for pollution abatement over not more than five years and address health problems of inhabitants due to air pollution in the Mahul-Chembur area. The committee comprises two senior nominees of the CPCB; a Union environment ministry representative; a Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) member; a nominee from the state health secretary; a Mumbai district collector; and representatives of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay and King Edward Memorial Hospital. MPCB will be the nodal agency. “The amount to the extent of compensation determined (₹286.2 crore) will be made available for the plan to be executed by the respondents themselves or otherwise as may be decided by the committee from time to time,” the order read. Koli said their demand for SLCL’s closure stands. “₹286 crore is minimal against actual VOC emissions calculated by experts in their report. Industries claim to use the best available technology to control VOC emissions, but if pollution levels have been this high, then one can imagine the extent of exposure to residents and allied health impact,” he said. “Through a series of orders were passed over the years, including similar plans directing MPCB to come up with restoration measures, nothing has happened. Residents continue to breathe polluted air,” said Mahulkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ngt-asks-four-firms-to-pay-286-crore-for-polluting-mahul/story-G2ja88sXYgT0DC2k4ybb7O.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||Is Parth Pawar still unhappy?||Nationalist Congress party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s son Parth is apparently sulking after senior Pawar publicly ticked him off for deviating from party line on the issues such as actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case probe and Ayodhya temple construction. Pawar had called him “immature” and had said he doesn’t give a damn about what the latter says, over demand for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into Rajput case. A day after Pawar’s public rebuke, Parth went to Silver Oak, Pawar’s residence in south Mumbai, where he had over two-hour discussion with his aunt Supriya Sule, also daughter of the NCP chief, but could not meet the NCP chief, said insiders. He is reportedly upset with public rebuke by his grandfather (Sharad Pawar). There are speculations that he may quit the party. Both Ajit and Parth have maintained complete silence on the issue. This also suggests that Pawar continues to be miffed with his grand-nephew over his out of turn statements on policy matters. On Friday, Parth reached Pune and is likely to meet his paternal uncle Shrinivas Pawar and aunt Vijaya Patil, it is said. Ajit is also in Pune where he held a review meeting on the pandemic on Friday. Ajit is the son of Pawar’s elder brother Anandrao Pawar and was brought into politics by his uncle (Sharad Pawar). “Pawar saheb has the authority as he (Parth) is a party worker. We don’t give political advice, for that we have a national leader (Sharad Pawar) in the family and we are proud of him. We also have Ajit dada (Ajit Pawar) who is his (Parth) father. He (Parth) may have got hurt and may come to discuss, but we will speak only on personal issues,” Vijaya told a Marathi news channel on Friday. There was a rift in the family in the past too over Parth contesting the general elections. Eventually, Parth lost the polls to the sitting Shiv Sena MP Shrirang Barne. Soon after the Lok Sabha elections, Pawar was seen promoting his other grand-nephew, Rohit, who is the son of his other nephew, Rajendra. With Pawar’s encouragement, Rohit successfully contested the Assembly elections from Karjat-Jamkhed constituency in Ahmednagar district. On Friday, Rohit said it was a family matter. “It is a family matter and saheb (Sharad Pawar) has already spoken on this,” he said in Ahmednagar. He added that the BJP is doing politics over giving justice to the late actor. NCP MP and senior leader Sunil Tatkare said: “No one is upset. Ajit dada is in Pune and holding meetings. Everyone is busy working.” He met the NCP chief with social justice minister Dhananjay Munde at YB Chavan Centre on Friday noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-parth-pawar-still-unhappy/story-c5hVNWrQHYLvR0wIxEQ3tJ.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The balloon hawker’s smiley||You’ll always find him alone. Always silent. And he is seen every evening at Old Delhi’s Chitli Qabar Chowk, which is otherwise so noisy, and so hyperactive, teeming with shoppers, idlers, hawkers, florists, kebab wallas, fish mongers, rickshaw pullers, and labourers from early morning to late into the night.Munaf Alam, with his black mask slumped under his chin, is the only island of stillness in this ocean of chaos and confusion.He’s a balloon seller, and has been hawking balloons in the square for six years. “I come here daily, around six in the evening,” he says in an extremely low voice. Mr Alam is sitting on his haunches by the streetside with six balloons tied to an electric pole beside him. The yellow one has a smiley printed on it, which is looking a tad odd when you contrast it with Mr Alam’s solemn expressions.He says that each time a customer, usually a child, gets one of these balloons, he replaces it by taking out a new one from his bundle of flat balloons.Mr Alam gets his balloons from Sadar Bazaar. He says he lives by himself in this city. “My home is in Bihar.” His family, in a village of Darbhanga district, means his elderly parents, he explains. On being queried about his age, he thinks hard as if it were a long-forgotten information, and after a couple of minutes of intense deliberation, he says, “I may be 39, or 42.” A passerby eavesdropping on the conversation finally speaks up, muttering: “You must be 45.”Mr Alam’s home in Delhi is near Delite Cinema, currently closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. “It’s a very small house.” He explains this point in greater detail. “My home is under a staircase... it is very narrow and the roof is very low... you cannot stand up straight... in my home, you can do nothing but lie down on the floor.” He has his meals in nearby eateries.“I manage to earn just enough for myself.” Mr Alam has been in the city for 16 years, and was earlier working in a dhaba.Looking about the mostly mask-less crowd, he says he will leave the place at about 1 am, when the traffic of people starts to thin down. (It never totally disappears.) “At home, I try to sleep... but sleep comes after a long time, and so I keep staring at the roof.” He wakes up everyday about 10 in the morning.During the entire course of this conversation, about 15 minutes, nobody has stopped to get a balloon. The smiley continues to cheerily shine over the traffic square. On request, Mr Alam agrees to pose by his “smile walla gubbara (balloon)” and, just at the decisive moment of the ‘click’, he breaks into a smile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-balloon-hawker-s-smiley/story-DZkmw7f3PB15F0enTd7d8I.html
15-08-2020||City||Two Ludhiana girls plucking fruits drown in Sutlej rive, two die while saving them||Four minor girls, including two cousins, drowned in Sutlej river near Goraiyan village in Sidhwan Bet on Friday evening. Police said the girls, all aged 12 or 13, were plucking fruits from trees along the banks of the river when the mishap occurred.The deceased have been identified as Kulwinder Kaur, 12, her cousin, Manjinder Kaur, 13, and their two friends, Gagandeep Kaur, 13, and Suman Kaur, 13. They were all students of Classes 5 and 6 at a local government school. Their parents are daily wagers.Inspector Rajesh Thakur, SHO at Sidhwan Bet police station, said while two girls slipped and fell in the water while plucking fruits, the other two lost their balance and drowned while trying to rescue them.Some children playing near the river raised the alarm, following which villagers alerted the police. The police initiated rescue operation, but the children had died by then. The bodies were later fished out in the evening with the help of villagers and sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital for autopsy. Kulwinder’s father Mukhtiar Singh told the police that the children often used to play near the river. He said his daughter was a Class-6 student and wanted to be a teacher.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statements of the deceased’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-ludhiana-girls-plucking-fruits-drown-in-sutlej-rive-two-die-while-saving-them/story-ghWLyZLGCL3j6hWLBRJqrN.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||AIIMS doctor from P’kula found hanging in Delhi house||The decomposed body of a 40-year-old AIIMS doctor was found hanging from the ceiling of his rented accommodation in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas area on Friday afternoon, police said.He was a resident of Panchkula and residing alone in Delhi since 2006, police said.Police received information about foul smell emanating from a house in Gautam Nagar. “After reaching the spot, a decomposed body of a man was found hanging in a room on the second floor. The room was locked from inside,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. He was doing research in the department of pediatrics in AIIMS Hospital and last attended office on Tuesday, the DCP said. Proceeding under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-doctor-from-panchkula-found-hanging-in-delhi-house/story-ymGL7E1eS8kEgxV7iIzK4J.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||Spread of Covid-19 in Haryana ‘upward and outward’ from Gurugram and Faridabad||Despite Gurugram and Faridabad both recording a steady decline in the growth in number of new Covid-19 cases, it is Haryana’s northern and western districts that have started giving health officials a new cause for concern.Officials said the outbreak has perceptibly been spreading “upwards and outwards” from southern Haryana, with Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Sirsa districts currently seeing the largest surge in reported infections.As per state health department data, Yamunanagar saw the highest Covid-19 growth rate over the past two weeks, with its total case load of infections increasing by 113%. Panchkula’s total burden of Covid-19 cases increased by 106% during the same time, while Kurukshetra and Panipat’s total confirmed positives grew by 98 and 90%, respectively. Between August 1 and August 14, Yamunanagar has seen 300 new cases with the number of total cases standing at 565. Panchkula has recorded 564 new cases , with 1,096 total cases. For Kurukshetra, the numbers of new cases and total cases are 415 and 838 respectively and those for Panipat are 906 and 1,915 respectively. Meanwhile, southern districts like Gurugram, Faridabad and Nuh, once hot spots, witnessed growth rates between 11 and 26%. Gurugram, which has witnessed the most significant slowdown in new cases, has a recovery rate of 92%, which officials said is the highest in the state, and has a daily growth rate of under 1%. In comparison, emerging hots pots in northern districts are seeing daily growth rates between 6 to 8%.As of August 14, Haryana has a total of 45,614 positive Covid-19 cases, of which 6,748 are classified as active cases. Despite having lower absolute numbers, Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Panipat together make up close to 20% of the state’s entire active caseload. The recovery rate for Haryana currently stands at 84%, while the fatality rate stands at 1.14%. The doubling rate stands at 30 days, but the four districts with the highest growth of cases (over the past two weeks) are doubling at twice the pace, between 12 to 15 days. “We can confidently say that the outbreak has spread upwards and outwards from Gurugram and Faridabad, which are the most populated districts and also share lots of connections with Delhi. These were the first hot spots to emerge in Haryana, around May-June. In July, when the situation in the south started improving, it was adjacent districts like Rewari, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Rohtak that witnessed surges. Now, even those districts have begun to see a slowdown in cases, but the outbreak has continued to spread and gained speed in districts that are further away from the south,” said Dr Usha Gupta, director, health services, Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP).A senior infectious diseases expert at PGIMER Chandigarh, who is also involved in Haryana’s upcoming seroprevalence study, requesting anonymity, said, “The geographic spread of the outbreak in Haryana is natural. As the state opens up post-lockdown, and people continue to move between districts, whether for work or personal reasons, the infection will move out of areas which were once red zones, and new hot spots will emerge. Luckily, in terms of absolute numbers, these new hot spots will not be overwhelmed because the population is much less.”Commenting on this development, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said, “The surge was expected owing to regular influx of people from red zones. Being the state headquarters for many department offices, Panchkula sees many regular commuters from outside.”Kaur also pointed out that the Baddi industrial area in Himachal Pradesh, which shares a border with Panchkula, has recently emerged as a new hot spot due to the movement of migrants after state borders were opened.Gupta and other health department officials maintained that while the outbreak has continued to spread in Haryana, there is no cause for alarm yet. “In every single district, we have vacant beds and ventilators available. If need be, we will also leverage available infrastructure in urban centres and shift critical patients from rural areas to places like Gurugram and Faridabad, where tertiary care facilities have become available after a reduction in active patients,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/spread-of-covid-19-in-haryana-upward-and-outward-from-gurugram-and-faridabad/story-dmij9CkifxuyLOiGLpmT7H.html
15-08-2020||Gurugram||Sarpanch’s husband, who was shot by gangster, succumbs to injuries||Over a month after the 37-year-old husband of sarpanch of Alipur village was shot outside a private hospital in Sohna, the victim succumbed to injuries at a private hospital on Wednesday night. The crime branch had earlier arrested one suspect in relation to the case. On July 15 around 4pm, the victim, Manoj Dagar, had gone to a private hospital with his nine-year-old daughter who was suffering from a mild fever. Dagar was about to park his SUV outside the hospital, 100 metres away from City Sohna police station across the road, when he was shot through the car’s window pane by a suspect. He had sustained one gunshot wound in the neck and, since then, had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. Police probe has revealed that the suspect, Mahesh Rathi, brother of gangster Ashok Rathi, held a grudge against Dagar, who had a role in vacating a house in Alipur. A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “Ashok Rathi had usurped a house belonging to his wife’s relatives in Sohna after relations had soured between them. On the intervention of Dagar, whose wife is the sarpanch, the property was freed from Rathi’s control and the house was locked. This enraged Rathi’s brother, Mahesh, and he planned to take revenge.” The police said they are probing the role of other suspects in the case too and added that Section 302 (punishment for murder) under the Indian Penal Code(IPC) will be added to the FIR registered at City Sohna police station. Ashok Rathi, who had links with gangs and was accused in several cases, was shot dead by three men at his house in Alipur on November 16 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sarpanch-s-husband-who-was-shot-by-gangster-succumbs-to-injuries/story-CAn4oeRkWqTuzx8VIgDOMM.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Returning migrants to be tested for Covid in centres at Delhi’s borders||The Delhi government has set up a rapid antigen test centre at the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) in Anand Vihar in light of migrant workers returning to the capital with the slow revival of the economy and gradual lifting of curbs that were imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The move comes at a time when the daily reported cases have come down in the national capital, while they have gone up in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -- the two states from where the maximum number of migrants are trickling into Delhi. Delhi recorded 1,192 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, against 3,947 – the highest single day spike in the capital – on June 23. Uttar Pradesh, meanwhile, recorded 4,512 fresh covid cases on Friday against 605 recorded on June 23. Bihar recorded 3,906 fresh Covid cases on Friday against 206 on June 23.   The rapid antigen test centre was set up on Thursday, said a senior official of the Delhi government. He said till Friday evening, around 450 people were tested at the centre and only six were fund to be Covid-19 positive.Although the interstate road transport is yet to be allowed, many are reaching Delhi by walking across the border lines that Delhi shares with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “In the next two weeks, the government will set up several such test centres at crucial locations in the city’s border areas. Revenue district officials have been entrusted with identifying such locations,” the official said.Millions of migrant workers had left Delhi in the days following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of Covid-19. The state government had also set up thousands of centres to provide food and shelter to migrant workers who lost their livelihoods until arrangements were made to send them back to their villages on trains and buses. Thousands of them also set off on arduous journeys back home, covering hundreds of miles, by foot.“Since mid-July, we have seen a large number of workers returning to the city. While it is easier to keep a tab on those arriving by trains, it is difficult to track those coming by foot,” said another senior government official, on condition of anonymity.Currently, interstate road transport is prohibited under the lockdown norms drafted by the central government. But, road transport within states is allowed.The second official said most of the migrants take buses from their respective districts and arrive at Kaushambi – a township in Ghaziabad, on the Uttar Pradesh side of the border. From there, they walk to Anand Vihar, covering a distance of about 4km by foot. From Anand Vihar, which is in Delhi, they take local buses and go to other areas within the national capital, the official quoted above said.He further said most individuals who have so far been tested at the Anand Vihar centre are factory workers, construction workers, and self-employed people such as plumbers, electricians, painters, and carpenters, among others. Several of them have also crossed from Bihar to Uttar Pradesh in a similar fashion, before reaching Delhi eventually, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/returning-migrants-to-be-tested-for-covid-in-centres-at-delhi-s-borders/story-6W4SSF6GHem2uCIehDR5uN.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s recovery rate improves to 76.73%||Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the last 16 days has increased by 13.68 per cent and the doubling rate in the same period has gone from 24 days to 38 days, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data.Over the past few days, the city’s recovery rate, number of active cases in proportion to progressive positive cases and the doubling rate has shown drastic improvement even though the testing has been ranging between 5,000 to 6,000 in 24 hours, said officials.The city’s recovery rate as of July 29 was 63.05 per cent which jumped up by 13.68 per cent to 76.73 per cent as of August 13. This means more number of people are being discharged after they have been isolated as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.Murlidhar Mohol, Pune Mayor, said, “It is good news that more people are being cured of the virus and are discharged.”“Pune city’s recovery rate is 76.73 per cent while the number of active cases in proportion to progressive positive cases is 20.92 per cent which is a good thing. However, it is also true that our fatality rate is now 2.35 per cent which is at par with the country’s fatality rate,” he said.“All agencies are working together to bring down the fatality rate even more,” he said.The number of active cases, who are in hospitals or at home, undergoing treatment or are under observation is also dropping. The number of active cases has gone down from 17,000 cases or 34.52 per cent cases with 9,693 people in home isolation as of July 29 to 14,000, active cases or 20.92 per cent as of August 13 with 7666 in home isolation.With fewer fresh cases being reported the number of active cases is going down thereby bringing down the pressure on the medical infrastructure.Meanwhile, PMC has projected a doubling rate of 24.57 days on July 29 when the progressive positive count of the city was 51,738 cases which is now estimated to be around 38.69 days as of August 13 with a total of 70,326 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-recovery-rate-improves-to-76-73/story-nnCwf8tr6qVlRvdVFxU13K.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Fewer nursery admissions in MCD schools, SDMC kicks off special drive||The schools run by the three civic bodies in the national capital are seeing fewer admissions in entry-level classes of nursery and pre-primary this year with some schools not getting even a single enrolment in these classes as yet. Principals of many of these schools pointed to the reverse migration caused by the lockdown enforced to contain the Covid-19 pandemic as a reason for the low interest and raised concerns about the “drop” in overall enrolment. For instance, at a South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) school, officials said the school did not get even a single admission to nursery and pre-primary (KG) this year. The school principal, who wished not to be named, said, “We are still waiting for parents to approach us for admissions to nursery and pre-primary. These are the entry-level classes in which we get maximum admissions every year. But this year, we are getting more admissions in other classes. This is a worrisome trend.”The principal of another SDMC school, again on condition of anonymity, said, “We have got seven admissions in nursery so far. Majority of our students are from working-class families and many such families residing in this area have left for their home states in view of the pandemic. Fathers of some of the children have visited the school to enquire about admissions. They said they will get their families back only after the Covid-19 situation eases in the city.”Taking stock of the situation, the SDMC has launched a special drive to boost admissions in its schools. Mukesh Suryan, the chairperson of the south civic body’s education committee, issued an order on August 11, saying, “In the month of August 2020, it’s been decided that each and every teacher will conduct the admission drive in their area and admit at least 20 students to their schools. Accordingly, each and every principal will make sure to admit at least 200 new students with the cooperation of fellow teachers, staff/SMC, parents and local councillors.”Suryan said the SDMC will focus on creating awareness among parents. “Parents are scared for the safety of their kids. Particularly, parents of three- and four-year-olds are thinking that there is no point admitting their children when the schools are shut.”The north, east and south corporations run 765, 365 and 581 schools, respectively, and they cater to children up to class 5. The admission process in civic body schools this year was delayed by over three months due to the pandemic and began only on July 1. A similar situation has been reported in schools of east and north MCDs. In a nursery school of east municipal corporation, only six admissions have taken place so far. “Last year, we had 70 admissions to nursery. This time it’s negligible. We majorly get students from the very low-income group. Now we have started calling parents of our former students and asking them to send children from their neighbourhood,” the principal of the school, who wished not to be named, said. A principal of a north civic body school in Narela said five students have taken admission to the nursery as of now. “Last year, we had 29 students in the nursery. We have started distributing pamphlets to inform parents that admissions are open. We are also sending WhatsApp messages on our student groups as well.”Ira Singhal, the spokesperson of the north civic body, said, “We are also conducting an admission drive engaging our teachers and school management committee (SMC) members to boost the number of admissions.” EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said, “We have started collecting data on admissions. We will also launch a drive if required.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said learning will slow down in early years if the parents do not enrol children in entry-level classes amid the pandemic. “We will have to find other ways to mitigate the loss when the situation comes back to normal. But this should not put pressure on schools to open early since the first job of a school is to provide a safe learning space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fewer-nursery-admissions-in-mcd-schools-sdmc-kicks-off-special-drive/story-Smo9iWK6PUvOupUADDJpRM.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||Private neighbourhood clinics shut, patients struggle to treat minor ailments||Even though Delhi has gradually unlocked over the past three months amid the Covid-19 pandemic, residents from across neighbourhoods complain that general practitioners are yet to open their clinics for consultations. Most hospitals have opened their outpatient departments (OPD) for non-Covid patients but the fear of contracting the infection is keeping people away. Naveen Upadhyay, 67, a resident of Dwarka sector 4, said local clinics have not reopened since the lockdown was enforced on March 25. He is severely diabetic and his wife needs regular consultation for high blood pressure. “My wife fell ill two weeks ago and we wanted to get her BP checked and consult a doctor. But the clinic where we usually go has not opened yet. My son checked for doctors in the area but none have opened up. Finally, we managed to get a phone consultation but my wife could neither get a physical examination nor her BP checked. I have bought a BP monitoring machine now to avoid such instances of emergency in the future,” Upadhyay said. Upadhyay is not alone. Many people from all over Delhi are facing such problems. Private clinics, mostly located in residential areas, are primary health care service providers in several neighbourhoods for mild ailments such as flu, minor aches and pains and regular checkups. People also prefer visiting local general practitioners to avoid the hassle of visiting a hospital. Mrinalini Chatterjee of south Delhi’s CR Park said she experienced a bout of headache and vomiting last week but she was forced to go to a private hospital. “I waited in the car until my turn came because I was scared of contracting an infection. In large hospital set-ups, it is difficult to ascertain how many people gather. There should be some guidelines asking private clinics to resume services. Coronavirus might continue for a few months, does that mean people with other illnesses will be left to fend for themselves?” Chatterjee said. HT tried contacting 30 private clinics across the city to know how many were open for consultation. Nine were providing phone consultations and six were open for a physical check. Dr Amit Pradhan, who runs a private clinic in IP Extension, said he has not opened his clinic since the lockdown to avoid crowding. However, he has been providing consultations through video conferencing. In cases where physical examination is necessary, home visits are also provided. “This is just a precautionary measure. My clinic is a small space, which often gets crowded in the evenings. No one wants to shut their business and sit home, but these are extraordinary times and doctors, like any other professionals, are trying to find a way to get through,” Pradhan said. Patients with Covid-19 symptoms also complained they are facing difficulties in getting prescriptions from doctors to get tests done. Sudhir Pal, a retired army official, who lives in north Delhi’s Pitampura, said his 29-year-old son was experiencing typical Covid-19 symptoms from June 23. However, it took them a week to get a prescription from a local doctor. “The first three days, my son’s condition was very worrying. We kept insisting we should get a Covid-19 test done but the doctor kept postponing it, saying he will monitor the situation for some more days. On the eighth day, we got a go-ahead and on the ninth day he was tested and ended up positive. It will be hard to explain what we went through in those days. When I am willing to pay for the test, why should I have to run from pillar to post to get an approval?” Pal said. A senior official of the union ministry of health and family welfare said the idea behind directing states to allow private practitioners to prescribe coronavirus tests was to increase testing and make tests more accessible to people. “It would depend on the state government on how they are pushing private doctors to engage patients with symptoms and prescribe testing. Many are opting for online prescriptions after observing symptoms for over three days and that is a good way to follow,” the official said. A response from Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain’s office clarified that there was no restriction on the operation of private clinics. “We are encouraging most testing and OPD facilities in all Delhi government hospitals are open,” the response read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-neighbourhood-clinics-shut-patients-struggle-to-treat-minor-ailments/story-JIUzCK17OnTZJwEe8XtycI.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration honours frontline Covid warriors||For their contributions in the fight against Covid-19, as many as 19 frontline warriors have been awarded commendation certificates by the UT administration. The awardees include doctors, nurses and other supporting staff from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector-16.Apart from this, 196 Covid warriors, including personnel from different departments of the administration, municipal corporation, non-governmental organisations (NGO), and private citizens will also be awarded the commendation letters.UT adviser Manoj Parida, said, “This year, we have decided to give commendation certificates only to those who contributed in the fight against the pandemic.” He added, “IAS and IPS officers of the UT administration have decided not to have any commendation certificate for their Covid work by stating that it is part of their normal duty.”Every department was given a quota and a committee set up for this purpose selected the names to be recommended. Of the total, 172 corona warriors are from government sector, 33 from NGOs and religious institutions, and 10 private citizens.KNOW THE WARRIORSThe frontline Covid warriors awarded the commendation letters include Dr Rashmi Ranjan Guru, junior resident and Gurvinder Longia, senior OT technician from PGIMER. From the GMCH-32, Dr Dasari Harish, Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Avinash Abhaya, associate professor, anatomy, Dr Mehak Trehan, post graduate junior resident, medicine; Dr Swati Dahia, post graduate junior resident, medicine; Dr Himani Gupta, post graduate junior resident, ENT and Parveen Kaur, nursing officer.From GMSH-16, Dr Parmjit Singh, deputy medical superintendent; Dr Amandeep Kang, senior medical officer; Dr Vandana Bhatia; Saveeta Rani, lady health visitor (LHV); Sulochna, nursing officer; Rahul Dutt, lab technician; Shivcharanjit, LHV; Parvinderjit Kaur, LHV; Ram Avtar, driver; Vinod Kumar, ward servant; and Vishal Kumar, safai karamchari, have been recommended for the certificate.Chandigarh municipal corporation:1. Kuljit Paul Singh Mahi, additional secretary, home, UT administration2. Rakesh Kumar Popli, director, hospitality3. Anil Kumar Garg, additional commissioner, MC4. Sanjay Arora, SE, (B&R), MC5. Jarnail Singh, secretary, market committee6. Ravinder Kumar Sharma, executive engineer, MC7. Amritpal Singh, medical officer of health8. Jarnail Singh, SDO9. Vijatl Bahadur, AE10. Vivek Trivedi, social development officer11. Gagandeep Sharma, senior assistant12. Darshan Pal Singh, inspector (Enf)13. Sunil Dutt, inspector (Enf)14. Vivek Mehta, junior assistant15. Anshu Chandna, junior assistant16. Scrnia Rani, junior assistant17. Amrarjit Singh, leading fireman18. Satyendra, leading fireman19. Naveen Kumar, fireman20. Parrnavir Thakur, watch room duty operator21. Chander Mohan, chief sanitary inspector22. Mohinder Pathak, chief sanitary inspectorPGIMER:1. Dr Rashnri Ranjan Guru, junior resident2. Naresh Mahajan, sanitation officer3. Jyoti Parkash, administrative assistant4. Amar Singh, senior technical officer5. Gurvirrder Longia, senior OT technician6. Dr.Ram Srrmujh, Prof & HOD pediatric surgeryGMCH-32, 48:1, Dr Dasari Harish, HoD/forensic medicine & toxicology-cum-nodal officer, Covid-192. Kul Bhushan, store officer Grade-ll3. Dr. Avinash Abhaya, associate professor anatomy4. Dr Sonali Shamdasani, Deputy Medical Supdt5. Dr Mehak Trehan, Post Graduate Jr Resident Medicine6. Dr. Swati Dahia, Post Graduate Jr Resident/Medicine7. Dr. Himan Gupta, Post Graduate Jr. Resident/ENT8. Parvertn Kaur, Nursing Officer (lCN-46)9. Murari, Ward Attendant (E-Code 12967)10. Kala, Safai Karmchari (E-Code 10189)11. Bhupinder Kaur, assistant nursing superintendentUT Health Department:1. Dr Parmji’lSingh, dy medical superintendent2. Dr.Amandeep Kang, senior medical officer3. Dr. Vandana Bhatia, doctor4. Savee’la Rani, Lady Health Visitor (LHV)5. Ritu, administrative staff6. Pankaj Rahi, administrative staff7. Sulochna, nursing officer8. Rahul Dutt, lab technician9. Shivcharanjit, LHV10. Parvirrderjit Kaur, LHV11. Pawan, Enquiry12. Ram Avtar, driver13. Vinod Kumar, ward servant14. Vishal Kumar, safai karamchari15. Meenra Kumari, senior assistant16. Harpal Singh, senior assistantPolice Department:1. Dilsher Singh, SDPO/East2. Krishan Kumar, SDPO/Central3. Rajiv Kr Ambasta, DSP/Crime4. Gurmukh Singh, DSP/PCR5. Sukhraj Katewa, DSP/EOW6. Dr.Pushpendra Mangat, SMO, Police Hospital7. Inspector Ranjit Singh, SHO/PS Maloya8. Inspector Rajeev Kumar, SHO/PS-119. Inspector Narinder Patial, SHO/PS-2610. Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO.PS-1711. SI Rohtash, I/C BDC, Sector-2612. SI Eram Rizvi, I/C PP PGI13. Mukesh Kumar, Steno Typist14. ASI Surya Parkash,CHG, PS-3615. ASI/LR Kulwant,CP, CRU Branch16. HC Malvinder Singh,CP, PP GMSH-1617. HC Gurdev Singh, CP, PS Sarangpur18. Sr.Const Anoop,CP, O/o SSP/UT19. L/C Suman, CP, Police Lines20. L/C Geeta, CP, MPS-II21. Constable Inderjit CP, Security Branch22. Constable Sourabh, IRB, PS-IT Park23. TP Singh,Ad.O, Police Headquarters24. Ghanshyam, Police LinesDeputy commissioner’s office, UT, Chandigarh:1. Sudhanshu Gautam, SDM (East)2. Satish Kumar Jain, SDM (South)3. Virat, Registering and Licensing Authority4. Manish Kumar Lohan, Assistant Estate Officer (HQ)5. Sorabh Kumar Arora, Additional Commissioner, MC5. Harjeet Singh Sandhu, Secretary, State Transport Authority6. Jagjit Singh, Controller, Printing and Stationary7. RK Chaudhary, AETC8. Noor Singh Saini, DIO, NIC9. Satish Sharma, PA to DC10. Manisha Pundir, Jr. Asstt11. Parveen Mittal, S.I. Estate Office12. Amanpreet Singh, ETO13. Maanek Ahlawat, ETO14. Rajinder Kumar, Superintendent, DC Office15. Sanjeev Kohli, Sr.CDI16. Mahavir Singh, Sr. Assistant17. Himanshu Sharma, Special Executive Magistrate18. Jatinder Singh, PA to ADC19. Abhishek Kaushik, Special Executive Magistrate20. Inderjit Anand, Incident Commander21. Vijay Kumar, Incident Commander22. Mohit Khanna, Incident Commander23.Avtar Singh, Incident Commander24. Suresh Kumar, XEN, Chd. Admn25. Inderjeet Singh, Incident Commander26. Mohit Handa, Incident Commander27. Akshay Verma, Incident Commander28. Vikas Goyal, Incident Commander29. Bikram Rana, State Liason Officer education Department Chd30. Sandeep Kumar, District Employment Officer, UT Chd.31. Ramesh Kumar, Lecturer, GMSSS Dhanas32. Ram Sunder Yadav, Supervisor, SDM(E)33. Rohtas Yadav, Sub. Inspector, Sector 26, Police ChowkiForest and environment, UT, Chandigarh:1. Vivek Pandey, Scientist ‘B’, CPCC2. Bhupinder Singh, Deputy Forest RangerSecretary establishment, UT Secretariat, Chandigarh1. Renu Bala, PS to Secretary EstablishmentAnimal Husbandary and Fisheries1. Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Animal Husbandry & Fisheries, Senior Vice President, SPCA, Chd2. Dr. Kanwarjit Singh Jt. Director Animal Husbandry & Fisheries,3. Dr.Rajinder Singh Bajwa Veterinary Officer, Incharge GVH/AIC-38 Honorary Executive Secy; SPCA4. Dr. Ashwani Bagla Veterinary Officer, Incharge GVH-Manimjara 5. Dr. Baljeet Singh Veterinary Officer, Incharge, GVH-Dhanas-cum-Research Officer, Animal HusbandryLabour department, UT, Chandigarh1. Varun Beniwal, Assistant Labour Commissioner, Chandigarh2. Arun Kumar, Junior Assistant3. Bimal Kishore, Clerk4. Praveen Kumar, Clerk5. Savita, Clerk6. Ruchi Singh Bedi, Secretary, CHB7. Rajiv Singla, Chief Engineer, Chandigarh Housing Board8. Ajay Grover, Executive Engineer, Chandigarh Housing Board9. TPSingh, Supdt Engineer-II, Chandigarh Housing Board10. Navjot Kaur, Director Social Welfare Department11. Radhika Singh, Director, Museum and Art Gallery12. Rajiv Tewari, Director Public RelationsSports department, Chandigarh1. Ravinder Singh, Distt. Sports Officer,2. Krishan Lal, Sr. Judo Coach3. N.Shashi, Gymnastic Coach4. Gurmesh Singh, Volleyball Coach5. Ravinder Kumar, Basketball CoachOther officials:1. Abbas Ansari, Data Entry Operator, State Transport Authority, 2. Mandeep Singh, Clerk, Printing & Stationary Department3. Jasvir Singh, Assistant Controller, Chandigarh Housing Board4. Ajay Tondon, Sr.Captain, Hospitality Department5. Navjot Singh, Clerk, Chandigarh Housing Board6. DP Sharma, Clerk, Chandigarh Housing Board7. Prem Chand, superintendent, department of higher education 8. Vijay Juneja, lecturer, NSS programme officer9. Jayant Atreya, lecturer, NSS Programme Officer10. Ramesh Sahore, lecturer, NSS Programme OfficerUT Engineering Deptt:1. Harkiran Kumar, SDE (Civil)2. Brij Kishore, SDE (PH)3. Umed Singh, JE (Civil)General Home guard1. Mohan Singh, Home Guard Volunteer,Personnel, public Relations, and Printing & Stationary, U.T., Chandigarh.1. Swati Munjal, Public Relations Officer2. Surbhi, Assistant Public Relations Officer3. Abhimanu Rana, Senior Photographer4. Khem Chand, Press Room Attendant5. Pushkar Rawat, Clerk6. Deepak Yadav, Jr.Assistant7. Tejinder Kumar Pathak, Senior Assistant8. Gurvinder Singh, Clerk9. Khushbinder Mehra, PA10. Kulwinder Singh, Peon11. Jasbir Singh, Peon12. Lucky, Peon13. Davinder Singh, DEO14. Narinderjit Singh, Jr Scale StenographerLabour and Employment, UT, Chandigarh:1. Vikas Uttam Singh, Junior Assistant2. Sumit Kumar, PeonAssociations/NGOs/Societies/non-official persons recommended for commendation certificate on independence day, 2020:1. Sant Nirankari Mission, Sector 30 Chandigarh2. Association of professional social worker and Development practitioners (APSWDP)3. Chandigarh Business Council4. Indian Federation of United Nations Association, Chandigarh5. FICCI, Chandigarh6. Rotary club, Chandigarh7. Residents Welfare Association, Chandigarh8. Swarmani Youth Welfare Association, Chandigarh9. Chandigarh Smooh Gurudwara Prabhandhak Committee, Chandigarh10. Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society, Chandigarh11. Rotary Club, Chandigarh12. Sarbat Da Bhalla NGO, Chandigarh13. CRAWFED14. FOSWAC16. Iskon Temple, Sector 36, Chandigarh17. Radha Swami Satsang Byas, Chandigarh18. Gurudwara Sahib, PGI, Chandigarh19. Vishwa Manav Ruhani Kendra, Nava Nagar village, Baddi, Solan20. Baba Balak Nath Mandir, Sector 29, Chandigarh21. Mata Uma Rani Kansal Goshala Seva Sandan, Chandigarh22. Joshi Foundation, Chandigarh23. Gurudwara Baba Deep Singh, Village Dhanas, Chandigarh24. Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh25. Chaitanya Gaur Math Mandir, Sector 20 Chandigarh26. Jain Mandir, Sector 27, Chandigarh27. Venkatesh, Social Worker, Chandigarh28. Gurwinder Walia, Village Buterla29. Dargah Lala Wala Peer, Sabri Masjid, Sector 45 Chandigarh30. Akhil Bhartiya Agarwal Sammelan, Chandigarh31. Jai Ma Club, Sector 28, Chandigarh32. Shirdi Sai Samaaj Mandir, Sector 29, Chandigarh33. Youth Club, Burail, Chandigarh34. Chandigarh Beopar MandalNon-official persons:1. Pooja Bakshi2. Vinod Kumar alias Sonu3. Karan Gilhotra4. Kamaljit Singh Panchhi5. Ravinder Singh6. Sunil Sharma (Photo Journalist)7. Neena Tewari8. Garima Sharma9. Chander Shekhar10. Devi Prasad Khandelia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-honours-frontline-covid-warriors/story-IDfQg9bAYsQwoCd7Gv204O.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||AIIMS doctor found dead inside south Delhi flat, police say he left behind a note||The decomposed body of a research fellow at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) was found on Friday afternoon in his rented flat in south Delhi, police said. The 40-year-old was from a mid-nineties MBBS batch of AIIMS and had been staying alone in his flat for over a decade. He had returned to the hospital for research in the paediatrics department on a project. Senior police officers said that their preliminary inquiry suggests that the doctor allegedly hanged himself inside the flat. “The flat’s main door was bolted from inside. Prime facie, it appears to be a case of suicide. However, the reason is still not known. So far, no foul play is suspected.”Police said they have found a note purportedly written by the doctor. A police officer paraphrasing the contents of the note, said that the doctor wrote that he was choosing to end his life as he did not see any reason to live for 70-80 years and did not want to hide his “mental condition”. The doctor was unmarried. The officer said the doctor’s family members have told the police that he had made a similar attempt on his life in the past as well. A doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity said, “He had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS for a psychiatry disorder till some time back and after he became a little better, he lost touch with his regular therapist.” “He preferred to remain alone and did not interact with others,” the doctor said. AIIMS has seen a spate of suicide among its students as well as patients. In the last four months, there have been eight death by suicides at the hospital. These include the daughter of a deceased cancer patient who jumped off a building on May 9, a 22-year old man who hung himself from a staircase on June 5, a journalist, under treatment for Covid-19, who jumped off the trauma centre building on July 6, a junior doctor who jumped off the hostel building on July 10, and a person who hung himself in the bathroom on July 17. Another MBBS student jumped off the building at the hospital just earlier this week. Doctors from the hospital had said that he had been depressed and under treatment at the hospital. In Friday’s incident, DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that a call was received at the Hauz Khas police station at 3.10 pm, regarding a foul smell emanating from a house in an area close to AIIMS campus. A police team reached there and found that the house was locked from inside. They broke open the door and found a man’s body hanging inside. “The doctor originally belonged to a north Indian state. He had last joined his office in AIIMS on August 11 (Tuesday). Other details about him and the exact reason behind his extreme step are still being ascertained,” the DCP said adding that inquest proceedings have been initiated in the death. “We already have a student wellness wing, where counselling services are provided. There are counsellors available at the hostels as well. We have an emergency number where people can call too. However, we are looking at ways to provide better support to our students. It is unfortunate that meritorious students like the ones studying here are taking such steps,” said another doctor, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-doctor-found-dead-inside-south-delhi-flat-police-say-he-left-behind-a-note/story-sJNCAtA0XilepkyriNOuuM.html
15-08-2020||Noida||How Covid control room helps people cope with the pandemic||The 30 telephone lines set up at the Covid-19 integrated control room (ICR) in Noida’s Sector 59 keep buzzing with pandemic-related queries. A man who has just landed from Dubai wants to know the results of his mother’s second Covid-19 test, a mother-daughter duo who tested positive for the infection are enquiring about when an ambulance will come to pick them up, while another resident wants to know how to quarantine himself till his test results arrive. It is a regular Thursday afternoon, but the staff at the control room find themselves inundated with queries.Set up by the Gautam Budh Nagar administration and district police with support from tech giant HCL Technologies on April 4, the ‘all-in-one’ integrated control room has till date received more than 2.53 lakh calls on its toll-free number – 1800-419-2211.According to its staff, the control rooms gets at least 350 calls daily on average which is still far less than the average 1,000 daily call it used to get during the lockdown.District surveillance officer (DSO), Dr Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, said the number of phone calls at the control room have reduced ever since the central government rolled back the restrictions imposed during the lockdown. “Earlier, the control room would receive many calls from people inquiring about food and shelter, about people wanting to go to their hometowns apart from residents calling to complain about people coming from districts but not quarantining themselves. But, now we mostly get Covid-19 test-related queries, people testing positive and requiring ambulances to go to the hospital and people with symptoms who want to know where they get themselves tested,” he said.The telephone lines at the control room are manned by 27 personnel from different departments who then forward the calls depending on the kind of query to one of seven different units established in the control room. The seven units—home isolation, containment zone, sampling and surveillance, facility allocation and self-declaration, contact tracing, rapid response, and ambulance and sanitization-engage a total of 175 officials and workers.District magistrate Suhas LY said in the home isolation unit, which gets the maximum number of calls these days, has a strength of over 40 staffers, including the chief development officer (CDO), sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), district panchayat raj officer (DPRO) —who are administrative in-charges, additional chief medical officer (ACMO) —the medical in-charge, nine doctors, a data manager, and 26 phone operators. “When this team gets information about the patients testing positive for Covid-19, it gets in touch with the asymptomatic patients and asks them to report immediately to L-1 facilities (for mild-care). The patients are then evaluated by a team of doctors if they are fit enough to be isolated at home. We ask the patients to then download the UP Covid-19 surveillance mobile application so that they can be monitored at home,” he said.The DM further said at the time of patients’ transfer from the hospital to their home, an online form is filled which includes all their personal details and health vitals. “Also, an undertaking is signed by the patient, and a home fitness certificate is issued by the doctor. Patients are also given the ‘Covid kavach (shield) kit’ and their details are immediately transferred virtually to the control room for further monitoring and coordination,” he said.Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said a detailed online and offline database of all the patients is maintained and a team of doctors, paramedics and teachers monitor these patients round the clock. “We track their progress through the UP Covid-19 app and the control room also keeps a close tab on then the patients asking about their oxygen levels, temperature and any other complaints they have,” he said.Patients, who need to be treated at a Covid-19 facility, are looked after by the facility allocation team. “We contact the Covid-19 patients to trace their location. The list of patients who are not present in any facility and need treatment are given to the rapid response team for shifting of those patients to a facility. The database of all traced patients’ locations is updated on our portal,” said Dr Kushwaha.The containment zone cell, run by four people- a nodal officer, a doctor, and two support staff, maintains the database of the addresses of all Covid-19 patients in the district. “After sorting the database, sealing suggestions with every patient’s address long with de-sealing dates are given to all SDMs/magistrates concerned. All SDMs send the conformation lists after sealing the given addresses which are added to the district containment zone list. Daily de-sealing list is prepared and given to all SDMs and the same addresses are removed from the district containment zone list,” the doctor working for the team, who preferred anonymity, said.The staff at the control room which runs its 24 hours (in two shifts) throughout the week diligently maintains two registers as well—one for noting down calls with medical requests, reports of symptoms and requests for ambulances, while the other for complaints including containment zones, people flouting quarantine norms within containment zones, “Every call is noted down with the caller’s complete details so that no patient goes missing from our database in the future,” said one of the staffers.HCL’s technical team, which provides support to the control room personnel, works remotely from home.A team of police officers is also deployed at the control room to keep a close watch on law and order issues. Commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said that at the beginning of the lockdown, the control room was instrumental in monitoring those suffering from respiratory issues and fever and then became important for coordinating and monitoring the health of migrants arriving in the district. “The control room was involved in collecting feedback on issues such as rations, food distribution, and quarantine facilities. The police commissionerate itself has provided ration and food packets to more than two lakh families so far. The helpline registers all Covid-related calls separately and operators also call residents back to check if their queries and complaints have been resolved within 24 hours or not,” Singh said.“The technical support unit (TSU) has also created a portal to integrate data from surveillance officers, labs and medical facilities which played a crucial role in analysing data and contact-tracing of Covid-positive patients’ Singh said, adding it was the database prepared by the control room which helped in ensuring the safe return of students and migrant workers to their hometowns a few months ago.It was police commissioner Singh who had first discussed the idea of setting up the control room with the principal secretary for medical education, Rajnish Dubey, just before the chief minister’s visit in March, and after getting the nod from the state government, the district police and administration approached HCL for providing infrastructural support for the control room. “I am thankful to the Nadar family (founders of HCL), especially Roshni Nadar (chairperson of HCL Technologies), who agreed to give all support to us in no time. The ultra-modern control room was finally set up April 4 for the purpose of resolving all problems related to the coronavirus pandemic under the same roof one platform,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/how-covid-control-room-helps-people-cope-with-the-pandemic/story-2cWdvMCv5QJUwmyEtYZUsO.html
15-08-2020||Noida||Land worth ₹30 crore freed up from encroachments in Noida||The Noida authority freed up land worth ₹30 crore near Sector 150 in a demolition drive on Friday, said officials.The authority has intensified its action against land mafia encroaching upon notified land, they added. On Friday, the authority freed up 9,200 square metres of land meant for planned developed on khasra number 464 and 482 in Kondli Bangar village near Sector 150 which is home to dozens of newly-developed housing and commercial projects along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway.“The authority team has taken possession of the land whose cost is ₹30 crore as per the market rate. Our drive against the encroachments will continue followed by action against those who encroach notified land ,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The land grabbers had made tin sheds over this land to claim ownership, said authority officials. The authority’s land department team along with the police removed the tin sheds taking back the possession of the notified land. Notified land refers to identified or demarcated agricultural land, which is part of the planned development as per the Noida master plan-2031. Once the state government notifies a piece of land, nobody can construct any structure or building without requisite permission or approval from the Noida authority.Officials said it has started drive freeing up notified land to ensure that the land mafia does not plan unauthorised projects luring plot buyers. In the past, the authority has been warning the property buyers, through public notices and advertisements in newspapers, to not buy plots in unauthorised housing projects developed on notified land.“The land mafia grabs our land, then plans unauthorised housing projects and sells plots to buyers. Buyers lose their money when the authority demolishes their houses built illegally in such unauthorised projects. Therefore, the authority keeps appealing to property buyers not to fall into such traps,” a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/land-worth-30-crore-freed-up-from-encroachments-in-noida/story-aYtAC367VBlsTULpI1pWtO.html
15-08-2020||Delhi||13-year-old sexually assaulted in south-east Delhi slum||A 13-year-old girl from a slum cluster in south-east Delhi was allegedly raped by an 18-year-old man from the same locality, police said.A case of rape was registered against the man following a medical examination of the girl on her family’s complaint. Efforts to arrest the man are under way, police said.According to the police, the girl’s father filed a written police complaint on Thursday night against one of his neighbours and his friend for allegedly luring his 13-year-old daughter on some pretext and raping her. The girl was taken for a medical examination and sexual assault was confirmed. “Based on the man’s complaint, a case under IPC section 376 (rape) and under POCSO Act was registered against the man,” said a police officer who wished not to be named. A police team that went to arrest the 18-year-old found that he was absconding. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said his teams were probing the matter and that the suspect would soon be arrested. “The role of the other man has not surfaced so far in the sexual assault. The matter is being probed,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-sexually-assaulted-in-south-east-delhi-slum/story-eMycjAvICr7ndRolV6BZJN.html
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Delay in setting up Covid facility: UT administrator to visit PGIMER||Even though a week has passed since the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) was directed to increase the bed capacity for severely ill Covid-19 patients, the institute has not been able to do so, prompting the Chandigarh administration to plan a visit to the hospital.The directions had been issued during a war room meeting, chaired by the UT administrator, last week. Besides PGIMER, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, had also been asked to earmark 100 beds for city’s patients. Seeing no outcome, the UT administration on Thursday gave a written communication to the institute for the same. When asked on Friday, the institute, in a written reply told Hindustan Times, said that they are finding the modalities to increase the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients.“Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is committed to provide treatment to citizens of the region. In the rough circumstances, we have developed a 200-bed Covid-19 centre, which has the capacity of providing critical care to 40 patients at a time. As directed by the administration, we are finding modalities to increase the bed capacity.” the response stated.When asked about the delay in setting up the facility, adviser to UT administrator, Manoj Parida said that the administrator on Friday communicated with the director of PGIMER, Dr Jagat Ram, on the issue following which he has decided to visit the institute.“UT administrator, along with the officers of Chandigarh administration will visit PGIMER after Independence Day to confirm that 100 new beds have been earmarked for the patients of Chandigarh. The visit will probably be on Wednesday,” Manoj Parida said.Meanwhile, GMCH-32 will convert a part of Block A of the hospital into a facility for Covid-19 patients.“Hundred more beds have been earmarked for Covid-19 patients on the 4th and 5th floor of Block A. All the beds have oxygen support while five more ventilators are being installed in the same areas for severely ill patients,” said Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal of GMCH-32||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delay-in-setting-up-covid-facility-ut-administrator-to-visit-pgimer/story-uIMMPwE6yeMAbknYzJPedN.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Pune railway division treats staff down with Covid||Pune railway division may be the only railway division in the state to treat its employees and relatives who are Covid-19 positive by creating infrastructure and setting up a medical team. Till date, 433 railway employees of Pune division underwent Covid test at the divisional railway hospital (DRH) and 232 staff were declared positive. Since the treatment started at DRH Pune, 232 employees were tested positive and 177 of these were discharged after being declared cured. The staff who died of the infection are 18. Currently, 12 positive patients are admitted at DRH and 29 critical cases are sent to other private and government hospitals for treatment. “Since lockdown restrictions were implemented in the city from March-end, we started treating our infected staff at our DRH. Compared to other divisions our DRH is small, but we decided to give treatment to employees as per the guidelines given by the health ministry. We are giving treatment to railway employees under the Pune railway division, their family members and retired staff.Swab testing facility is also available at DRH and treatment is given to patients showing mild and moderate symptoms. Critical patients are shifted to other Covid hospitals in the city. As our DRH was not a Covid designated hospital to treat positive cases, we contacted Pune Municipal Corporation and received their approval,” said Pune divisional railway manager (DRM) Renu Sharma. To treat Covid cases, central oxygen supply system was also set up at DRH. The hospital has 50 beds, including 20 oxygen beds and 10 beds for suspected patients. While the medical staff includes, 11 doctors and 19 nurses, three more doctors were deployed on temporary basis. “We started treating cases from the last week of March. We also added more beds with oxygen facility. Also, on temporary basis, three doctors and 18 nurses were recruited. Pune railway division is the only division in the state to treat staff,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-railway-division-treats-staff-down-with-covid/story-MfMJO8b05D2UUaP24iH5PL.html
15-08-2020||Mumbai||51.5kg sea cucumbers worth ₹1 crore seized in Lakshadweep||A fresh consignment of 54 sea cucumbers weighing around 51.5 kg worth ₹1 crore was seized near Agatti Airport, Lakshadweep on Thursday. This comes amid the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) taking over all major sea cucumber poaching offence cases in Lakshadweep.Acting on a tip-off, the Lakshadweep Sea Cucumber Protection Task Force seized the consignment consisting dead sea cucumbers processed with preservatives and kept ready for further transportation to mainland, said officials. Sea cucumbers are invertebrates, which can grow up to 6 feet, and are high in demand across south-east Asia, mainly China, for food and traditional medicine. In India, the species is listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and the Union environment ministry imposed a ban on harvesting sea cucumbers in 2001.In February, the Lakshadweep Islands administration announced the creation of the world’s first conservation area, covering 239 square kilometre, for endangered sea cucumbers. Officials said organised networks in Lakshadweep which export sea cucumbers for short-term monetary gains have been destroying the natural ecosystem. “We have learnt that the latest recovered consignment may have been part of six other similar ones (which are yet to be traced). This highlights that the illegal trade is still at large. Based on the size of the species, we believe they have been hunted from uninhabited islands where such large sea cucumbers are found,” said Damodhar AT, secretary of department of environment and forest and chief wildlife warden of Lakshadweep administration. A case has been registered under WPA, and further investigation is underway to nab the offenders, he said.Meanwhile, the Union environment ministry has agreed to form Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force by engaging 350 personnel titled Marine Wildlife Protection Watchers (MWPW), who will be placed across 10 the islands. The ministry has sanctioned ₹2.72 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal which includes expenditure for establishing three anti-poaching camps in Veliyapani, Thinnakkara and Suheli islands, all of which are uninhabited.“MWPW will guard these isolated locations through round-the-clock surveillance for all activities in lagoon areas to protect not only sea cucumbers but all other Schedule I species from poaching and prevent wildlife offences in Lakshadweep,” said Damodhar.Marine biologist and interim director of Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) Deepak Apte said the issue needs to be investigated at both national and international scale on priority. “This is about the sovereignty of the territorial waters, because we are unaware of the links of these offenders. Unless punishments are strong, such risks will continue,” said Apte. “The fishing community has to be made aware that this is illegal. They should also be made aware that historically they have been a nature conservation-oriented community, and that such acts tarnish the image of islanders.”Earlier on February 12, Lakshadweep witnessed the largest global seizure of the species as a consignment of 1,716 sea cucumbers worth ₹4.26 crore weighing 852 kg was seized from Suheli. On January 21, an international trade kingpin was arrested and a consignment of 52 dead sea cucumbers was seized. On January 15, 172 sea cucumbers weighing 234kg worth ₹1.17 crore were seized and four persons were arrested as part of an international marine animal trafficking syndicate. The fourth case was in November 2018 when the same trade kingpin (arrested on January 21) was caught with a 8.75-kg consignment. The kingpin, who was arrested, had managed to escape from custody back then.In view of these three cases, the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau in February requested the Interpol to issue a purple notice (a category that aids efforts to tackle environment crime and issues notices for criminals hunting wild animals to sell their body parts in the international market). Following this, CBI took over all the three cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/51-5kg-sea-cucumbers-worth-1-crore-seized-in-lakshadweep/story-qEfu5VXkPeITEy8FJrzS6N.html
15-08-2020||Pune||Leopard found dead at Pune’s Katraj tunnel||A two-year-old leopard was found dead at the Katraj tunnel that sees vehicular movement, on Thursday. Some commuters found the animal trapped at the pathway and alerted the police. Bharati Vidyapeeth police and forest department officials confirmed that the animal is dead and suspect that it may have been mowed down by a speeding vehicle.The forest department officials said that the leopard sustained a serious forehead injury. The animal was found dead at 2 am when a team of Bharati Vidyapeeth officials reached the spot and informed the forest department. A case has been lodged with the police station in connection with the incident, Bharati Vidyapeeth police said. Assistant inspector Madhura Korane of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, who was the first to reach the spot, said, “Control room received the call around 2 am and we rushed to the spot at the new tunnel and found the injured leopard. His face was badly bruised. We observed his slow breathing, but he died within a few minutes. We called the forest department officials who conducted a panchnama on the spot. A case will be registered against unidentified people for negligence under the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972,” she said.Inspector Vasant Kuvar, incharge, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, said, “The leopard was two years old and was hit by a speeding vehicle. The Khed Shivapur division of forest department has been given possession of the animal and post-mortem has been conducted by them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leopard-found-dead-in-katraj-tunnel/story-8bAYNq6VC4wXIhDlbwOfsM.html
15-08-2020||World||Limited participation, says mission on anti-India demo in London||India on Saturday expressed satisfaction that unlike on August 15 last year, when a large protest demonstration outside the Indian high commission had turned violent, this year there was ‘limited participation’ amidst tight security by Scotland Yard.A high commission spokesperson said: “We are glad that unlike last year, the usual attempts to disturb our Independence Day celebrations had a very limited participation from a few Pakistani agents and Khalistani extremist entities”.“This indicates that the misinformation propaganda is being seen for what it is - a false and concocted narrative, being pursued by terror and extremist entities in UK against India. It appears to be fast losing momentum and support, even within their own respective communities”.Officials said the high commission has been sensitising British authorities and communities in the UK about India’s perspectives and facts, particularly over the last year. Violence during last year’s celebrations led to a diplomatic row and souring of relations with the Labour party, then led by Jeremy Corbyn.The spokesperson added: “We are also highly appreciative of the cooperation received from the UK Government in ensuring the safety and security of the High Commission and its personnel”.Low participation in recent such protests may have been due to coronavirus- related travel restrictions and local lockdowns in UK areas with large population of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir origin. Unlike last year, there was also no prominent figure from Pakistan joining the protest on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/limited-participation-says-mission-on-anti-india-demo-in-london/story-J6zkxwSmnIhN9rbZIJpOaN.html
15-08-2020||World||Donald Trump orders TikTok’s Chinese parent to sell its US assets||President Donald Trump on Friday ordered the Chinese owner of the popular music video app TikTok to sell its U.S. assets, citing national security grounds and delivering the latest salvo in his standoff with Beijing.Trump’s decision came after an investigation by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or CFIUS, which reviews proposed acquisitions of American businesses by overseas investors for national security concerns.ByteDance Ltd. bought the app Musical.ly in 2017 and merged it with TikTok to create a single, integrated social-media application. Trump’s order, in effect, called for a reversal of that transaction.Through its ownership of Musical.ly, Beijing-based ByteDance “might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States,” Trump said in the order.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement that “CFIUS conducted an exhaustive review of the case and unanimously recommended this action to the president in order to protect U.S. users from exploitation of their personal data.”CFIUS, which is led by the treasury secretary, includes officials from across 16 government departments and agencies, including State, Defense and Commerce. The White House referred questions on Friday’s decision to the Treasury Department.“As we’ve said previously, TikTok is loved by 100 million Americans because it is their home for entertainment, self-expression, and connection,” TikTok said in a statement. “We’re committed to continuing to bring joy to families and meaningful careers to those who create on our platform for many years to come.”The order signed by Trump on Friday sets a 90-day deadline for a possible sale of TikTok to a U.S. buyer, which could be extended for as much as 30 days at the discretion of CFIUS. ByteDance was also ordered to divest and destroy any data obtained or derived from TikTok or Musical.ly app users in the U.S.Yet other recent actions by administration suggest the app’s Chinese owners may have to act more quickly. An executive order issued by the president last week would prohibit U.S. persons and companies from doing business with TikTok effective 45 days from Aug. 6. Trump told reporters on Thursday at the White House that “we have a deadline of Sept. 15” for a deal to be reached.It was unclear how the different deadlines from the administration might work together.The orders, and another one on Aug. 6 that singled out WeChat, owned by China’s Tencent Holdings Ltd., are consistent with the administration’s increasingly aggressive posture toward Chinese technology giants as relations with the Beijing government deteriorate and Trump faces a tough re-election campaign.In July, the State Department imposed visa restrictions on Huawei Technologies Co. over the Chinese Communist Party’s human rights abuses, including against Muslims and other minorities.The U.S. has said that Huawei’s technology could be used by China’s government to spy on Americans. The company has repeatedly said that it is independent of the government.Microsoft Corp. is exploring an acquisition of TikTok’s U.S. operations and it’s possible that other potential buyers could come forward, sparking a potential bidding war for the assets.Microsoft said Friday it did not have an immediate comment.Microsoft’s industry peers -- Facebook Inc., Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Alphabet Inc. -- fit the profile of potential suitors, though all are under antitrust scrutiny from U.S. regulators, which would be likely to complicate a deal.A divestiture also could prove technically challenging since it would require rewriting the codes and algorithms that underlie the platform.TikTok has hired almost 1,000 people in the U.S. this year and had planned to employ thousands more but the hiring spree is now on hold, a spokesperson said Friday.In June, the company figured in an embarrassing episode for the president when some users tried to disrupt his campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, by registering for thousands of seats at the event. Only a few thousand people showed up, leaving Trump speaking to a largely empty arena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-orders-tiktok-s-chinese-parent-to-sell-its-us-assets/story-KUtVZTXkvzCVDMuhe7W9sL.html
15-08-2020||World||Postal service warns states of delays to mail-in ballots for US election 2020||The US Postal Service has sent warnings to 46 states that it may not be able to deliver their ballots on time for the November election, as Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, blasted the Trump-appointed postmaster general.Former president Barack Obama escalated the Democratic response to the mail slow-down on Friday, accusing President Donald Trump of trying to “actively kneecap the Postal Service” to suppress the vote. The nations mayors said Saturday that safe voting, including vote-by-mail “must be a national priority.”The Postal Service’s inspector general said Friday she’s opened an investigation into complaints by Democrats about cuts to mail services that have slowed delivery of mail and may imperil vote-by-mail operations.The vast majority of states are set to allow mail-in voting in response to the coronavirus pandemic, even as Trump condemns the practice almost daily, saying it’s rife with fraud, though there’s no evidence that is the case. Trump and his wife have requested mail-in ballots for Florida’s primary election, which is Tuesday, CNN reported.Obama, who’s rarely spoken out against his successor since leaving office, pointed to Trump’s recent remarks linking his opposition to $25 billion in emergency postal funding to his fears about mail-in ballots. Trump has also said he won’t approve a request for $3.5 billion for election resources.“That’s sort of unheard of, right?” Obama said in an interview with his former adviser, David Plouffe, on his “Campaign HQ” podcast. On Twitter, Obama urged people to vote early in states where that’s an option. Voting in some states opens in mid-September.On Thursday, Trump said that not approving a financial lifeline for the postal service sought by Democrats would mean that “you can’t have universal mail-in voting, because they’re not equipped to have it.”Congressional Democrats on Friday asked Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, a large donor to Trump and other Republicans, to provide more information on cutbacks he ordered at the Postal Service last month. In a letter, they said the service seemed to be reversing a longstanding policy of prioritizing election-related mail.“The Postal Service should not make changes that slow down the mail or in any way compromise service for veterans, small businesses, rural communities, seniors, and millions of Americans who rely on the mail -- including significant numbers of people who will be relying on the Postal Service to exercise their right to vote,” wrote Pelosi and five other top Democrats.Representative Bill Pascrell, a Democrat from New Jersey, went further. He asked that his state’s attorney general launch a grand jury investigation to consider criminal indictments against Trump and DeJoy for “the subversion of New Jersey state elections.”On Friday, New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said he would order the November general election to be conducted mostly through the mail in a state that was one of the early US coronavirus hot spots.The escalation in the dispute came after the Postal Service warned election officials in 46 states and the District of Columbia that state deadlines for requesting and casting mail-in ballots were “incongruous with the Postal Service’s delivery standards.”“This mismatch creates a risk that ballots requested near the deadline under state law will not be returned by mail in time to be counted under your laws as we understand them,” USPS lawyer Thomas Marshall said in letters released Friday under the Freedom of Information Act.The Postal Service says voters and election officials should allow at least seven days for a ballot to go through the mail.By that standard, more than 20 states would not leave enough time for even a one-way mailing, according to state laws compiled by the National Conference of State Legislatures. Because many states require a voter to first request an absentee ballot by mail, the back-and-forth mailings could take 15 days or more, depending on the class of mail.The Postal Service changes and the Trump administration’s decision to withhold funding “is alarming and should be of grave concern to us all, particularly with the general election only months away,” Louisville, Kentucky, Mayor Greg Fischer said in a statement on Saturday. Fischer, a Democrat, is president of the nonpartisan U.S. Conference of Mayors.On Friday, Pennsylvania officials cited the USPS letter in a request for a judge to extend the deadline for the state to accept mail-in ballots, which is currently Election Day.“The Postal Service’s announcement represents a significant change to the outlook for voting by mail in the general election,” the state said in a legal filing. But prior to the letter, “the Postal Service had not indicated the likelihood of widespread, continuing, multiple-day mail-delivery delays presenting an overwhelming, statewide risk of disenfranchisement for significant numbers of voters utilizing mail-in ballots.”Colorado Secretary of State Jena Griswold said her state was prepared to handle the election. She said ballots were sent out three weeks in advance, and voters could either put them in drop boxes or leave them at voting centers.“Colorado’s election model is well situated to handle both the delivery and return of mail ballots,” Griswold said in a statement. “Starting eight days before an election we encourage voters to use one of these two options rather than the mail to ensure their ballot is received by 7 p.m. on Election Day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/postal-service-warns-states-of-delays-to-mail-in-ballots-for-us-election-2020/story-iqiul79gypuYTnKrIa6JeP.html
15-08-2020||World||Iran says US humiliated by rejection of bid to extend arms embargo on Tehran||Iranian president Hassan Rouhani said on Saturday that Washington had suffered a humiliating defeat in its bid to get a UN arms embargo on Tehran extended.In a UN Security Council vote on the US effort on Friday, Russia and China voted against, while 11 members abstained, including France, Germany and Britain. The United States and the Dominican Republic were the only votes in favour.“I don’t remember the United States preparing a resolution for months to strike a blow at the Islamic Republic of Iran, and it garners only one vote!,” Rouhani said in a televised speech.“But the great success was that the United States was defeated in this conspiracy with humiliation.”The UN arms embargo on Iran is due to expire under a 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers, which provided for many international sanctions against Iran being lifted in exchange for curbs on Iran’s nuclear programme. Washington withdrew from the deal in 2018.The United States could now follow through on a threat to trigger a return of all UN sanctions on Iran using a provision in the nuclear deal, known as snapback. Diplomats have said the United States could do this as early as next week, but that it would face a tough, messy battle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-us-humiliated-by-rejection-of-bid-to-extend-arms-embargo-on-tehran/story-aINlal26JvgB0M2D4R5o4N.html
15-08-2020||World||Iran’s president says UAE made ‘huge mistake’ with Israel deal||The United Arab Emirates has made a “huge mistake” in reaching a deal toward normalising ties with Israel, Iran’s president Hassan Rouhani said on Saturday in a speech furiously condemning what he called a betrayal by the Gulf state.The Iranian hardline daily Kayhan, whose editor-in-chief is appointed by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said “the UAE has turned itself into a legitimate target for the resistance”, according to its website.The UAE-Israel agreement announced on Thursday, which US president Donald Trump helped to broker, is seen as aimed at bolstering opposition to regional power Iran.In his televised speech, Rouhani warned the UAE against allowing Israel a “foothold in the region”.“They (the UAE) better be mindful. They have committed a huge mistake, a treacherous act. We hope they will realise this and abandon this wrong path,” Rouhani said without elaborating.In a front-page comment, the newspaper Kayhan said: “The UAE’s great betrayal of the Palestinian people ..., will turn this small, rich country which is heavily dependent on security into a ‘legitimate and easy target’ for the resistance.”Iran often refers to militant forces and regional countries opposed to Israel and the United States as a “resistance” front.Rouhani said the deal seemed aimed at ensuring that Trump wins another term in the US presidential election in November and referred to the fact that it was announced in Washington.“Why then did it happen now? If it weren’t a wrong deal, why was it then announced in a third country, in America? So a gentleman in Washington wins votes, you betray your country, your people, Muslims and the Arab world?”Iran’s powerful Revolutionary Guards Corps said in a statement the UAE-Israel deal would “accelerate the process of the destruction of the child-killing Zionist regime (Israel)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-president-says-uae-made-huge-mistake-with-israel-deal/story-SuAeBGyrL3AEQ4UroeN4LL.html
15-08-2020||World||US calls for credible probe into ‘overwhelming’ Beirut blast||The United States called on Saturday for a transparent and credible investigation into the massive port blast in Beirut that killed 172 people and said Lebanon could never go back to the days “in which anything goes” at its ports and borders.The August 4 blast, which the authorities say was caused by more than 2,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate that had been unsafely stored at the port for years, injured 6,000 people, damaged swathes of the city and left 300,000 homeless.Some 30 people remain missing.“Seeing it on television is one thing, seeing it up close is another. It’s really overwhelming,” David Hale, US Under-Secretary of State for Political Affairs, said after visiting the port.“We can never go back to an era in which anything goes at the port or the borders of Lebanon that had to contribute to this situation,” Hale said. “Every sovereign state controls its ports and its borders thoroughly and I imagine all Lebanese would like to return to that era.”He added that FBI agents would be arriving this weekend, at the invitation of Lebanon, to help find out what exactly happened and what led to the explosion.The blast has fuelled anger at ruling politicians who were already facing heavy criticism over a financial meltdown that has sunk the currency, left savers unable to withdraw their money, and fuelled poverty and unemployment since October.President Michel Aoun has said a probe will look into whether the cause of the blast was negligence, an accident or “external interference”.The heavily armed Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah, which is listed as a terrorist organisation by the United States, said on Friday it would wait for results of the official Lebanese investigation into the blast.But if it turns out to be an act of sabotage by Israel then it would “pay an equal price”, Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said in a televised address. Israel has denied any role in the explosion.Nasrallah also said his group was against an international investigation because its first purpose would be to “distance Israel from any responsibility for this explosion, if it had responsibility”. He said the participation of the FBI in an investigation would serve the same purpose.Political vacuum The explosion has pitched Lebanon into a new political vacuum since the resignation of the government, which formed in January with backing of Hezbollah and its allies including Aoun.Lebanon’s most senior Christian cleric said the Lebanese people and the international community had run out of patience with ruling politicians.In his strongest intervention yet since the blast, Maronite Patriarch Bechara Boutros Al-Rai also said the church reserved the right to veto any proposals that further jeopardise Lebanon.His comments in a sermon were reported by Lebanese broadcaster LBC.The Maronite church exercises political sway in a country where the head of state must be a Maronite, the prime minister a Sunni Muslim and the parliament speaker a Shi’ite Muslim.Iran backs Hezbollah and in a visit to Beirut on Friday, Iranian foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said international efforts should help Lebanon rather than “impose anything on it”.Western visitors including French president Emmanuel Macron and the US State Department’s Hale have called for Lebanon to implement reforms including anti-corruption measures that the country’s leaders have avoided for years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-calls-for-credible-probe-into-overwhelming-beirut-blast/story-wrr7ddjvckS8XHCUayVSrN.html
15-08-2020||World||Russia produces first batch of Covid-19 vaccine ‘Sputnik V’: Report||Russia has produced the first batch of its new vaccine for Covid-19, the Interfax news agency quoted the health ministry as saying on Saturday, hours after the ministry reported the start of manufacturing.Some scientists said they fear that with this fast regulatory approval Moscow may be putting national prestige before safety amid the global race to develop a vaccine against the disease. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Russia has said the vaccine, the first for the coronavirus to go into production, will be rolled out by the end of this month. Its approval comes before trials that would normally involve thousands of participants, commonly known as Phase III. Such trials are usually considered essential precursors for a vaccine to secure regulatory approval.The vaccine has been named “Sputnik V” in homage to the world’s first satellite launched by the Soviet Union. President Vladimir Putin has assured the public that it is safe, adding that one of his daughters had taken it as a volunteer and felt good afterwards.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute, which developed the vaccine, said previously that Russia would be producing about 5 million doses a month by December-January, Interfax said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-produces-first-batch-of-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-report/story-4Xj57TsCDanapDJ1vhbacI.html
15-08-2020||World||74th Independence Day: British MP sings ‘Yeh jo des hai mera, swades hai mera’||A virtual celebration on Saturday of India’s Independence Day brought to the fore singing skills of a British MP of Indian origin, while MPs, members of the House of Lords and leading lights from the community extolled the ‘living bridge’ between India and the UK.The virtual event organised by the Indian high commission included an address by envoy Gaitri Kumar, a message from Tariq Ahmad, minister for Asia in the Boris Johnson government, and members of the House of Lords Swraj Paul and Karan Bilimoria, among others.As speakers recalled India’s journey to freedom and achievements over the decades, Labour MP Navendu Mishra hit the screen with not words but a feeling rendition of the popular number from the film ‘Swades’ (2004): ‘Yeh jo des hai mera, swades hai mera’.Mishra, whose parents hail from Uttar Pradesh, is a first-time MP, elected from Stockport in Greater Manchester in December 2019. Also joining the virtual celebration were Harrow mayor Nitin Parekh (Labour) and London deputy mayor Rajesh Agarwal (Labour).Some anti-India elements organised a protest demonstration outside India House, which last year witnessed violence on August 15, when people who gathered to celebrate the day were attacked. The police said an appropriate policing plan is in place to prevent a recurrence.India, Kumar said, is looking forward to welcoming Prime Minister Boris Johnson “soon”, as she dwelt in her address on several people-to-people linkages between India and the UK, including the Indian doctors and nurses dealing with the coronavirus pandemic in the NHS.Noting the help extended by the community to the thousands of Indians stranded earlier this year, Kumar said: “High Commission of India complemented the selfless efforts of our diaspora and worked day and night to help more than 28000 stranded Indians reach their homes in India”.“This is the spirit of our diaspora, not only a living bridge, but also a loving one”, she added.Individuals who contributed to the virtual celebration live or in recorded messages included Conservative MP Andrew Mitchell, Usha Parashar of Ficci UK, Northern Ireland deputy first minister Michelle O’Neill, industrialist Nat Puri, and Andy Street, mayor of the West Midlands, and Rupanjana Dutta of the Indian Journalists Association..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/74th-independence-day-british-mp-sings-yeh-jo-des-hai-mera-swades-hai-mera/story-OUMoEgigDoYOxJopu9Gj5O.html
15-08-2020||World||US to sell 66 F-16 fighter jets to Taiwan amid soaring tensions with China||Taiwan formally signed an agreement to buy 66 of the latest model F-16 jets built by Lockheed Martin Corp., a move likely to further inflame tensions between the US and China.Taiwan’s purchase of the F-16s marks the first sale of advanced fighter jets to the island since President George HW Bush announced approval for 150 F-16s in 1992. A $62 billion figure announced by the Pentagon on Friday is the upper limit of numerous contracts if all potential foreign customers placed their maximum desired number over the decade.The move is likely to be denounced by Beijing, even though the US first signaled its plans to approve the sale a year ago in an informal notification to Congress and it could still be years before the jets are delivered.The announcement said that work on the 90 jets potentially to be sold under Friday’s announcement would be complete by late 2026.Company officials have previously said they project a market for as many as 400 of the new F-16s.When the planned sale was announced in August last year, a spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry told reporters that “U.S. arms sales to Taiwan severely violate the one-China principle.”The spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, said at the time that her government was urging the U.S. to “refrain” from selling the “fighter jets to Taiwan and stop arms sales to, and military contact with, Taiwan. Otherwise, the Chinese side will surely make strong reactions, and the U.S. will have to bear all the consequences.”Since then, ties with the U.S. have only frayed further, with the two nations in a series of disputes ranging from the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic to 5G technology and Beijing’s tightening grip over Hong Kong. The Trump administration last month rejected China’s expansive maritime claims in the South China Sea, reversing a previous policy of not taking sides in such disputes. The U.S. Navy sent an aircraft carrier strike group to the South China Sea on Friday to conduct maritime air defense operations.In addition to Taiwan, Morocco is buying 24 F-16s jets in the first tranche of 90 aircraft that the Pentagon said was valued at $4.9 billion. The Pentagon announcement didn’t name Taiwan or Morocco, but they have been identified in a previous statement and were confirmed Friday by a person familiar with the contract.The new F-16s are being assembled at Lockheed’s new facility in Greenville, South Carolina, which opened in April 2019. The contracting mechanism used by the Pentagon “will facilitate faster contract awards and greater pricing clarity for our foreign military partners,” Brian Brackens, an Air Force spokesman, said in a statement to Bloomberg News before the contract announcement.“Taiwan and Morocco are expected to be the first two partner nations that will utilize this contract,” Brackens said.The Taiwan F-16s will be equipped with a top-line fire control radar made by Northrop Grumman Corp. Called the APG-83, it would allow precision-guided munitions to be fired at greater distances, said an official familiar with the details.Lockheed Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Possenriede told analysts on a July 21 earnings call that the company was anticipating a “quite large” F-16 order “that should get announced sometime this quarter” in which “the marquee customer is Taiwan.”The additional 90 F-16s would add to Lockheed’s current 38-aircraft backlog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-formalises-f-16-jet-sale-to-taiwan-with-china-tensions-high/story-G2pRWO3GekspbyQpZ7imBM.html
15-08-2020||World||Mike Pompeo signs defense agreement to add 1,000 troops to Poland||Poland and the US signed an expanded defense cooperation agreement that will result in 1,000 additional U.S. personnel being sent to the Eastern European country on a rotational basis.The deal, agreed earlier this month, and signed Saturday in Warsaw by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Polish Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, follows the U.S.’s decision to withdraw about 12,000 troops from Germany and plans to redeploy almost half of that number to other nations in Europe.It envisages that Poland will host forward elements of the U.S. Army’s V Corps headquarters and intelligence, and surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities as well as the infrastructure to support an armored brigade combat team and a combat aviation brigade on top of the 4,500 personnel already on rotation in the eastern European nation. Poland will cover the costs of the presence, which its defense ministry estimated at 500 million zloty ($135 million) a year.“I believe the agreement will help boost cooperation in other areas; more security means more investment by American companies, including more cooperation in the energy industry,” President Andrzej Duda said at the signing ceremony.The nations have also been negotiating a bilateral civil nuclear power agreement to help Poland to “decisively move ahead” in building nuclear plants with American technology, the White House said in June.Polish government spokesman Piotr Muller confirmed nuclear power was among the topics raised by Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at his meeting with Pompeo earlier on Saturday.“Excited that the US and PL took another important step towards enhancing Poland’s energy security through the Intergovernmental Agreement on nuclear power,” Ambassador Georgette Mosbacher tweeted on Saturday.Pompeo and Morawiecki also discussed the situation in Belarus, as well as co-operation in 5G network construction, and the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which would link Russia and Germany. Poland welcomed U.S. sanctions aimed at halting the pipeline’s construction, Muller said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-signs-defense-agreement-to-add-1-000-troops-to-poland/story-glS9g5vlzu9nbKwMYD19xN.html
15-08-2020||World||Mike Pompeo inks deal for United States troops move from Germany to Poland||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Saturday sealed a defense cooperation deal with Polish officials that will pave the way for the redeployment of American troops from Germany to Poland.In Warsaw at the end of a four-nation tour of central and eastern Europe, Pompeo and Polish Defense Minister Mariusz Błaszczak signed an Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement that sets out the legal framework for the additional troop presence.“This is going to be an extended guarantee: a guarantee that in case of a threat our soldiers are going to stand arm-in-arm,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda said during the signing ceremony. “It will also serve to increase the security of other countries in our part of Europe,” Duda said.The deal would also further other aspects of US-Polish cooperation, he added, citing primarily investment and trade ties.The pact supplements an existing NATO Status of Forces Agreement and allows for the enhancement and modernization of existing capabilities and facilities by allowing US forces to access additional Polish military installations. It also sets out a formula for sharing the logistical and infrastructure costs of an expanded US presence in the country.Some 4,500 US troops are currently based in Poland, but about 1,000 more are to be added, under a bilateral decision announced last year. Last month, in line with President Donald Trump’s demand to reduce troop numbers in Germany, the Pentagon announced that some 12,000 troops would be withdrawn from Germany with about 5,600 moving to other countries in Europe, including Poland.In addition, several US military commands will be moved out of Germany, including the US Army V Corps overseas headquarters that will relocate to Poland next year.Trump has long and loudly complained that Germany does not spend enough on defense and has repeatedly accused Germany of failing to pay NATO bills, which is a misstatement of the issue. NATO nations have pledged to dedicate 2% of their gross domestic product.Saturday’s signing came just a day after the Trump administration suffered an embarrassing diplomatic loss at the United Nations when its proposal to indefinitely extend an arms embargo on Iran was soundly defeated in a UN Security Council vote that saw only one country side with the US. Pompeo will visit that country, the Dominican Republic, on Sunday for the inauguration of its new president.Pompeo has used his Europe trip to warn the region’s young democracies about threats posed by Russia and China and has received a warm welcome. In Poland, the reception was particularly kind given the friendship between Trump and conservative Polish President Duda, who was sworn in for a second five-year term earlier this month after a hotly contested election.Many of Duda’s Law and Justice party’s policies have put Poland at odds with the European Union, which is concerned that government efforts to reshape the judiciary and other actions have eroded the rule of law and democracy in the EU member country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-inks-deal-for-united-states-troops-move-from-germany-to-poland/story-g5u4dDh262sg4vOD5niq6K.html
15-08-2020||World||Facebook is merging Instagram and messenger chats: Report||Facebook Inc. is beginning to merge the chat function of its Instagram and Messenger services, the Verge reported.The changes are coming with an update of the company’s apps on Apple Inc.’s devices as well as Android devices, said the Verge, citing reports from users. Once updated, the Instagram app embeds Messenger functionality, and adds more emojis and features such as swipe-to-reply and the ability to “chat with friends who use Facebook,” according to the article. Bloomberg couldn’t immediately confirm the report.This could be the latest step in Facebook’s efforts to bring individual products and apps closer together. In the past two years, it re-branded Instagram and WhatsApp to increase users’ awareness that the apps are owned by Facebook, and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg has announced plans to integrate all the company’s messaging services.Instagram, the photo-sharing app which Facebook acquired for $715 million in 2012, has more than 1 billion users and generated more than a quarter of the social-media company’s revenue last year. The team in charge of direct messaging on Instagram reports to the Facebook Messenger team and the company is changing Instagram’s branding to “Instagram from Facebook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-is-merging-instagram-and-messenger-chats-report/story-Sc9eenG3KLooSBwDXiFehM.html
15-08-2020||World||From Oxford clinical trial to Russian candidate, latest on Covid-19 vaccine||On the occasion on Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India is ready to mass-produce Covid-19 vaccine as and when the scientists give it a nod. “Not one, not two, as many as three coronavirus vaccines are being tested in India,” he said from the ramparts of the Red Fort in the national capital. “The country is also ready for mass production of those vaccines,” PM Modi added. The race to developing a vaccine for Covid-19 is intensifying by the day with new contenders joining in and the front runners making great strides.According to the World Health Organisation, over 160 vaccine candidates are in pre-clinical or clinical trials at present, 29 of them are in the clinical trials phase. Six contenders are in final stages, phase-III of human trials. At least eight candidate vaccines are being developed in India of which two are in phase -II trial phase.The latest to create ripples is Russia which recently announced giving a regulatory approval for the “Sputnik V” vaccine for Covid-19. On Saturday, Moscow said it has started manufacturing the new vaccine, the Interfax news agency reported, citing the health ministry. The vaccine, developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute and the first for the coronavirus to go into production, is expected to be rolled out by the end of this month.Also read: ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’ - PM Modi in Independence Day speechOxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine trial, which is in phase-III, is expected to get completed by the end of this year. The University of Oxford joined hands with British Swedish firm Astrazeneca to make a vaccine against coronavirus. The vaccine had shown promising results in the first phase of clinical human trial. Pune-based vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) has already received a nod from for India’s top drug regulatory body for conducting phase-II and III clinical trials on the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine. Meanwhile, Argentine biotech firm working on the production of 400 million doses of an AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine for Latin America said it could begin shipping the active substance of the product to Mexico for completion. Esteban Corley, director of mAbxience, the biotech firm, said he foresaw the finished product could be distributed in Latin America between April and May, news agency Reuters reported. The US government has entered into a $1.5 billion deal with biotechnology company Moderna for the manufacturing and delivery of 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine, mRNA-1273. The United States has allocation agreements with Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer Inc, BioNTech SE, Sanofi SA, and GlaxoSmithKline Plc. It also has a claim on 300 million doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine in exchange for helping finance its research and development efforts.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-from-oxford-clinical-trial-to-russian-candidate-latest-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-oRaHScoZPvLGUyBfWuuHxN.html
15-08-2020||World||FIR against Saba Qamar, Pakistani singer Bilal Saeed for shooting song inside mosque in Lahore||A police complaint has been filed against Pakistani actor Sama Qamar and singer Bilal Saeed for shooting a music video inside a mosque in Lahore.The complaint has been filed by Farhat Manzoor, an advocate, who said that the act of filming a music video inside the Wazir Khan mosque has hurt the religious sentiments of the public.She also appealed for stern action against the mosque administration for allowing the video to be shot in the premises.Qamar is a known name in India too and has appeared in films like Hindi Medium (with Irrfan Khan) and Manto.Both Saeed and Qamar have apologised on social media after the controversy around the video. Saeed has also directed the video.“We realise what has happened over the past few days has hurt your sentiments deeply,” he said in a video message. “We as Muslims, as decent human beings and as artists will never, ever trivialise or condone disrespect to Islam or any other religion, race, caste, colour or creed. If we have unknowingly hurt anyone’s sentiments we apologise to you all with all our heart.”Talking about the song, Saeed said, “Saba Qamar and I had recently filmed a nikah sequence at Wazir Khan Mosque which created a big misunderstanding and hurt the emotions of a lot of people.”He said that many thought they were acting in a dance sequence, which wasn’t true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fir-against-saba-qamar-pakistani-singer-bilal-saeed-for-shooting-song-inside-mosque-in-lahore/story-GwoVGjJAUnNOZGk755N35M.html
15-08-2020||World||Britain lines up more potential Covid-19 vaccine supplies with J&J, Novavax deals||Britain will buy potential Covid-19 vaccines from US drugmakers Johnson & Johnson and Novavax Inc, the companies said on Friday, boosting the number of deals it has with drugmakers as the global vaccine race rages on.Britain and the United States are in the lead with six vaccine deals with drugmakers each, as companies and governments worldwide work overtime to find a vaccine against the pandemic disease.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The latest agreements bring Britain’s total number of doses secured to 340 million, with options for millions more, for a population of 66 million.Britain said both vaccines could be available by the middle of next year for priority groups, such as such as frontline health and social care workers, ethnic minorities, adults with serious diseases, and the elderly. The deals cover a wide range of vaccine types currently in development for Covid-19, as Britain seeks to hedge its bets should one or more of the technologies prove ineffective.“For now that is probably the bedrock of the portfolio. We basically need to see now, what we want to add, if anything, immediately that could diversify the sorts of vaccine that we’ve got in the hopper now,” Kate Bingham, chair of UK Vaccine Taskforce, told Reuters.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “I think we’re well placed... but I think we need to see the data of some of these early vaccines first before we know what is likely to be protective and what is not.”Johnson & Johnson said its Janssen Pharmaceutica unit will supply Britain with its candidate, known as Ad26.COV2.S, with an initial sale of 30 million doses on a not-for-profit basis for emergency pandemic use. The advance purchase agreement will also provide an option for an additional purchase of up to a 22 million doses, it said.Separately, Novavax said Britain would buy 60 million doses of its vaccine candidate, NVX-CoV2373. Novavax will manufacture some of the vaccine using Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies facilities in Stockton-on-Tees, northern England. Alex Harris, head of global policy at the Wellcome Trust health charity, said the deals put the Britain in a strong position, and urged the government to explain how it will now ensure fair and equitable access to vaccines for poorer countries too.“Without this...the risk increases that other rich countries will seek to strike similar bilateral deals, potentially ... leaving insufficient volumes of vaccine for the rest of the world,” Harris said in a statement.The Janssen vaccine uses an adenovirus technique to ferry coronavirus proteins into cells in the body, while the Novavax shot uses a technology known as recombinant nanoparticle to produce antigens - molecules that are designed to spur the immune system into action.Recent studies show the odds of an experimental vaccine making it from early testing in people to regulatory approval are roughly one in three. J&J said it has also agreed to collaborate with the British government on a global Phase III trial to explore the two-dose regimen of its Covid-19 vaccine, which will run parallel to a Phase III single-dose trials. Britain will also work with Novavax on a late stage British-based trial.No COVID-19 vaccine candidate has yet been proven effective against the disease, but around 20 are in clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-lines-up-more-potential-covid-19-vaccine-supplies-with-j-j-novavax-deals/story-ioVDFqzec4xqAueIV5aptI.html
15-08-2020||World||Indians in China facing twin challenges of Covid-19, border aggression: Indian envoy||Indians both in the country and in China are facing the twin challenges of a pandemic and aggression at the border, India’s ambassador to China Vikram Misri said on Saturday, adding that citizens have to be united to face the challenge.Addressing a gathering of Indians at India House on a muggy Beijing morning to mark India’s 74th Indepence Day, Misri said: “As… you just heard from the President’s (President Ram Nath Kovind’ Independence Day eve) address, 2020 has been a very unusual year, including for us here in China. We here, and people in India, of course, have had to face up to the twin challenges of Covid-19 as well as aggression on our borders.”Referring to the twin challenges, Misri said facing up to them would require both effort and sacrifices.Happy Independence Day! 🇮🇳🇮🇳🇮🇳74th #IndependenceDay Celebrations held at India House today. #IndiaAt74 #AtmaNirbharBharat pic.twitter.com/cYiU1TT6gAAs India’s ambassador to China, Misri has been at the centre of India’s efforts to keep channels of communication open on the boundary question in the opaque corridors of power in the Chinese capital.Besides reaching out to other embassies and diplomats stationed in Beijing on New Delhi’s position on the border, Misri held two meetings this week with a senior functionary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and senior officer of the Central Military Commission (CMC), which administers the Chinese armed forces.Misri’s meeting with Maj Gen Ci Guowei, director of CMC’s office of international military cooperation on Friday, came two days after the envoy met Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the CPC central committee’s foreign affairs commission.The meetings are part of India’s outreach to the Chinese leadership to resolve the standoff.In context of the Covid-19 outbreak in China, the Indian embassy, and Misri, have also coordinated evacuation flights in February, which flew back hundreds of Indians working and studying in China from Wuhan, the first epicentre of the pandemic from where the infection emerged late last year.“You are in China, things have changed, also, in imperceptible ways, and I am sure in certain cases, this change is impacting upon many of you in daily life,” Misri told the Indian diaspora in context of the Covid-19 outbreak.Assuring the Indian diaspora of help, Misri said even the government of China itself is deploying different policies in order to respond to the evolving pandemic situation and that “We have to adjust ourselves to those policies and do the best for our citizens”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indians-in-china-facing-twin-challenges-of-covid-19-border-aggression-indian-envoy/story-imEuIra67rJIa4SZfoakIO.html
15-08-2020||World||UAE says pact not about confronting Iran, rejects Erdogan threat||The United Arab Emirates said its decision to normalize ties with Israel isn’t about countering Iran, and dismissed criticism of the pact from Turkey’s leader.“This is not about Iran. This is about the UAE, Israel and the United States,” Anwar Gargash, UAE minister of state for foreign affairs, said in a phone interview. “This is in no way meant to create some sort of grouping against Iran.”While the Trump administration and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have sought to frame the agreement as part of their attempt to confront and further isolate Iran, Gargash signaled that the UAE isn’t looking to provoke its near neighbor.“We have a very complicated relationship with Iran,” he said. “While we have our concerns, we feel also that resolving these issues should be through diplomacy and de-escalation.”Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday said Turkey could withdraw its ambassador to the UAE over the country’s agreement with Israel, saying it dealt a blow to Palestinian rights. Gargash dismissed the statement as a “double standard” which glossed over Turkey’s own significant trade links with Israel.“They receive over half a million Israeli tourists, have $2 billion worth of bilateral trade and an existing embassy there. And I ask myself whether this is a principled position or not,” Gargash said.Under the deal, Israel agreed to put aside for now its pledge to annex West Bank land the Palestinians want for a state. “We have been very concerned with the issue of annexation,” Gargash said. “Through this imaginative proclamation, we have at least been able to give negotiations space.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-says-pact-not-about-confronting-iran-rejects-erdogan-threat/story-daUf9igc4AaJQse804iK3L.html
15-08-2020||World||Russia begins production of Covid-19 vaccine, to be rolled out by Aug end: Report||Russia has started manufacturing its new vaccine for Covid-19, the Interfax news agency reported on Saturday, citing the health ministry.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Russia has said the vaccine, developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute and the first for the coronavirus to go into production, will be rolled out by the end of this month. Some scientists said they fear Moscow may be putting national prestige before safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-begins-production-of-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-rolled-out-by-august-end-report/story-8pZWICTAHaHFtuEahpKS8J.html
15-08-2020||World||California heat wave raises coronavirus concerns||California is withering under a heat wave that has brought dangerously high temperatures, increased wildfire danger and fears of coronavirus spread as people flock to beaches and recreation areas.High pressure building over Western states pushed temperatures into triple digits across the state by midday Friday.Los Angeles opened cooling centres, but with limited capacity because of coronavirus social distancing requirements.Health officers were worried that people will pack beaches, lakes and other recreation areas without following mask and social distancing orders — a major concern in a state that has seen more than 600,000 coronavirus cases.Dr George Rutherford, an epidemiologist at the University of California, San Francisco, told the San Francisco Chronicle that Israel saw a Covid-19 resurgence after a May heat wave inspired school officials to let children remove their masks.“People will want to take off their masks when it’s hot,” Rutherford said. “Don’t do it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-heat-wave-raises-coronavirus-concerns/story-4r77uytMO4kMZ8ex8ovdbO.html
15-08-2020||World||Japan marks 75th anniversary of war end with no Abe apology||Japan on Saturday marked the 75th anniversary of its surrender in World War II, with Emperor Naruhito expressing “deep remorse” over his country’s wartime actions at a somber annual ceremony curtailed by the coronavirus pandemic.Naruhito pledged to reflect on the war’s events and expressed hope that the tragedy would never be repeated. There was no word of apology from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who gave thanks for the sacrifices of the Japanese war dead but had nothing to say about the suffering of Japan’s neighbours.“Reflecting on our past and bearing in mind the feelings of deep remorse, I earnestly hope that the ravages of war will never be repeated,” Naruhito said in a short speech at the event in Tokyo marking the 75th anniversary of Japan’s surrender on August 15, 1945.Amid virus fears and worries about the fading memories of the fast-aging war generation, about 500 participants, reduced from 6,200 last year, mourned the dead with a minute of silence. Masks were required, and there was no singing of the “Kimigayo” national anthem.Naruhito has promised to follow in the footsteps of his father, who devoted his 30-year career to making amends for a war fought in the name of Hirohito, the current emperor’s grandfather.Abe has increasingly sought to whitewash Japan’s brutal past since taking office in December 2012. He hasn’t acknowledged Japan’s wartime hostilities during August 15 speeches, which had previously been a nearly 20-year tradition that began with the 1995 apology of Socialist leader Tomiichi Murayama.Abe, in a largely domestic-focused speech, said the peace that Japan enjoys today is built on the sacrifices of those who died in the war. He pledged that Japan will reflect on lessons from history and will not repeat the war devastation. He listed damage inflicted on Japan and its people, including the US atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, massive firebombings of Tokyo and the fierce battle of Okinawa.Abe pledged to play a greater role in tackling global problems. Under his goal of turning Japan into a “beautiful” and “normal” nation, Abe has steadily pushed to cleanse Japan of its embarrassing wartime history and build up its military by stretching the interpretation of Japan’s war-renouncing constitution. It includes acquiring greater missile defense capability in the face of a growing military threat from North Korea and China.“Remembering those days, I strongly feel we should never wage war,” said Shoji Nagaya, 93, who traveled from Hokkaido in northern Japan to commemorate his brother who died of illness while serving in China. “But politicians today seem to have different views than ours, and I really hope that they will not head to a wrong direction.” Abe stayed away from the shrine that honours convicted war criminals among the war dead. He sent a religious offering through a lawmaker, a gesture meant to avoid angering China and South Korea, which consider the Yasukuni shrine a symbol of Japan’s militarism. Abe last visited Yasukuni in December 2013.Four members of his Cabinet did visit the shrine, the first ministerial visit in four years. Among them was Environment Minister Shinjiro Koizumi, the son of former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi who repeatedly visited the shrine on different occasions, including his last visit as serving prime minister on August 15, 2006, that sparked criticism from China and South Korea.“We decide how we want to pay respects to the war dead. This should not be a diplomatic problem,” Internal Affairs Minister Sanae Takaichi, an ultra-conservative who shares Abe’s historical views, told reporters after praying at the shrine.Repeated Yasukuni visits by Japanese government officials “indicates that on the issue of history, Japan has not completely abandoned militarism,” said Wang Shaopu, a Japanese studies professor at Jiao Tong University and honorary president of the Japan Society of Shanghai.“Japan’s invasion of China has brought huge disaster to the Chinese people. Under these circumstances, if Japan doesn’t face up to historical issues, how could we be sure that japan will follow the path of peace in the future?” Kosaburo Tanaka, a martial arts association manager, travelled from Osaka to give thanks for Japan’s postwar peace. “Japan hasn’t been in any war over the last 75 years and we were able to live peacefully. I think that’s all because of the spirits that rest here in Yasukuni. They protect the peace.” Nobuko Bamba a retiree whose grandmother, uncle and aunt died in the March 10, 1945, US firebombing of Tokyo, thinks both sides of history should be remembered.“There are many people who don’t know anything about the war, not only the suffering of the Japanese people, but there are also things that Japanese people did, bad things,” Bamba said. “Unless we teach these things to future generations, I don’t think war would end.” She prayed for her uncle, whose remains have never been found. (AP) SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-marks-75th-anniversary-of-war-end-with-no-abe-apology/story-r3TPa9U8QeanPOalulbooJ.html
15-08-2020||World||‘Swatantrata diwas ki hardik shubhkaamnaein’: Israel envoy wishes India on 74th I-Day||Israel Ambassador to India Ron Malka on Saturday extended greetings to India on the country’s 74th Independence Day.“To all our Indian friends, happy Independence Day. We wish you all, peace and prosperity. Swatantrata diwas ki hardik shubhkaamnaein,” Malka said in a video message.From all of us in @Israel 🇮🇱 & @IsraelinIndia, I wish India a very #HappyIndependenceDay2020 🇮🇳 Jai Hind! 🙏 pic.twitter.com/uQjAwv0gkLRecently, Israel shared “state-of-the-art artificial intelligence-based technologies and high-end equipment” with AIIMS, Delhi as part of Israel-India cooperation to fight ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director of AIIMS Dr Randeep Guleria said, “India-Israel relations are strong. Earlier, India helped Israel with medicines and safety gear. Now Israel has sent equipment including robotic teleconsultation and telemonitoring equipment.”The Israeli envoy said it is the most advanced medical equipment that they have developed especially for fighting Covid-19.“Some of it was contributed by companies, they just love India and some of it was purchased with special fund allocated by our Foreign Minister,” he said.Malka had expressed confidence that these technologies will help further bolster the capabilities to tackle Covid-19.These trials are a part of a multi-pronged mission visiting India from Israel to cooperate on Covid-19 research and development, further cementing the strategic relationship between the two countries. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/swatantrata-diwas-ki-hardik-shubhkaamnaein-israel-envoy-wishes-india-on-74th-i-day/story-5Eqh25vHyyU8gKnuSCOFwL.html
15-08-2020||World||United Nations rejects Iran arms embargo extension, crisis looms||The United Nations Security Council overwhelmingly rejected a US resolution to extend an Iranian arms embargo on Friday, in a move with huge repercussions for the Iran nuclear deal.Only two of the Council’s 15 members voted in favour, highlighting the division between Washington and its European allies since President Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear accord in May 2018.Tehran mocked the Trump administration for its failure to win more than just a single vote of support, from the Dominican Republic.Washington’s European allies all abstained.“In the 75 years of United Nations history, America has never been so isolated,” foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi tweeted.“Despite all the trips, pressure and the hawking, the United States could only mobilize a small country (to vote) with them.”The result increases the likelihood that the US will try to unilaterally force a return of UN sanctions, which experts say threatens to plunge the Council into one of its worst-ever diplomatic crises. ‘Inexcusable’“The Security Council’s failure to act decisively in defense of international peace and security is inexcusable,” US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement.The embargo on conventional arms is due to expire on October 18 under the terms of a resolution that blessed the Iran nuclear deal, signed in July 2015 and officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).Under the deal, negotiated by then US president Barack Obama, Iran committed to curtailing its nuclear activities for sanctions relief and other benefits.Since Trump pulled out and slapped unilateral sanctions on Iran under a campaign of “maximum pressure,” Tehran has since taken small but escalating steps away from compliance with the nuclear accord as it presses for sanctions relief.European allies of the United States -- who, along with Russia and China, signed the deal with Iran -- have voiced support for extending the 13-year-long conventional arms embargo, saying an expiry threatens stability in the Middle East.However, their priority is to preserve the JCPOA.The US text, seen by AFP, effectively called for an indefinite extension of the embargo on Iran, which diplomats said would threaten the nuclear agreement.Iran says it has the right to self-defense and that a continuation of the ban would mean an end to the nuclear deal.Pompeo announced that members had failed to back the proposal around 30 minutes before Indonesia, the current president of the Security Council, announced that the official results included two votes against and 11 abstentions.Russia and China opposed the resolution.“The result shows again that unilateralism enjoys no support, and bullying will fail,” China’s UN mission tweeted.‘Snapback’Ambassador Gunter Sautter of Germany, which abstained, said “more consultations are needed” to find a solution that is acceptable to all council members.During a call between Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron, the leaders “discussed the urgent need for UN action to extend the arms embargo on Iran”.Earlier Friday, Russian President Vladimir Putin called on China, France, Russia, Britain, the United States, Germany and Iran to convene an emergency video summit to avoid an escalation of tensions in the Gulf.The United States has threatened to try to force a return of UN sanctions if it is not extended by using a controversial technique called “snapback.”Pompeo has offered the contested argument that the United States remains a “participant” in the nuclear accord as it was listed in the 2015 resolution -- and therefore can force a return to sanctions if it sees Iran as being in violation of its terms.European allies have been skeptical on whether Washington can force sanctions and warn that the attempt may delegitimize the Security Council.Nevertheless, the US is expected to deliver the snapback letter next week, AFP understands.Analysts suspect that Washington purposefully put forward a hardline draft that it knew Council members would not be able to accept. “The fact is that everybody at the UN believes this (resolution) is just a prelude to a US effort to trigger snapback and sink the Iranian nuclear deal,” Richard Gowan, a UN expert at the International Crisis Group, told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-nations-rejects-iran-arms-embargo-extension-crisis-looms/story-qS8Mqrl2JfQPZYIh2IcHtI.html
15-08-2020||World||New Zealand PM Ardern seen resisting call to delay September vote as Covid-19 flares up||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is set to decide by Monday whether a general election will go ahead on Sept. 19, with most analysts expecting her to resist opposition calls for a delay due to a flare up in coronavirus infections.A country of five million people, a long way from anywhere, New Zealand has fared far better than most countries during the pandemic, but a spate of new infections forced Ardern earlier this week to lockdown Auckland, the largest city.Seven new cases were reported on Saturday.Having kept New Zealand clear of infections for 102 days straight before the flare-up, Ardern has won praise for her decisive response to the pandemic, and opinion polls have shown her Labour Party in a winning position.Pollsters have been unable to survey voters since the latest outbreak, but analysts expected Ardern to decide to go ahead with the election next month.The opposition National Party would like it delayed, they said, in the hope that Ardern loses some of her lustre once hardships caused by the lockdown begin to bite.“She is a savvy politician,” said Grant Duncan, professor of politics at Massey University. “It pays for the government to have an election sooner rather than later, while the opposition wants it delayed.”Forced to cancel campaign events due to restrictions on movement and crowds due to the health scare, the opposition has accused Ardern of using the pandemic to shore up support as she appears on television nearly everyday to reassure New Zealanders, while their own leaders struggle to draw audiences.Parliament is due to be dissolved on Monday, and Ardern told reporters on Friday that she would have decided by then, while giving assurances that the election commission had already planned for the vote - which must be held by Nov. 21 - to be conducted safely.Pollster and blogger David Farrar said in a post on Kiwiblog that with Auckland still in lockdown for another 12 days, an election in September would be “madness”, predicting a near record low turnout if it went ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-pm-ardern-seen-resisting-call-to-delay-september-vote-as-covid-19-flares-up/story-VC4MSnmfVSq5kfXd4IJZoI.html
15-08-2020||World||Moon says South Korea ready to discuss tensions with Japan||South Korean President Moon Jae-In said his administration remains ready to mend ties with Japan after more than a year of tensions, and as both sides hold ceremonies to remember Japan’s World War II surrender in 1945 that ended its brutal colonial rule over the Korean Peninsula.Moon reiterated a call for Japan to respect its Supreme Court’s decision in 2018 for two Japanese firms to compensate Koreans conscripted to work during the colonial occupation. While Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, in a speech in Tokyo, didn’t offer any direct apologies for the damage caused in the region from the country’s past militarism, Emperor Naruhito said at the same ceremony that bearing in mind feelings of deep remorse, he hopes “the ravages of war will never be repeated.”Abe on Saturday also spoke of Japan’s new military doctrine of “proactive pacifism.” He has long pressed a revision of Japan’s pacifist constitution and has been accused by critics of trying to whitewash the country’s militarist past.Abe usually marks the anniversary by sending a ceremonial gift via an aide to Tokyo’s Yasukuni Shrine, which honors 14 wartime leaders convicted as Class A war criminals alongside other war dead. He did the same this year, Kyodo News reported. A personal visit to a shrine viewed by some as a symbol of Japan’s past militarism would be seen by Seoul as crossing a diplomatic red line. Abe hasn’t made a pilgrimage since 2013.Still, four members of his Cabinet were at the shrine on Saturday. Japanese Environment Minister Shinjiro Koizumi -- the 38-year-old son of former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and a rising political star -- paid his respects, becoming the first sitting cabinet minister to do so on the anniversary in four years. Education Minister Koichi Hagiuda and Seiichi Eto, minister in charge of Okinawa and Northern territories affairs, and Internal Affairs Minister Sanae Takaichi also visited.It isn’t immediately clear how the shrine visits will impact relations. Any renewed acrimony between America’s two most powerful allies in Asia could prove troublesome for President Donald Trump, as his administration tries to curtail the nuclear threat from North Korea and seeks support as it steps up its pressure campaign against China, trying to contain Beijing’s push into the South China Sea.Tokyo has said that all claims were settled completely and finally under a 1965 treaty that set up basic relations between the two. Seoul has seen its Supreme Court decision as a victory for human rights, arguing that victims’ individual rights to file a claim have not expired due to the 1965 agreement.“The Supreme Court’s decision has the highest legal authority and enforcement power within the territories of the Republic of Korea,” Moon said in his speech on Saturday to mark Korea’s National Liberation Day. “We are always ready to discuss this matter with Japan.”Moon and Abe have found support at home for taking a hard line against each other. But they both have taken cautious moves in recent years on the anniversary, in a sign that they are aware of the dangers of using the day to overtly antagonize the other.“We will work together with Japan to protect democracy, universal values and principles of international law,” Moon said. “I believe the bilateral cooperation to respect human rights would work as a ‘bridge of friendship’ between the two nations.”Tensions between the two recently intensified after a district court in the eastern South Korean city of Pohang initiated a process which enabled the seizing of shares that Japan’s Nippon Steel Corp. has in a joint venture with South Korean steelmaker Posco. Nippon Steel immediately appealed the notice.Apart from the disputes surrounding colonial-era labor, the two U.S. allies are also squaring off at the World Trade Organization over Tokyo’s decision to restrict exports of electronics components vital for South Korea’s tech sector.Moon on Saturday also proposed that North Korea work together in environmental management issues to accelerate inter-Korean reconciliation.The two Koreas are “in the same boat when it comes to protecting the safety of its citizens,” Moon said. “We must co-manage the rivers and streams.”North Korea released water from a border dam water without notifying South Korea last week, a violation of an inter-Korean agreement. It opened the floodgates of Hwanggang Dam on the western inter-Korean border and discharged water into the Imjin River, putting officials in Seoul on alert against the potential rise in water levels.(Updates with Moon’s speech and shrine visits by Japan ministers)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moon-says-south-korea-ready-to-discuss-tensions-with-japan/story-hqnhToNCg0N3gquPSGmxDM.html
15-08-2020||World||Surfer saved after friend punches shark in Australian attack||A woman has survived a great white shark attack on Australia’s east coast after her surfing companion repeatedly punched it until it let her go.Paramedics were called to Shelly Beach at Port Macquarie, about 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of Sydney, on Saturday morning after the 35-year-old woman was attacked while surfing.She was taken to a local hospital with serious leg injuries, but has since been flown to a nearby bigger hospital where she will undergo surgery.New South Wales state police said the woman and a man were surfing when she was bitten on the right calf and the back of her thigh. Her companion then punched the estimated 3-meter (10-foot) shark until it let her go.“We’ve had some really serious and tragic shark encounters over the past couple of months along the coastline, so to paddle out of your own safety zone, into an area where you know there is a large shark, I think is amazing ... a tremendous act of bravery,” state Surf Life Saving chief executive Steven Pearce said.Beaches in Port Macquarie have been closed for 24 hours as authorities attempt to track the shark.There have been five fatal shark attacks in Australian waters in 2020, higher than the country’s average of three deadly attacks a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surfer-saved-after-friend-punches-shark-in-australian-attack/story-LzbOTwRBe824PrYktw1gcO.html
15-08-2020||World||Nepal PM extends greetings to PM Modi on India’s Independence Day||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Friday extended greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on India’s 74th Independence Day.Taking to Twitter, Oli said, “Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India.”The PM’s message holds significance as it will be the first since the ties strained between the two nations following the issuance of a new map by the Nepal government incorporating parts of Indian territory.New Delhi has been assisting Kathmandu in various development projects under India-Nepal bilateral initiation to support and strengthen grassroots infrastructure development projects across the Himalayan nation.Projects under this initiative benefit the communities in the project area, particularly in the areas of education, health, connectivity, drinking water and sanitation, vocational training and medical campus. Since 2003, India has completed 422 High Impact Community Development Projects (HICDPs), covering 77 districts of Nepal with a financial grant of over NRs 798.7 crores, according to the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu.Nepal government had issued the new map of the country in May incorporating Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura.India had said that the updated map is “not based on historical facts and evidence” and termed the claims by Nepal as artificial enlargement.External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also said that the move is violative of the current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-pm-extends-greetings-to-pm-modi-on-india-s-independence-day/story-5MQI3SGZlPqAR6m827NhKN.html
15-08-2020||World||Canadian federal agency launches probe into practices adopted by Amazon||Canada’s federal Competition Bureau has launched a civil investigation into the practices adopted by global retail giant Amazon.The investigation was announced by the Gatineau, Quebec-based Bureau in a statement as it requested “market participants to provide input to inform” the probe into “conduct by Amazon.”The Bureau also noted that the probe was “ongoing” and there was “no conclusion of wrongdoing at this time.”The Bureau stated that it was looking into whether Amazon was “engaging in conduct” on its Canadian marketplace Amazon.ca, “that is impacting competition to the detriment of consumers and companies that do business in Canada.”The investigation is being conducted under restrictive trade provisions of the country’s Competition Act, with a focus on potential “abuse of dominance.” That is defined as occurring “when a dominant firm in a market, or a dominant group of firms, engages in conduct that is intended to eliminate or discipline a competitor or to deter future entry by new competitors, with the result that competition is prevented or lessened substantially.”Among the areas being considered under investigation by the Bureau are “past and existing” practises by Amazon that “may impact third-party sellers’ willingness to offer their products for sale at a lower price on other retail channels, such as their own websites or other online marketplaces.”It is also examining whether third-party sellers can succeed on Amazon Marketplace without using the ‘Fulfilment by Amazon’ service or advertising on the website. Another aspect under the scanner is “any efforts or strategies by Amazon that may influence consumers to purchase products it offers for sale over those offered by competing sellers.”The Bureau pointed out that online shopping had increased over threefold in Canada between 2012 and 2018, from CA$ 18.9 billion to CA$ 57.4 billion. Amazon, obviously, has been among the prime destination for digital purchases during the boom, which has persisted through the period of restrictions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Bureau is a Federal institution that serves “as an independent law enforcement agency” and “ensures that Canadian businesses and consumers prosper in a competitive and innovative marketplace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-federal-agency-launches-probe-into-practices-adopted-by-amazon/story-u8qtmOmDqHsWJ23HxuXcjI.html
15-08-2020||World||Covid-19: Canadian healthcare authorities plan for a resurgence of cases this fall||Canadian healthcare authorities are planning for a resurgence of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases this fall, even as some parts of the country witness a spike related to “fatigue” related to precautionary restrictions among the youth.New modelling released by the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) underscores that point, as it noted, “We are planning for a reasonable worst case scenario comprised of a large ‘Fall Peak’ followed by ongoing ‘Peak & Valleys’ in which resource demands intermittently exceed the health and/or public health system’s capacity to manage.” Those peaks and valleys are expected to continue into January 2022. However, the PHAC also stated that there may be the scenario of a “slow burn” where cases are kept controllable and do not stress the healthcare system. Canada has so far recorded 121,523 confirmed cases related to the Covid-19 pandemic, including 9020 fatalities.Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam told reporters that “continuing to build up capacity” while “urging all Canadians to continue with public health practices will give us the best chance of keeping the epidemic on a slow burn, while preparing us in the event of a need to rapidly ramp up response measures for possible larger resurgence.”Worryingly, it stated, “Since early July, the highest incidence of Covid-19 has been reported among individuals aged 20 to 39 years.” This has been attributed to “fatigue” within younger demographics and a spike in cases in provinces like British Columbia has been connected to house parties and increased socialising among the young.This trend has led to authorities trying to get influencers to send out the message to young Canadians. In an audio posted in Twitter, Vancouver-born Hollywood star Ryan Reynolds said, “Young people are partying. Which is of course dangerous. What they probably don’t know is that thousands of people are not just getting sick from coronavirus, they are dying from it too.”Another factor that could contribute to the rise in Covid-19 cases is opening up of various sectors of the economy, as the PHAC stated, “Increases in infection rates are expected as we continue to support economic and social activities, even with appropriate controls in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-canadian-healthcare-authorities-plan-for-a-resurgence-of-cases-this-fall/story-0ZXxaJU4xKtjuMyIxvSHCN.html
15-08-2020||World||Donald Trump stokes theory that questions Kamala Harris’ eligibility||US President Donald Trump on Thursday fanned the “birther” debate to target Kamala Harris, the same controversy he had used for years to question former president Barack Obama’s eligibility for the American presidency. Harris is the first Black woman and Indian-American to run for vice-president.Since the announcement of her pick as Democratic candidate Joe Biden’s running mate for the November 3 election, some fringe conservatives have questioned Harris’s eligibility, arguing that while she was born in the US, her parents - mother from India and father from Jamaica - were not naturalised citizens of America at the time.Therefore, they argued, Harris may not be a “natural born citizen” as required by the US constitution to become president or vice-president.“I heard it today that she (Harris) doesn’t meet the requirements, and by the way, the lawyer who wrote the piece is highly qualified, very talented,” Trump told reporters on Thursday when asked about questions being raised about Harris being an “anchor baby”, a term often used for children born to non-citizens during visits to the US with the aim of helping the rest of the family immigrate to America. Trump was referring to a column in the Newsweek that first floated this argument.“I have no idea if that’s right,” Trump added. “I would have assumed the Democrats would’ve checked that out before she gets chosen for vice-president.”“That’s very serious... they’re saying she doesn’t qualify because she wasn’t born in this country?” the US president questioned.When told that Harris was indeed born in the US and that her parents may not have been legal residents or naturalised citizens at the time, he said. “I don’t know about it. I just heard about it. I will take a look.”Harris, 55, was born on October 20, 1964, in Oakland, California, which makes her a natural born citizen, eligible to run for the White House or any other officer in the US. Her parents had met as graduate students at University of California, Berkeley.The Biden-Harris campaign hadn’t immediately responded to Trump’s tacit support for the unproven theory. Maya Harris, the younger sister of Kamala Harris, later tweeted, “There are no gradations of birtherism. You’re either in or you’re out.”Trump started the “birther” debate in 2011 when he first seriously considered a run for the White House. He questioned Obama’s eligibility for the presidency, wrongly alleging that he was not born in the US. Obama was born in Hawaii, but he felt compelled to release his birth records.Years later, Trump acknowledged that he was wrong. But in the intervening years, he used the same strategy to attack Ted Cruz, the last of his challengers in the Republican primaries. Cruz was born in Calgary, Canada, to a father who was from Cuba and a mother who was a natural born American citizen. Cruz lost the primaries and later went on to support Trump for the White House run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-stokes-theory-that-questions-kamala-harris-eligibility/story-p6Zfz04qzBkmst5ZwO6TYN.html
15-08-2020||World||In bid for peace, Afghan govt starts releasing 400 Taliban prisoners||Afghan authorities said on Friday they have started to release 400 Taliban prisoners, the final hurdle in long-delayed peace talks between the two warring sides, even as President Ashraf Ghani warned they were a “danger to the world”.The Afghan government and the Taliban are set to meet within days of the prisoner release being completed, in a move that has drawn widespread condemnation after it emerged many of the inmates were involved in attacks that killed scores of Afghans and foreigners.A group of 80 prisoners had been released on Thursday, National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal said, tweeting that it would “speed up efforts for direct talks and a lasting, nationwide ceasefire”.The release of 400 militants was approved at the weekend by a gathering of thousands of prominent Afghans who said they wanted to pave the way for talks to begin in Doha, Qatar, and a possible ceasefire.But the decision has caused heartache for the families of those killed by the insurgents. “If (the Taliban) can’t bring peace and they attack again, thousands of people will be killed and their families will be tormented,” said Bashir Naween, whose brother was killed in a 2017 truck bombing near the Germany embassy in Kabul, an attack involving one of the militants due to be released.The prisoners include at least 44 insurgents of particular concern to the United States and other countries for their role in high-profile attacks, according to an official list seen by AFP.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said earlier this week he had lobbied for a former Afghan army soldier, who went rogue and killed three Australian colleagues, to stay in jail.Ghani warned on Thursday that the hardened criminals were “likely to pose a danger both to us and to (America) and to the world”.“Until this issue, there was a consensus on the desirability of peace but not on the cost of it,” Ghani said in a video conference organised by a US think tank. “We have now paid the major instalment on cost and that means peace will have consequences.”A prisoner swap formed part of a deal signed by the Taliban and the US in February, which saw Washington agree to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan in return for various commitments from the insurgents including a pledge to hold peace talks with the Afghan government.The government was excluded from that deal, which stipulated Kabul release 5,000 militants in return for 1,000 Afghan government prisoners held by the insurgents.The Taliban have warned of possible attacks against the freed prisoners by Islamic State jihadists in coordination with Afghanistan’s spy agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-bid-for-peace-afghan-govt-starts-releasing-400-taliban-prisoners/story-liUsgKnN16FZ7nG5oRf5UM.html
15-08-2020||World||Belarus frees protesters; EU weighs action||Belarusian authorities have released about 1,000 people detained amid demonstrations contesting the results of the presidential election, in an attempt to assuage public anger against a brutal crackdown on peaceful protests and avoid Western sanctions.At least nine European Union countries and the bloc’s executive arm have called for new sanctions on Belarus ahead of emergency talks among member states on Friday. Any EU decision on sanctions would require unanimity. A final decision is expected later this month.Poland, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Denmark called in a joint letter for “restrictive measures against officials” responsible for the election result, which gave President Alexander Lukashenko 80%, and for crackdown on protesters.Germany, Austria and Sweden have already called for sanctions straight away.Diplomatic sources said the main sceptic was Hungary, which has previously called for all EU sanctions on Minsk to be lifted. The head of the EU’s executive arm, Ursula von der Leyen, tweeted: “We need additional sanctions against those who violated democratic values or abused human rights in Belarus. I am confident today’s ... discussion will demonstrate our strong support for the rights of the people in Belarus to fundamental freedoms and democracy.”The bloc first imposed sanctions on Belarus in 2004. It stepped them up in 2011 over abuses of human rights and democratic standards, including vote rigging. Any new EU sanctions would most likely take the form of travel bans and asset freezes on individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belarus-frees-protesters-eu-weighs-action/story-1iC79zRw35QrJSgR6rRuSJ.html
15-08-2020||World||Nepalese scribe who reported on Chinese encroachment found dead||Balaram Baniya, the Nepalese journalist who reportedly wrote an article on Chinese encroachment in Rui village, has been found dead, police said according to local media.The 50-year-old journalist’s body was found on the banks of Bagmati river near the hydropower project area in Mandu, Himalayan Times quoted the spokesperson at Makwanpurdistrict police office (DPO) as saying, according to an ANI report.A team deployed from the area’s police office in Bhimphedi fished out his body from the river and sent it to Hetauda hospital.Baniya was last seen walking along the banks of Balkhu river. His location, according to his mobile phone, showed the same, after which the phone was switched off. His family had filed a missing report with the police, following which a manhunt was launched to trace him, Kathmandu Post reported.“As per the application received for his search, which also contained his photo, it has been verified that the body that was found was that of journalist Baniya,” according to the DPO.According to Kathmandu Post, Baniya was associated with Kantipur Daily since the paper’s initial days. He used to cover politics and parliament and later did extensive reporting on governance and bureaucracy. He reportedly wrote an article highlighting the Chinese encroachment in Rui village located in Gorkha district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepalese-scribe-who-reported-on-chinese-encroachment-found-dead/story-VeqagzkltbqdIt6r6pcJTN.html
15-08-2020||World||Iran, Turkey slam UAE over peace deal with Israel||Iran and Turkey lashed out at their regional rival UAE on Friday over its decision to normalise diplomatic relations with Israel, accusing it of betraying the Palestinian cause, even as much of the international community welcomed the move.The US envoy to Israel, meanwhile, said Israel’s plans to annex West Bank was not “off the table”.Iran’s foreign ministry called the US-brokered deal a “dagger that was unjustly struck by the UAE in the backs of the Palestinian people and all Muslims”. Turkey said the peoples of the region “will never forget and will never forgive this hypocritical behaviour” by the UAE.The UAE, which has never fought Israel and has quietly been improving ties for years, said the agreement put a hold on Israel’s plans to unilaterally annex parts of the occupied West Bank, which the Palestinians view as the heartland of their future state.But the Turkish foreign ministry said the UAE had no authority to negotiate with Israel on behalf of the Palestinians or “to make concessions on matters vital to Palestine”.The agreement would make the UAE the first Gulf Arab state - and the third Arab country after Egypt and Jordan - to have full diplomatic ties with Israel. The Palestinians said the deal amounts to “treason” and have called on Arab and Muslim countries to oppose it. The official Palestinian news agency says the Palestinian ambassador to the UAE is being recalled.Germany’s foreign minister Heiko Maas welcomed both the agreement and the decision to suspend annexation and called to congratulate his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi on “this historic step”. China also said it welcomes “any measure that helps in easing tensions between Middle Eastern countries and promotes regional peace and stability”.The US ambassador to Israel said Israel has not abandoned its plan to annex the West Bank despite Thursday’s agreement.“It’s not off the table, it’s just something that will be deferred until we give peace every single chance,” David Friedman said at a news conference alongside President Donald Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-turkey-slam-uae-over-peace-deal-with-israel/story-poaioPovevpvPQwGHBKODP.html
15-08-2020||World||China’s vaccine shows positive signs in trials: Researchers||A coronavirus vaccine candidate developed by a unit of the China National Pharmaceutical Group, called Sinopharm, appeared to be safe and triggered antibody-based immune responses in early and mid-stage trials, researchers said.The candidate has already moved into a late-stage trial, one of a handful of candidates being tested on several thousand people to see if they are effective enough to win regulatory approval.Sinopharm is testing the vaccine in the UAE in a Phase 3 trial expected to recruit 15,000 people, as China has too few new cases to be a useful trial site.The company will also supply the candidate to Pakistan as part of a trial agreement, The Wall Street Journal reported. The shot did not cause any serious side effects, according to a paper published on Thursday in the Journal of the American Medical Association by scientists who are part of Sinopharm and other China-based disease control authorities and research institutes. The results were based on data from 320 healthy adults in Phase 1 and 2 trials. In the US, officials said the government will ensure that a successful Covid-19 vaccine, once it comes up, will be distributed for free to all Americans. “(But) we are not reducing the regulatory rigour with which we will evaluate and approve vaccines,” Paul Mango, a senior health department official, told reporters. Washington has invested more than $10 billion in six vaccine projects and signed contracts guaranteeing the delivery of hundreds of millions of doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-vaccine-shows-positive-signs-in-trials-researchers/story-vfa1YB2ECZTDtZ6I0A2N5K.html
15-08-2020||World||Ire, chaos as UK adds France to quarantine list||Britain is further easing Covid-19 restrictions from Saturday, but its decision to add France to a list of countries from where returning passengers would have to undergo quarantine has sparked chaos and has irked Paris.The UK will allow marriage receptions for up to 30 people and reopening casinos, skating rinks and beauty salons. Fines for those not wearing masks have bee doubled to £3,200. New fines were introduced for people hosting rave parties or other unlawful gatherings of more than 30 people.The piloting of a small number of sporting events to test the safe return of spectators will resume from Saturday with a view to reopening competition venues for sports fans, with social distancing measures in place from October 1.British holidaymakers faced a scramble to get home on Friday after the government said it will reimpose a 14-day quarantine for travellers from France and the Netherlands, prompting Paris to quickly announce a “reciprocal measure”.The UK government said the change will kick in on Saturday, likely sparking a mass exodus among the estimated 160,000 British holidaymakers currently in France.The head of France’s national health service said Paris and Marseille have been declared at-risk zones for the coronavirus as authorities observed a sharp increase in Covid-19 infections. Jerome Salomon warned “the situation is deteriorating from week to week” in the country. He said virus clusters are emerging every day following family reunions, big parties and other gatherings amid summer holidays.New Zealand’s government on Friday extended a lockdown of its largest city Auckland for another 12 days as it tries to stamp out its first domestic outbreak in more than three months, which has grown to 30 people and extended beyond Auckland for the first time. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has lifted a three-week lockdown in the city of Kaesong after a suspected case of the coronavirus there. Authorities locked down the city bordering South Korea, and declared an emergency in the area last month after a North Korean who had defected to the South slipped back into the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ire-chaos-as-uk-adds-france-to-quarantine-list/story-bjhrzjpXnEW6Sd5kcb0jOI.html
15-08-2020||World||Google to stop responding directly to data requests from HK govt||Alphabet’s Google said on Friday it would no longer provide data in response to requests from Hong Kong authorities following the enactment of a new national security law imposed by China.The US tech giant had not produced any data since the sweeping new law took force in June and would not directly respond to such requests henceforth, it added.“As always, authorities outside the US may seek data needed for criminal investigations through diplomatic procedures,” Google said in an emailed statement. Google reviewed all requests for user data and pushed back on “overly broad ones” to protect the privacy of users, the statement added. The Washington Post newspaper reported earlier on Friday that Google would stop responding directly to data requests from Hong Kong authorities, implying the company would now treat Hong Kong effectively the same as mainland China in such dealings.The national security law has drawn criticism from the administration of US President Donald Trump and further raised US-China tensions after Washington’s decision to end the former British colony’s special status under US law.Google notified Hong Kong police on Thursday that it would direct officials to pursue any requests for data through a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with the United States, which involves routing through the US justice department, The Washington Post reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-to-stop-responding-directly-to-data-requests-from-hk-govt/story-Pzchw0SLQjmKiNlJzwOhzL.html
15-08-2020||World||UN puts death toll at 178, several historic buildings facing collapse||The United Nations’ cultural agency has said it will lead the international campaign for the recovery and restoration of Beirut’s heritage, citing local officials who said that around 60 historic buildings in the Lebanese capital were at risk of collapse following a devastating explosion at the Beirut port.On August 4, some 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored at Beirut’s port blew up, obliterating the city’s main commercial hub and spreading death and wreckage for miles around. The death toll from the deadly explosion has risen to nearly 178, with an estimated 6,000 people injured and at least 30 missing, the United Nations said on Friday.The blast, the most destructive in Lebanon’s troubled history caused damage of up to $15 billion. Among the damaged structures were museums, historic buildings, art galleries and religious sites in Beirut.The most affected areas in the capital were the historic quarters of Gemayzeh and Mar Mikhael that face the port and that were known for their active night life, with many old buildings turned to pubs or restaurant.“The international community has sent a strong signal of support to Lebanon following this tragedy,” said Ernesto Ottone, assistant Unesco director-general for culture.“Unesco is committed to leading the response in the field of culture, which must form a key part of wider reconstruction and recovery efforts.” Unesco’s statement quoted Sarkis Khoury, director-general of antiquities at the ministry of culture in Lebanon, as saying that at least 8,000 buildings, many concentrated in Gemayzeh and Mar Mikhael, were affected. Among them are some 640 historic buildings, approximately 60 of which are at risk of collapse, he said.Also affected was Beirut’s eastern neighbourhood of Achrafieh where the landmark Sursock Museum is located as well as other neighbourhoods that are home to the National Museum and the Archaeological Museum of the American University of Beirut, Unesco said.Unesco said that it will lead the international mobilisation “for the recovery and reconstruction of Beirut’s culture and heritage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-puts-death-toll-at-178-several-historic-buildings-facing-collapse/story-XXC2jhzLHAF4Qv6cZbR78N.html
15-08-2020||World||US: Yale discriminated against Asians, whites||The US justice department has accused Yale University of illegally discriminating against Asian-American and white applicants in its undergraduate admissions process in violation of US civil rights law. The findings are the result of a two-year investigation in response to a complaint by Asian-American groups concerning Yale’s conduct, the department said in a statement on Thursday.The department said it was prepared to file a lawsuit against Yale if the school, in New Haven, Connecticut, did not take “remedial measures”.A Yale spokeswoman said the university “categorically denies” the allegations but has cooperated fully with the investigation.The justice department made its findings before allowing Yale to provide requested documents, Yale said. “Had the department fully received and fairly weighed this information, it would have concluded that Yale’s practices absolutely comply with decades of Supreme Court precedent,” the spokeswoman said.The justice department said that although race can lawfully be considered in college admissions in limited circumstances, “Yale’s use of race is anything but limited”.The elite school “uses race at multiple steps of its admissions process resulting in a multiplied effect of race on an applicant’s likelihood of admission”, the justice department said.The justice department has previously filed legal briefs in support of a lawsuit, brought by affirmative action opponents, accusing Harvard University of discriminating against Asian Americans.A federal judge in Boston ruled in favour of Harvard last year, saying the school’s affirmative action programme advanced a legitimate interest in having a diverse student body.An appeal of that ruling is pending. The case could eventually reach the Supreme Court.Affirmative action programmes in higher education were meant to address racial discrimination. The Supreme Court has ruled universities may use affirmative action with the aim of helping minority applicants get into college.US conservatives have said that in helping Black and Latino applicants, affirmative action can hurt white people and Asian Americans||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-yale-discriminated-against-asians-whites/story-9OgO4pPB7fiP9qo3cGQVuJ.html
15-08-2020||World||Imran Khan again rakes up Kashmir issue on Pak’s Independence Day||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday once again raised the Kashmir issue in his message to the people of the country as Pakistan commemorated its 74th Independence Day. The development comes even as Pakistan has failed to get traction over the Kashmir issue on international forums.On August 5 last year, India revoked the special status of the former state of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Indian Constitution and bifurcated it into two Union Territories (UTs). A majority of the Muslim countries recognise India’s decision.Recently, Pakistan had to pay back Saudi Arabia USD 1 billion out of a USD 3 billion loan that it secured one and a half year ago to avoid default on international debt obligations after the kingdom decided to reduce its financial support.This came after Pakistan was pushing for the foreign ministers’ meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) since India abrogated Article 370.In a report published by Dawn, a Pakistani daily, a Pakistan diplomatic source confirmed that Saudi Arabia had shown reluctance to accept Islamabad’s request for an immediate meeting of OIC foreign ministers’ on Kashmir.India has urged Pakistan to not interfere in its internal affairs repeatedly, saying it will not make its “untenable” claims acceptable.Pakistan has also observed a “Kashmir Solidarity Day”, but failed to get much traction for the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-again-rakes-up-kashmir-issue-on-pak-s-independence-day/story-B4kABtJ5msN5skk0a9Ud3O.html
15-08-2020||World||Iran hails UN arms vote, saying US has ‘never been so isolated’||Iran on Saturday hailed a UN Security Council vote rejecting a US bid to extend an arms embargo on the Islamic republic, saying its foe has “never been so isolated”.“In the 75 years of United Nations history, America has never been so isolated,” foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi tweeted hours after just two of the Council’s 15 members backed a US resolution to extend the embargo.“Despite all the trips, pressure and the hawking, the United States could only mobilise a small country (to vote) with them,” he added, in reference to failed efforts by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to rally support for a US resolution.Iranian state television’s website said the only other country to back the US resolution was the Dominican Republic, citing unnamed sources.The embargo on conventional arms sales to Iran is due to expire on October 18 under the terms of a resolution that blessed the 2015 nuclear deal between the Islamic republic and world powers.“Last night, Iran’s active #diplomacy, along with the legal force of (the nuclear deal), defeated the United States again at the Security Council,” Mousavi tweeted.President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew the United States from the nuclear deal in 2018, escalating tensions between the longtime enemies.ap/dv/kir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-hails-un-arms-vote-saying-us-has-never-been-so-isolated/story-FCoAhFfmduTPv6QOch8WOO.html
15-08-2020||India||2 Baghjan firefighters selected for President’s gallantry award posthumously||President Ramnath Kovind has approved gallantry award posthumously to two firefighters of Oil India Limited (OIL), who lost their lives while battling the blaze at Baghjan gas well in Assam, the company said on Saturday. The well no. 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district has been spewing gas uncontrollably for the last 81 days since May 27 and it caught fire on June 9, killing the two firefighters at the site. “The President of India has approved President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry posthumously to OIL deceased firefighters, late Tikheswar Gohain and late Durlov Gogoi, who laid their lives in the line of duty at Baghjan well no. 5 blowout,” the PSU major said in a statement. The recognition was given on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. Meanwhile, despite two back to back failures, the OIL said that efforts are on to douse the fire by capping the damaged gas well.On July 31, an endeavour to shut the well did not succeed as a hydraulic lift used to put a lid on the mouth of the gas well gave in and “toppled over”. The second attempt to shut it failed on August 10 when the iron cable to lift a Blow Out Preventer (BOP) snapped. A BOP is a metal cover weighing several tonnes that is placed at the mouth of any gas or oil well to stop leakage of the fuel from under the ground.On July 22, three foreign experts from a Singaporean firm, which was invited to assist OIL and ONGC for putting out the inferno, suffered burn injuries while they were removing a spool from the well head. OIL said that it continues to face protests and blockades across its wells and field locations, leading to heavy production loss in the last few months. “A total of 28,199 metric tonnes of crude oil and 67.11 million metric standard cubic meter of natural gas have been lost as a result of protests, blockades, bandhs in and around Baghjan area since May 27, 2020 due to the blowout,” it added. On the relief and rehabilitation process, OIL said that surveys for assessment of damage for compensation by the district administration are in progress in Tinsukia and Doomdooma circles. “A total of 2,756 families have been surveyed for assessment of damage for compensation till August 14, the PSU said. Over 9,000 people were initially shifted to 13 relief camps after the well suffered a blowout in May and subsequently caught fire last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-baghjan-firefighters-selected-for-president-s-gallantry-award-posthumously/story-iOYVsrnjDuZE3n8puShopN.html
15-08-2020||India||All villages to be connected with optical fibre in next 1,000 days: PM Modi in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that the task to connect India’s over six lakh villages with optical fibre network will be completed in the next 1,000 days. Besides, a high speed internet connectivity via submarine optical fibre cable will be extended to Lakshadweep in this period, he said. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India’s 74th Independence Day, he pointed out that only five dozen panchayats in the country were connected with optical fibre cable before 2014. The prime minister also announced a new policy on cyber security to be unveiled shortly amid threats emanating from cyber space. He said the country is witnessing expansion of roads and internet at unprecedented and rapid speed, from the peaks of Himalayas to islands in the Indian Ocean. In the last five years, 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optical fibre cable, Modi said. “In the next 1,000 days, all villages in the country will be connected with optical fibre,” he said, adding Lakshadweep too would be connected with submarine optical fibre cable in the next 1,000 days. Modi recently inaugurated the first ever undersea optical fibre cable project for Andaman and Nicobar Islands which will provide high speed broadband connections in the union territory at par with services in the mainland.The prime minister had laid the foundation for 2,312-kilometre Chennai - Andaman and Nicobar Islands (CANI) connecting submarine optical fibre cable project on December 30, 2018.Referring to the digital India, he said the importance of the mission has been realised during the COVID-19 pandemic.“In the last month only, transactions worth about Rs 3 lakh crore took place through BHIM UPI alone,” he said.During the lockdown period, digital transactions witnessed a huge surge. In a tweet, IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said connecting all the villages in India by optical fibre internet in 1,000 days will be a “game changer” for Digital India. Prasad further said that the telecom department will fast track the provisioning of high speed internet services via submarine optical fibre connectivity to Lakshadweep Islands, in line with target set by the prime minister.“For high speed Internet services in Lakshadweep Islands PM @narendramodi Ji today set a target of 1000 days to provide submarine optical fibre connectivity to these islands. Like linking Andaman & Nicobar islands @DoT_India will fast track this as well”, the minister tweeted.Meanwhile, an official release said that optical fiber connectivity to the villages and submarine OFC to the Lakshadweep islands will help people in getting cheaper and better connectivity, and in leveraging the benefits of Digital India.“OFC connectivity to the villages and submarine OFC to the Lakshadweep islands will help the people in rural areas/villages and those in Lakshadweep islands in getting cheaper and better connectivity and all the benefits of Digital India, especially in improving online education, tele-medicine, banking system, online trading, boosting tourism and skill development etc,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-villages-to-be-connected-with-optical-fibre-in-next-1-000-days-pm-modi-in-independence-day-speech/story-i6qk4hE7NI1EznY6qHDfJL.html
15-08-2020||India||Four Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, 11,940 infected with disease||Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 325 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the state tally to 11,940. The recovery rate of patients has reached 65.16 percent with 7,748 cured patients getting discharged on Saturday, according to the state’s daily Covid bulletin.On Saturday, maximum 135 fresh cases were reported from Haridwar district followed by Nainital (62), Dehradun (34), Rudraprayag (27), US Nagar (23), Tehri (16), Chamoli (13), Almora (9), Pauri Garhwal (3), Champawat (2), and Pithoragarh (1). The state also reported deaths of four Covid-19 positive patients; two of them died due to coronavirus while the other two perished due to comorbidities, according to the health department release. A total of 151 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now but the state maintains that only 29 of them have died due to the contagion and the rest of the positive patients have succumbed to comorbidities and other causes. Also Read: Woman claims having child with Uttarakhand BJP MLA, demands DNA test Haridwar district has reported 2,935 Covid-19 positive cases, the maximum in the state, followed by Dehradun (2,379), US Nagar (2,223) and Nainital (1,740). Also, 246 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum of 126 in Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 25.63 days, while the infection rate is 5%. The state has so far tested over 2.25 lakh samples of which results of over 13,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 486 containment zones in eight districts including maximum 381 in Haridwar district. The state government has operationalised 17 dedicated Covid hospitals and 381 Covid care centres (CCC) across the state and started home isolation of asymptomatic positive patients recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-covid-19-positive-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-11-940-infected-with-disease/story-Ww01CxWLXQlZz2ZjWesneO.html
15-08-2020||India||Public sentiment demanded that CBI probe Sushant case: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said it was a “public sentiment” that the probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death be conducted by the CBI even though he believes in capability of the Maharashtra Police.Governments of Maharashtra and Bihar have locked horns over the jurisdiction to investigate the Rajput case.The Bihar government had recommended a CBI probe, days after Patna police registered an FIR against the late actor’s Mumbai-based girlfriend and actress Rhea Chakraborty on the charge of abetment of suicide.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 this year.“I have worked with the Maharashtra Police for the last five years, so I know their capabilities. However, sometimes, police function under political pressure which should not happen,” the former chief minister told reporters when asked whether he believes in the Maharashtra police.He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating a COVID care centre for journalists.Fadnavis said the supreme court will pass an appropriate order in the matter so that no comparison is made between the Maharashtra and the Bihar Police in the case.“I have been saying since the first day that Maharashtra police are the best,” he added.“The kind of situation arose in (Sushant case)...a public sentiment got created that this case should go to the CBI. That is why it has gone to the supreme court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-sentiment-demanded-that-cbi-probe-sushant-case-fadnavis/story-IZGgPeElmJUZGaB9ckDVlJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Hope Dhoni will continue to contribute to Indian cricket: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday thanked former captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni for his unparalleled contributions to the Indian cricket and hoped that he will continue to contribute in strengthening the game.Shah also said that with Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket, the world will miss his helicopter shots.“I join millions of cricket fans across the globe to thank @msdhoni for his unparalleled contributions to Indian Cricket. His cool temperament has turned several hot encounters in India’s favour. Under his captaincy India was crowned World Champions twice in different formats,” he tweeted.The home minister said Dhoni has mesmerised millions through his unique style of cricket.“I hope he will continue to contribute towards strengthening Indian cricket in the times to come. Best wishes for his future endeavours. World cricket will miss the helicopter shots, Mahi!” he said.Dhoni, the two-time World Cup-winning former India captain, retired from international cricket on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-dhoni-will-continue-to-contribute-to-indian-cricket-amit-shah/story-w5goyQi0cPH7p099jRgB0K.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Maharashtra is India’s Covid capital,’ says Fadnavis, offers containment tips||Leader of opposition in Maharashtra assembly Devendra Fadnavis on 74th Independence Day described the western state as India’s ‘Covid Capital’ citing figures of coronavirus infected patients and casualties. He also advised the state government to put greater emphasis on RT-PCR tests for detection of positive cases in the state. “Maharashtra has become the Covid capital of India as the state accounts for 24% of total cases and 41% of total deaths in the country due to the disease,” Devendra Fadnavis tweeted earlier today.Maharashtra’s coronavirus tally reached 5,84,754 on August 15 as per the latest figures released by the state health ministry. The fatality count has risen to 19,749 as on Saturday. In comparison, the country has registered 25,26,192 total Covid-19 cases so far including 49,036 deaths due to the disease. Maharashtra is by far the worst affected state in the country with Tamil Nadu being a distant second.Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now over 5.84 lakh with 12,614 new casesAs regards casualties, Maharashtra’s figure of 19,749 deaths is almost four times the number of fatalities recorded in Tamil Nadu-- 5,514—which has the second worst death toll in the country.Fadnavis has in the past accused the three-party coalition government in Maharashtra, led by former BJP ally Shiv Sena, of mismanaging the Covid situation in the state. However, today, he said he was interested in solutions to contain the spread of the disease and not in making allegations. “We are not making any allegations. We are more interested in arresting the spread of Coronavirus than doing politics. I have been demanding that the number of tests should be increased in the state,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by news agency PTI after inaugurating a Covid care centre for journalists.Earlier, Fadnavis had attacked the Uddhav Thackeray led state government for not conducting enough number of tests and also for allegedly underreporting the number of deaths. On Saturday, he advised the state government to increase the number of RT-PCR tests compared to the antigen tests.Also Read: 4,000 apply for e-passes from Mumbai for inter-state travel ahead of GaneshotsavHe said the current ratio of RT-PCR and antigen tests is 1:2, which should be equal.In another suggestion, he said the state government should look to set up small centres for Covid care as they are easy to manage. When asked about the performance of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, he said there is infighting among the ruling constituents, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-is-india-s-covid-capital-says-fadnavis-offers-containment-tips/story-isJCWJFBQDwWcY9uEuOOCK.html
15-08-2020||India||Girl suffers burns as rape accused tries to kill her mother||A 10-year-old tribal girl sustained burn injuries in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district when two men entered her house and tried to set her mother on fire demanding that the latter withdraw the rape case registered against one of them, police said on Saturday.While police have arrested an accomplice of the main accused after the August 13 incident which occurred in Parner tehsil, the latter is on the run, an officer said.The girl, currently in hospital, is out of danger, he said.The main accused has been identified as Rajaram Tarte and his friend as Amol Tarte, he said.“Rajaram and Amol entered the house of the woman on Thursday. Rajaram threatened her and asked her to withdraw the case of rape she had filed against him,” the officer said.He threw petrol on the woman, some of which also fell on the girl, he said quoting the FIR.“At the same time, Amol Tarte lit a matchstick and hurled it at the woman. However, the match stick fell on the frock of the girl which caught fire,” the officer added.A case has been registered against the duo under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015.“We have arrested Amol Tarte and search for Rajaram is going on,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-suffers-burns-as-rape-accused-tries-to-kill-her-mother/story-RGfAJ41VXBrbzm0jsBaMDL.html
15-08-2020||India||Biggest single-day spike of 8,818 new cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spike of over 8,800 new cases of Covid-19 and 114 related fatalities. With this, the total number of infections rose to 2,19,926 and death toll to 3,831 in the state, the health department said. The day also saw 6,629 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 8,818 fresh cases, 3,495 of them were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on Friday with 7,908 cases. As of August 15 evening, 2,19,926 positive cases have been confirmed and they included 3,831 deaths and 1,34,811 discharges, the health department said. It said that out of 81,276 active cases, 80,560 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable while 716 are in the intensive care unit (ICU). A total of 35 out of 114 deaths reported on Saturday were from Bengaluru urban followed by Mysuru (10), Dharwad (7), Ballari and Dakshina Kannada (6), Belagavi, Davangre and Shivamogga (5), Hassan and Chikkamagaluru (4), Raichur and Bidar (3), Udupi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag and Haveri, and Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Yadgi, Chamarajanagara and Chikkaballapura (1). Most of the dead were either with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 3,495, Ballari 759, Mysuru 635, Belagavi 358, Davangere 327, Dakshina Kannada 271, Udupi 241, Dharwad 239, Vijapura 232 followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 87,680 infections followed by Ballari 13,807 and Mysuru 9,915. Among those discharged too, Bengaluru urban topped the list with a total of 51,426 followed by Ballari 7,504 and Kalaburagi 6,369. A total of 19,93,760 samples were tested so far out of which 54,806 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples during the day, 25,731 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-single-day-spike-of-8-818-new-cases-in-karnataka/story-RqvPP3xNKnW8isWDCbP3nM.html
15-08-2020||India||Mamata pays visit to Governor on I-Day; Dhankar flays her for skipping ‘At Home’ function||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday called on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan here which she later termed as a “courtesy visit”. Banerjee was accompanied by Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, state police chief Virendra and city police Commissioner Anuj Sharma. The chief minister headed straight to the Raj Bhawan after attending the Independence Day parade held at the Red Road earlier in the day. “As we will not be able to attend the programme scheduled (at Raj Bhawan in the evening, we came here after the Red Road event even though we had no appointment. “We had ‘adda’ (Bengali word for chat or conversation) with the Governor and greeted him on the occasion of Independence Day,” Banerjee said after the hour-long meeting. However, later in the evening, absence of the chief minister from customary function at the Raj Bhawan drew criticism from Dhankhar. The Governor said Banerjee’s absence from the programe “stunned” him and he was at “a loss for words”. “Absence of CM and officials @MamataOfficial on occasion of Independence Day celebration at Raj Bhawan has like many startled and stunned me. We need to rise to occasion as respect to freedom fighters who gave their all to secure for us freedom and democracy. I am at a loss for words,” Dhakhar tweeted in the evening after the party. “The vacant seat meant for CM @MamataOfficial at celebration of Independence Day at Raj Bhawan speaks volumes -has created unwholesome situation that is not in sync with rich culture and ethos of WB. “There is just no rationale for this unbecoming stance,” Dhankhar tweeted along with a photograph where he was seen sitting next to the vacant chair meant for Mamata Banerjee. He stated that the traditional “At Home” programme was organised keeping in mind the Covid-19 protocol of maintaining social distance and for that the number of invitees was kept below 35. “Due to Covid scenario attendance at traditional ‘AT HOME’ at Rajbhawan was kept <35. Social distancing and protocol #COVID-19 was maintained. It would have been befitting if CM and officials @MamataOfficial had participated. Their action not in sync with sanctity of occasion,” he tweeted. A high tea was organised in the sprawling lawn of the Raj Bhawan to commemorate the day. Chief Justice, Sr Judges, Leader of opposition Abdul Mannan, CPM leader Dr Sujan Chakrabarti, top brass of Army, Air Force, Navy, BSF, Coast Guard as also former Air Chief Arup Raha and former Nagaland Governor Shyam Datta were amongst distinguished persons present on the occasion. Dhankar tweeted. On several occasions, the state government and the Governor have crossed swords on a host of issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-pays-visit-to-governor-on-i-day-dhankar-flays-her-for-skipping-at-home-function/story-xqfVOAliL53jHqnb58oYuI.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Dil abhi bhara nahin’: Jharkhand demands a farewell match for MS Dhoni in Ranchi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has appealed to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to hold a farewell match for MS Dhoni-- India’s only cricketer to have won two world cup titles as captain of the team—who announced his retirement from International cricket on the 74th Independence Day today.Dhoni’s announcement has ended speculations on his international career including a possible bid to make a claim for a place in the squad for the next Twenty20 World Cup tournament.“I wish to appeal to BCCI to hold a farewell match for MS Dhoni which will be hosted by all of Jharkhand and witnessed by the whole world,” Soren tweeted reacting to Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket.Dhoni is a resident of Ranchi, Jharkhand’s capital and has played in front of his home crowd in a couple of International matches held at Ranchi’s newly constructed cricket stadium. Soren said Indians would love to see Jharkhand’s son in action again.“Mahi, who gave the country and Jharkhand several moments to remember, has retired from international cricket today. We won’t be able to watch our favourite son of Jharkhand in the blue jersey any more. But the hearts of the countrymen are not full yet. I want Mahi to play a farewell match in Ranchi,” Soren said in his first tweet.Mahendra Singh Dhoni was known for his astute cricketing brain and ability to deal with pressure while finishing games for India. He is widely considered one of the greatest tacticians that the modern one day version of the game has seen.He also has the distinction of leading Indian team to all three ICC trophies, the one day world cup trophy in 2011, world T20 title in 2007 and the Champions Trophy in 2013.Wishes and tributes for the Indian legend are flooding the social media. From his fellow cricketers to other sportsmen to celebrities from other fields to politicians; all are wishing Dhoni well for his second innings while acknowledging his immense contribution to Indian cricket.Home Minister Amit Shah says he hopes Dhoni will continue to contribute in strengthening the game and added that with Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket, the world will miss his helicopter shots.“I join millions of cricket fans across the globe to thank @msdhoni for his unparalleled contributions to Indian Cricket. His cool temperament has turned several hot encounters in India’s favour. Under his captaincy India was crowned World Champions twice in different formats,” he tweeted.The home minister said Dhoni has mesmerised millions through his unique style of cricket.“I hope he will continue to contribute towards strengthening Indian cricket in the times to come. Best wishes for his future endeavours. World cricket will miss the helicopter shots, Mahi!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dil-abhi-bhara-nahin-jharkhand-demands-a-farewell-match-for-ms-dhoni-in-ranchi/story-SG81BK5sYgdIInKSyxuwGN.html
15-08-2020||India||Joe Biden offers full-throated support to India against China, Pakistan||Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, will work with India in the Indo-Pacific to ensure no country, including China, “is able to threaten its neighbours with impunity” and will have “no tolerance” for cross-border terrorism in South Asia, if elected president, his campaign said in an expansive agenda released Friday for bilateral relations with India and the welfare of Indian Americans.A Biden administration also will place a “high priority” on bolstering ties with India, continue to strengthen India’s defence capabilities and bring the United States back into the Paris climate to work with India again to combat climate change, according to the agenda.On immigration, which has been a major part of India-US relations, Biden will “preserve family unification as a core principle of our immigration system”, increase the number of visas offered for permanent, work-based immigration — Green Cards, overturning the Trump administration’s switch to a merit-based system.His administration will also exempt from any cap recent graduates of PhD programs in STEM fields, eliminate country limit on Green Cards, which has created a 100-year-long backlog for Indias. He will support reforming the temporary visa system for high-skill — H-1Bs — to protect wages and workers and then their numbers.The agenda was a first expansive plan released by any presidential campaign yet for aims and goals for relations with India and Indian Americas. And, thus, marked the importance being accorded to India. It was released just hours before a major outreach by senior members of the Biden campaign to the community.On bilateral relations with India, the former vice-president will bring to the offie years of supporting India. As a senator, the agenda said, Biden had in 2006, said,“My dream is that in 2020, the two closest nations in the world will be India and the United States” In 2008, he led other Democrats to back the India -US civil nuclear deal. The Obama-Biden administration declared support for India’s claim to permanent membership of the UN Security Council and Declared India a major defence partner.As president, the agenda said, “Biden believes there can be no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia – cross-border or otherwise”. The reference here was unmistakably to cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan, which had also been a sore point with the Obama administration.On China, the Biden administration will ensure continuity. “A Biden Administration will also work with India to support a rules-based and stable Indo-Pacific region in which no country, including China, is able to threaten its neighbours with impunity.” There was no explicit mention of the border clashes but, once against, the sub-text was clear, aligning with growing bipartisan support for India in these clashes.“Biden will deliver on his long-standing belief that India and the United States are natural partners, and a Biden Administration will place a high priority on continuing to strengthen the US-India relationship,” the agenda said, adding, “No common global challenge can be solved without India and the United States working as responsible partners.”It added: “Together, we will continue strengthening India’s defense and capabilities as a counter-terrorism partner, improving health systems and pandemic response, and deepening cooperation in areas such as higher education, space exploration, and humanitarian relief.”For the estimated 4 million Indian Americans, the Biden vowed adequate representation in the his administration if elected and pointed, as evidence, picking Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate. “Our government will reflect the diversity of the United States, and Indian American voices will be included in shaping the policies that impact their communities,” said the agenda.The Biden administration will address the rising incidents of hate crimes against “Indian Americans of all backgrounds -- Hindu, Sikh, Muslim, Jain, and others -- (who) have been subjected to bullying and xenophobic attacks”. He will see a legislation to increase the punishment for certain hate crimes that occur in houses of worship and other religious community sites, such as gurdwaras, mandirs, temples, and mosques.“We cannot leave our faith-based organizations to rely on donations and internal fundraising efforts to guard against deadly attacks. Biden will work with Congress to attain an immediate and substantial increase in direct security grant funding to faith-based organizations,” said the agenda.The Biden administration will also work with congress to reform the immigration system and find a way to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants, including 500,000 from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-offers-full-throated-support-to-india-against-china-pakistan/story-QXXDd5Wxyp7KlhXq0A4mON.html
15-08-2020||India||CRPF officer who won 7th gallantry award dedicates it to his buddy who died fighting terrorists||Highly decorated CRPF officer Naresh Kumar has dedicated his 7th gallantry medal, awarded on the 74th Independence Day today, to his buddy Mohd. Yasin Teli, who died fighting JeM terrorists in Pulwama. Naresh Kumar was awarded the latest honour for leading his team in an operation to kill three terrorists who attacked a security force camp near the Srinagar airport in 2017.The 35-year-old assistant commandant joined the force in 2013 and has been decorated with the 6th bar to Police Medal for Gallantry, which is his seventh gallantry medal in the last four years.Naresh Kumar is from Hoshiarpur in Punjab and he won his first gallantry medal in 2017. He has been heading the elite quick action team (QAT) of the central force in the Kashmir Valley till recently. Speaking about his phenomenal achievement, Naresh says he wants to dedicate it to his buddy who was slain in an anti-terrorist operation. “I want to dedicate my medal to my buddy Shaheed Mohd. Yasin Teli, who was killed in an operation by JeM terrorists in Pulwama. My team and I neutralized 3 JeM terrorists in an operation for which I have been awarded Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG),” AC Naresh Kumar told ANI.The CRPF describes Kumar as an officer with “sharp tactical acumen and indomitable courage”.Kumar has a B Tech degree from Punjabi University, Patiala. His wife Sheetal Rawat also serves in the CRPF as an Assistant Commandant. She was Kumar’s batch mate. Speaking about family, Kumar says the nation comes first.“My parents used to get information from the news that I am in some operation. During operation, it is not possible to talk, but I do it right after finishing the operations. Parents get worried but, the nation comes first,” Kumar said.While Kumar says he was elated for having won the honour yet again, his colleagues in the force say it is well deserved.“This is his seventh bravery medal in the last four years. He has become the highest medal winner after second-in-command rank officer P R Mishra of the force who has won six such medals including the third highest peacetime medal Shaurya Chakra,” a senior CRPF officer said.As far as Kumar is concerned, he has a simple desire.“I wish to keep serving my country and this is what I donned my uniform for,” he said.The CRPF, country’s largest paramilitary force with over 3.25 lakh personnel, has bagged the second highest 55 gallantry medals this time after 81 medals won by Jammu and Kashmir Police.Kumar who has won all his bravery medals for his operation in Jammu and Kashmir says he wishes to return there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-officer-who-won-7th-gallantry-award-dedicates-it-to-his-buddy-who-died-fighting-terrorists/story-gVac6I2G9Xh7gSpKugdNMN.html
15-08-2020||India||Telangana revenue officer caught red-handed accepting Rs 1.1 crore bribe, arrested||Telangana’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday arrested a tehsildar (block revenue officer) after catching him red-handed while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore in cash from a property dealer the previous evening. A team of ACB officials led by Hyderabad zonal deputy director Ramana Kumar and Ranga Reddy-Medchal-Malkajgiri deputy superintendent of police Suryanarayana, acting on a tip-off, raided the residence of Erva Balaraj Nagaraju (47), tehsildar of Keesara block at his residence at Arul Colony, Kapra on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Friday evening. They caught him red-handed while accepting a bribe of over Rs 1.10 crore from real estate developer Chowla Srinath Yadav (50) from Uppal to settle a dispute pertaining to 19.39 acres of agricultural land at Rampally Dayara village on the city’s outskirts.The ACB sleuths took Srinath Yadav, real estate broker Kandadi Anji Reddy (40) from Keesara and also Rampally Dayara village revenue assistant Bongu Sairaj (32) into custody along with the tehsildar. “The accused would be produced before the special judge for ACB cases, Hyderabad,” a statement from the ACB director general said. According to the statement, Nagaraju demanded Rs 2 crore as bribe from Srinath Yadav of Sri Satya Developers, Uppal to settle the land issue pertaining to 19.39 acres in Rampally Dayara village and process the file. Searches continued at Nagaraju’s residence till late in the night. Apart from the bribe amount, the authorities also seized unaccounted cash of Rs 28 lakh, besides Rs 8 lakh accounted cash, from his residence. “This is the largest amount of cash ever seized by the ACB from any official in the state so far. It took more than five hours to count the cash that he had received as a bribe,” an ACB official familiar with the development said. The ACB also confiscated several documents from the possession of Nagaraju pertaining to land details of a bank locker, besides about half a kilo of gold ornaments. Many immovable properties belonging to Nagaraju were identified. Further investigation of the case is in progress, the ACB statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-revenue-officer-caught-red-handed-accepting-rs-1-1-crore-bribe-arrested/story-o9egZj6tg1aqUerXWwwZbM.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MS Dhoni retires from international cricket; leaves behind an unmatched legacy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MS Dhoni retires from international cricket; leaves behind an unmatched legacyMahendra Singh Dhoni, former Indian cricket captain who led Team India to victories in the ICC WT20 (2007), ICC World Cup (2011) and ICC Champions Trophy (2013), has announced his retirement from international cricket. Dhoni, who had retired from Test cricket at the end of 2014, last played for India in an international match in the semi-final loss to New Zealand in the recently concluded ICC World Cup.Read more. PM Modi’s ‘thank you’ note to the Gulf sharpens the contrast with Pak | AnalysisPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke of India’s deepening ties with the Gulf countries and thanked them for letting Indians stay for an extended period amid the coronavirus pandemic. India is grateful to them for honouring New Delhi’s request, he said in his 90-minute address to the nation from Red Fort.Read more. Nepal PM Oli dials PM Modi to wish on Independence Day, first contact in 4 monthsNepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Saturday dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to wish India on its 74th Independence Day, the first direct contact between the two leaders in four months.Read more. Six arrested for abducting, selling and raping woman in Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh Police arrested six people on Friday for abducting, selling and raping a 24-year-old woman, rescued from Banmore area in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal on Tuesday.Read more. Indians in China facing twin challenges of Covid-19, border aggression: EnvoyIndians both in the country and in China are facing the twin challenges of a pandemic and aggression at the border, India’s ambassador to China Vikram Misri said on Saturday, adding that citizens have to be united to face the challenge.Read more. Suresh Raina follows MS Dhoni, announces retirementIndian cricketer Suresh Raina on Saturday took to social media and informed about his decision to retire from international cricket.Read more. WhatsApp stickers to get a major update soonWhatsApp has added a new update to its beta program on Android. The new update brings a search tool for WhatsApp stickers on the app. Unlike emojis and GIFs, there’s no search tool for stickers on WhatsApp.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ms-dhoni-retires-from-international-cricket-leaves-behind-an-unmatched-legacy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jLtyg3hEIg2dL0GKMlwuYI.html
15-08-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now over 5.84 lakh with 12,614 new cases||Another 12,000 plus new cases of Covid-19 took Maharashtra’s tally in the pandemic to over 5.8 lakh on Saturday, the health department said.The state recorded 12,614 new cases out of which 1,254 were in Mumbai to take the state’s tally 5,84,754.It was marginally higher than Friday’s count of 12,608 new cases.On Saturday, Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally stood at 1,27,716.The death toll in Maharashtra rose to 19,749 with 322 casualties. Mumbai reported 48 of the casualties.The number of recovered patients went up to 4,08,286 after 6,844 people were discharged on Saturday.Click here for full coronavirus coverage.On most days between August 8 and August 15, Maharashtra has reported fresh Cpovid-1d-19 cases in excess of 12,000. On August 8, the state marked the highest single-day spike with 12,822 that took the tally past the 5 lakh mark. In the last one week, Maharashtra has added 80,000 new cases of Covid-19.As authorities continued to ramp up testing, the health department said that 31,11,514 people have been tested so far for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-now-over-5-84-lakh-with-12-614-new-cases/story-8pJX48uvewV6TGKMfeeSOL.html
15-08-2020||India||No immediate possibility of opening schools in Odisha, says minister||On a day Odisha posted a record high of 2,496 fresh Covid cases, Odisha government said it has no immediate plans for reopening of schools in the state considering the surge in Covid-19 positive cases.Unfurling the national tricolour in the Jajpur district on Saturday, school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said that reopening of schools from September does not look possible in Odisha. “Going by the rising number of Covid-19 cases in August in Odisha, it cannot be said with certainty that the situation will be normal in September. Keeping this in mind, the state government will soon launch a new scheme ‘Siksha Sampark Yojana’ to provide e-education to about 60 lakh children,” said Dash.Early this month, the Assam government had invited suggestions from residents on a possible reopening date for schools.Dash said about 22 lakh children in the state are now availing e-education, while the remaining 38 lakh students are deprived of the facility due to lack of mobile network in their area. So teachers will visit these areas and teach the children at their home.Dash said that since three months of the new academic session have already passed, steps are being taken to reduce the school syllabi accordingly. The revised syllabi will be finalized next week.Secretary of All Odisha Secondary School Teachers Association, Prakash Mohanty, says the government has no clear plan on how to teach children in secondary classes.“The education of students of Class 8, 9 and 10 after summer vacation has been hampered. While online classes have not helped much, there is no clarity on how teachers would reach out to the children,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-immediate-possibility-of-opening-schools-in-odisha-says-minister/story-s7cdA5A6YrfcUyZyTGVHfL.html
15-08-2020||India||Flood situation improves in Assam; 13,300 in 3 districts affected||Flood water receded from one district of Assam reducing the number of people affected by the calamity to over 13,300 across three districts on Saturday, an official bulletin said here.At present, 36 villages in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur and Baksa districts are under water, according to the daily flood bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).The water had receded from Biswanath district since Friday when more than 29,600 people in 56 villages of four districts were reeling under the impact of the deluge.The total number of people losing their lives in this year’s flood and landslide stands at 138 across the state.While 112 people died in flood-related incidents, 26 were killed in landslides.Lakhimpur is the worst-hit with over 10,600 people affected, followed by Dhemaji and Baska where the number of flood victims is 2,400 and 300 respectively, ASDMA said.It said that the authorities are running nine relief camps and distribution centres in two districts, where 134 people are currently lodged.The Brahmaputra river is flowing above the danger level at Nimatighat in Jorhat and Tezpur in Sonitpur districts, while its tributaries Dikhour and Jia Bharali are also flowing above the red mark at several areas.Roads and other infrastructure were damaged in Lakhimpur district, while erosion was witnessed in Udalguri, ASDMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-improves-in-assam-13-300-in-3-districts-affected/story-0jgfkHSLaeGs2yWM9JXiXI.html
15-08-2020||India||Centre convenes Aug 18 meet to prod Punjab to complete Sutlej-Yamuna link canal||Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will hold a meeting with chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab on August 18 to work out a solution for implementation of Supreme Court’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal by Punjab. The meeting has been convened on the directions of the apex court of July 28. In a communication to Haryana chief minister, ML Khattar and his Punjab counterpart, Capt Amarinder Singh, the Union Minister has sought their presence in New Delhi on August 18 for the meeting. “The Haryana chief minister has written back to the Union minister to inform that he will attend the August 18 meeting,’’ said a top official. The apex court during a July 28 hearing had observed that “let the Chief Ministers of both the states meet to find out the solution if any, else there is a decree which has to be executed”. The SC had also ordered that the outcome of the same, if any, be informed to the court when the case is listed later this month.Also read: Apex court order on SYL must be implemented: DushyantThe Union water resources ministry has recorded Punjab government’s unwillingness to complete the canal after several rounds of meetings between central, Haryana and Punjab governments in 2019 remained inconclusive. Talks were held on the orders of the Supreme Court to work out a solution to implement apex court’s judgments to complete the remaining portion of the SYL canal in Punjab. Top Haryana officials who attended the meetings said the Central ministry has recorded Punjab’s refusal to complete the canal in the minutes of the meetings held between the officials of the two states and the Centre.“Punjab has clearly refused to complete the canal on the pretext of non-availability of spare water. Punjab’s argument was a mere excuse to not implement the apex court’s orders,’’ said a Haryana official. “Completing the construction of the canal and availability of water are two separate issues altogether. The water availability issue is relevant once the capacity to carry the water is in place,’’ said an official. Quoting an example, the officials said that during the rainy season when there are no restrictions on water indent, the surplus water of the Ravi and Beas can be used for Haryana’s parched southern districts to supplement the receding groundwater table. “Otherwise this surplus water goes to Pakistan,’’ officials said. On July 9, 2019, the SC had requested the Punjab and Haryana chief ministers to constitute a committee of officers and ensure that deliberations took place with the intervention of the Central government at the highest level to work out a solution. During a September 2019 hearing, the apex court had granted four more months to hold out mediation and resolve the dispute. The apex court had said that it hoped and trusted that functionaries of both the states will rise to the occasion to find out a solution which is in the interest of all and ultimately if this Court is required to hear the matter on merits definitely it will do so. Haryana has stuck to its stance that its share of 3.5 million acre feet (MAF) in the Ravi and Beas waters and the completion of the canal are absolutely non-negotiable. At present, Haryana gets 1.62 MAF of Ravi and Beas waters. Punjab on the other hand is furthering an argument that the volume of water available in its rivers has drastically reduced over the years. The apex court had on July 11, 2017, said that the authorities of both states remember that a decree passed by the apex court has to be respected and executed. “Our granting of time does not endow Punjab with any kind of liberty to devour time and pave the path of procrastination. On the contrary, to take a stand of amiability and amicability so that the facilitator, that is, the central government can bring both parties together to resolve the issue,” the SC had said. Addressing a presidential reference in the matter, a constitution bench of the Supreme Court had on November 10, 2016, set aside the Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, a law which unilaterally terminated Punjab’s water sharing pact with Haryana.“The Punjab Act cannot be said to be in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and by virtue of the said Act, Punjab cannot nullify the judgment and decree referred to herein above and terminate the December 1981 agreement,” the Supreme Court had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-convenes-meeting-of-haryana-punjab-cms-on-august-18-to-discuss-syl-canal/story-4rNSTfI8JFwC9Mphxu8eDK.html
15-08-2020||India||Jaishankar thanks Israel, Russia, Bhutan, other countries for I-Day wishes||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar thanked the foreign ministers of Israel, Russia, Bhutan, the Maldives, Lithuania and Latvia on Saturday for their wishes on India’s 74th Independence Day.Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid, in a tweet, said since independence, India has strived to be, and now become, an enduring example of democracy and development for the region and the world.Responding to his tweet, Jaishankar said the relationship between India and the Maldives is a shining example of “Neighbourhood First”.The Foreign Affairs Ministry of Russia also greeted Jaishankar on India’s Independence Day.Jaishankar thanked Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov for his wishes and said India greatly values the exceptionally close and time-tested relationship with Russia.Bhutanese Foreign Minister Tandi Dorji tweeted: “I take this privilege to wish every Indian a very #HappyIndependenceDay. I pray for your great country to grow from strength to strength.” Replying to Dorji, Jaishankar said, “Your warm sentiments reflect our unique relationship.” The external affairs minister also thanked his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi for his congratulatory call on Independence Day.“Thank FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi for his congratulatory call on our Independence Day. Discussed our robust bilateral cooperation and Israel’s full normalisation of ties with UAE,” he said in a tweet.The UAE and Israel finalised a deal with an aim to normalise their bilateral relationship, seen as a major development in moving ahead with peace initiatives in the Middle East.Jaishankar’s counterparts in Latvia and Lithuania, Edgars Rinkevics and Linas Linkevicius respectively, also greeted him.The external affairs minister thanked the two leaders in response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-thanks-israel-russia-bhutan-other-countries-for-i-day-wishes/story-tGkeDrhAwbiSSJH1KTHoWO.html
15-08-2020||India||In I-Day wish to Modi, Nepal PM says looking forward to ‘meaningful bilateral cooperation’ with India||Nepal looks forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli told his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in a phone conversation on Saturday, the first contact at the highest level between the two sides since ties were hit by a border row. Oli called Modi to congratulate him on India’s 74th Independence Day, and expressed his appreciation for the Indian leader’s renewed priority to the neighbourhood, as spelt out in his Independence Day address. The two leaders last spoke on April 10 to discuss the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In May, Nepal protested against the opening of a road by India to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet, and ties were hit further when Kathmandu published a new political map that depicted the Kalapani area, controlled by India, as Nepalese territory. Saturday’s phone conversation, which was widely anticipated in diplomatic circles, provided an opportunity for the two sides to clear the air and take forward the process of addressing their differences, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The conversation also came two days before a meeting in Kathmandu of the India-Nepal joint oversight mechanism, a body that oversees the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi. The body, launched in 2016, is chaired by Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi. “Prime Minister Oli appreciated Prime Minister Modi’s renewed priority to neighbourhood as spelt out in today’s Independence Day address. The Prime Minister of Nepal looked forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation,” said a readout from Nepal’s foreign ministry. A statement from the external affairs ministry said the leaders “expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries”, and Modi offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard. “Prime Minister thanked the Prime Minister of Nepal for his telephone call and recalled the civilisational and cultural links that India and Nepal share,” the statement added. In his speech, Modi said India is forging deeper connections with its neighbours through a partnership of security, development and trust. Noting that a quarter of the world’s population lives in South Asia, he said the countries of the region can create countless opportunities for the development and prosperity of such a large population through cooperation and partnership. “All the leaders of the countries of the region have a huge responsibility, an important responsibility for the development and progress of such a vast population,” he said. “The more peace and harmony there is in this whole region, the more it will work for the welfare of humanity,” he added. Oli congratulated Modi on India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council and expressed his “best wishes for the successful discharge of this important responsibility”, the Nepalese foreign ministry’s readout said. The two leaders exchanged views on latest efforts in the fight against Covid-19 and agreed to work together in this area, it said. While underlining the need for early development of a vaccine, Oli expressed the hope that scientists around the world, including in India, will be able to develop it in order to control and prevent the disease from spreading further, it added. The two leaders also agreed to continue discussions on bilateral matters in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-i-day-wish-to-modi-nepal-pm-says-looking-forward-to-meaningful-bilateral-cooperation/story-14nGo1BO0Zbcw2pLeZES0O.html
15-08-2020||India||Manipur extends Covid-19 lockdown till August 31||Manipur authorities on Saturday extended the ‘complete lockdown’ till August 31 amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The new state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar who is the chairperson of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued the order that stated new Covid-19 cases continued to be detected amongst people who have no history of travel outside the state. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “Locality based retail shops dealing with essential commodities like groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk booths, poultry meat and fish will open in all districts from 8am to 2pm on all days except Sundays,” according to the order.The wholesale shops in Thangal bazaar and Dharamshala shall remain open from 10am to 3pm on all days except Sunday to cater to requirements of retailers in the districts, it said.Apart from roster opening of shops from 8am to 4pm in Thangal and Paona Bazar, all standalone shops like those selling construction material,hardware,electrical items,cement etc located outside Paona bazaar, Thangal Bazar and Nagamapal area are also allowed to open from 8am to 2pm, except those in bylanes between buildings, it added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The state has been witnessing a ‘complete lockdown’ from 2pm of July 23 following reports of Covid-19 infections amongst a few people who have no history of travel outside the state.As of Saturday, the number of coronavirus cases in Manipur reached 4,390 while 2,438 people have recovered from the disease, said officials in Imphal. The number of active cases is 1,939, the officials said adding that the recovery rate stood at 55.5%. Thirteen people have died of the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-august-31/story-wfH9jCld96zgRqlVpWdVGI.html
15-08-2020||India||Once India gets vaccine, Covid-19 warriors will get first doses: Minister||Scientists are working hard on coronavirus vaccine and if their efforts bear fruit, Covid-19 warriors will be the first ones to get the dose, Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Saturday. Interacting with reporters on the sidelines of the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort here, he also hailed the National Digital Health Mission unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation. “This is a historic day for the country’s health sector. On the auspicious occasion of our Independence Day, our PM announced this mission. This will bring widespread change in the field of health,” Choubey said. Modi on Saturday unveiled the ambitious National Digital Health Mission under which every Indian will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services and he also announced that the country has made plans for mass-producing Covid-19 vaccine once scientists give a green signal. “Our scientists are working very hard on it. Three vaccines against Covid-19 are in various stages of testing. And, if we do succeed in getting a vaccine, our COVID warriors will be the first one to receive the dose,” the minister of state for health said. Modi in his address said, “When scientists will give us the green signal, it will be produced on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it.” “So, our PM has spelt it out that this government is determined to fight its way out of the coronavirus crisis,” Chaubey said. Asked about the health ID card for each citizen that will be provided under the National Digital Health Mission, the Union minister said it will facilitate heathcare access to people. “The card will carry the medical history of the patient, and a doctor will be able to access prior information on ailments and treatment, if any, and begin treatment,” he said. Choubey said if a citizen travels from Patna to Bangalore, a doctor in the southern city will be able to access health-related data on the Patna patient, and respond faster. Modi in his address said this mission will bring a new revolution in India’s health sector and it will reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology. The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments.  The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country. On coronavirus vaccine, Modi said the country has prepared a roadmap to ensure that a Covid-19 vaccine reaches everyone in the shortest possible time. He said three vaccine candidates are in different stages of trials in the country.  The phase 1 and 2 human clinical trials of two of the vaccine candidates, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), and Zydus Cadila Ltd, are currently underway.  The Serum Institute of India has been permitted to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the third vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University. The Pune-based institute has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-india-gets-vaccine-covid-19-warriors-will-get-first-doses-minister/story-DL5YkAbLDah7csn5rEatbL.html
15-08-2020||India||On 74th Independence Day, Tripura CM announces state’s first medical college outside Agartala||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Saturday announced a new medical college in the state, to be built at Ambassa in Dhalai district, about 80 odd kilometres from capital Agartala. This would be the first medical college outside the capital city and the third in the state.“Our government is trying to contain the disease. We will make all required arrangements for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. And we are going to open another medical college at Ambassa. We have started working on it,” said Deb at Assam Rifles parade ground in Agartala on the occasion of 74th Independence Day. He also appreciated the front line workers including doctors, health workers and others for their commitment to fight the pandemic.Also Read: Nepal PM Oli dials PM Modi to wish on Independence Day, first contact in 4 months He added that the state has no dearth of either medicines or personal protection kits. The government has also arranged for 2,129 beds for Covid-19 patients. The state has registered a total of 6,785 Covid-19 positive cases including 5,088 cases of recoveries. Total 49 Covid-19 patients have died due to the disease and two patients have died by suicide. CM Deb added that his government was focused on developing health, education, transport, power and internet infrastructure among others. He added that work on the 15 kilometre-long Agartala-Akhaura railway line, laying of fiber cable, inland waterways project and others are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-74th-independence-day-tripura-cm-announces-state-s-first-medical-college-outside-agartala/story-EbwSyOFJQkNFVUhlSxdbbO.html
15-08-2020||India||Sharad Pawar’s censure of Parth is ‘family matter’, says Devendra Fadnavis||NCP chief Sharad Pawar rebuking his grandnephew Parth publicly was a family matter and the BJP was not “remotely associated” with the issue, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday.The BJP leader also expressed concern about the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra, which, he said, had become a “Covid-19 capital”.Sharad Pawar had said on Wednesday that he attached “absolutely no importance” to Parth’s demand for a CBI probe into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide.The NCP chief also termed Parth, son of his nephew and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,as “immature”, setting off speculation about a rift in the family.The Maharashtra government, of which NCP is a part, has maintained that Mumbai Police are capable of probing the actor’s death.“Parth Pawar issue is a family matter of the Pawars.We don’t want to get into that issue. We are not even remotely associated with it,” Fadnavis told reporters here.“It is a matter within their family, and they should try to resolve it within the family,” he added.The BJP leader pointed out that Maharashtra has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country and accounts for 40-41 per cent of the total deaths.“Unfortunately, Maharashtra has become a Covid-19 capital....The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is grim,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-s-censure-of-parth-is-family-matter-says-devendra-fadnavis/story-DlyqE362F3V1DombpMCR3H.html
15-08-2020||India||IMD issues orange rain alert for south Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange rain alert for the weekend in south Bengal districts on Saturday. Rain has already hit Kolkata. According to the forecast some of the districts in south Bengal could receive very heavy rain on Saturday. Kolkata and its adjoining areas are also expected to receive heavy rain.On Sunday, heavy rain is also expected to lash the districts of Purlia, Bakura, Jhargram and Burdwan.“A low pressure has developed over the Bay of Bengal and it has intensified into a well-marked low pressure area. It is located near the Odisha and West Bengal coast and this would trigger rain over the weekend,” said a senior official of the regional meteorological centre in Kolkata. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea as winds with speed reaching up to 45 km per hour may be blowing over Bay of Bengal. The district administrations have been alerted to restrict beach activities. The colour red is used to denote the highest level of warning in the IMD’s four-stage colour-coded weather warning system. Orange comes next and denotes administration to stay alert. On May 20, West Bengal was hit by cyclone Amphan with wind speed gusting up to 185 km per hour. The cyclone killed 98 people and left a trail of destruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-rain-alert-for-south-bengal/story-iE1FLrghpM392t3Jmz4plM.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Oli breaks ice with PM Modi on I-Day, tweets from top Nepal leaders follow||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Saturday dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to wish India on its 74th Independence Day, the first direct contact between the two leaders in four months. PM Oli’s ice-breaking phone call was quickly followed by tweets from Nepal’s former prime ministers, Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and Madhav Nepal of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, and Sher Bahadur Deuba, president of the opposition Nepali Congress.PM Oli had set up a row over an 80-km road built by the Border Roads Organisation in April this year and issued a new map the next month that depicts Indian territories, Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory.A statement by the external affairs ministry said PM Oli greeted the government and people of India on the occasion of its 74th Independence Day. He also conveyed congratulations for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.“The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries,” the statement said.Prime Minister Modi offered India’s continued support to Nepal to deal with the pandemic and “recalled the civilizational and cultural links that India and Nepal share”.The two prime ministers had last spoken on April 10, a conversation that had focussed on the Covid-induced lockdown and the problems being faced by people on both sides of the border.PM Oli’s early morning tweet, and then the phone call, was followed up by more tweets from across Nepal’s political spectrum.“I would like to convey my heartfelt greetings and congratulations to PM Modi ji, his government and people of India,” tweeted Dahal, better known by his nom de guerre Prachanda.Madhav Nepal tweeted his letter to PM Modi that expressed optimism about the future of India-Nepal relations. “We are confident that Nepal-India relations based as they are on close cooperation, historical ties and people-to-people contacts, would continue to grow in coming years to the satisfaction of the people of two countries,” Madav Nepal’s letter said.Deuba, who heads the lead opposition party Nepali Congress, extended “cordial greetings and best wishes to the friendly people and the government of India” in his tweet.In his Independence Day address early on Saturday, PM Modi had stressed on peace and harmony in the South Asia region. “All the leaders of the countries of the region have a huge responsibility, an important responsibility for the development and progress of such a vast population,” he said.“The more peace and harmony there is in this whole region, the more it will work for the welfare of humanity,” he said of the region that is home to a quarter of the world’s population. PM Modi also spoke about New Delhi’s efforts to forge deeper connections with India’s neighbours.PM Oli’s phone call comes days ahead of the meeting of the India-Nepal body overseeing the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi that is scheduled to meet in Kathmandu next week.This meeting between Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi is also the first between the two sides after the row over Nepal’s new map took relations to a new low.India has been sharply critical of Kathmandu’s decision to issue a new map, describing it as untenable and an “artificial enlargement of claims” that isn’t based on historical facts or evidence. “It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues,” New Delhi said in June this year after lawmakers cleared an amendment to incorporate the new map in Nepal’s emblem.Indian officials had, however, made it clear that New Delhi would not hold back on assistance granted to Nepal due to the boundary row and would continue to focus on deepening people-to-people ties between the two countries. It was in this context that the Indian army had earlier this month gifted 10 ventilators to Nepalese army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-oli-dials-pm-modi-to-wish-on-independence-day-first-contact-in-4-months/story-MfAf8cvAEsTeIzTwFUUUIO.html
15-08-2020||India||Explained: How does RBI’s Positive Pay system for securing your high value cheques work||High value bank cheque transactions are set to become safer with the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) stated intention to adopt the Positive Pay system for the payment of cheques valuing Rs 50,000 and above.The move is aimed to end cheque frauds including altering, counterfeiting and forging of the financial instruments and it is likely to do away with the need for banks to call customers to confirm if they indeed issued a high value cheque that comes up for payment at the customer’s bank’s clearance branch. The move announced by the RBI is likely to cover 20 percent of total cheques by volume and 80 percent by value, according to the central regulator, which announced the scheme earlier this month.Positive Pay system- Double safety for high value bank chequesThe system works by ensuring that every high value cheque valued at Rs 50,000 and above is crossed checked with details provided by the issuing party or the individual. Only a match will lead to the drawee’s bank clearing the cheque and in the event of a ‘no match’ scenario, the issuing authority/individual will be contacted for verification, cancellation or withdrawal of the cheque.The process for double verification under the systemThe Positive Pay system demands that an account holder electronically uploads the details of the high value cheque through the bank’s net banking system.Customers will need to put in a cheque number, issuance date, payee name, account number, amount payable along with an image of the front and reverse side of the instrument on the Positive Pay system. The cheque can then be handed over to the beneficiary.In the next stage, the cheque is submitted for encashment to the beneficiary’s bank and forwarded to the clearing branch of the drawee bank. The drawee bank then compares the details mentioned on the cheque with the details provided online by the customer through the Positive Pay system. If the details match, the cheque is honoured.Positive Pay operational guidelines soonThe RBI has said that the guidelines for the new system will be released soon. The guidelines will have to be adhered to by both the participating banks and customers. RBI Governor Shashikanta Das also said that the central bank will set up an Innovation Hub in India to promote innovation in the financial sector.A scheme of retail payments in offline mode using cards and mobile devices, and a system of online dispute resolution (ODR) mechanism for digital payments will also be introduced, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-does-rbi-s-positive-pay-system-for-securing-your-high-value-cheques-work/story-ErKbSeD48WT2CG5GMyRpzN.html
15-08-2020||India||Indian Army dogs Vida, Sophie honoured with ‘Commendation Cards’ on 74th Independence Day||Indian Army dogs Vida and Sophie awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day this year, for their role in different operations.Commendations Cards are given to dogs for good performance while performing the duty.In December last year, in a bid to increase the operational capabilities of its troops, the Army has developed an audio-video surveillance system integrated with a protective bulletproof jacket, which can be mounted stealthily on the Army dogs to receive information about location and strength of enemy from a safe distance.Also read: Cop in Maoist hotbed of Gadchiroli wins second gallantry medal in 5 yearsEquipped with the gadget, the Army dogs can spy on the enemy location from close quarters. The camera and transmitter send the information on the receiver that can be at a safe distance up to one-km from the enemy location.Also read: New focus of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is ‘make for world’, says PM Modi“The Silent Warriors” as the Army dog unit is fondly called have indeed proven to be an asset for the security forces. They are truly the warriors India needs to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-dogs-vida-sophie-honoured-with-commendation-cards-on-74th-independence-day/story-gnHaQinxDfj2CKZNZQf6vO.html
15-08-2020||India||WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan honoured for helping Tamil Nadu fight Covid-19||Chief Scientist of World Health Organisation, Soumya Swaminathan was on Saturday conferred with the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s special award, in recognition of her advisory role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Swaminathan received the award from Chief Minister K Palaniswami on the 74th Independence Day celebration at Fort St George here. The WHO representative has been offering suggestions to the state health department to step up measures in fighting the pandemic. Later, speaking to reporters, Swaminathan thanked the state government for selecting her and advised people to follow the pandemic protocols while venturing out. “Maintain a six feet social distance, do not go out without wearing masks and be careful while venturing out”, she said. According to the World Health Organisation, Swaminathan has 30 years of experience in clinical care and research and has worked throughout her career to translate her research into impactful programmes. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s Best Practices award was bagged by the department of treasuries, while the Greater Chennai Corporation received the second prize for conducting fever clinics across the city to break the transmission chain of Covid-19. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received the certificate of appreciation for various steps undertaken to ensure uninterrupted availability of drugs for combating coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-honoured-for-helping-tamil-nadu-fight-covid-19/story-QvJSRCv871c4xZ0qQJnKiM.html
15-08-2020||India||ED grills Kerala CM’s former secretary in gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday grilled M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer and former principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with the gold smuggling case, official said.Sivasankar was earlier questioned by the National Investigation Agency and Customs department in the same case.The ED had made a submission in the special court dealing with economic offences in Kochi saying after questioning Swapna Suresh, second accused in the smuggling case, it came to know that Sivasankar was aware of her questionable integrity. It also said when the state government officials went to the United Arab Emirates in 2018 to seek flood assistance she was in the country to co-ordinate their visit. It showed she had considerable influence at the CM’s office, the ED said in the affidavit.The Kerala gold smuggling case hit the headlines on July 5 when the Customs seized 30 kg of gold that came in an air consignment for the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. P Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate who came to take the consignment was arrested by the Customs after the seizure of the gold and two others – Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. Meanwhile, the NIA arrested four more persons in connection with the case. With this total arrest has gone up to 20. It also carried out raids at six places in Kozhikkode and Malappuram districts. The NIA took over the case a week after the seizure. Other Central agencies like the Customs, ED, Income Tax and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence are assisting the NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-grills-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-8jqHLQvqQBWAHkPqvrPmgM.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi rues absence of children at Red Fort during I-Day celebrations||Clad in thematic wear, every Independence Day they sit on the lawns of the Red Fort in a colourful pattern drawing the attention of the crowd, but on Saturday, school children were conspicuous by their absence at the venue.Children are vulnerable to the coronavirus infection and so, in view of the containment measures adopted for the event, they did not take part in the celebrations this year, which were significantly scaled down due to the Covid-19 situation.“Today, our children are not here with us. The coronavirus pandemic has halted all of us,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort.Everyone felt their absence as children clap and cheer loudly throughout the event, but this time, it was a rather quiet affair in keeping with the Covid-19 safety protocols.While there were a few school students from the higher classes among the NCC cadets who took part in the celebrations, they too said the absence of the children could be felt.Popular among children, Modi has a penchant to interact with the crowd at a close distance, especially the children, and every year at the Independence Day celebrations, he invariably breaks the security protocol to shake hands with the children, who wait to meet and greet him with bated breath.Scores of school children add youthful energy to the grand event every year, but amid the coronavirus scare, they were not present on the occasion this year.Sporting a saffron and cream headgear with a half-sleeve kurta and a churidar, the prime minister delivered his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech that lasted for 86 minutes, during which he unveiled his vision of an “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” to make India a global manufacturing hub.The grand annual event was scaled down this year in keeping with the safety protocols to contain the spread of the coronavirus that has wreaked havoc across the world.A number of seats across all enclosures remained empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rues-absence-of-children-at-red-fort-during-i-day-celebrations/story-OW5I3LkfNVwQBNIVKxDUJP.html
15-08-2020||India||Covid-19 status check on Independence Day: Recovery rate at 71.7%, fatality rate at 1.94%||The national recovery rate from Coronavirus disease stands at 71.17% as India celebrates the 74th Independence Day. The country has also seen 57,381 recoveries in the last 24 hours, which is the highest figure for any single day.Union health ministry data says 32 states and Union Territories have reported higher than 50% recovery rate, while 12 states/UTs have exceeded the national recovery rate of 71.17%, translating into 18,08,936 recoveries.The development comes on a day when India registered 65,002 fresh cases, taking the Covid-19 tally past 25 lakh to reach 25,26,192, while the number of fatalities neared 50,000-mark with 996 deaths reported over the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 49,036, according to the Union health ministry data released on Saturday morning.India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11, when the country registered 53,601 new infections.The case fatality rate in the country has declined to 1.94 per cent. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had yesterday cited it as among the significant achievements of government’s containment strategy.There are 6,68,220 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country, which is 26.45 per cent of the total caseload.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 2,85,63,095 samples have been tested up to August 14. Of these, 8,68,679 were examined on Friday, the highest in a day so far. The government aims to be able to test up to 1 million people every day by the end of this month. Of the total 49,036 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra counts for the maximum with 19,427, followed by 5,514 in Tamil Nadu, 4,178 in Delhi, 3,717 in Karnataka, 2,746 in Gujarat, 2,475 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,335 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,319 in West Bengal and 1,081 in Madhya Pradesh. The fatality rate of under 2% is significant in this regard as the government’s containment strategy focuses on aggressive tracing, testing and isolating patients to ensure maximum number of lives are saved. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7 and it has taken just 8 days to add another 5 lakh cases, however, the government has maintained that the high numbers of infections are a direct result of the increasing levels of testing in the country. The government also hopes that the numbers will begin to stabilize in about two months’ time. On the testing front, a total of 2,85,63,095 samples have been tested up to August 14. Of these, 8,68,679 were examined on Friday, the highest in a day so far. Giving further hope to citizens, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that the country has made preparations for the mass production of Covid-19 vaccine once it is cleared by experts. Three vaccine candidates are currently in different stages of human trial in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-status-check-on-independence-day-recovery-rate-at-71-7-fatality-rate-at-1-94/story-2W3NERpBnT9mllsRnFzFAJ.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy doesn’t mention time of death, claims lawyer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput’s post mortem report doesn’t mention time of death, says lawyerThe lawyer for Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has flagged the post mortem report of the actor which he claims does not mention the time of death. Read more Air India crew members who survived Kozhikode air crash given special leave to recoverThe cabin crew members who operated the ill-fated Air India Express flight IX 1344 that operated from Dubai to Kozhikode on August 7 have been granted special paid leave for a month. Read more Gold prices may hit below Rs 50,000 level. Should you invest or wait?Experts say the price of 10 gram of gold can fall below Rs 50,000 and that of one kilogram of silver can come down to Rs 60,000 tracking the international market. Read more Amit Shah asks countrymen to take a pledge on 74th Independence DayUnion home minister Amit Shah has said that the 74th Independence Day is witness to an independent, strong and self-sufficient India that our freedom fighters had dreamt of and he urged the citizens to take pledge on the occasion to fulfill Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Read more Sanjay Dutt posts on social media for first time since cancer diagnosis, wishes fans on Independence DayActor Sanjay Dutt has shared his first social media post after he was diagnosed with cancer earlier this week. Sanjay wished his fans and followers on Independence Day. Read more Grocery store employee entertains shoppers with her melodious voice, goes viralSome shoppers at a store in Derbyshire, United Kingdom, have had the pleasure of witnessing a melodious musical performance while grocery shopping – all thanks to 24-year-old Lily Taylor-Ward. Read moreYumthang, Dzüko, Valley of Flowers: Check out India’s most picturesque floral landscapesIf you have ever imagined yourself running through a picturesque field of blooming poppies, with your hair caught in the wind or even if you imagine trekking through these fields to capture those amazing photographs, India has several destinations that you can visit. Read more Missiles, fighter jets, medical tech: PM Modi’s ‘atmanirbhar’ India examplesAddressing the nation on Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed confidence that the country will realise the dream, adding that the dream of self-reliance is turning into a pledge. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sushant-singh-rajput-s-post-mortem-report-doesn-t-mention-time-of-death-claims-lawyer-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2sCDHxxZfYm7eElowz6rnL.html
15-08-2020||India||Cop who ran marathons to fund education now a winner of 2 President’s gallantry medals||In 2015, a poor farmer’s son from Rajewadi village in Maharashtra’s Beed district achieved his dream of becoming a police officer when he completed the course at the Police Training School in Nashik and was posted as a police sub-inspector at Gadchiroli with the C-60 commando force fighting the Maoists.Three years later in 2018 Rajesh Khandwe (29) was awarded the President’s medal for gallantry after he single-handedly eliminated two Maoists in an encounter soon after joining the force in 2015. Since then Khandwe has been part of many encounters with the Maoists in Gadchiroli. In recognition of his efforts, Khandwe was promoted to the rank of assistant police inspector in 2017.On August 15, 2020, Khandwe once again was awarded the President’s gallantry medal for his resolute actions against the Maoists that he carried out in 2017. But Khandwe isn’t celebrating his medal. Minutes after he got to know that he was being awarded the medal for gallantry on Friday morning, his friend and colleague Dushyant Nandeshwar lost his life in an encounter with the Maoists at Kothi outpost in Gadchiroli.“I have lost 25 of my friends in the last five years, and the medal is a tribute to them. Every such incident spurs me to continue my tenure in this Maoist prone area of Gadchiroli,” said Khandwe, speaking over the phone.Life has not been easy for Khandwe who as a child wanted to join the Indian Army. “I come from a very poor family, and my father could not afford our education. I studied in the village school till seventh grade and then was selected to study at Krida Prabodhani run by the Maharashtra government,” said Khandwe. Krida Prabodhani selects talented children and provides them necessary training and facilities to pursue the sport they are interested in.As an athlete, Khandwe had excelled at a young age and was spotted by the Maharashtra government. Later, Khandwe moved to Pune for further schooling and started living in a hostel. Khandwe then used to run marathons at Kolhapur, Satara and other districts just to fund his education.“I still remember how I used to run just so that I can get the prize money to fund my education. My goal was to join the Indian Army, but my family then did not have the money for me to join the National Defence Academy. But I still wanted to serve the nation, and that was my sole motto. Something which I had inculcated as a child when I knew about the supreme sacrifice made by Captain Krishnakant Kulkarni-Dharashivkar from Udgir,” said Khandwe.Captain Krishnakant Kulkarni-Dharashivkar had made the supreme sacrifice, while leading a six member Ghatak platoon of the Indian Army in Kargil in 1999, when a bomb exploded and splinters pierced his skull. Captain Kulkarni-Dharashivkar’s sacrifice had a huge bearing on Khandwe. “While I was in hostel, I had decided to join the police force and had rejected offers from many firms including the Indian Oil Corporation.”Khandwe who gladly accepted the posting at Gadchiroli after his police training isn’t interested in leaving the Maoist affected region. “My parents worry about me a lot, and each time I call them they ask me to take a transfer out of Gadchiroli. But that is not what I want, and thankfully my wife whom I married in 2017 is very supportive of my decisions. She in fact has gone ahead and named my son Veer,” said Khandwe.“I am not the one to back out of a tough situation. That is how life has been for me,” said Khandwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-who-ran-marathons-to-fund-education-now-a-winner-of-2-president-s-gallantry-medals/story-kpjly0Ylk9kFEHzgC7cabO.html
15-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh’s autopsy report skips mention of one crucial detail, claims family’s lawyer||The lawyer for Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has flagged the post mortem report of the actor which he claims does not mention the time of death.“The post mortem report that I have seen doesn’t mention the time of death which is a crucial detail. Whether he was hanged after being killed or he died by hanging can be cleared with the time of death,” Vikas Singh was quoted as saying by ANIThe postmortem was carried out at Mumbai’s Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital. A senior police official has said that cause of death is “asphyxia due to hanging” The actor was found dead in his flat in Mumbai of June 14.The Bihar government in its written submissions to the Supreme Court on Thursday said the Maharashtra Police neither registered an FIR on Rajput’s death nor did it extend any support to Patna Police for investigating the case on “account of political pressure”. Last week, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a case into the death of Rajput naming his ex-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty and four other family members or known associates apart from unknown persons as accused.The case was handed over to CBI by the Bihar government after Rajputs father KK Singh and the Bihar police alleged a cover-up by the Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-of-death-not-mentioned-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-post-mortem-report-says-family-s-lawyer/story-kBNkofchIkyugPwGAFZUNI.html
15-08-2020||India||Jharkhand reports highest one-day jump of 1,242 Covid-19 cases, tally over 22,000||Jharkhand reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Saturday with 1,242 people found infected with the coronavirus disease while 16 patients died in different hospitals across the state.More than 100 inmates of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail (BMCJ) were among the 1,242 new patients infected with the virus. The state also reported 698 recoveries in the last 24 hours.With these new cases, the state’s total count touched 22,192 including 8,156 active cases, 13,811 recovered cases and 225 deaths.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to the health department’s bulletin, with 276 new cases Ranchi reported the most number of cases by East Singhbhum (169) and Giridih (107). Of the 16 deaths reported in the state, eight people died in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, three in Ramgarh, two each in Ranchi and Deoghar and one in Hazaribag.With the addition of 276 new Covid-19 cases, Ranchi has so far reported 4,272 cases including 2,006 active cases, 2,228 recoveries and 38 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAccording to the bulletin, the pandemic’s seven days growth rate stood at 4.89% and disease’s doubling period was 14.11 days. The recovery rate was 61.82% and mortality rate was 1.01%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-registers-record-1242-new-covid-19-cases-ranchi-crosses-4000-mark/story-uocagFwah1cMHOcrD7rOVM.html
15-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Narendra Modi, demands inclusion of Chhattisgarhi dialect in 8th Schedule||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the inclusion of Chhattisgarhi dialect among the languages in the 8th Schedule of the Indian Constitution enabling its wider use and recognition. In his letter, the chief minister said that while it has been twenty years since the formation of Chhattisgarh as the 26th state of the Indian Republic, in terms of culture, the state has a separate identity in ancient history. He said that the states’ Chhattisgarhi dialect has a history of its own. The grammar of the dialect, prepared by Hiralal Kavyopadhyay and edited and translated by George A.K. Grierson, was published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1890. A wide range of quality literature is also available in Chhattisgarhi and is continuously increasing.The CM further said that while Chhattisgarhi sub-dialects and some other languages are also prevalent in the state, the majority of the residents use Chhattisgarhi as their language and it is also a language of communication with those speaking other regional dialects. He informed that apart from Hindi, Chhattisgarhi has been adopted as a state official language and Chhattisgarhi Official Language Day is celebrated every year on 28th November in the state.Further building the case for the language, CM Baghel said the Chhattisgarh Official Language Commission has also been constituted to preserve the tradition and for the development of overall linguistic diversity of the state according to the public sentiment and necessity.Baghel said it has been conveyed by the Centre that the inclusion of Chhattisgarhi and some other languages in the Eighth Schedule is under consideration. In this perspective, in accordance with the sentiment of 2.75 crore people of Chhattisgarh state, you are requested that keeping in view the prosperity and public goodness of Chhattisgarh, it is necessary to include Chhattisgarhi in the Eighth Schedule.The Eighth Schedule currently recognises 22 Indian languages,helping in their development and enabling people to take examinations for public service in the listed languages. He also urged the prime minister to take quick and positive decisions in accordance with the sentiments of the people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-demands-inclusion-of-chhattisgarhi-dialect-in-8th-schedule/story-GqRbmrlCmDXY4NKOHBCAiN.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Blaming Cong to cover up failure’: Shivakumar slams Karnataka home minister over Bengaluru violence||The Congress in Karnataka on Saturday slammed home minister Basavaraj Bommai over his alleged failure to prevent the violence in Bengaluru that left three dead, and said he sought to blame the ‘internal strife’ in the grand old party for the incident.“I read the Home Minister’s statement.. Who is he? Any authority or sub-inspector or has he been appointed as the commissioner of police? Who is he to talk about investigating the corporators, blackmail and threaten them by serving notices to them?” Congress state chief DK Shivakumar asked.He was addressing reporters here after hoisting tricolour at his party office on the occasion of the Independence Day.Bommai had on Friday alleged that internal squabble in Congress and SDPI’s larger conspiracy to disturb law and order were among the reasons behind the recent violence in Pulakeshinagar constituency here.Three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy.Also read: Siddaramaiah didn’t condemn attack on Congress MLA’s house, says BJPThe MLA’s residence and a police station at DJ Halli were torched by rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister.Shivakumar, a former minister, further said the BJP-led government in the state was trying to give the riots a caste colour only to ‘cover up’ its failure.Alleging that communal violence takes place whenever BJP comes to power, the state Congress chief said the Sringeri incident was planned by BJP and Bajrang Dal.Also read: Bengaluru’s dark night | HT EditorialHe was referring to the incident that occurred two days ago in Sringeri, where a flag was found atop a statue of Adiguru Shankaracharya leading to tension in the temple town.A man, who had allegedly picked up a poster from the nearby mosque and threw it on Shankaracharya’s statue under the influence of liquor has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blaming-cong-to-cover-up-failure-shivakumar-slams-karnataka-home-minister-over-bengaluru-violence/story-cXMeHiNlRD1TGFKLmWLTHK.html
15-08-2020||India||Independence-Day celebrated across Jammu region amid heightened security||The 74th Independence Day was celebrated with full zeal and patriotic fervour across Jammu region on Saturday amid heightened security arrangements and the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. However, the official functions witnessed low attendance as authorities restricted the entry to special invitees and also curtailed many traditional programmes as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The main function in Jammu region was held at Mini Stadium Parade here where K K Sharma, advisor to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, unfurled the national flag and addressed the gathering, highlighting the importance of the event. The officials said the respective district development commissioners hoisted the national flag at the main functions in the rest of the nine districts of Jammu region, while small official functions also marked the day. In Jammu and elsewhere, local residents hoisted the tricolour at various city chowks, while all mainstream political parties including the BJP, Congress, National Conference, PDP and Panthers Party also organised special functions to observe the day. “I congratulate the people of the country on the auspicious occasion including those residing under the illegal occupation of Pakistan and China. This country belongs to the people living in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and those in Aksai Chin (China) as well. “The time will come sooner or later that they will be freed and we will hoist our tricolour there as well,” J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina told reporters after unfurling the national flag at the party headquarters here. Meanwhile, two groups of sports enthusiasts celebrated Independence Day in their own style with a dozen cyclists undertaking a 74-km ride from Jammu to Samba and another group of over 50 runners covering 10 km distance in Kathua district. Carrying national flags and chanting slogans in praise of the country, the organisers planned the events separately to convey a message of unity and motivate youngsters towards physical exercise to maintain fitness, especially during the current pandemic. “We have decided to undertake a 74 km journey from Jammu to Samba to celebrate Independence Day and convey a positive message on the need for physical activity,” the leader of over a dozen-strong group of professional cyclists said before leaving for the trip on Saturday morning. He said they are aware of the challenging situation due to the outbreak of the pandemic and are strictly following the guidelines. Authorities in Jammu had imposed a weekend lockdown -- from 6 pm Friday to 6 am Monday -- since July 24 following a spike in Covid-19 which had claimed a total of 39 lives in the region. Separately, over 50 runners including 20 girls and some cyclists covered 10-km distance in Kathua district. “We had planned this event to celebrate Independence Day and also to motivate the people especially youngsters to physical fitness,” Neeraj Singh, member of Kathua distance runners, said. Carrying flags, the participants chanted slogans in praise of the country throughout the journey in the town, while maintaining social distancing. Police, Army, BSF, CRPF and other security forces also hoisted the tricolour in special functions at their headquarters in the hinterland and along the Line of Control (LOC) and International Border (IB), the officials said. Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) Mayor Chander Mohan Gupta hoisted the national flag in presence of JMC Commissioner Avny Lavasa at JMC headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-celebrated-across-jammu-region-amid-heightened-security/story-wRAP6dhNzn7ocX2m8QsupK.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘thank you’ note to the Gulf sharpens the contrast with Pak | Analysis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke of India’s deepening ties with the Gulf countries and thanked them for letting Indians stay for an extended period amid the coronavirus pandemic. India is grateful to them for honouring New Delhi’s request, he said in his 90-minute address to the nation from Red Fort.India’s ties with the Gulf countries, crucial to meet New Delhi’s energy needs, had improved manifold in recent years, PM Modi said. The explicit expression of gratitude to countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar comes amid the government’s consistent efforts to strengthen ties with the Gulf across sectors.PM Modi’s remarks, as also India’s unequivocal statement welcoming UAE’s accord with Israel, contrasted sharply with Pakistan’s guarded response to full normalisation of relations between UAE and Israel.“Pakistan’s approach (to the accord) will be guided by our evaluation of how Palestinians’ rights and aspirations are upheld and how regional peace, security and stability are preserved,” Islamabad’s statement said,India’s statement, issued after UAE Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan briefed his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, was unambiguous and welcomed restoration of full diplomatic ties between New Delhi’s two strategic partners. New Delhi also maintained its traditional support for the Palestinian cause and hoped for early direct negotiations for an acceptable two state solution.Israeli foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi spoke to Jaishankar on Saturday to brief him on the accord.Also Read: From Red Fort, PM Modi delivers one message to 2 neighbours, China and PakSince he took over as PM, Narendra Modi has made cementing relations with Gulf countries his topmost priority. He was the first prime minister to visit Abu Dhabi in 2015 after 34 years. The next year, he traveled to Saudi Arabia, the flag bearer of Sunni Islam. The two Sunni countries along with Kuwait and Qatar are at the heart of PM’s Middle East diplomacy as New Delhi realises the role these countries play in its energy security, the well-being and progress of the Indian diaspora safety as well as the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the 57-member grouping of Islamic countries.An Indian diplomat said the statements by New Delhi and Islamabad on the UAE-Israel accord reflecting their different priorities.“While India has found partners for peace in the Middle East, it is for Pakistan to answer whether it will partner on-going Shia revolution in Iran or restoration of Ottoman empire in Turkey or revival of Muslim Brotherhood in Qatar. It is quite evident that the UAE-Israel accord will restore peace in the normally restive region as opposed to polarisation that Pakistan has exploited in the past using either Palestine or Kashmir as per its political convenience,” said a senior Indian diplomat.It was a reflection of the strength of ties between India and the Gulf countries that Pakistan’s repeated requests to convene a meeting of the OIC’s Council of Foreign Ministers have not been accepted so far. The Saudi-led OIC’s refusal drove foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi to tell a TV channel that he would ask Prime Minister Imran Khan “to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir”.The Imran Khan government, which came under attack from opposition parties for Qureshi’s remarks, is learnt to have hugely upset the kingdom. Pakistan is planning to send its Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa to Riyadh to try to repair relations but is yet to get confirmation from Saudi Arabia for an appointment with the Saudi leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-thank-you-note-to-the-gulf-sharpens-the-contrast-with-pak-analysis/story-doL5uiKSmNRHQeIqP4ay9L.html
15-08-2020||India||Governor Jagdeep Dhankar calls for violence-free elections in Bengal||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday called for violence-free elections in Bengal during an interaction with media persons at an Independence Day function. The crucial state assembly elections are due in 2021. “I appeal to everyone. Let us generate a climate that will give an example to the entire country that elections in the state of West Bengal are most authentic, genuine and free from any kind of violence,” Dhankhar said.Violence has marked all recent elections in the state and dozens have been killed in the run up to the elections and in post-poll violence. In 2003, at least 76 people were killed throughout the panchayat election process – the highest death toll in any election in the state. It is apprehended that the upcoming assembly elections in 2021 are likely to be no exception. The Bharatiya Janata Party which won 18 of the state’s 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, marking the party’s highest ever growth in Bengal, recently hinted that it would adopt an aggressive role in the coming elections. BJP’s state president Dilip Ghosh had tweeted in June: “Badla o hobe, badal o hobe.” (There will be revenge as well as change). The slogan appeared with Ghosh’s photo and a map of West Bengal. The party has alleged that at least 108 leaders and workers have been killed in Bengal since 2011. The ruling Trinamool Congress, which had been at loggerheads with the governor on several occasions, had accused Dhankhar of acting like a mouthpiece of the BJP Recently chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said: “I think the governor is acting more dangerously than a BJP mouthpiece” Dhankhar also said Saturday he would ensure that elections are free and fair this time. “I have been trying for it from day one. And I can assure this will happen. This is bound to happen. This is my constitutional obligation. I am working harmoniously with everyone concerned to ensure that democratic fabric is not tainted and stained and that it is kept sublime,” he said. A TMC minister, however, took a jibe at the governor and said that Dhankhar, while commenting on poll violence, could be referring to the BJP ruled states. “I think he was referring to the country as a whole and was criticizing the violence which the BJP has unleashed. Even we want elections to be violence-free. The most free and fair elections are held in West Bengal. The governor was referring to BJP-ruled states where anarchy is going on,” said science and technology minister Bratya Basu.“We welcome the governor’s statement. It is his constitutional duty and obligation to ensure that elections are held in a free and fair manner. While it is true that violence has been unleashed in BJP ruled states, it would also be a big joke if we say that elections in Bengal are held in a free and fair manner. In the BJP ruled states terror started after 2014. In West Bengal it started in 2011,” said Sujan Chakraborty, a CPI (M) legislator from Jadavpur.Chief minister Banerjee along with the chief secretary, home secretary, director general of police and Kolkata police commissioner, went to Raj Bhavan to meet the governor on Saturday noon. “The governor had invited us for tea in the afternoon. But we won’t be able to attend it. So we went to meet him much earlier without prior appointment,” Banerjee said after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-jagdeep-dhankar-calls-for-violence-free-elections-in-bengal/story-qYPWTREQ7K7vosfSoMqbkI.html
15-08-2020||India||No dearth of medicines and PPE kits in Tripura, CM Biplab Deb on I-Day||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said on Saturday that there is no shortage of medicines and personal protective equipment (PPE), amid the surge in coronavirus cases in the state.Unfurling the national flag at the Assam Rifles Parade Ground here on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day, he lauded Covid-19 warriors for their services.“Independence Day is being celebrated in the country in an unusual situation due to the coronavirus pandemic. The government is taking all measures to contain the spread of the disease. There is no dearth of medicine and PPE kits in the state,” Deb said.He inspected the guard of honour of various contingents of the security forces and presented medals to the police personnel for their distinguished services. Only a few ministers and government officials were present on the occasion.The chief minister said the government has arranged for 2,129 beds for treatment of coronavirus patients and a medical college will be set up in Ambassa, the headquarters of Dhalai district. Inspected the parade & took salutation of forces during celebration of 74th Independence Day at Assam Rifles ground in Agartala.Also distributed various Police Medals and addressed beloved people of Tripura.#TripuraCelebrates15thAug#IDay2020 pic.twitter.com/nqkliDLPEWThe total number of coronavirus patients in the state rose to 6,952 with 164 new cases reported on Saturday, while the toll climbed to 50 as four more persons succumbed to the disease, a health department official said.Deb said the government is working to bring the entire state under the broadband network connection.The Centre has allocated Rs 3,193 crore for the 15-km long Agartala-Akhaura rail link project and the work for it is progressing well, he said, adding that a survey for an alternative railway line from Belonia in South Tripura district to Dharmanagar in North Tripura has been started.Tripura will emerge as a logistic hub in the north-east region as vessels will start ferrying goods soon through the India-Bangladesh protocol route on the Gomati river, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dearth-of-medicines-and-ppe-kits-in-tripura-cm-biplab-deb-on-i-day/story-iaoHeZebnOB7UmI42HFjnN.html
15-08-2020||India||Despite HC stay, Jagan sticks to 3 capitals plan, says foundation for executive capital at Vizag shortly||YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday announced laying of foundation stone for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool shortly. Jagan’s announcement at the 74th Independence Day celebrations held at Indira Gandhi municipal stadium in Vijayawada came at a time when the state high court is hearing a record number of 55 public interest litigation petitions challenging the recently enacted legislations to form three capitals in the state. Addressing the gathering after unfurling the tricolour, the chief minister said the decision to establish three capitals was taken to ensure balanced growth of the state and to do justice to all the three regions. “The bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh in 2014 has left deep wounds on the people of the state and they are deeply hurt. Decentralisation of development and balanced growth in all the three regions of the state by forming three capital cities is the only way to undo the injustice done to Andhra Pradesh due to bifurcation,” Jagan said. He added that foundation stones for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool will be laid “very soon”.His government’s plan to lay the foundation stone on August 16 for the construction of the executive capital at Visakhapatnam has been halted due to the state high court’s order extending the status quo on the three capitals plan till August 27. The government has moved the Supreme Court seeking to vacate the stay, but the SC has not taken up the case till now. Also Read: After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan decides to develop it againThe chief minister also reiterated his government’s commitment to achieve special category status for Andhra Pradesh.“It was a promise made by the Centre in the Parliament. Today, the Centre doesn’t need anybody’s support. I hope the situation will change and by God’s grace, we will get Special Category Status”, he said, adding that his government would continue to make efforts in that direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-hc-stay-jagan-sticks-to-3-capitals-plan-says-foundation-for-executive-capital-at-vizag-shortly/story-OWBr3DZLr0ukeRCYT3YttO.html
15-08-2020||India||Like ‘Quit India’, campaign needed against Covid-19, says Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday called for a mass awareness campaign on the lines of the Quit India Movement against the British in order to drive out coronavirus from the state and the country.Speaking at the Independence Day function at Swarnim Park in Gandhinagar, he said that while the pandemic had slowed down the pace of development in the state, his government was committed to make up for it.“To achieve independence and drive out the British, the entire country resonated with the slogan of Quit India. As a result, the British left the country and we got freedom.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Likewise, let’s start a mass awareness campaign to free the country and Gujarat of coronavirus,” he said.Rupani also spoke about the initiatives taken by his government to help people tide over the current crisis.“It is our strength that despite earthquake, flood, cyclone, Gujarat and its people have changed crises into opportunities. Our development arc has slowed, but we are committed to make it up,” he said. The state government has managed to bring down the Covid-19 death rate to 2.1 per cent and increase the recovery rate to 78 per cent, he said.Due to its effort to deal with the pandemic, the state government has received positive feedback from the Supreme Court, World Health Organisation and Niti Aayog, he said.The state government has announced a Rs 14,000 crore Aatmanirbhar package for small businesses, farmers, fishermen, among others to revive the economy, he said.The state government had offered Rs 1,370 crore as assistance to MSMEs affected by the pandemic, he added.Chief minister’s wife Anjali Rupani and senior bureaucrats were present at the event in the state capital.Due to the pandemic, the function was held in the capital for the first time in 15 years instead of the headquarters of some other district in the state, the tradition started by former chief minister Narendra Modi.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Rupani also felicitated “corona warriors,” including senior doctors of the state coronavirus taskforce health workers from different parts of the state for their contribution to the fight against the pandemic.He said the state government has launched the Industrial Policy 2020 under the Aatmanirbhar Gujarat, which will ensure holistic development of the backward areas of the state.The chief minister said the Gujarat government will take a lead in the National Digital Health Mission announced by the prime minister.At least 1.5 lakh youngsters in the state had benefited from the Mukhya Mantri Apprenticeship Scheme, he said.Apart from this, land rights have been transferred to 51,400 tribals under Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) PESA Act.Listing some of the achievements of his government, the chief minister said that water reservoir capacity has increased under Sujalam Sufalam Yojana, while uninterrupted power and quality electricity has been provided to farmers.Rupani also spoke about the recently-launched Mukhya Mantri Kisan Sahay Yojana and various steps taken to help the farmers in the state.Moreover, the state government had set up new medical and engineering colleges, some of them in tribal areas, to cater to the needs of the regions, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-quit-india-campaign-needed-against-covid-19-says-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani/story-8NJ10mSMwf839M09pjggQL.html
15-08-2020||India||Air India crew members who survived Kozhikode air crash given special leave to recover from tragedy||The cabin crew members who operated the ill-fated Air India Express flight IX 1344 that operated from Dubai to Kozhikode on August 7 have been granted special paid leave for a month.An airline source said that these crew members have been given special leave so that they can rest and recover from the tragedy. The plane overshot the runway while lading at the table top Kozhikode airport; it had four cabin crew members and two pilots.While the two pilots lost their lives in the accident, all four cabin crew were rescued. Total 18 people had lost their lives in the tragedy.Top sources from the airline said that the cabin crew, who were stationed at their seats while landing, had started taking off their seat belts when the accident took place. While two male cabin crew (Abhik Biswas and Lalit Kumar) went unhurt, a senior female cabin crew - Shilpa Katare - suffered minor injuries.One of the male cabin crew members had to be rushed to the intensive care unit of a hospital, but is believed to be stable as of now. While Katare got discharged and returned to her home in Calicut on Wednesday, Akshay Pal Singh, the fourth male cabin crew is recuperating in the hospital. He is believed to have fractured his leg and sustain multiple inuries.While speculation continues around the probable reason for the accident, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) on Wednesday announced that a team of five officials have begun their probe on the cause and the contributory factors leading to the accident. The team has been told to complete the investigations in five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabin-crew-members-who-survived-kozhikode-air-crash-given-special-leave-to-recover-from-tragedy/story-akPQH1CWSg2BYNObbwYl9H.html
15-08-2020||India||Amit Shah asks countrymen to take a pledge on 74th Independence Day||Union home minister Amit Shah has said that the 74th Independence Day is witness to an independent, strong and self-sufficient India that our freedom fighters had dreamt of and he urged the citizens to take pledge on the occasion to fulfill Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.“On this Independence Day, come, let us pledge to fulfill the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s dream of an Atmanirbhar Bharat and contribute to India achieving newer feats by adopting as much as possible ‘Make in India’ productsShah made the comments while unfurling the National Flag at his New Delhi residence. He also paid tribute to all brave men who have safeguarded India’s territorial integrity with their valour and sacrifice.“On the occasion of Independence Day, I bow before those who contributed to India’s freedom with their valour and sacrifice and also pay my respects to those brave men and women who made the supreme sacrifice in the cause of the nation’s unity, integrity and security,” he said.Building on the theme of self reliance, the home minister added that the current government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had uplifted the poor and deprived sections from poverty and empowered them. He also said that India had emerged as a powerful country.“On one hand the Modi Government has provided poor and deprived sections with housing, power and health insurance, while on the other hand India has emerged as a powerful nation,” Shah said.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on making the country self-reliant and strong while announcing several initiatives like national digital health mission and mass production of Covid-19 vaccine once it is approved for mass use by scientists during his 7th consecutive Independence Day speech delivered from the ramparts of the Red Fort.The prime minister stressed on Aatmanirbhar Bharat and presented a broad outline for reviving India’s economic growth with the mantra of self-reliance at its heart. He also said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty despite the dual threats of terrorism and expansionism without naming either Pakistan or China.PM Modi said his government had committed Rs 110 lakh crore for national infrastructure projects to boost the economy and create jobs and added that all six lakh villages in the country will be connected with optical fibre in 1,000 days.Dwelling extensively on the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, he gave a call for reducing imports and pushing exports of finished products in place of raw material. He added that India will have to focus on the twin mantras of Make in India as well as Make for World.The prime minister also underscored his government’s commitment to holding assembly polls in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir after the ongoing delimitation exercise is over and stated that a new era of development has begun in the region after the scrapping of Article 370 a year ago.While announcing the launch of the national digital health mission from Saturday, Modi said citizens will be issued a health card that will have all their medical information, adding the project will revolutionise healthcare in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-asks-countrymen-to-take-a-pledge-on-74th-independence-day/story-SUxCOJIrkgkf5Y8rOJZHML.html
15-08-2020||India||Nepalese PM KP Sharma Oli calls Narendra Modi to greet him on I-day||Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli called Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to convey his greetings on India’s 74th Independence Day and also congratulated the government for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, the external affairs ministry said in a statement“The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries. Prime Minister offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard,” the statement said.On August 9, India handed over 10 ventilators to Nepal for its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi thanked his Nepalese counterpart for his telephone call and recalled the civilizational and cultural links that India and Nepal share, the statement said.Oli’s phone call came amid Indo-Nepal ties hitting a rough patch after the Himalayan country recently unveiled a new map showing parts of Uttarakhand as its territory.On Friday, Oli took to Twitter to greet Modi. “Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepalese-pm-kp-sharma-oli-calls-narendra-modi-to-greet-him-on-i-day/story-QdIqvOcdo7AWzGHP1lCODM.html
15-08-2020||India||Defence minister contradicted PM Modi on Ladakh stand-off, says Ahmed Patel||Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Saturday criticised the Centre over the eastern Ladakh stand-off and said that the Defence Minister contradicted Prime Minister on the matter.“Merely saying it is not enough. If they gave a response we are happy. We must believe what PM says but he and his government know the reality. The reality is not good. If they (Chinese soldiers) entered into our territory -Defence Minister said something and PM said something else,” he said while speaking to ANI.“They should at least take Opposition into confidence. If something has happened then what is there to be ashamed of? It happened earlier too. The action should be taken diplomatically, economically and they should be pushed back if they entered into this side,” he added.The statement from the Congress leader came hours after Prime Minister in his Independence Day speech said that India’s soldiers have given a fitting reply to anyone who has challenged the country’s sovereignty, “from LoC to LAC”“From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), whenever India’s sovereignty has been challenged, our soldiers have answered them in their own language,” said the Prime Minister, in a strong message to Pakistan and China without naming either.Referring to the clash with China in June at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, PM Modi further stated, “India’s integrity is supreme for us. What our jawans can do, what the country can do, the world saw that in Ladakh. Today, I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-contradicted-pm-modi-on-ladakh-stand-off-says-ahmed-patel/story-cx5jjzsiC0AhMslrRLai6I.html
15-08-2020||India||2,496 new cases push Odisha’s Covid-19 tally to over 57,000||Odisha on Saturday reported record 2,496 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 57,126, a health department official said.Nine more coronavirus patients also succumbed to the disease, following which the death toll rose to 333, he said.Of the new patients, 1,591 were reported from among the people lodged in different quarantine centres, while 905 were detected during contact tracing.The fresh cases were found in 29 of the state’s 30 districts.Khurda district, of which state capital Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the maximum number of new cases at 378, followed by Ganjam at 327, Balasore at 165, Sundargarh at 156, Rayagada at 146 and Koraput at 133. “Regret to inform of the demise of nine Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the Health and Family Welfare Department said in a twitter.Of the nine fatalities, four were reported from Sambalpur district, two from Cuttack and one each from Ganjam, Keonjhar and Nayagarh.Besides, 53 more Covid-19 patients have lost their lives in the state but these fatalities have been attributed to other reasons.There are 17,534 active cases in the state at present, while 39,206 patients have so far recovered from the disease.Odisha tested record 47,887 samples for Covid-19 on Friday. So far, the state has conducted 8,55,713 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-496-new-cases-push-odisha-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-57-000/story-quKcGRN5ekJOPMzFylrSLK.html
15-08-2020||India||J-K on a new journey of normalcy and development, says L-G Sinha in I-Day speech||A new era of normalcy and development has dawned in Jammu and Kashmir due to the changes effected in the last one year, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Saturday and expressed the resolve to make peace, progress and social harmony the most integral part of the transformed narrative. “It is a matter of great sorrow that the legacy of cultural syncretism has been eclipsed by the vicious story of sectarianism. But, we want to transform the narrative once again. We want to make development, peace, progress and social harmony the most integral part of the narrative of Jammu and Kashmir,” Sinha said in his Independence Day speech at Sher-e-Kashmir cricket stadium here. He said that the government is committed to providing a better alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation for the people of Jammu and Kashmir and urged the youths to engage in activism that helps the nation to progress. “After the constitutional change enacted in 2019, the central government took not one or two, but historic 50 decisions to transform the face of the region. A new era of normalcy and development has dawned due to the changes effected in the last year; a new journey has been undertaken,” the L-G said referring to the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year. Referring to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s doctrine of ‘Insaniyat, Jamhooriyat and Kashmiriyat’, Sinha lamented that humanity conceded defeat to terrorism for decades in Kashmir, democracy suffered at the hands of vested interests and Kashmiriyat was massacred to appease the hatred that ensued. Youth and student life are defined through activism and youth-power has been the harbinger of all transformations, said Sinha, who took charge on August 7. “Activism is not a bad thing, but to choose the correct option is of utmost significance. Your activism should be directed at the development of the nation, as this country belongs to none other than you, and you are its future leaders,” he said, exorting the youths in Jammu and Kashmir to take advantage of the new opportunities. The L-G said the government has five main guiding principles - to put in place a just and transparent system of governance, a thriving grassroots level democracy, maximizing the reach of government welfare schemes; accelerating economic development and creation of employment. Sinha said some “wrong decisions” were unfortunately taken after independence which inevitably led to resentment in the hearts of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and distanced them from the rest. “This distancing led to the widening of fissures and cracks. Generation after generation was sacrificed at the altar of hatred. Instead of countless doors that should have opened for the people in independent India, numerous doors closed upon the people, and distances increased,” he said. He, however, said equality and justice are being gradually restored in Jammu and Kashmir. Sinha said his administration stands by all those who are committed to and strive towards strengthening democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. “Elected representatives of local self-governments, who face threat, are being provided with a Rs 25 lakh life insurance cover. To make policing more effective, the necessary reforms are being undertaken,” he said, remarks which come in the backdrop of recent attacks on political workers. “We are committed to providing a better alternative for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. An alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation,” he added. The L-G said no system of governance can be truly just if even one person is deprived of equal social, political and economic rights. “The rights of women who marry outside Jammu and Kashmir are now protected. “Refugees from West Pakistan, displaced migrants, pahadi speaking people, Other Backward Classes and safai karmis have finally found long delayed justice. They now possess democratic, employment and property rights. “An unbiased reservation policy is being put in place now in education and employment sectors,” he said. The L-G said the full application of 73rd and 74th amendments of the Constitution has laid the ground for a strong grassroots democracy in the UT. “Panchayats and municipalities lay the base for thriving, significant and accountable grassroots democracy. To ensure development, unprecedented energy is being channelized at the ground level through 960 councillors, as well as more than 27,000 sarpanchs and panchs,” he said. He expressed gratitude to J-K police, central paramilitary forces and the jawans of the military, for sacrificing their lives to ensure the integrity and freedom of the nation and ensure that the citizens of the country live a secure and peaceful life. Sinha said the government aims to create ultra-modern and world-class infrastructure in the UT. “We have to transform Jammu and Kashmir into a world class tourism destination. We have to create a peaceful environment here. I expect the full cooperation and support of people here that we may create a new Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. “We are committed to provide a better alternative for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. An alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation,” he added. Sinha said it was the dream of Sardar Patel that whole India should not just exist as a political map, but also move forward together at the same time and conquer new milestones of development and progress. “To honour this dream, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’ on 31 October 2015, on the eve of National Integration Day. “This programme aims at increasing and encouraging cultural interactions among the different parts of the country, and motivates the people to engage more deeply with cultures other than their own. Under this programme, Jammu and Kashmir has been linked to Tamil Nadu. “I hope and wish that this endeavour to strengthen cultural relations is not restricted to a specific area, rather people of Jammu and Kashmir should forge strong relations with each and every region of the country. It is my strongest and cherished belief that Jammu and Kashmir will immensely contribute to the realization of our dream of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-on-a-new-journey-of-normalcy-and-development-says-l-g-sinha-in-i-day-speech/story-Y9UnKipmliH07DRFgZqFOK.html
15-08-2020||India||Vested interests have misappropriated peace dividends, says Nagaland governor in I-Day message||Nagaland Governor’s RN Ravi said on Saturday vested interests have misappropriated the dividends of peace and didn’t allow them to reach the people of the northeastern state. In an Independence Day message, Ravi, who is also the interlocutor for the ongoing Naga peace talks, mentioned how the “waves of positive change” sweeping all parts of the country seem to have bypassed Nagaland. “When the security forces and Naga armed groups agreed to suspend operations against each other paving way for a political settlement, the legitimate expectation of the people of Nagaland was dividends of peace—freedom from fear of guns, better health, better education, better infrastructure, better livelihood opportunities, an atmosphere to dream and an eco-system to pursue their dreams,” the governor said in his message. “Incongruously, a deep entrenched network of vested interests has emerged during the period which has misappropriated the dividends of peace and didn’t allow them to reach the people. There is mass-scale mayhem and miscarriage of dreams and expectations of the people of Nagaland. It is unendurable and unacceptable,” he added. Ravi’s message comes at a time when another round of meetings to thrash out a final agreement for the decades-old Naga political issue is set to begin in New Delhi from next week in which senior National Socialist Council of Nagaland-IM (NSCN-IM) and Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) leaders are expected to take part. The message also comes in the backdrop of a demand by NSCN-IM to remove Ravi as the interlocutor for the peace talks—something which the NNPGs, seven other outfits who are part of the talks, are opposing. The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM had been in peace talks with the government of India since 1997 and signed a Framework Agreement (FA) in 2015, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long-pending Naga political issue. Though peace talks with NSCN-IM and the working committee of NNPGs concluded in Delhi on October 31, 2019, a formal deal to end the decades-old Naga political problem is still awaited. “Nagaland is endowed with one of the finest human and natural resources. Unfortunately, today it has the dubious distinction of the worst-performing state in the country including the northeast region on almost all the significant indicators of human development,” Ravi said. The governor mentioned that nearly 25% of the Nagaland’s children are not enrolled in schools and around 60% of youth have not been to high school. The poor investment climate, internet connectivity and lack of progress in agriculture and horticulture sectors were also highlighted in the message. “In India’s grand march forward, Nagaland cannot be left behind. We will have to break the vice-like grip of the vicious circle of the network of vested interests and make way for the virtuous circle of peace, prosperity and happiness for our people,” he said in the message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vested-interests-have-misappropriated-peace-dividends-says-nagaland-governor-in-i-day-message/story-oJAq5C9iNx7WGHa4zL7gVO.html
15-08-2020||India||Former PMs, key senior leaders likely to skip Independence Day ‘At Home’ event due to Covid-19||For the first time, no former Indian Prime Minister is likely to attend the ‘At Home’ reception at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Saturday — an event that usually attracts the who’s who of the national capital. According to officials involved in the event, former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Devegowda are unlikely to attend the event that will see a subdued gathering of 110 people at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Convention Centre. For the first time, the customary function will see no spouses of the invitees, no live food counters, no freedom fighters and no free interaction with VVIPs—several new rules of a new normal, protocol-wrapped ceremony, amid the pandemic. Also read: ‘Time to move away from ordinary’ - Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speechApart from Singh and Devegowda, some other VVIPs may also skip the event. Union home minister Amit Shah, who has put himself in home isolation according to the advice will not come. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was recently admitted in the hospital is also unlikely to attend the event. She also did not attend the flag hoisting ceremony at the Congress headquarters on Saturday morning and in her absence, former defence minister AK Antony hoisted the flag. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who is still on a ventilator after a life-saving brain surgery, is another invitee who will be missing the event. According to officials, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, is likely to remain absent. According to his aides, Azad is avoiding large gatherings. He too, could not be seen at the flag hoisting ceremony at the party headquarters. A total of about 100 guests, including 26 Corona warriors, have been invited for the programme that will start with a brief speech by President Ram Nath Kovind hailing the Covid warriors. Also read: ‘Peaceful resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi issue unprecedented’ - PM ModiRefreshment including traditional delicacies such as samosas, dhokla, along with tea, would be served by a limited number of waiters who have been tested negative for Covid-19. All guest tables would be named after rivers of India and each guest would be ushered into his or her assigned place. The guest list has been heavily pruned to a maximum 90 from the normal gathering of 1,500 dignitaries. The duration for the event is likely to be reduced to barely an hour from the normal schedule of two to two and a half hours, said an official. “There would be a minimum celebration for the sake of holding the event. We have applied a rationale or logic while selecting the limited number of guests, but as a large number of dignitaries could not be called, the selection might still look like a random choice,” said an official. As a result, no ministers of state (MoSs) have been invited. Even all cabinet ministers may not get a chance to enjoy the Rashtrapati Bhavan hospitalities on August 15. “Apart from the Prime Minister, the members of the cabinet committee on security (defence, home, external affairs and finance) and a select few senior cabinet ministers would be called. The list of ministers may not go beyond ten VVIPs,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pms-key-senior-leaders-likely-to-skip-independence-day-at-home-event-due-to-covid-19/story-pWNIcN9DU1Ja5KrFv7LvMM.html
15-08-2020||India||32 babies born in Odisha Covid-19 hotspot have no symptoms: Officials||Officials in Odisha’s Covid-19 hotspot of Ganjam have said 32 babies have so far been born to infected mothers in the district but the infants do not any symptoms of the coronavirus disease.Vijay Amrita Kulange, Ganjam district collector, said while 57 pregnant women had delivered in the Covid hospital, only 32 were diagnosed with Covid-19. The rest were housed in quarantine centres, but shifted to Covid hospital as the centres don’t have facilities for childbirth. “All the mothers have now recovered from infection and are healthy,” said Kulange. Officials said as pregnancy boosted the risk of serious disease from respiratory viral infections, they were apprehensive of the pregnant women testing positive for Covid-19.“Viral infections can be severe in pregnant women as the immune system is geared toward making sure not to create any immune response against the baby. So the mother’s immune defence system is partly compromised,” Dr J Parida, a Bhubaneswar-based immunologist, said.According to officials, 88 Covid-19 positive pregnant women have delivered babies during the pandemic with only one baby contracting the viral disease. While Ganjam accounted for 32, Balasore accounted for 15. All the mothers have recovered from the viral disease after undergoing treatment at various Covid hospitals in the district.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik took to Twitter on Friday to express his happiness over the delivery of healthy babies from mothers diagnosed with Covid-19.Meanwhile, the situation in Ganjam seems to be gradually improving with the sample positivity rate going below 15 from over 70% last month. The district has reported 14,122 cases so far from one lakh samples tested. A sero-survey to measure the Immunoglobulin G in the blood of people in Berhampur town of Ganjam district by the Regional Medical Research Centre found that as much as 31% have developed antibodies to Covid-19. The antibody formation is likely to be much higher now as the survey could measure the antibody formed 14 days ago.Besides, the recovery rate in the district increased from 68.8% on August 1 to 82.2% on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-babies-born-in-odisha-covid-19-hotspot-have-no-symptoms-officials/story-mMSeDgQEtxZD7V6rd6WB7M.html
15-08-2020||India||DDA Assistant Director, 2 other staff members arrested in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested three officials of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), including an Assistant Director, in connection with a bribery case.An upper division clerk and a security guard have also been arrested for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1 Lakh.The assistant director has been identified as Sudhanshu Ranjan, while the name of the upper division clerk is Ajeet Bhardwaj. The security guard’s name, according to the CBI, is Darwan Singh.The arrests were made on a complaint filed by a person who wanted to sell a plot he bought from one of the allottees. That person, known to the complainant, was allotted a plot by the DDA in place of his slum. The complaint was asked for a bribe of Rs 4 lakh for the sale of the plot.The CBI laid a trap after the complaint was registered and caught the public servant red handed while accepting Rs 1 lakh as part of the bribe. The other accused were also arrested subsequently.“Searches were conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused at Delhi and Noida which led to the recovery of incriminating documents,” the CBI said.The arrested accused will be produced before the court later on Satuday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-assistant-director-2-other-staff-members-arrested-in-bribery-case/story-y2eS7EIZJAeuyzHQSeFLNN.html
15-08-2020||India||BJP worker allegedly killed by TMC supporters in clash over hoisting tricolour on I-Day||A Bharatiya Janata Party worker was allegedly killed by supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress after clashes broke out between the two rival parties over hoisting the National flag on Independence Day at Hooghly district in south Bengal. While the BJP alleged that Sudarshan Pramanik, 40, was beaten to death by TMC supporters, the ruling party has refuted the allegations. Police have detained eight people after the incident. The clash sparked off tension at Khanakul around 60 km west of Kolkata. Authorities deployed a large police contingent to bring the situation under control. “A clash broke out between locals over hoisting the Indian flag at Khanakul in the morning. A man was killed when he was attacked with bamboo sticks. We have detained eight persons for interrogation,” said Tathagata Basu, superintendent of police of Hooghly district. Locals said that workers and supporters of both parties had gathered at the same spot to hoist the flag as their offices are located in the same area. Clashes broke out after some heated altercation and soon the supporters of rival parties attacked each other. “Such incidents will continue till the TMC is in power. Till date 108 BJP workers and leaders have been killed,” said Sayantan Basu, general secretary of BJP. TMC leader and the party’s spokesperson in the district, Prabir Ghosal, however, said: “TMC doesn’t believe or support violence and bloodshed. I have heard that it was a fight between two factions of the BJP. Police are investigating.” On July 13, the body of BJP MLA Debendra Nath Roy was found hanging in a market near his home at Hemtabad in North Dinajpur district. Police said he had died by suicide. Thereafter two more BJP workers were found dead in Bengal. Police said both had died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-allegedly-killed-by-tmc-supporters-in-clash-over-hoisting-tricolour-on-i-day/story-GShacYbgb1sMRMUkGNBIvL.html
15-08-2020||India||A slew of announcements in Kejriwal’s Independence Day address||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that schools in the national capital will not be opened until the Covid-19 situation is brought completely under control.Addressing officials and corona warriors who were invited by Kejriwal to be honoured during the Delhi government’s independence day function, the chief minister talked about the ‘Delhi Model’ and emphasised on how aggressive testing, home isolation and plasma therapy were the key game-changers in the national capital’s fight against Covid-19.“When I meet parents, they all request only one thing that schools should not be opened yet. We care for your children as much as you do. I want to assure all parents that we will not open schools in Delhi until we are fully convinced (about the city’s Covid-19 situation),” Kejriwal said during his Independence Day speech.Also read: New focus of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is ‘make for world’ - PM Modi in Independence Day speechUnlike previous years when the Delhi government’s independence day function used to be held at the Chhatrasal Stadium, this time, owing to the pandemic, the same was organised at the Delhi secretariat in ITO. Also, fewer people were invited due to prohibitions on large gatherings.The chief minister also announced that from next week, the Delhi government will start sending oxygen concentrators to the homes of Covid-19 patients even if they have recovered from the disease.“These days we are hearing cases where a Covid-19 patient tests negative, is declared recovered and is discharged from the hospital. But, within hours or a day or two, suddenly the person’s oxygen concentration decreases and the person dies. To prevent this, from next week we will be sending oxygen concentrators to all those who need it,” he said.Kejriwal had on June 22 announced the same while launching the scheme of distributing pulse oximeters to all Covid-19 patients under home isolation.Also read: ‘Time to move away from ordinary’ - Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speechThe third announcement made by Kejriwal in his speech on Saturday was about re-launching Delhi government successful ‘10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute’ (10 weeks-10 ‘o’clock-10 minutes) programme against dengue, which was first launched in September last year against dengue and other mosquito-borne diseases. The drive, Kejriwal said, will be launched again from the first week of September wherein everyone will be expected to inspect their homes for stagnant water to prevent the spread of dengue, malaria, chikungunya, zika virus among others.Before his speech, Kejriwal also launched a video message in which he urged people to pledge on three things. “First, today take the pledge that neither will you give bribe or take one. Second, pledge against pollution. Do not contribute to pollution - be it air, water or land. Third, keep your city and environment clean. Do not litter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-slew-of-announcements-in-kejriwal-s-independence-day-address/story-HfEXnUmiEeenKHQ0rfhPvL.html
15-08-2020||India||What’s the difference between SP, BJP: Mayawati after Dalit village head’s murder, boy’s death||The Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP’s) national president, Mayawati, on Saturday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh over the murder of a village head and the death of a boy in subsequent violence in the state’s Azamgarh district.Three motorcycle-borne men shot dead the 40-year-old Satyamev Jayate aka Pappu Ram on Friday evening in Bansgaon, police said.“The report about the gruesome murder of the Dalit village head Satyamev Jayate ‘Pappu’ of Bansgaon village of Azamgarh on the eve of the Independence Day and death of one crushed to death (in an accident) is extremely sad. What is the difference between the previous Samajwadi Party government and present Bharatiya Janata Party government if Dalits are subjected to atrocities in this manner and murdered?” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.Hundreds of locals gathered at the spot as news of the village head’s murder spread on Friday. A huge crowd also gathered at Bongaria Bazar. A 12-year-old boy died after he came under the wheels of a vehicle.The incident instigated the people and they attacked Bongaria Bazar police outpost and set four motorcycles on fire and pelted the police personnel with stones. Nearly five police personnel were injured in the stone-pelting.When the police tried to control the crowd, the mob resorted to stone-pelting at the police personnel. A police officer said, “We took to firing in the air to bring the situation under control.”Subhash Chandra Dubey, deputy inspector general of police, said six teams have been deployed to find and arrest the assailants involved in the murder of village head. The police would act against them under the gangster act and National Security Act (NSA), Dubey said.Officials said the situation is under control now and that the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) has been deployed in the village as a preventive measure. The police administration has also suspended the Tarwan police outpost in-charge.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and announced Rs 5 lakh each for the families of the village head and the boy. Adityanath, who expressed deep grief, also instructed officials to attach the property of the assailants and ensure action under NSA against them.Vijay Vishwash Pant, Azamgarh’s divisional commissioner, said the district administration would also give Rs 4.25 lakh each to the families of the village head and the boy as both were Dalits after the post mortem examination reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-s-the-difference-between-sp-bjp-mayawati-after-dalit-village-head-s-murder-boy-s-death/story-W2LIO5Nh9weZxbBAOSAPtM.html
15-08-2020||India||Woman claims having child with Uttarakhand BJP MLA, demands DNA test||Dehradun police have initiated a probe in an extortion case against a married woman and her family members after Rita Negi, wife of BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi from Uttarakhand’s Almora, lodged a complaint. Mrs Negi has accused the woman of demanding Rs 5 crore by threatening her that she will lodge a false rape complaint against her MLA husband.Rita Negi lodged the complaint against the woman on Friday in Dehradun’s Nehru Colony police station. HT has a copy of the FIR comprising the complaint. Negi is a legislator from Dwarahat assembly segment of Almora. The accused woman later in the evening released a video on social media in which she accused MLA’s wife Rita Negi of lodging a false complaint and alleged the MLA of sexually harassing her for the last two years. She claimed to have a daughter with the MLA. She also demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA to prove her claims.Also read: Uttarakhand commission recommends masterplan for summer capital GairsainMLA’s wife Rita Negi in her complaint stated, “The accused woman and family were residents of Dwarahat but later moved to Dehradun a few months ago. During her stay in Dawarahat she, along with her family members, often used to visit my husband with their problems.” “However, after some time when I got to know about her suspicious activities, I stopped her entry into my house as she would also try to seek my husband’s attention in the wrong way. Later she got married to a man from UP and settled in Dehradun with him and his parents,” said Rita in her complaint. She also stated that a few days ago on August 9, while she and her family were in Dwarahat, the accused woman called her son on his mobile phone and asked him to give the phone to her. “When I took the phone, she threatened me to give her Rs 5 crore else she would frame my husband in a false rape case and destroy his political career. Shocked, I came to Dehradun where I met her at a restaurant as planned. There she again repeated the same threats and demanded Rs 5 crore to which I said I could not give her such huge money,” said Rita. Next day again, the accused called her and met her in a different restaurant with her sister-in-law. “During the second meeting, she also threatened that if her demand is not met then she would frame me also in the false rape case by accusing me of helping her husband and get my son killed. When her extortion and blackmail calls didn’t stop, I decided to lodge the complaint,” she said adding, “The woman’s husband, mother and sister-in-law are also involved in this crime who too are mentioned in the complaint.” Meanwhile, the accused woman in her video message released later in the day on social media, refuted all the allegations levelled by Rita and accused MLA Negi of sexually harassing her for the last two years. “He has been sexually harassing me for the last two years and now I had a daughter out of it. All this while, I was afraid of taking action against him as he would threaten me of dire consequences citing his political status,” said the woman. Accusing Rita of framing her in a ‘false case’, she also demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA. “I had already undertaken a DNA test of my daughter and husband in which the samples didn’t match which proves that Negi is her father. I demand a DNA test of my daughter and him which will prove my claims. If the samples match then I will seek all the rights for my daughter from him as her father,” said the woman. Meanwhile, despite several attempts, MLA Negi couldn’t be contacted for his comments. Deputy inspector general Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi confirmed the development. “We have received a complaint from the MLA’s wife and registered a case against the woman for extortion and putting a person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion under relevant sections of IPC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-claims-having-child-with-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-demands-dna-test/story-rhmqS2eMNYIgKhgkT3htWP.html
15-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand commission recommends masterplan for summer capital Gairsain||The Uttarakhand rural development and migration commission’s report has recommended that a masterplan be prepared for the development of Garsain, the recently declared summer capital of the state in Chamoli district. The report stated that Garsain was one of the areas in the hill district which saw significant migration of locals to other states. The migration commission’s 95-page report on Chamoli district was released by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat here on Friday. HT has a copy of the report. On June 8 this year, the hill town of Gairsain in Chamoli district officially became the summer capital of Uttarakhand. In a surprise move in his budget speech on March 4, chief minister Rawat had announced that Gairsain located about 260 km east of Dehradun, will be the summer capital of Uttarakhand. Gairsain as the state’s capital has been a hot political issue between the ruling BJP and Opposition Congress for a long time. The migration commission’s report apart from listing the details about migration in Chamoli has also come up with recommendations on how to strengthen the rural economy in the hill district to check migration of people, especially the need to combine the indigenous Himalayan skill sets with modern technology to enhance productivity and quality that will ultimately lead to the better profit earning. According to the report, in 10 years prior to 2018, around 32,000 people have migrated from the district’s 556 villages on a temporary basis while 14,289 people have migrated from 373 villages on a permanent basis. The report also points out that 42% of the people who have migrated were in the 26 to 35 age group. Some of the recommendations made in the report include efforts be made to strengthen the rural economy in the district, employment avenues be created at the local level to check migration, horticulture be promoted as the scope for traditional crops is limited, basic facilities like roads, electricity, water supply be ensured in villages, tourism be promoted in a big way in the district, including its bordering areas with China, locals be trained in various skill sets which can help them in finding employment and so on. The chief minister said the report will help the state government to provide basic facilities, increase employment opportunities and stop migration to other states. Rawat said stress should be laid on identifying people who can be provided jobs in their districts under Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana. He said the state government has already formed a cell for this. He said the focus of the government is to provide employment to people as a large number of people have returned to the state during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to SS Negi, vice chairman Uttarakhand rural development and the migration commission, this is the fifth report that they have come up with. “We have prepared detailed reports about four districts so far that include Tehri (June 2020), Almora (June 2019), Pithoragarh (October 2019) and Pauri (April 2018)”, he said. Migration from rural areas in Uttarakhand is a serious problem with a comparison between 2001 and 2011 census data showing a very slow decadal growth of population in most of the mountain districts of the state, according to the Commission. The data analyzed by the Commission points towards a positive rate of decadal increase in the population of districts like Dehradun, US Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar while negative in Pauri, Almora, Tehri, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-commission-recommends-masterplan-for-summer-capital-gairsain/story-GAwyoNKUX3DIepMy6TrQJL.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Andhra Pradesh govt decides to develop Amaravati again and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan government decides to develop the city againAs the Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday extended status quo on the shifting of executive capital of the state from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam till August 27, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government came out with a proposal to complete all the unfinished works in Amaravati and develop it as a metropolitan region. Read moreIndia’s Covid-19 tally over 2.52 million, recoveries cross 1.8 millionIndia’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared to more than 2.52 million after 65,002 fresh cases and 956 deaths were reported in a single day, the Union health ministry data showed on Saturday. The surge in numbers came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said three indigenous vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country and that the government is waiting for a nod from researchers. Read more‘Peaceful resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi issue unprecedented’: PM ModiThere has been a peaceful resolution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and the way the people of the country have behaved is not only unprecedented but will also serve as an inspiration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday during his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort in New Delhi. Read moreNew Zealand PM Ardern seen resisting call to delay September vote as Covid-19 flares upNew Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is set to decide by Monday whether a general election will go ahead on Sept. 19, with most analysts expecting her to resist opposition calls for a delay due to a flare up in coronavirus infections. Read moreFive companies keen on IPL title sponsorshipAfter Vivo’s exit as title sponsors from the upcoming edition of IPL, the Indian cricket board has received expression of interest from at least five companies to step in for the UAE edition, from September 19 to November 8. Read moreFacebook integrates Messenger chats on Instagram in new updateFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg last year said the company plans to unify Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. We’re seeing the first evidence of this plan as Facebook merges Messenger on Instagram. There’s a new update on Instagram that changes the in-app messaging feature and merges it with Messenger. Read moreMahindra Thar 2020 breaks cover, offers petrol engine and feature-rich cabinMahindra Thar 2020 was officially unveiled on Saturday after an eager wait in what is one of the cornerstone offerings in the Indian automotive calendar for 2020. Read moreKriti Sanon, Ankita Lokhande, sister Shweta lead global prayer service for Sushant Singh Rajput. See pics, videosSushant Singh Rajput’s friends and family have come together to offer prayers on the two-month anniversary of his death. Sushant died by suicide on June 14, at the age of 34. Sushant’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, shared a video of a prayer service being held at their family home in Patna, Bihar. Read moreHappy Independence Day 2020: Real history of Indian flag and significance of its tricolourDo you know how the tricolour or tiranga, as the national flag of India is popularly called, came into being before it was first hoisted at Red Fort on Independence Day? Do you really think that the saffron, green and white on our flag is divided on the basis of religions? Read moreFan asks Sonu Sood for better Internet speed on mobile. His reply is hilariousSonu Sood has won several hearts for going above and beyond to help those who reach out to him. On Twitter, the actor is seen replying to many people who post about what they need help with. Form assisting people to go home to offering them things to make their lives better, the actor has tugged at heartstrings of many with his actions. Read moreWatch| Ladakh: Clear message to China as soldiers hoist tricolour at Pangong lake||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-andhra-pradesh-govt-decides-to-develop-amaravati-again-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2K7Lc3asFZzxLsuiya5U8L.html
15-08-2020||India||Assam CM reiterates commitment to implementing Clause 6 of Assam Accord||Amid a Covid-19 pandemic and a slew of disasters including, floods, landslides, blow out of a natural gas well, among others, Assam on Saturday celebrated a low-key Independence Day.  Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal led the celebrations in Guwahati by unfurling the tricolour followed by the guard of honour ceremony. Similar celebrations were held at all 33 district headquarters which were attended by cabinet ministers.  With assembly elections due in 8 months, Sonowal reiterated the state government’s commitment to implementing Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, which pertains to safeguarding, preserving and promoting Assamese identity and heritage. “We are committed to implementing the Assam Accord and are taking steps to rid Assam of illegal foreigners. The high-level committee on Clause 6 has submitted its report and despite problems faced due to COVID and other disasters like flood, the state government and the Centre have initiated steps to ensure its implementation,” he said.  Stressing that the implementation of Assam Accord requires complete sealing of the Indo-Bangla border in Assam, the CM mentioned the steps taken since 2014 in that regard including composite fencing and use of technology to protect the riverine border points.   Also read: From the ramparts of Red Fort, PM says ‘India will realise its dream’“We have framed a new land policy and taken steps to provide land deeds to nearly 1 lakh landless people. To ensure preservation and propagation of Assamese language, a law has been enacted to include Assamese in all schools in the state except areas in the Bodo Territorial Area District (BTAD) and Barak Valley,” Sonowal added. The CM mentioned various steps taken by the government to provide succour to COVID affected people within the state as well as others stranded in other parts of the country and abroad.   “Every crisis brings opportunities as well. During this lockdown period from March to July, our farmers were able to sell fruits and vegetables worth Rs 852 crore to other states and export as well,” he said.  Sonowal announced few schemes especially targeting the agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and food processing sectors on the occasion. Also read: ‘Time to move away from ordinary’ - Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speechSetting up of rice clusters in Dhemaji and Baksa districts, opening of rice procurement centres in all districts, a centre of excellence for organic agriculture at Biswanath district, and setting up of cold storage chains in all districts are some of the new initiatives announced.  “This year besides COVID-19, Assam has faced annual floods, landslides, Japanese encephalitis, African swine fever as well as the blow out and fire at a natural gas well in Baghjan. I offer my condolences to families of those killed in these calamities,” said Sonowal. One major shift this year was the venue of the state’s main Independence Day event which was held at Judges’ Field in Guwahati after a gap of 12 years. Since 1947, the event was being held at this ground till 2008 when the state government decided to keep the venue exclusively for sporting events.  The venue was first shifted to the nearby Latasil Field and later to the playground of College of Veterinary Sciences at Khanapara. But since the Khanapara filed has been transformed into a COVID care centre, Judges’ Field was chosen as the venue this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-reiterates-commitment-to-implementing-clause-6-of-assam-accord/story-9wlGv3q55Sfvz9zJlAxCbN.html
15-08-2020||India||Why are our rulers scared of naming China, asks Congress||The Congress once again attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not naming China in his Independence Day speech on Saturday, asking the government to tell people how it proposes to push back Chinese forces occupying Indian territory.The opposition party also criticised the government for its ‘atmanirbhar (self reliant)’ slogan and questioned how it will keep the country’s freedom when it has sold 32 public sector undertakings, handed over the railways and airports to private hands and attacked Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Food Corporation of India (FCI).“We all are proud of our armed, paramilitary and police forces. We 130 crore Indians and all Congress workers are proud of them. Whenever there has been an attack on us, they have given a befitting reply to the attackers,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters after the flag hoisting ceremony at the party headquarters in Delhi.Watch l ‘Why is govt scared of naming China?’: Congress on PM Modi’s I-day speech “But we must also think about why our rulers are scared of taking China’s name. Today, when China has occupied our territory we must ask the government how it proposes to push the Chinese forces back and protect our territorial integrity,” he said. In his Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, the Prime Minister delivered a sharp message to China and Pakistan, declaring that the armed forces deployed along the borders with the two countries have given a fitting reply to those who sought to challenge India’s sovereignty. However, he did not take the names of the two countries.In his 90-minute speech, the Prime Minister extensively focused on the campaign to build a self-reliant India.Also read | Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speech“Those who talk about ‘atmanirbhar’, the foundation of which was laid by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and other freedom fighters, we need to ask them will this government which has sold 32 public sector undertakings, handed over railways and airports to private hands and attacked LIC and FCI, keep the independence of this country secure,” Surjewala asked. “Today, we all should take a pledge to sound a bugle of a decisive battle against those who attack that freedom. The will be the true nationalism,” he added.Congress president Sonia Gandhi did not attend the flag hoisting ceremony and veteran leader AK Antony unfurled the tricolour at the party headquarters instead. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was among the party leaders present on the occasion but he did not speak to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-our-rulers-scared-of-naming-china-asks-congress/story-UVBTCDTBVFkg87HYF36bRI.html
15-08-2020||India||They would have died anyway: Goa health dept defends Covid-19 treatment record||Health authorities in Goa have defended their record of treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the coastal state, claiming they have the lowest fatality rate in the country.Speaking at a press conference Dr Uday Kakodkar, the nodal officer of the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital, said the death rate of admitted patients, those with severe symptoms and comorbidities, stood at 5.77% while the overall fatality rate was less than 1%.“Till date at the Covid hospital, we have had 1,126 admissions of which 65 persons have died. These are people who would have died Covid or no Covid. They had hypertension, diabetes, kidney disease and all the other morbidities and Covid put them in fast forward gear. Just because of Covid they came to us, else they would have gone to the many (private) hospitals and died over there,” Kakodkar said.“Importantly, we have been able to cure 75% of our critical patients, which is a very high number and we are on par with any hospital in India,” Kadodkar added.The hospital has also conducted 32 caesarean surgeries on pregnant women who had tested positive, seven normal deliveries, two orthopaedic surgeries and two general surgeries. Plasma therapy has also been given to a total of 14 critically ill patients of whom 2 have already recovered and have tested negative, he added.The Goa government has been under pressure from opposition parties over its handling of the pandemic in the state, where 93 people have succumbed and the number of cases registered has touched 10,970 of which 3,720 are active cases. There were 476 fresh cases on Friday.“Health minister Vishwajeet Rane has not only failed to control the spike in the pandemic in Goa but also has been lying consistently since March 2020 about his department’s preparedness to control the pandemic and the actual number of cases in Goa,” Girish Chodankar, the president of the Congress’ Goa unit, said.“The BJP should own up and admit to Goans for having lied to them that Goa was COVID-free and apologise for the spike in such a high number of cases despite claiming and parading on all media that Goa is Covid-free,” Chodankar said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), too, hit out the ruling government.“The government’s lack of vision to anticipate growth in the number of cases and total unpreparedness has resulted in such a chaotic situation that patients with several other ailments who need medical attention have been left to fend for themselves as they are shunned upon even in the GMC,” Pradeep Padgaonkar, the AAP’s secretary, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-would-have-died-anyway-goa-health-dept-defends-covid-19-treatment-record/story-wd4SJ2BsM36db4OJyV60iN.html
15-08-2020||India||13-year-old girl rescued in J-K, police say she was being forced to marry 35-year-old||The police in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday rescued a 13-year-old girl, who was being married to a 35-year-old man in Ramnagar area of Udhampur district.The cops have also arrested six people, including the parents of the girl.“We got information from the sarpanch of Katwalt village that a minor girl was being forcibly married at Gaghote with a 35-year-old man. A police team immediately raided the place and sought proof of date of birth of the minor girl in which it was found that the she was only 13,” Udhampur SSP Sargun Shukla said.The police team led by SHO Ramnagar immediately arrested six people including the girl’s parents, would-be husband and in-laws for solemnising the marriage of the minor girl.A case under Section 9/10/11 of the prohibition of child marriage act was registered at Ramnagar police station.“After being rescued, the girl was handed over to her maternal aunt Shano Devi through Child Welfare Committee in Udhampur because the girl requested to be sent with her,” said the SSP.Police lauded the sarpanch for playing the role of a responsible citizen and public representative and thanked him for his support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-year-old-girl-rescued-in-j-k-police-say-she-was-being-forced-to-marry-35-year-old/story-s5LzhQdAB43mYoS7Wxg4LJ.html
15-08-2020||India||After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan decides to develop it again||As the Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday extended status quo on the shifting of executive capital of the state from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam till August 27, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government came out with a proposal to complete all the unfinished works in Amaravati and develop it as a metropolitan region. Works worth thousands of crores which were under various stages construction in Amaravati had come to a halt after Jagan took over as the chief minister on May 30, 2019. These included an eight-lane seed access road connecting the highway with Amaravati, internal roads, trunk lines, building of culverts, buildings for secretariat, assembly and high court complexes, besides residential quarters for lawmakers, ministers, all-India service officers, state government employees and permanent permanent official buildings and quarters for judges.Jagan had proposed to form three capital cities with executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool, while retaining Amaravati only as a legislative capital.With farmers of Amaravati, who had given nearly 34,000 acres of land for the capital city, moving the high court challenging the Jagan government’s three capitals plan, the court on August 4 ordered a status quo on Amaravati till Friday and again till August 27. The petitioners pointed out that the previous government had spent more than Rs 10,000 crore on various projects in Amaravati and all this expenditure would go waste if the administrative capital is shifted to Visakhapatnam. The high court asked the Jagan government as to what the government would do with the already constructed buildings and infrastructure. On Wednesday, Jagan held a high-level meeting of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA), formed in place of earlier AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) and directed that the authorities chalk out an action plan on Amaravati and mobilise financial resources to complete all the pending works. “The chief minister instructed that all the construction works be resumed. He asked them to prepare a development plan for Amaravati, which will be our legislative capital,” state municipal administration and urban development minister Botsa Satyanarayana said. The AMRDA authorities told the chief minister that it would require at least Rs 14,000-Rs 15,000 crore to complete all the works. Jagan told them to find ways to mobilise additional resources in coordination with the finance department, so that all the building and road infrastructure works be completed. The minister said the farmers of Amaravati would get value for their developed plots which they had got in lieu of the lands they had given for the capital city. He appealed to the farmers and realtors who had invested in Amaravati to give up their apprehensions on the three capitals, as the government was keen on developing Amaravati as a metropolitan city. “It is our responsibility to develop entire Amaravati and no injustice would be done to any farmer,” he said. An official familiar with the development said the government was contemplating putting up all the completed building infrastructure and developed lands for sale to generate money. “One of the real estate projects - Happy Nest, a residential complex of 1200 high-end apartment units in 12 G+18 towers in 14.3 acres at Nelapadu village - will be completed at the earliest and put up for sale. This is expected to generate huge revenue,” the official said. Meanwhile, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu said on Friday that projects worth Rs 41,675 crore were grounded for developing the government and public infrastructure in Amaravati and various buildings were completed to the extent of 45 to 80 per cent. “The land bank available with the state government in Amaravati would bring a revenue of Rs 90 lakh crore to Rs one lakh crore. Once fully developed, Amaravati city would emerge into such a vibrant city where the government would have its wealth to the tune of Rs 2-3 lakh crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-abandoning-amaravati-for-14-months-jagan-government-decides-to-develop-the-city-again/story-sV1dBdr7E1Iiv1Wn2k55qM.html
15-08-2020||India||HC grants anticipatory bail to two IAS officers in NAN case lodged by ED||Chhattisgarh High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to IAS officers Anil Tuteja and Alok Shukla in a money laundering case related to the Chhattisgarh Civil Supply Corporation scam. The anticipatory bail order was passed on Friday. Justice Arvind Singh Chandel had reserved the order on separate pre-arrest bail pleas of Shukla and Tuteja on July 14. In 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had lodged an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, which was based on the FIR and charge sheet filed by the Chhattisgarh police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in the civil supply scam. Tuteja and Shukla were named as accused in the ED’s case. Also read: Chhattisgarh CM raises objection over draft EIA notification, writes to union environment minThe counsel of IAS officers, Avi Singh and Aayush Bhatia said that while the ECIR was registered by the ED at its sub-zonal office in Raipur, the summons were issued by the ED office in Delhi. The HC granted anticipatory bail saying that the charge sheet has already been filed, no recovery was made from anyone and no departmental proceeding has been initiated. “The ECIR case was registered against them last year and notice was issued to them for the first time in the case in March this year. The delay in the issuance of notice has not been explained,” the court said. Nan-Scam came into light in 2014 when the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids in various parts of the state and seized cash and documents. The ACB also recovered coded diary entries of pay-offs to officials and politicians. Then in opposition, Congress party claimed that the scam is worth about Rs 36,000 crore. In 2015, a PIL was filed by Sudeep Shrivastava in Chhattisgarh high court demanding an SIT investigation in the case. Shrivastava, in his PIL, alleged that the investigating agency saved few officers who were involved in the scam. The PIL which was filed by Shrivastava says that of total 254 samples of rice 111 samples and out of 185 samples of salts 64 samples were found to be sub-standard and unfit for human consumption but were cleared by officers. Shukla, then food secretary, and Tuteja, then managing director of the corporation, were not accused initially but were named in a supplementary charge sheet filed in December 2018, the lawyers said. The two had been granted anticipatory bail by the HC last year in the ACB/EOW case, the lawyers pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-two-ias-officers-in-nan-case-lodged-by-ed/story-5M6ZPRxyKueRn5ahbVnvYI.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi says ready to mass produce Covid-19 vaccine||India is ready to mass produce Covid-19 vaccines to distribute across the country when scientists give the go-ahead to do so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.“Not one, not two, as many as three coronavirus vaccines are being tested in India,” he said from the ramparts of the Red Fort in the old quarters of Delhi.“The country is also ready for mass production of those vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-ready-to-mass-produce-covid-19-vaccine/story-t4FGP83RRZ6dAnWcNW45wN.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Peaceful resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi issue unprecedented’: PM Modi||There has been a peaceful resolution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and the way the people of the country have behaved is not only unprecedented but will also serve as an inspiration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday during his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort in New Delhi.Construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya has been a key poll promise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) apart from the abrogation of Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir. Both promises were fulfilled last year after Parliament gave its nod to the reorganisation of J&K and reading down of Article 370 and a Supreme Court verdict cleared the decks for the construction of the Ram Temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya. “Ten days ago the construction of the temple has begun. A peaceful resolution to Ram Janambhoomi issue is unprecedented. The peace and understanding that the people showed is not only unprecedented but will serve as an inspiration for us in the future,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister further said that this “peace, unity and goodwill would be the backbone of Atmanirbhar Bharat” in the coming days.He was present for the groundbreaking ceremony of the temple in Ayodhya on August 5 along with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. “Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be the best. Only then will we be able to realise the vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’,” the prime minister said.“Last year from the Red Fort I had said that the last five years were for the hopes of the people the next five years will be for their aspirations. In the last year, only the country has crossed many important landmarks and many important decisions were taken.”Further, the Prime Minister also said that the construction of the Kartarpur corridor in record time and appointment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) in the armed forces were other moments that created history in the past one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peaceful-resolution-of-ram-janmabhoomi-issue-unprecedented-pm-modi/story-MN5nqHH5DZbphsYDISzcjI.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Delimitation process on in Jammu and Kashmir, polls soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech||A little over a year after the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir into union territories and the reading down of Article 370 and Article 35A, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday referred to it as a year of “a new development journey in Jammu and Kashmir.”“...this is a year of rights for women, it is also a year of dignified life of refugees in Jammu and Kashmir,” the PM said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.In August 2019, Parliament passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill that paved the way for the bifurcation of the state into two union territories; read down Article 370 that gave the state special powers and nullified Article 35A that defined citizenship rights that were essential for jobs and education. Article 35A also barred women married to non-state subject holders from passing on their inheritance to their children and was considered as discriminatory.Referring to the revival as a political process in Jammu and Kashmir, which has been without an elected government since 2018 when the BJP-PDP coalition government fell, the prime minister said that the process of delimitation is on; and when it is over there should be elections. “Delimitation process is underway in Jammu and Kashmir. Once it is completed, an election will be held in the Union Territory. Jammu and Kashmir will have its own chief minister and ministers. We are committed to this,” the PM said. “The true strength of democracy is in local units. It is a matter of pride for all of us that the public representatives of local units in Jammu and Kashmir are pursuing a new era of development with activism and sensitivity,” he said. Ladakh’s long-pending demand to be granted the status of a union territory has also been met, PM Modi said. “Ladakh is on the path to progress, a new central university is coming up an 7500 MW solar park is coming up and just as Sikkim has become an organic state, Ladakh should aim for that as well. Leh, Kargil and Ladkah can become carbon neutral regions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-process-on-in-jammu-and-kashmir-polls-soon-pm-modi-in-independence-day-speech/story-UB7Gp0PQ7YhIn4vCHdoDIL.html
15-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 2.52 million, recoveries cross 1.8 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared to more than 2.52 million after 65,002 fresh cases and 956 deaths were reported in a single day, the Union health ministry data showed on Saturday.The surge in numbers came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said three indigenous vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country and that the government is waiting for a nod from researchers. PM Modi said the government will produce the potential vaccine on a large scale.He also praised healthcare professionals who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus.There are 668,220 active cases of Covid-19 and the number of people who have been cured of the viral disease has crossed the 1.8 million mark. With more than 57,000 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, India’s recovery tally is at 1,808,936 and rate is now 71.60%. The death toll in India, the third worst-hit country has climbed to 49,036.Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said the Covid-19 recovery rate is improving in the country with each day and also expressed hope that the war against the coronavirus pandemic will be won soon.“Remember the press conference when I said the recovery rate was 9%. Since then, there had not been a single day when the day’s recovery rate was not better than the previous day’s. Also, fatalities have also been decreasing with each passing day,” Vardhan said on Friday.He added that more than 800,000 patients, compared to 6,000 in April, have been tested so far. “Our Covid warriors are fighting very hard to control the pandemic. Am sure in the next two months the situation will be far better.”India is inching closer to its target of conducting a million tests a day even as infections of the viral disease have continued to mount steadily. According to experts, aggressive testing is crucial to control the outbreaks.India has seen 830,204 Covid-19 cases since the beginning of this month and has been reporting over 60,000 cases every day since August 7.India in July exported 23 lakh personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to five countries, including the US, UK and UAE, Senegal and Slovenia. “This has substantially aided India to position itself in the global export market of PPEs. The “Make in India’ spirit embedded in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan has resulted in providing resilience and self-sufficiency to the country for various medical equipment including PPEs,” the health ministry said on Friday.This was one of the points raised by PM Modi in his Independence Day speech on Saturday. PM Modi said that during the coronavirus pandemic, India started making this equipment while earlier these were not made in the country as the demand of ventilators and PPE kits surged.“India is now exporting ventilators and PPE kits while we were not even making these earlier. This is how we are becoming Atmanirbhar Bharat. Independent India should be vocal for local and stop our dependence on imports,” said PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-2-52-million-recoveries-cross-1-8-million/story-2wcwxgtLuPbe5stJzj9adK.html
15-08-2020||India||‘I’m sure he’ll hoist the tri-colour next year’: Pranab Mukherjee’s daughter shares emotional Independence Day post||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee took to Twitter on Saturday and revisited her memories with father. She said her father never missed hoisting the National Flag on Independence Day. Sharmistha posted images from last year’s Independence Day celebrations and hoped for her father to get better to hoist the tri-colour next year. “In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” her post read.  Also read: Pranab Mukherjee being closely monitored, medical condition unchangedIn his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/SX0CVO8lW6The former president’s health condition remains critical but stable. As per the statement issued by the hospital where he is being treated, Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator and is being closely monitored.“The condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the Army (R&R) Hospital said in a statement on Saturday morning.On Friday, Sharmistha tweeted out saying that her father’s medical has not worsened. “Without getting into medical jargons, whatever I could understand from the last two days is that though my dads’ condition continues to remain very critical, it hasn’t worsened. There’s little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light,” she had posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-m-sure-he-ll-hoist-the-tri-colour-next-year-pranab-mukherjee-s-daughter-shares-emotional-independence-day-post/story-3T6vfZDRiimgE7VUYVCcpJ.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Will gift masks to members who enter without them’: UP Assembly speaker on Covid-19 preparation||The session of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly will begin from August 20, and the legislative department has decided to use lobbies and galleries in order to keep a seat between two members vacant so that social distancing norms can be followed as per Covid-19 guidelines, speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit said.Speaking to Hindustan Times’ Umesh Raghuvanshi, Dikshit talked about handling the challenges posed by the coronavirus disease and how these norms will be enforced if members enter the well of the House.Here are edited excerpts from the interview:Q: What are the main challenges in holding the monsoon session amid the fight against Covid-19?HN Dikshit: Covid-19 is posing a big challenge to all. We are facing the challenge in following social distancing norms. A safe distance has to be maintained between members in the House. I have had a meeting with minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna and officers of the assembly secretariat on the issue.Q: What about the leaders of the political parties?HN Dikshit: Yes, we also had a meeting with leaders of major political parties to share our point on the issue with them. We discussed the issue and all of them have agreed to the steps being taken for protection.Q: What steps?HN Dikshit: We have decided to keep a seat vacant between two members. We do not have sufficient seats for this in the assembly hall. So, we are making arrangements for the seating of members in the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ lobbies as well. We will also use viewers’ galleries to accommodate the members.Q: But lobbies/galleries don’t have microphones?HN Dikshit: We will use cordless microphones for seats where the mikes are not available.Q: What else?HN Dikshit: There is also the challenge of using the existing central air-conditioning system. This AC system does not conform to the Union government’s guidelines. We need to close the existing system and have a new system with ultraviolet filters in place. In order to avoid crowding in the assembly complex, we have requested former members not to visit the assembly secretariat during the session. We have also requested the members not to bring any visitors with them.Q: What if members don’t come with a mask?HN Dikshit: If any member comes without a mask, we will gift them one.Q: How long will the session be?HN Dikshit: We have a three-day agenda for the House. On the first day, the House will mourn the death of its sitting members. On the second day, the state government proposes to table about 12 ordinances promulgated after the last session. The state government will also table bills to replace these ordinances. On the third day too, the state government may table some bills. As of now, we don’t have any information about any proposal to table the supplementary budget for 2020-2021.Q: Did you consider holding a virtual meeting of the House? HN Dikshit: We did consider the option of holding a virtual meeting of the House. But this could not be taken forward.Q: Why? Will this need an amendment to the Constitution?HN Dikshit: No, I don’t think so. This can be done by making amendment to the rules of procedure of the House.Q: How will it be ensured that social distancing norms are followed?HN Dikshit: We have held discussions with leaders of all the political parties. We will have another meeting on August 19. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also attend the all-party meeting. We will seek cooperation of all the parties in this meeting again.Q: How will social distancing be ensured when members enter the well?HN Dikshit: We are sure all the members will respect social distancing norms. Yes, members do come to the well. They have done so in the past. But we are sure they will not enter the well of the House. Q: The well of the house does not have sufficient space for social distancing?HN Dikshit: We are sure, the members will follow the social distancing norms. I will request the members not to enter the well of the house in this situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-gift-masks-to-members-who-enter-without-them-up-assembly-speaker-on-covid-19-preparation/story-o7zYKmu2bGSZMOV2tS1QdO.html
15-08-2020||India||Modi announces digital India health mission, Health ID for medical records||With coronavirus disease (Covid-19) brining health sector into focus, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the National Digital Health Mission will commence on the Independence Day. “From today, the national digital health mission will begin. It will revolutionise Indian healthcare sector. Every Indian will be issued a health ID that will act like a healthcare account, storing details of all the tests done, existing diseases, diagnoses, medicines prescribed,” said the pprime minister in his speech. It will also ease processes like booking appointments, making payments, or getting registrations done at hospitals, the PM said. Also read| ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech“Technology will be used to resolve various problems in the healthcare sector – whether it is getting an appointment, making payment, or queueing up to get the (registration) slip. People will be able to make informed decisions,” he said. This is a part of the government’s National Digital Health Blueprint aimed at using technology to improve healthcare delivery across the country. The objectives of the mission are to establish a core digital health database, creating a system of electronic health records based on international standards, establish data ownership pathways so that the patient is the owner their health records, and promoting health data analytics and medical research. Speaking of work done in the healthcare sector, the PM said that new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences and other medical colleges have been set up, increasing the number of MBBS and MD seats for medical students by 45,000 in the last five years. Also read| Farmers now have freedom to sell at best price: Modi says in his I-Day speechHe also said that over 1.5 lakh wellness centres are being set up across the country. “Around one-third of these are already functional and have helped in the Covid-19 fight,” he said. The PM also added that through initiatives such as Jan Aushadhi Kendras, over 5 crore poor women have been able to get sanitary napkins at the cost of R1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-announces-digital-india-health-mission-health-id-for-medical-records/story-SGeFkEQsVwCJ5zhosLMHgK.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Former President Pranab Mukherjee being closely monitored, medical condition unchanged’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition remains unchanged, the Army (R&R) Hospital, where Mukherjee is undergoing treatment since Monday, announced on Saturday, adding that he continues to be on ventilatory support. “His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the statement added. On the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday, Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha took to Twitter and shared memories of last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father. She said her father never missed a year to hoist the tri-colour on Independence Day and hoped for him to do the same next year.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” her tweet read. The former president underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on Sunday. On Friday, Sharmistha said that her father’s condition remains critical but has not worsened.“Without getting into medical jargons, whatever I could understand from the last two days is that though my dads’ condition continues to remain very critical, it hasn’t worsened. There’s little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light,” she said.Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-being-closely-monitored-medical-condition-unchanged-hospital/story-zhOx7uc50KD6CJubzQT3YJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh tops in automobile sale despite Covid-19 pandemic||Notwithstanding the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the sale of automobiles is climbing faster in Uttar Pradesh than any other state in the country, indicates the central government’s state-wise data on the registration of new vehicles. Uttar Pradesh, for the second consecutive month after the lockdown rules were relaxed, emerged as the leader in terms of both registration of new automobiles as well as revenue collection from the transport sector in July. Not only did the state register the highest number of automobiles in the country in July, it also improved its own tally over June by nearly 75%.“As per the state-wise data obtained from the central government’s records, UP is number one in registration of new vehicles and collection of revenue by way of tax accruing from such vehicles and activities, including driving license fee, fitness test fee etc,” said transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu.As per the data, as many as 2,01,528 vehicles were registered in UP in July. Of these, 1,96,086 were cars and two-wheelers and 5,442 transport or commercial vehicles like trucks and buses. Of the total new vehicles registered, 1,63,515 were two-wheelers and 18,905 four-wheelers; the rest 19,108 were commercial vehicles like buses, trucks, taxis etc.Distantly following UP in registration of new vehicles in the same month are Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, West Bengal, and Gujarat. In June, UP registered 1.5 lakh new vehicles.“Compared to July 2019, there is still decline in the registration/sale of vehicles by 35% in two wheelers, 10% in four-wheelers and 69% in transport or commercial vehicles,” Sahu said, adding, “But the good thing is that the gap is closing down every month.”Also, in terms of revenue earned from registration of new vehicles and other activities other than enforcement, UP was on the top in July. The state earned a total Rs 424.53 crore of which Rs 387.80 crore came from registration of vehicles alone.Maharashtra (Rs 347.12 crore), Karnataka (Rs 320.83 crore), Tamil Nadu (Rs 281.49 crore) and Rajasthan (Rs 278.01 crore) came second, third, fourth and fifth respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-tops-in-automobile-sale-despite-covid-19-pandemic/story-S2ktfRbK0FgMf8T7DMFnrN.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Global powers and good friends’: Mike Pompeo’s Independence Day greetings to India||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo issued a statement congratulating India on the 74th Independence Day. Describing India and the US as “great pluralist democracies, global powers, and good friends”, Pompeo said the countries have shared close ties and democratic traditions since India’s independence. “Over the years, our relationship has grown into a Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, involving ever closer cooperation on issues vital to global security and prosperity in the 21st century,” the statement read. Pompeo added that the US and India will work together on defense, counterterrorism, trade, investment, energy, the environment, healthcare, agriculture, science and technology, education, space, the oceans, and much more.“As I remarked earlier this year, the United States and India see each other as great pluralist democracies, global powers, and good friends. I wish the people of India a happy Independence Day,” he added.Also read: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speechIndia woke up to its 74th Independence Day on Saturday. This year’s celebration is unique in a way as the big day comes amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the National Flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on Saturday morning and addressed the nation in a marathon speech that went on for about an hour and a half. PM Modi said that he is confident that India will realise its dream of becoming self-reliant (Atmanirbhar). “I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians,” the prime minister said.Also read: ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’ - PM Modi in Independence Day speech“In this decade of the 21st century, India will now have to move forward with new policy and new customs. Now simple and ordinary will not work. Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be best, should be the best,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-powers-and-good-friends-mike-pompeo-s-independence-day-greetings-to-india/story-ZWD35weTxfZWyDV2yvgGBL.html
15-08-2020||India||Independence Day: DRDO’s anti-drone system guarded Red Fort, had laser to bring down targets||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on 74th Independence Day, he was surrounded by a posse of security and state-of-the-art security apparatus.Among them was an anti-drone system developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation or DRDO which was stationed near the Red Fort.According to DRDO, as reported by news agency ANI, the anti-drone system can detect and jam micro drones up to three kilometres and use laser to bring down a target up to 2.5 kilometres.Unprecedented security ring was thrown around the Red Forst from where PM Modi delivered his Independence Day speech, listing his government’s past achievements and presenting the roadmap for the future.Security personnel were deployed both in plainclothes and uniform in the area. Facial recognition system was also been set up at vantage points to keep an eye on the attendees. The police said that all the necessary guidelines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic were also enforced.Apart from this, the Delhi Police had also coordinated with other states and union territories - from Delhi’s neighbours like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to others namely Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar - and discussed security measures in the view of August 15.The personnel of National Security Guard (NSG), Special Protection Group (SPG) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were also present in the area.Over 300 cameras were installed for security and their footage was monitored round-the-clock, the police said.There were around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort who stood in adherence with social distancing norms, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-drdo-s-anti-drone-system-guarded-red-fort-had-laser-to-bring-down-targets/story-iKwyEr7JC4pR2nxSeqH69H.html
15-08-2020||India||‘From LAC to LoC, our jawans gave befitting replies to ones challenging our sovereignty’: PM Modi||Indian soldiers have given befitting replies to those challenging the sovereignty of the country, whether at the Line of Control or LAC (China border) or Line of Control or LoC (Pakistan border), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.“Those who challenge India’s sovereignty, be it LoC or LAC, have been given a befitting reply in their own language. They have been responded to in the language they understand. India stands committed to defeat forces that aid and abet terrorism & expansionism,” he said.Also read| ‘Time to move away from ordinary’: 5 inspiring quotes from PM Modi’s Independence Day speechHe said that with their response to the Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, the entire world has seen what Indian soldiers can do.“The entire country is moving forward with josh, inspired with a resolve and a belief in its capabilities,” the prime minister said.On the eve of the Independence Day on Friday, President Ram Nath Kovind had also sent out a clear warning that India is “capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression” as he addressed the nation.Though Kovind did not name China, he slammed the neighbour’s “misadventure of expansion” at a time when the world needs to come together to fight against Covid-19, which he described as the “the greatest challenge before humanity”.Also read: PM Modi announces ‘revolutionary’ National Digital Health Mission on I-Day, says one ID will have all information“The world now realises what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family; “Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam”. However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion,” Kovind said.The bloody conflict in the Galwan valley on June 15 left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Since then, the two sides are locked in discussions to disengage and de-escalate but China has so far not moved back from some critical areas despite five rounds of top-level military talks between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-lac-to-loc-our-jawans-gave-befitting-replies-to-ones-challenging-our-sovereignty-pm-modi/story-q6EVQG6daUfXPzw178g3qI.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Time to move away from ordinary’: 5 inspiring quotes from PM Modi’s Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s marathon Independence Day speech on Saturday was a long one, studded with laurels of the past and aspirations for the future. Not only did the prime minister hailed India’s unsung heroes but also laid down his vision of a modern India that is powerful, self-reliant and a force to reckon with. PM Modi’s speech was inspiring, one that enthused millions of Indians, filling them with a resolve to take the country to greater heights. Here’s taking a look at the prime minister’s most inspiring quotes from his speech:• Respect for India’s sovereignty is supreme for us. What our brave soldiers can do for this resolution, what the country can do, the world has seen in Ladakh.Also read: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speech• Amid Covid-19 pandemic, 130 crore Indians have pledged to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. I am confident that India will realize this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal.• It is now time for India to move forward with new policies and new customs. Now simple and ordinary will not work. Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be the best.• Professionals coming out of India’s middle class make their mark in the whole world not only in India. The middle class needs opportunity, the middle class needs freedom from government interference.Also read: No one can challenge India’s sovereignty, says PM Modi on I-Day• How long will we see raw material getting exported and being imported as finished product coming back to our country? The mindset of free India should be ‘vocal for local’. We should appreciate our local products, if we don’t do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged.• Our experience says that whenever there is an opportunity for women power in India, they have brought laurels to the country, strengthened the country. Women are everywhere, from underground coal mines to flying fighter jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-move-away-from-ordinary-5-inspiring-quotes-from-pm-modi-s-independence-day-2020-speech/story-teMUbB30aHpJUwzgzMP3rK.html
15-08-2020||India||Atmanirbhar Bharat has become a mantra for 130 crore Indians: PM Modi||New Delhi [India], Aug 15 (ANI): Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that Atmanirbhar Bharat has become a mantra for 130 crore Indians and expressed confidence that the country will realise the dream.Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 74th Independence Day on Saturday, the Prime Minister said the dream of self-reliance is turning into a pledge.Also read| ‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speech“Amid Covid-19 pandemic 130 crore Indians took the resolve to be self-reliant and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) is on the mind of people. This dream is turning into a pledge. Atmanirbhar Bharat has become a ‘mantra’ for the 130 crore Indians today. I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence, and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal,” he said.The Prime Minister said that he was aware of the challenges posed by the competition on the global scale and asserted that the efforts of crores of Indians would provide solutions.“I agree that there are lakhs of challenges for Aatmanirbhar Bharat and they increase if there is global competitiveness. However, if there are lakhs of challenges then the country also has power which gives crores of solutions, my countrymen who give us the strength for solutions,” he said.Also read: ITBP soldiers celebrate Independence Day at 14,000 feet in LadakhHe also said that this Independence Day was special as in the coming year India will enter the 75th year of its independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-bharat-has-become-a-mantra-for-130-crore-indians-pm-modi/story-0vC1CKXWpViXW56VyjhA1J.html
15-08-2020||India||On 74th I-Day, take pledge to fulfill PM’s dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat: Shah||On 74th Independence Day, all Indians should take a pledge to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday.“On this Independence Day, let us take a pledge to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of a self-reliant India and contribute to taking the country to new heights by using indigenous products. Best wishes on Independence Day,” Shah said in a tweet. आइये इस स्वतंत्रता दिवस पर हम प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के आत्मनिर्भर भारत के स्वप्न को पूर्ण करने का संकल्प लें और भारत में निर्मित स्वदेशी चीजों का अधिक से अधिक उपयोग कर देश को नई ऊंचाइयों तक ले जाने में अपना सर्वोच्च योगदान दें।स्वतंत्रता दिवस की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएँ।“Today we are very proud that the dream of independent, strong and capable India dreamt by our freedom fighters is being brought to reality by PM Narendra Modi. On one side poor and deprived classes were given homes, electricity, health insurance while on the other, India was made a stronger nation,” he added.In an earlier tweet, Shah had also saluted all the freedom fighters who had laid down their lives in the Independence struggle and those who had made the supreme sacrifice for its security and unity.Also read| ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speechEarlier, Modi also extended his greetings to the people of the nation on the occasion.“Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!” the Prime Minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-74th-i-day-take-pledge-to-fulfill-pm-s-dream-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-shah/story-EBDdRLmG01IwhY07EFKBWL.html
15-08-2020||India||Quoting Nehru, Rahul Gandhi wishes India on 74th Independence Day||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday extended greetings to the nation on the occasion of 74th Independence Day.Remembering a quote of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, he tweeted. “The only alternative to coexistence is destruction. Jawaharlal Nehru. Best wishes on Independence Day.”Also read| ‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speechExtending the wishes to the country on the occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!”"The only alternative to coexistence is codestruction." Jawaharlal NehruBest wishes on Independence Day 🇮🇳🇮🇳🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/mRpySawwQEIndependence day celebrations are held in a different manner due to Covid-19 pandemic.The arrangements have been made keeping social distancing norms in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quoting-nehru-rahul-gandhi-wishes-india-on-74th-independence-day/story-sXoN816U5IPzUVaxH9L3fP.html
15-08-2020||India||Explained: What is National Digital Health Mission and how it will benefit people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a major digital initiative in the form of National Digital Health Mission in his Independence Day speech.He said that the project will provide a health ID to every person in the country, and benefir the poor. The prime minister said that whatever medicine a doctor prescribed, when was it prescribed, what were the reports - all this information will be linked to a person’s health ID.It is going to be another flagship initiaive of the government like Ayushman Bharat. What is National Digital Health Mission?The blueprint of the programme was launched last year. It seeks to provide an efficient and affordable health coverage through a wide-range of data and infrastructure services.The key feature of this mission is th technology part - it will leverage open digital systems to provide high-quality healthcare for all. It will integrate various digital health services to create an ecosystem which can assimilate existing health information systems.The government has said that it will ensure security and privacy of personal information.What is a health ID?Every person in the country will get a digital health ID which is basically a digital format of all his/her health records which will be linked to the registry of doctors and health facilities across the country.The platform has been planned to improve efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of health service delivery. The health ID will be in the form of a mobile application of website.The government had sought feedback and suggestions from various stakeholders who will be a part of the initiative. The government has said that enrollment in the initiave will be voluntary.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, while launching the blueprint last year, had said that the government made a mark in history by launching Ayushman Bharat Yojana and other IT-enabled schemes like Reproductive Child Healthcare, and NIKSHAY etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-what-is-national-digital-health-mission-and-how-it-will-benefit-people/story-qOKlv3rbkrvB0aR9ZQyvdK.html
15-08-2020||India||Farmers now have freedom to sell at best price: Modi says in his I-Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted key agricultural reforms taken by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in his speech on the occasion of the country’s 74th Independence Day on Saturday, pegging it to his atmanirbhar (self-reliance) campaign. The Prime Minister said the country had undertaken key initiatives to free the country’s agriculture sector which will help to increase farmers’ income and also exports. “We are self-reliant in agriculture and export commodities to whoever needs it. This is an example of Atma Nirbhar. We have brought laws to free the agriculture sector,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said the country will similarly adopt policies to export other goods and his government was set on a path of self-reliance on every field. “I admit there are lakhs of challenges for India to become atmanirbhar (self-reliant), and yes, there is fierce competition from the rest of the world. But I always say that if India faces lakhs of challenges, it also has 130 crore solutions,” Modi said.He was broadly referring to far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector. On June 4, the Union Cabinet had approved amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and cleared two other ordinances, one aimed at freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and the other guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers. All these steps, which bring the full force of liberalisation to the farm economy, were announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 15 in the second of her series of briefings last month on proposed reforms.On May 12, in the middle of the lockdown, Modi had announced a package worth Rs 20 lakh crore to spur growth, calling for a self-reliant India.Modi’s reference to the freeing up of the agriculture sector included reading down provisions of The Essential Commodities Act, 1955, to allow for freer trade in farm commodities. The act was mainly used to curb inflation by empowering the Union and state governments to dictate quantities traders can store and also restrict the movement of any commodity deemed “essential”. Under the law, the government generally imposes stock limits to discourage hoarding of items such as pulses and vegetables.The law was handy during the 1980s when India was still a net importer of food items. The country’s increasing food surpluses have made the law archaic. India currently has over 80 million tonne of foodgrains in warehouses across India. The country’s annual requirement under various welfare programmes is 60 million tonne. “As said earlier, we are working to double farmers’ income. Some of you may not know this, but unlike any other business, where a businessman has the freedom to sell their product or service in any part of the country or the world and at a price they want, our farmers, till now did not have that freedom. They could only sell to who they were told to sell. Now, we have removed these restrictions and given farmers the freedom to sell at the best price, and to who they want,” Modi said.The agriculture sector, which supports half of all Indians, hasn’t been generating enough revenues to keep farmers profitable for nearly two decades due to trade restrictions and an obsession with keeping food prices low to avoid inflation, according to the OECD-ICRIER study mentioned above.The NDA government also brought on June 4 ‘The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’. The ordinance will effectively bring the curtains down on the decades-old agricultural produce market committees regulations (APMC) system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce.APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where farmers reside, rather than in an open market, scuttling price discovery.These reforms in “agricultural marketing” have been a long time in the making and various government panels and economists have often argued for changing existing structures of agricultural trade.The government’s 2017 ‘Doubling of Farmers’ Income’ report had called for greater liberalisation of the farm sector by “removing laws that force farmers to sell to local monopolies”.The ordinance will pave the way for barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of farm goods outside the physical premises of markets notified under APMCs, the Cabinet note said. The Modi government also approved ‘The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020’, which effectively ushered new rules for contract farming and futures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-now-have-freedom-to-sell-at-best-price-modi-says-in-his-i-day-speech/story-Aho1S0oyA5K3JSLOnXto5I.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At 14,000 feet in Ladakh, ITBP personnel celebrate 74th I-Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ITBP soldiers celebrate Independence Day at 14,000 feet in LadakhThe soldiers of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) celebrated the country’s Independence Day on the banks of Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh at 14,000 feet. The soldiers carried the tricolour of ITBP flags part of the celebrations. The ITBP also released a mashup of the popular patriotic songs sung by its soldiers. Read morePM Modi announces ‘revolutionary’ National Digital Health Mission on I-Day, says one ID will have all informationPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the National Digital Health Mission, which he said will bring a revolution in the country’s health sector during his delivered his Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi. Read moreComputer science graduate, debate champion: Major Shweta Pandey, the army officer, who will help PM Modi hoist the tricolourMajor Shweta Pandey, an officer of the Indian Army, will help Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurl the national flag this year during the Independence Day ceremony at Delhi’s Red Fort on Saturday. Maj Pandey is the first woman officer to carry the national flag and lead a first-ever tri-services Indian Armed Forces Contingent during Russia’s Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow in June this year. Read morePandemic rumour-mongering led to deaths, injuries and violence: AnalysisThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has fed at least 2,000 rumours, conspiracy theories and stigmatizing posts that were shared in 25 languages across 87 countries, where they have led to hundreds of deaths, thousands of hospital admissions, and triggered acts of violence, according to an analysis published on Monday. Read moreCanadian federal agency launches probe into practices adopted by AmazonCanada’s federal Competition Bureau has launched a civil investigation into the practices adopted by global retail giant Amazon. The investigation was announced by the Gatineau, Quebec-based Bureau in a statement as it requested “market participants to provide input to inform” the probe into “conduct by Amazon.” Read moreUS Embassy to process student visas on limited basis from August 17The US Embassy is set to resume the processing of student and academic exchange visa application on a limited basis.“We are pleased to announce that consular sections at the US Embassy in New Delhi and our Consulates in Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata will begin processing of student and academic exchange visitor visa applications on a limited basis on August 17,” as per the Embassy. Read moreHow World Cup knock against Pakistan turned Tendulkar into Sachin ‘paaji’? Ashish Nehra explainsFormer India fast bowler Ashish Nehra has revealed how the word ‘paaji’ got to be associated with Sachin Tendulkar. Tendulkar, world cricket’s leading run getter, was affectionately called ‘paaji’ by his teammates, which means brother. Read moreIndependence Day 2020: Google celebrates Indian independence with Doodle dedicated to India’s musical legacyEvery year since August 15, 1947, Indians all over the world celebrate their independence from the rule of the British Raj. It was on this day that India became an independent, sovereign nation after almost a century of British rue. Read moreIndependence Day 2020: Here’s how Twitter is celebrating India’s 74 years of IndependenceIndependence Day, in India, is celebrated on August 15 each year. This day is celebrated to commemorate the country’s independence from the British Rule. This is a day which is filled with patriotic fervour and to show their love for the nation, especially this year, there are many who are now taking to Twitter to flood the social media platform with Independence Day related posts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-14-000-feet-in-ladakh-itbp-personnel-celebrate-74th-i-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8Hk5sRBqSNS6947DDfI2YL.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that an India-made vaccine for the coronavirus disease, which has killed more than 48,000 people and affected over 2.4 million people in the country, will be out soon. In his Independence Day speech, PM Modi said that the government is waiting for a green signal from scientists.“All of us are waiting for a vaccine for Covid-19. I want to tell you that three vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country,” said the prime minister.“As soon as our experts and scientists give the green signal, a Made in India Covid-19 vaccine will be available soon,” he added.He also hailed the role of the healthcare professionals who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, the disease cased by the virus. PM Modi said that the government will produce the potential vaccine on a large scale.“We have prepared the infrastructure to provide the vaccine to every person in the country,” he said.The coronavirus disease rapidly spread across the world since its outbreak was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan. After China, the disease took Europe in its grip, killing millions and wiping off decades of progress.It then reached the United States, which remains the hardest hit country. Apart from the loss of lives, the economic impact was also brutal and many professionals became jobless due to the pandemic. The US saw one of its worst jobless rates due to the coronavirus disease.But as soon as the disease started spreading, efforts began to find a cure. Many pharmaceutical companies and governments announced the trial of their potential vaccine candidates. In fact, as many as 100 vaccine candidates were being tested across the world, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).In India, there were three vaccines which were at different stages of development. The clinical trials of these vaccine candidates were being done together with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at various sites acorss the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/made-in-india-covid-19-vaccine-soon-pm-modi-in-independence-day-speech/story-4vzvbCE1sBuB2ziLgq3UQP.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday pushed for the need to be self-reliance, as he highlighted the country’s success in fighting the coronavirus disease.“Amid Covid-19 pandemic, 130 crore Indians took the resolve to be self-reliant and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ is on the mind of India. This dream is turning into a pledge. Aatmanirbhar Bharat has become a ‘mantra’ for the 130 crore Indians today,” PM Modi said in his Independence Day speech.The prime minister further said that abilities, confidence and potential of the countrymen will help it realise this dream. “Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal.”Also read| ‘From LAC to LoC, our jawans gave befitting replies to ones challenging our sovereignty’: PM Modi“The mindset of free India should be ‘vocal for local’. We should appreciate our local products. If we don’t do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged,” PM Modi said.“A few months back we used to import N-95 masks, PPE kits and ventilators. Today India is not only meeting its own requirements but it has also stepped forward to help other countries,” he added.The prime minster said that there are “lakhs of challenges for Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, but highlighted the demographic strength of the country which he said is capable of finding a solution to all such challenges. “If there are lakhs of challenges then the country also has power which gives crores of solutions, my countrymen who give us the strength of solution,” PM Modi said.Independence Day celebrations this year typified the ‘new normal’ in times of Covid-19. A kit containing a mask, a small bottle of hand sanitiser and a pair of gloves were kept on all chairs which were neatly separated to maintain the prescribed social distance.Known otherwise to witness bustling crowd across many age groups, the annual grand event at the historic Red Fort was scaled down this year in keeping with prescribed safety protocols to contain spread of the novel coronavirus that has wrecked havoc across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mindset-for-free-india-should-be-vocal-for-local-pm-modi-pushes-for-self-reliance-in-independence-day-speech/story-SOOqEaqmKTxEsoAYse2nwO.html
15-08-2020||India||From the ramparts of Red Fort, PM Modi says ‘India will realise its dream’: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the National Flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on Saturday, reinstating that independent India’s resolve to overcome all challenges is unshakeable. PM Modi said that he is confident that India will realise its dream of becoming self-reliant (Atmanirbhar). “I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians,” the prime minister said.On the occasion, the prime minister took to the stage and addressed the nation, paying homage to the contributions of all Indians who won the Independence and all members of the armed forces and personnel who guard our independence and keep us safe. Also read: ‘India has willpower to lead the world’ - PM Modi pushes for self-relianceHe lauded the nation’s corona warriors for their selfless act of fighting against the deadly contagion, helping hundreds and millions without caring for their lives. “Next year we will enter the 75th year of our independence. A big festival is in front for us,” he said. Here are the highlights from the prime minister’s Independence Day speech:• In the midst of the Corona pandemic, 130 crore Indians have pledged to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. I am confident that India will realize this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal.• India has always believed that the entire world is one family. While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey.• How long will we see raw material getting exported and being imported as finished product coming back to our country? The mindset of free India should be ‘vocal for local’. We should appreciate our local products, if we don’t do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged.Also read: ‘India has the willpower to lead the world’ - PM Modi • I am confident that measures like opening up the SPACE sector, will generate many new employment opportunities for our youth and provide further avenues to hone their skills and potential.• Self-reliant India means not only reducing imports, but also increasing our skills, our creativity.• A big campaign is going to start in the country from today. This is the National Digital Health Mission. National Digital Health Mission will bring a new revolution in India’s health sector. Your every test, every disease, which doctor gave you which medicine, when, what were your reports, all this information will be contained in this one health ID.• Today, not one, not two but three vaccines of Corona are currently in testing phase in India. As soon as the green signal is received from the scientists, the country’s preparation is also ready for mass production of those vaccines.• Today, many big companies of the world are turning to India. We have to move forward with the mantra of ‘Make in India’ as well as ‘Make for World’.• Respect for India’s sovereignty is supreme for us. What our brave soldiers can do for this resolution, what the country can do, the world has seen in Ladakh.• There is a need to give a new direction to the overall infrastructure development of the country to move India towards modernity at a fast pace. This need will be met with the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project. The country is moving towards spending more than 100 lakh crore rupees on this. About 7 thousand projects of different sectors have also been identified. It would be like a new revolution in infrastructure.• The campaign of ‘Vocal for Local’, ‘Re-Skill’ and ‘Up-Skill’ will communicate a self-reliant economy in the standard of living of those living below the poverty line.• Professionals coming out of India’s middle class make their mark in the whole world not only in India. The middle class needs opportunity, the middle class needs freedom from government interference.• Education of the country is of great importance in building self-reliant India, in building modern India, in building new India, in building prosperous and prosperous India. With this thinking, the country has got a new national education policy.• Our experience says that whenever there is opportunity for women power in India, they have brought laurels to the country, strengthened the country.• Just as Sikkim has made its mark as an organic state, in the coming days, Ladakh, as a carbon neutral zone, is also working fast in this direction.• A special campaign is also underway with a holistic approach to reduce pollution in 100 selected cities of the country.• National Cadet Corps will select 1 lakh cadets from coastal and border areas, one-third will be female cadets.• Ram Mandir issue was resolved peacefully, citizen’s commitment towards peace during the process was remarkable.• In this decade of the 21st century, India will now have to move forward with new policy and new customs. Now simple and ordinary will not work. Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be best, should be the best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-the-ramparts-of-red-fort-pm-modi-says-india-will-realise-its-dream-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-independence-day-2020-speech/story-fNvKA5df3R1wRByeJWhdGO.html
15-08-2020||India||From Red Fort, PM Modi delivers one message to 2 neighbours, China and Pak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday delivered a sharp message to two of India’s neighbours, China and Pakistan, declaring that the armed forces deployed along the borders with the two countries have given a fitting reply to those who sought to challenge India’s sovereignty.Like in previous years, PM Modi’s 90-minute Independence Day address to the nation did not name Pakistan, or China. But as he wrapped up his speech that had extensively focused on the campaign to build a self-reliant India, the Prime Minister from the ramparts of the Red Fort underlined that the country’s sovereignty is supreme.“The world has seen in Ladakh what our brave soldiers can do to deliver on this resolve. From LoC (Line of Control) to the (Line of Actual Control), the country’s armed forces have given a fitting response to countries that threatened the country’s territorial sovereignty,” PM Modi said in his Independence Day speech.It was a reference to the standoff at the east Ladakh border that has continued for more than 100 days and violent scrap on June 15 when Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) soldiers blocked attempts by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to expand its territory.Also read | ‘Time to move away from ordinary’: 5 inspiring quotes from PM Modi’s Independence Day speechThe Prime Minister, who wore a white and saffron turban with a kurta, said India is connecting with its neighbours, whether they are connected to us through land or the sea, with the partnership of security, development and trust. “Today, neighbours are not only those who share the same geographical boundaries but also those who meet our hearts. Where there is harmony in relationships, there is amity,” he said.The Prime Minister also said Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India has become the mantra of the 1.3 billion Indians who he said have taken the resolve to transform the country even while facing several setbacks, including the coronavirus pandemic and natural disasters.“I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal,” he said.“India has always believed that the entire world is one family. While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey,” he added.Several big companies of the world are turning to India and the will have to go ahead with the mantra of Make in India as well as Make for World, the Prime Minister stressed.PM Modi also launched the National Digital Health Mission, which he said will bring a revolution in the country’s health sector. “You will get information about every test, every disease, which doctor prescribed you which medicine and when and your reports under one health ID,” Prime Minister said.He had started his speech by paying his homage to all those who have laid their lives down in the line of duty, members of the armed forces and frontline workers amid the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister also pointed to the absence of the hundreds of school children who sit in front of the dais every year. He said the coronavirus pandemic has curtailed the celebrations as he also acknowledged the corona warriors and all those who have succumbed to the viral disease.Also read | ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech“In this extraordinary time of Corona, our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ambulance personnel, sweepers, policemen, servicemen, many people, are working round the clock, regardless of their lives, with the spirit of Seva Parmo Dharma (service is the highest duty),” he said.In his Independence Day speech last year, PM Modi had talked about the decision to remove Jammu and Kashmir’s special rights and ban against triple talaq among the bold moves of the first 10 weeks of his second term.Modi also talked about his aim to turn India into a $5-trillion economy within five years and announced the creation of a new post of chief of defence staff to ensure better coordination of the army, navy and air force, along the lines of western military forces.A multilayered security ring, including snipers from the National Security Guard (NSG), elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, has been thrown in around the Red Fort. More than 300 cameras have also been installed and their footage is being monitored round-the-clock.Around 4,000 security personnel stood guard at the Red Fort in adherence with social distancing norms. There was heavy security deployment along the route taken by the Prime Minister to reach Red Fort as well.Eight roads—Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishadaj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBTand Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover—have been closed from 4am to 10am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-74th-independence-day-pm-modi-pays-homage-to-security-forces-covid-19-frontline-workers/story-09DOeFTqpyY90XtrdLpxmJ.html
15-08-2020||India||ITBP soldiers celebrate Independence Day at 14,000 feet in Ladakh||The soldiers of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) celebrated the country’s Independence Day on the banks of Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh at 14,000 feet. The soldiers carried the tricolour of ITBP flags part of the celebrations.The ITBP also released a mashup of the popular patriotic songs sung by its soldiers. The mashup has been released by ITBP on its social media handles.The force has recommended the names of its 21 personnel for gallantry medals for fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with the army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay amid the border standoff between the two countries over the last three months in Ladakh.Senior officials said on the condition of anonymity said that these incidents of face-off did not happen in the Galwan Valley but at half a dozen other places in eastern Ladakh.It further said that the soldiers were engaged in stand-offs, sometimes as long as 17 to 20 hours, but received minimum casualties and gave befitting reply to the stone palters of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).The paramilitary force, which is responsible for guarding the 3,488-km de facto border between the two countries, or the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said its 294 personnel have been awarded the commendation disk of the ITBP’s director-general for their bravery in Ladakh.Six other soldiers of ITBP have been awarded for their courage in anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh.A Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), the ITBP is deployed at the difficult high altitude Himalayan terrains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-soldiers-celebrate-independence-day-2020-at-14-000-feet-in-ladakh/story-iKkunqu9TzYhadqOf2z2PK.html
15-08-2020||India||‘I bow to martyrs’: Arvind Kejriwal tweets wishes on Independence Day||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wished the country on the occasion of 74th Independence Day on Saturday. Kejriwal posted his wishes on Twitter where he paid tributes to the martyrs.“I bow to those martyrs whose sacrifice made it possible for us to breathe in free atmosphere. I wish all the countrymen Happy Independence Day,” tweeted Kejriwal.He tweeted moments before Prime Minister Narendra Modi started his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort. This is PM Modi’s second speech of the second term in office.PM Modi will proceed to the Lahore Gate of Red Fort where he will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. He will then address the nation. The Independence Day function at Red Fort this year will be relatively muted in terms of participation of people in view of the situation created by Covid-19.Compared to the past years, only about 20 per cent VVIPs or other participants will be able to witness the Prime Minister’s speech.Multi-layered security arrangements and measures to ensure social distancing are in place for the -19.A security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, will be placed around the Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation.Over 300 cameras have been installed for security and their footage is being monitored round-the-clock, according to the police.There will be around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort and they will stand in adherence with social distancing norms, the police further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-bow-to-martyrs-arvind-kejriwal-tweets-wishes-on-independence-day/story-AJWDbGUFQ37Wj97zZVnU2N.html
15-08-2020||India||From the ramparts of Red Fort||Over the past 20 years, addresses by prime ministers on Independence Day have focussed on development goals, Pakistan-sponsored terrorism, the importance of Jammu and Kashmir and the bane of corruption.2000 Kashmir unbreakable from India Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and Jammu & Kashmir were the main themes of PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s speech in which he mentioned that J&K would remain an “unbreakable” part of India and Islamabad would not be able to secure anything through its “undeclared war” because the 21st century didn’t permit the redrawing of borders in the name of religion or by the strength of the sword. “This is the age of resolving differences, not for prolonging disputes,” he said. 2001 Warning to PakistanIn the backdrop of the failed Agra summit earlier that year, Vajpayee delivered a stern warning to Pakistan while striking a hopeful note for India’s development and future. “Let no one entertain any delusion that Pakistan can succeed in wresting Jammu & Kashmir through jehad and terrorism,” he said. He also said that his government was determined to stamp out corruption and bring the fruits of development to the poorest classes. “The sun has come out and a better tomorrow awaits us,” he added. 2002 J&K elections in focus The scheduled elections for Jammu & Kashmir occupied centre stage in the PM’s address with Vajpayee pledging that there would be a redressal of “mistakes of the past”. In a 25-minute speech, one of the shortest by any PM on Independence Day, Vajpayee said no one would be allowed to create any disturbances in the assembly elections. “For us, Kashmir is not a piece of land, it is a test case for the nation’s secularism,” he said. The PM also condemned the communal riots in Gujarat and announced 15 major initiatives, which included social security schemes and the induction of Agni missiles in the army.  2003 Opening doors to neighbourPakistan, Kashmir and development dominated the address as Vajpayee said the government was willing to work for peace with Pakistan if it agreed to shed its anti-India outlook and support for cross-border terrorism. “Let people travel across border. Let more and more elected representatives visit each others country. Let us open some new doors,” he said. The PM also unfurled a series of schemes for farmers, pledging to double their income in seven years. He also spoke of linking rivers and developing village roads. 2004 Promises to keep In his first Independence Day address as PM, Manmohan Singh emphasised the need for good governance and a code of conduct for political parties. Singh also identified seven priority sectors on which the government would focus. “On this solemn occasion, let us resolve to work together to develop a code of conduct in a consensual way so as to uphold the values enshrined in our Constitution,” he said. Singh made no promises and announced no big schemes, but said the national common minimum programme would guide his government. “Today, I have no promises to make, but I have promises to keep,” he said. 2005 Focus on Aam Aadmi Manmohan Singh explained his policy initiatives for the “aam aadmi” (common man) and invoked former PM Indira Gandhi’s name. His spin to her “Garibi hatao” slogan was about employment-oriented growth: “Garibi hatao, rozgar badhao”. Conceding that the fruits of first-generation reforms hadn’t fully reached the hinterland, the PM linked economic growth with social justice to mobilise the poor and disadvantaged classes. He took note of Pakistan’s half-hearted efforts to fight terrorism, and warned of a tough Indian response to violence in J&K. 2006 Stop terror and extremism As he unveiled his vision for a “new India”, Manmohan Singh said terrorism threatened economic prosperity in South Asia, and Pakistan must know that popular support for the peace process would be undermined unless it clamped down on terror infrastructure. “Terrorism anywhere is a threat to prosperity everywhere,” the PM said. He said the dream of a South Asian community where borders ceased to matter could not be realised if politics of hate cast a shadow. On the domestic front, the PM hinted at a possible rise in the prices of kerosene and LPG. 2007 Best is yet to comeIndia is moving in the right direction but Indians need to work harder for at least a decade to eradicate poverty and provide education and health care to the millions on the other side of the divide, Manmohan Singh said on the nation’s 60th Independence Day. In his 40-minute speech, the prime minister did not refer to the controversial Indo-US nuclear deal — or to Pakistan. “We are a nation of young people. Once unleashed, the energy of our youth will drive India onto a new growth path. I assure you that for each one of you…the best is yet to come,” he said. 2008 10% growth needed “Let’s Make Peace” was the underlining theme of Manmohan Singh’s speech. He also said “terrorists and those who support terrorism” are enemies of people and countries must collectively “defeat them”. He mentioned the nuclear deal with the US saying the pact would “spur” economic growth. Singh said modern silence should “find solution to our energy problem”. He also announced a special skill development mission and launching of a new space aircraft. “Our economy must grow at the rate of at least 10 per cent every year to get rid of poverty and generate employment for all,” Singh said. 2009 Restoring growth biggest challenge Manmohan Singh explained the slowing down the economic growth in the wake of global financial crisis. The economy grew at a rate of about 9% from the year 2004-05 to the year 2007-08. This growth rate came down to 6.7% in 2008-09 due to the crisis. “It is only a result of our policies that the global crisis has affected us to a lesser extent than many other countries,” Singh said, and maintained that restoring growth rate to 9% is the greatest challenge at hand. Reflecting on the deadly terror strike in November 2008, Singh spoke about the efforts his government was putting in place for national security. He also said that the nation-building is the “highest duty” for everyone. 2010 Discussion and dialogue ways to peace Manmohan Singh made a fresh appeal to young people in Kashmir and Naxals and said discussion and dialogue was the only way to resolve issues. On the economy, he accepted that inflation was on the rise and hurting the common people, while he cited subsidy burden to explain why the government had to increase prices of petro products (auto fuel was regulated at that time). But Singh spoke of agricultural reforms not only as a solution to high inflation but also to ensure development of rural India. This was the year of the Commonwealth Games, and they found a mention in his speech. 2011 Hunger strikes won’t solve corruption Manmohan Singh’s seventh speech as Prime Minister reflected the growing allegations of corruption against his government. The Commonwealth Games scam and the 2G scam were already making headlines and Singh said that one single step cannot root out corruption, hunger strikes are not a solution but a multipronged effort is required to control it. In this context, he mentioned a Lokpal legislation, Judicial Accountability Bill and a legislation for public procurement. “Now only Parliament can decide… I also believe that they (those who don’t agree with this bill) should not resort to hunger strikes and fasts-unto-death,” he said. He mentioned corruption 16 times in his speech. 2012 Slow growth national security threat Concerns about slowing growth and high inflation were evident in Manmohan Singh’s Independence Day speech in 2012. The PM made an explicit connection between slow growth and national security. Singh blamed the global economy as well as lack of political consensus as major roadblock for increasing the pace of growth. “You are aware that these days, the global economy is passing through a difficult phase … Also there have been domestic developments which are hindering our economic growth,” Singh said. He also spoke about the need to create more employment opportunities in the country and in that context laid down the idea of a National Skill Development Authority. 2013 No place for narrow sectarian ideologies Manmohan Singh’s last speech as Prime Minister was a recap of the achievements of the past United Progressive Alliance and Congress years. As growth slumped, concerns were evident in Singh’s speech as he spoke about effort to expedite stuck projects, remove bottlenecks of environmental clearances. He ended his speech with an appeal towards creating a tolerant society that celebrates communal harmony. “If in the future we can achieve the same kind of progress as in the last decade, the day is not far off when India will be rid of poverty, hunger, disease and ignorance,” he said. 2014 Ten-year moratorium on communalism, casteism In Prime Minister’s Narendra Modi’s first speech from the rampart of the Red Fort, he announced a moratorium of 10 years against promoting communal and caste tensions. “Enough battles have been fought, enough people have died… no one benefits from this,” said the PM. Calling himself the Pradhan Sevak, or prime servant, he spoke at length about Swachh Bharat and the need to make more toilet in schools; he also spoke of financial inclusion and announced a scheme for MPs to adopt model villages. “We will replace the Planning Commission with a new institution having a new design and structure, a new body, a new soul, a new thinking, a new direction,” Modi said. 2015 A corruption-free India In his second speech, Modi made a strong pro-poor, pro-farmer and anti-corruption speech. On one hand, he announced Start-up India, Stand-up India to appeal to the young and as a mode of job creation; on the other hand, he rolled out a slew of social welfare schemes on pension and insurance. He spoke against corruption, mentioning it 19 times during his speech, and said that there has not been any allegation during his term. “There is not an allegation of corruption of even a single paisa,” he said. Modi also said that in 1,000 days all non-electrified villages would be given a power connection. 2016 Thank you, Balochistan The highlight of Modi’s 86-minute speech was his reference to Balochistan—a sensitive topic for Pakistan administration. He said he is grateful to people of Balochistan, Gilgit and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir who had wished India on Independence Day. “I want to specially thank some special people from the Red Fort. In the last few days, people of Balochistan,Gilgit and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir had conveyed good wishes and gratitude to me,” Modi said Modi also used the address to highlight the government’s social goals - including medical aid of up to ₹ 1 lakh for people below the poverty line - and reach out to middle class by saying they would be spared the tyranny of the tax authorities. 2017 Kashmir needs to be embraced At a time when Kashmir continues to face unrest, PM Modi adopted a conciliatory approach and said the Kashmir problem will be solved neither by gaali (abuses), or goli (bullets), but by embracing all Kashmiris. “I am clear in my belief on how to win the war against separatism, which is spread by a handful of people,” Modi said. He also condemned violence in the name of faith, and said the slogan before Independence was “Bharat Chhoro” but now it should be “Bharat Jorro”. He empathised with Muslim women who suffered Instant Triple Talaq - which would become a key political theme of his government - and said they are with their struggles. He continued his strong messaging against corruption and said that the government wants to create job givers not job seekers 2018 An Indian in space Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised that an Indian would be in space before 2022 and reached out to key constituencies --farmers, the poor, women—and touched upon key issues (development, corruption, reforms, security) even as he targeted the Opposition by comparing the present with what it was like in 2014,when he took over. Modi’s fifth speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort lasted 82 minutes. The PM reached out to multiple classes and communities by projecting his government’s “vast development canvas”; highlighted its ability to take difficult decisions, battle corruption and improve delivery; and spoke of the steps taken to create a more equal and gender-sensitive India and a more secure India. 2019 Article 370 move hailed In the first speech of his second term, Narendra Modi highlighted the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution, ending the practice of instant triple talaq among Muslims, strengthening of laws to fight terror, and moving towards “one nation, one Constitution” as some of the key accomplishments of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in less than 70 days of its second term. The work that was not done in the last 70 years has been accomplished within 70 days...The removal of Article 370 and Article 35A is an important step,” he said. Modi, after decades of the proposal being in limbo, also announced the creation of a Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) for more effective coordination between the three armed forces. The PM outlined the journey of India from 2014 to 2019 as one from disappointment to hope; urged citizen participation in a range of new environmental initiatives, from water conservation to ending single-use plastic; and in a move that could have policy implications in the future, flagged population explosion as a key concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-the-ramparts-of-red-fort/story-NY16hfzJwwOiJ18LdrAgAM.html
15-08-2020||India||Jai Hind: PM Modi tweets ahead of Independence Day speech at Red Fort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended his greeting to all Indians on the 74th Independence Day before hoisting the tricolour from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi.“Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!” PM Modi posted on Twitter minutes before his speech at the Red Fort.The Prime Minister will hoist the national flag and deliver his Independence Day speech shortly. Before that, he will receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Delhi Police. In his Independence Day speech last year, PM Modi had talked about the decision to remove Jammu and Kashmir’s special rights and ban against triple talaq among the bold moves of the first 10 weeks of his second term.Modi also talked about his aim to turn India into a $5-trillion economy within five years and announced the creation of a new post of chief of defence staff to ensure better coordination of the army, navy and air force, along the lines of western military forces.A multilayered security ring, including snipers from the National Security Guard (NSG), elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, has been thrown in around the Red Fort. Several other leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, also tweeted their wishe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-hind-pm-modi-tweets-ahead-of-independence-day-speech-at-red-fort/story-8zgIc0YlOlEElb4PiTvlgO.html
15-08-2020||India||From inspecting the guard of honour to Independence Day speech: PM Modi to hoist tricolour today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hoist the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Delhi’s iconic Red Fort on Saturday.The Prime Minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Delhi Police. Major Shweta Pandey will assist PM Modi in unfurling the national flag.Here is how the 74th Independence Day ceremony will take place:* PM Modi will be received by defence minister Rajnath Singh and defence secretary Ajay Kumar as he arrives in front of Red Fort’s Lahore Gate at 7.18am from Rajghat.* Kumar will introduce the General Officer Commanding (GoC) of Delhi area, Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, to the Prime Minister. * Lt Gen Mishra will then conduct PM Modi to the saluting base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present the general salute to him, following which he will inspect the Guard of Honour, positioned directly in front of the tricolour across the moat below the ramparts.* This year, the Indian Army is the coordinating service and the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Lt Col Gaurav S Yewalkar. The army contingent will be commanded by Major Palvinder Grewal, the navy contingent by Lt Commander KVR Reddy, Squadron Leader Vikas Kumar will lead the air force contingent and the Delhi Police contingent will be led by additional deputy commissioner Jitender Kumar Meena. * PM Modi will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort after inspecting the Guard of Honour and will be greeted by the defence minister, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. * Lt Gen Mishra will conduct the Prime Minister to the dais to unfurl the national flag after which the National Guard will give ‘Rashtriya Salute’ to the tricolour. The unfurling of the tricolour will synchronise with the 21 Gun Salute fired by the gunners of the elite 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial). The ceremonial battery will be commanded by Lt Col Jitendra Singh Mehta and the Gun Position Officer will be Naib Subedar (AIG) Anil Chand.* The National Flag Guard comprising 32 men and one officer each from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police will present ‘Rashtriya Salute’ at the time of unfurling of the National Flag by the prime minister. Major Surya Prakash from the Army will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard. The naval contingent for the National Flag Guard will be commanded by Lt Commander Vivek Tingloo, IAF contingent by Squadron Leader Mayank Abhishek and Delhi Police contingent by additional deputy commissioner Sudhanshu Dhama. * PM Modi will address the nation after unfurling the tricolour. The cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will sing the national anthem after the Prime Minister’s speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-inspecting-the-guard-of-honour-to-independence-day-speech-pm-modi-to-hoist-tricolour-today/story-a43UZ9DMM0co6d3nifHeMP.html
15-08-2020||India||Computer science graduate, debate champion: Major Shweta Pandey, the army officer, who will help PM Modi hoist the tricolour||Major Shweta Pandey, an officer of the Indian Army, will help Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurl the national flag this year during the Independence Day ceremony at Delhi’s Red Fort on Saturday.Maj Pandey is the first woman officer to carry the national flag and lead a first-ever tri-services Indian Armed Forces Contingent during Russia’s Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow in June this year.Last year, three women Indian Air Force (IAF) officers had assisted PM Modi during the Independence Day ceremony. Flying Officer Preetam Sangwan had assisted the Prime Minister in the unfurling of the national flag, while flight lieutenant Jyoti Yadav and flight lieutenant Mansi Geda were positioned on either side of the saluting dais.Here is more about the officer:* Maj Pandey was commissioned in the army in March 2012 from the Officers Training Academy (OTA) in Tamil Nadu’s Chennai. * Pandey is an Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) officer at the Indian Army’s 505 base workshop.* She won the Garhwal Rifles medal for topping in tactics in the academy.* She is posted with 505 Army Based Workshop (ABW) in Delhi Cantonment.* The officer is a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) expert and has completed both basic CBRN and staff CBRN courses from the College Of Military Engineering (CME) in Maharashtra’s Pune.* Maj Shweta holds a degree in computer science and has done her advance course in radars. She has won more 75 medals and 250 certificates in various national and international events such as speeches, debates, extempores, etc in school and college. * She is an alumnus of the City Montessori School (CMS) in Lucknow. * Her father Raj Ratan Pandey served as an additional director (finance) in the Uttar Pradesh government and her mother Amita Pandey is a professor of Sanskrit and Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/computer-science-graduate-debate-champion-major-shweta-pandey-the-army-officer-who-will-help-pm-modi-hoist-the-tricolour/story-w5U3soB0mo67E9DZTMsPDL.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s 74th I-Day speech highlights: ‘Covid-19 is not an obstacle big enough to hamper self-reliant India’s growth’||Vice President Naidu lauds PM for ‘passionate’ I-Day speechVice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his passionate Independence Day speech at the Red Fort and said that it creates confidence among the people in their endeavours to revive the economy.JP Nadda hoists flag at BJP headquartersBJP national president JP Nadda hoisted the national flag at the party’s headquarter in New Delhi.Priyanka Gandhi lauds soldiers, healthcare workers, farmers on I-DayCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lauded soldiers, healthcare workers, farmers in her Tweets on the occasion of Independence Day. “India got independence after a long struggle in which people laid down their lives. Crores of Indians fought together for the truth and won. We have to protect our freedom by putting our lives at stake. On this occasion of Independence Day, salute to the soldiers, healthcare workers, sanitation workers, farmers and labourers,” her tweet read.President Ram Nath Kovind pays tribute at National War MemorialPresident Ram Nath Kovind paid tribute at National War Memorial. Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind pays tribute at National War Memorial on #IndependenceDay. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh & Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria present. pic.twitter.com/M7io7HL6C1LK Advani unfurls national flag at residenceBJP leader L K Advani unfurled the tricolour at his residence in New Delhi to mark the nation’s 74th Independence Day.Chinese envoy wishes for ‘peace and prosperity’ for India and China“Congratulations to the Indian government and people on Independence Day. Wish China and India, two great nations with ancient civilization prosper together in peace and develop with closer partnership,” tweeted Sun Weidong, Chinese Ambassador to India.PM Modi continues ‘safa’ tradition; opts for saffron, cream turbanPrime Minister Narendra Modi wore a saffron and cream headgear at the 74th Independence Day celebrations. He paired the ‘safa’ with a half-sleeve kurta and a fitted churidar.Day to remember all those who lost lives at border: Delhi CM“Today is also the day to remember those who sacrificed themselves at the border in last 73 years, to keep the nation independent and safe. Our 20 jawans lost their lives at India-China border. Innumerable soldiers have laid down their lives like this, in last 73 years,” tweeted Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.On I-Day, CPI(M) pledges to continue its fight to defend constitution“We pledge to continue our fight in defence of the constitution and against attack on fundamental rights. This freedom was hard-earned and any attempt to curb it will be fought back,” CPI (M) Tweeted.Congress leader AK Antony hoists flag at party headquartersSenior Congress leader AK Antony hoists the National Flag at Congress party’s headquarters. Delhi: Senior Congress leader AK Antony hoists the National Flag at Congress party's headquarters, today on #IndependenceDay today. Rahul Gandhi, Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal also present. pic.twitter.com/QnMXXs0ruj‘Best wishes for more progress’: Nepal PM wished India on I-Day“Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” Prime Minister of Nepal, KP Sharma Oli tweeted.Australian PM Scott Morrison wishes India happy Independence Day“Warm wishes to PM Narendra Modi and the people of India on their Independence Day. The deep friendship and partnership between Australia and India is founded on bharosa (trust), samman (respect) and shared values. Happy Independence Day!,” Australian PM Scott Morrison Tweets. Rahul Gandhi extends wishes to nation on Independence DayRemembering a quote of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Rahul Gandhi tweeted. “The only alternative to coexistence is destruction. Jawaharlal Nehru. Best wishes on Independence Day.”RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat hoists national flag in NagpurRSS chief Mohan Bhagwat hoisted the national flag at the Sangh headquarters in Nagpur as part of the Independence Day celebrations.‘I bow to martyrs’: Arvind Kejriwal tweets on Independence Day“I bow to those martyrs whose sacrifice made it possible for us to breathe in free atmosphere. I wish all the countrymen Happy Independence Day,” tweeted Kejriwal on Independence Day.Middle class needs freedom from government interference: PM“Professionals coming out of India’s middle class make their mark in the whole world not only in India. The middle class needs opportunity and freedom from government interference,” said PM Modi.DRDO-developed anti-drone system was deployed near Red FortDRDO-developed anti-drone system deployed near Red Fort today. The system can detect and jam micro drones up to 3 kilometres and use laser to bring down a target up to 1-2.5 kilometres depending on the wattage of laser weapon, according to news agency ANI.Development work in over 1,300 islands in country underway: PM“There are more than 1,300 islands in our country. Keeping in mind their geographical location and their significance in the development of the nation, work to begin new projects in some of these islands is underway,” said PM Modi.Our hearts meet with India’s neighbours: PM Modi“Today, neighbours are not only those with whom we share our geographical boundaries but also those with whom our hearts meet,” said PM Modi.‘Ram Temple construction started 10 days ago’: PM Modi says conduct of people ‘inspirational’“Construction of a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya started 10 days ago. Ramjanmbhoomi issue that prevailed for centuries, has been resolved peacefully. The conduct of people of the country has been unprecedented and is an inspiration for future,” said PM Modi in his Independence Day speech.PM Modi ends Independence Day speechPM Modi has concluded his Independence Day speech which ran for over 1 hour 30 minutes.Covid-19 is not an obstacle big enough to hamper self-reliant India’s growth: PM Modi“Covid-19 is not an obstacle big enough to hamper self-reliant India’s growth,” says PM Modi.India’s policies, processes and products should be the best: PM Modi“Our processes, policies, products should be the best. That is how India will be at the top of the world,” says PM Modi.NCC will select 1 lakh cadets from coastal, border areas, one-third will be female cadets: PM“National Cadet Corps will select 1 lakh cadets from coastal and border areas and one-third of these will be female cadets,” says PM Modi.Working with maritime neighbours to ensure peace and stability in Southeast Asia: PM“We are working with our maritime neighbours to ensure peace and stability in Southeast Asia,” says PM Modi in Independence Day speech. India is thankful to all nations who extended help during Covid-19 struggle: PM ModiPM Modi thanked all nations who extended help to India during her struggle with coronavirus.Ladakh showed how India responds to those who threaten her territorial integrity: PM Modi“From LOC to LAC, whoever dared to cross the line and threaten the territorial integrity of India was met with an appropriate response from our brave soldiers,” says PM Modi.Decreasing carbon footprint will be done on a war-footing: PM Modi“Decreasing our carbon footprint and conservation of biodiversity will be done on a war-footing,” says PM Modi in Independence Day speech. J-K has completed one year of independence from Article 370“This one year is a year of the new journey of development for Jammu and Kashmir. This one year is the year of the rights received by the women and the Dalits in Jammu and Kashmir. This one year is also the year of a life of dignity for the refugees in Jammu and Kashmir,” says PM Modi.3 vaccines candidates are at different stages of testing in India: PM Modi“All of us are waiting for a vaccine for Covid-19. I want to tell you that three vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country. A made in India vaccine will be out soon,” says PM Modi. PM Modi announces National Digital Health MissionPM Modi announces National Digital Health Mission, says it will bring a revolution in India’s health sectorWe have worked for women empowerment: PM Modi“We have worked for women empowerment- Navy and airforce are taking women in combat, women are now leaders, we abolished triple talaq, got sanitary pads to women for just 1 rupee,” says PM ModiOptical fibre network will reach all 6 lakh villages of India: PM“All 6 lakh villages on India will be connected via optical fibre within 1,000 days,” says PM Modi National Education Policy will equip kids for global competition: PM“Education plays an important role in new India, and we have introduced the National Education policy, which will help our children grow and be equipped for global competition,” says PM Modi.Rs 90,000 crore directly transferred to bank accounts of poor: PM“About Rs 90,000 crore directly transferred to bank accounts of poor; over 80 crore people provided free food grains,” says PM Modi.Middle class will benefit most from ease of living, says PM Modi“Middle class will benefit most from a better ranking in ease of living and we are striving for it,” says PM Modi.Jal Jeevan Mission empowered spirit of cooperative competitive federalism, says PM Modi“Jal Jeevan Mission has empowered the spirit of cooperative competitive federalism,” says PM Modi. Economic clusters will be formed in villages: PM Modi“We need to strengthen agrarian businesses. Economic clusters will be formed in villages for this purpose,” says PM Modi. We will have to work extra hard for upliftment of all: PM Modi“Some areas tend to be left behind in journeys of development. There are 110 districts in India that have to be brought back in the narrative of development. We will have to work extra hard for upliftment of all,” says PM Modi.India’s progress seen in all fields in past 6 years: PM Modi“Be it providing every household with electricity, cooking gas, creating bank accounts for the poor or building toilets in all houses, India has progressed a lot in every field in the last 6 years,” says PM Modi.Opening up space sector will generate employment: PM Modi“I am confident that measures like opening up space sector will generate many new employment opportunities for our youth, said PM Modi.Record FDI investment reflects world’s confidence in India: PM Modi“India’s record FDI investment shows the world’s growing confidence in our nation,” says PM Modi.Make in World should also be a key slogan like Make in India: PM Modi“Make in World should also be a key slogan like Make in India is,” says PM Modi in his address to the nation.Humanity must be centre of economic growth: PM Modi“While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process,” says PM Modi.Vocal for local should be key slogan of independent India: PM Modi“Vocal for local should be the key slogan of independent India,” says PM Modi at Red Fort.We have to provide for hungry in our nation, world: PM Modi“We have to strengthen our agriculture industry, to provide for the hungry in our nation as well as the world,” says PM Modi in Independence Day speech.India has to utilise its human resource: PM ModiPM Modi says India has to focus on its human resources and skill development. India has to stop exporting raw material, importing finished goods: PM“India has to stop exporting raw material and importing finished goods. We have to become self-reliant,” says PM.‘I have faith in India’s approach’: PM Modi on India becoming self-reliant“India has vowed to be self-reliant amid Covid-19. Self-reliance is compulsory for families and for the nation. I have faith in India’s approach,” says PM ModiPM lauds nation’s ‘unwavering spirit’“India’s soul has been attacked several times, but our nation’s unwavering spirit conquered all,” says PM Modi in his Independence Day speech.I salute the corona warriors: PM Modi“I salute the corona warriors who have worked relentlessly for the nation. I extend my condolences to families that have lost loved ones in this battle against coronavirus,” says PM at Red Fort.We owe this freedom to those who fought for Independence: PM Modi“We owe this freedom to those hundreds who fought for our Independence,” says PM Modi. PM Modi begins address to nationPM Modi has begun his address to the nation from the Red Fort.PM Modi unfurls national flagPM Modi unfurled the national flag at Red Fort and national anthem was played.PM Modi receives guard of honourRajnath Singh and defence secretary Ajay Kumar received the PM at Red Fort. The PM received the guard of honour. PM Modi pays tributes at RajghatPrime Minister Narendra Modi pays tributes at Rajghat.  Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tributes at Raj Ghat. #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/TRm6QVDxqFAmit Shah stresses on self-reliance in I-Day TweetHome Minister Amit Shah stressed on the need for a self-reliant India in his Independence Day tweet for the nation: “On this Independence Day, let us take a pledge to fulfil PM Narendra Modi’s dream of a self-reliant India and contribute to taking the country to new heights by using indigenous products.PM Tweets: Happy Independence Day to all fellow IndiansPM Tweets: Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!Rajnath Singh to receive PM at red fort at 7.18amDefence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar will receive the PM at Red Fort ahead of his speech and flag hoisting.PM Modi to address nation from Red FortPM Narendra Modi will address the nation from Red Fort today. This will be his second Independence Day speech of his second tenure as PM.PM Modi to visit Rajghat at 7amPrime Minister Narendra Modi will pay his tributes at Rajghat before proceeding towards the Red Fort.India celebrates 74th Independence DayThe country is celebrating 73 years of independence from the British rule today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-74th-independence-day-speech-2020-live-updates-august-15-red-fort/story-HBzUwFUTt2NAyqjfw9E89I.html
15-08-2020||India||Watch Live: PM Modi leads the nation in celebrating 74th Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the nation on the occasion of India’s 74th Independence Day as he reached the Red Fort a while ago. Prime Minister Modi inspected the guard of honour and then unfurled the tricolour to mark this joyous occasion before he began his address to the nation. The nation will celebrate the Independence Day mostly indoors as the world remains under the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic.  #स्वतंत्रतादिवस के पावन अवसर पर सभी देशवासियों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। जय हिंद!Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!The Prime Minister has wished the 130 crore people of the nation on the 74th Independence Day. He offered his reverence and gratitude at Rajghat, the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi’s memorial, where the eternal flame of non-violence keeps burning. 4000 attendees are attending the Independence Day ceremony. As coronavirus numbers grow, all precautions have been taken to maintain social distancing. The celebrations will be held following the Prime Minister’s clarion call against the invisible enemy - Do Gaz ki Doori. The infantrymen, navy and airmen who will be present in the guard of honour have remained in quarantine for the last 15 days. The defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria will be present with the Prime Minister during the event. WATCH Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation from the Red Fort:  The Prime Minister thanked the key workers who have been vital in the nation’s fight against the coronavirus in his speech. He is also expected to thank and applaud the gallant soldiers who fought the recent Chinese intrusion in Galwan Valley in Ladakh. The Prime Minister’s speech will focus on self-reliance as India battles along with the entire world to stave off the economic effects the pandemic has brought along with it. The invitees have already reached the venue. The guests, with masks and ensuring social distancing, are set to celebrate nation’s 74th Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-independence-day-speech-watch-live-pm-modi-leads-the-nation-in-celebrating-74th-independence-day/story-zfDCuCMyJIKGjhulQOMtNK.html
15-08-2020||India||Marking the country’s tryst with destiny||On the midnight of August 14, 1947, Jawaharlal Nehru addressed the Constituent Assembly, delivering his famous ‘Tryst with Destiny’ speech. In his address, Nehru evoked the country’s long freedom struggle and chalked out a path for its future. Here is an excerpt from his landmark speech: “Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge, not wholly or in full measure, but very substantially. At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom. A moment comes, which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends, and when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance. It is fitting that at this solemn moment we take the pledge of dedication to the service of India and her people and to the still larger cause of humanity.At the dawn of history India started on her unending quest, and trackless centuries are filled with her striving and the grandeur of her successes and her failures. Through good and ill fortune alike she has never lost sight of that quest or forgotten the ideals which gave her strength. We end today a period of ill fortune and India discovers herself again. The achievement we celebrate today is but a step, an opening of opportunity, to the greater triumphs and achievements that await us. Are we brave enough and wise enough to grasp this opportunity and accept the challenge of the future ?Freedom and power bring responsibility. That responsibility rests upon this Assembly, a sovereign body representing the sovereign people of India. Before the birth of freedom we have endured all the pains of labour and our hearts are heavy with the memory of this sorrow. Some of those pains continue even now. Nevertheless the past is over and it is the future that beckons to us now.That future is not one of ease or resting but of incessant striving so that we might fulfil the pledges we have so often taken and the one we shall take today. The service of India means the service of the millions who suffer. It means the ending of poverty and ignorance and disease and inequality of opportunity. The ambition of the greatest man of our generation has been to wipe every tear from every eye. That may be beyond us but as long as there are tears and suffering, so long our work will not be over.And so we have to labour and to work and work hard to give reality to our dreams. Those dreams are for India, but they are also for the world, for all the nations and peoples are too closely knit together today for anyone of them to imagine that it can live apart. Peace has been said to be indivisible, so is freedom, so is prosperity now, and so also is disaster in this one world that can no longer be split into isolated fragments.To the people of India, whose representatives we are, we make appeal to join us with faith and confidence in this great adventure. This is no time for petty and destructive criticism, no time for ill will or blaming others. We have to build the noble mansion of free India where all her children may dwell.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marking-the-country-s-tryst-with-destiny/story-tKMT6OJSKCW4szKPzCE9MP.html
15-08-2020||India||India’s review of China’s Confucius Institutes to focus on Kolkata, Mumbai centres||The Indian government, which launched a review of Indian chapters of Confucius Institutes in the country, has narrowed its focus to two centres operating out of Kolkata and Mumbai, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. The review was launched earlier this month after security agencies on July 15 sounded out the government about their concerns around the growing Chinese influence in higher education and culture.On August 13, the US designated the HQ of the Confucius Institutes in the US, in Washington as a foreign mission of the People’s Republic of China citing the “opacity of this organisation and its state-directed nature” as the reaons for the designation. China has insisted all along that these institutes, present around the world, are mainly vehicles to propagate Chinese culture and language, although many countries believe they have other far more sinister objectives. Australia, for instance, had cracked down on the institutes last year. The Confucius Institutes are directly funded by the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China.The Indian review exercise covered 54 agreements signed by Indian universities and colleges with Chinese institutions. The initial assessment has revealed that many Indian educational institutions entered into agreements with universities in China without mandatory approvals from the central government.At the first high-level meeting held at the education ministry on August 5, officials said two Confucius institutes associated with the Mumbai university and Kolkata’s School of Chinese Language came in for particular attention as they were involved in elaborate student exchange programme. “There is a proposal to take a close, hard look at the activities of the two institutes,” said a government official, one of the people familiar with the matter. “There are some facts that came to our attention during the review which we feel require deeper scrutiny,” said the official. A second official said the matter needed further probe before any action can be initiated.Vibha Surana, director of the Confucius Institute at the University of Mumbai, was unavailable for a comment on the review. She had earlier said the institute hasn’t faced any trouble in its functioning. “The Institute first started eight years ago with a grant that came from the Chinese government of about ₹90 lakh. Ever since there’s been no additional grants, we have managed to keep the Institute up and running by increasing courses. We have six levels of the course and five of those are functioning well. More and more students are approaching the Institute as learning the language has opened many job prospects for students in the past,” Surana had said.A representative of Kolkata’s School of Chinese Language also did not respond to queries for a comment.India put the spotlight on the Chinese educational institutes against the backdrop of the 100-day-long stand-off between armies of the two countries in East Ladakh. The face-off, triggered by Beijing’s aggressive moves along the Line of Actual Control, coincided with Beijing’s provocative statements in context of its disputes with its other neighbours over South China Sea that have prompted retaliatory steps by the United States.In one such move, the Donald Trump administration on Thursday tightened the screws on Confucius institutes in the United States, ordering that they should be treated as a foreign mission and not an academic institution.“The United States wants to ensure that students on US campuses have access to Chinese language and cultural offerings free from the manipulation of the Chinese Communist Party and its proxies,” US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. There are currently 75 Confucius Institutes operating in the United States of America, 65 of which are active on US university campuses, with the rest functioning as stand-alone organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-review-of-confucius-institutes-to-focus-on-kolkata-mumbai-centres/story-rDbgkQDs0cXbHVf2QtvkOI.html
15-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This is the tale of three cities, Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai, which were the first major hot spots of the coronavirus disease in India, and were responsible for most of the cases in the country in the early days of the pandemic’s run. Even in early July, these three cities were accounting for at least one in every four diagnosed cases of Covid-19, and by then, they were already starting to come off their peaks — as indicated by a declining positivity rate with increased testing. The positivity rate is simply the proportion of tests returning a positive result.Yet, their trajectories present some interesting insights.First, Mumbai. Over the past two-and-half months, Mumbai has upped its testing game. From around 3,000-4,000 tests a day in early June, it scaled up numbers to around 10,000 tests in late July, and even now, with the crisis seeming to have passed (the new hot spots in Maharashtra are the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and Pune), is doing around 7,000-8,000 tests a day on average.The worrying thing for Mumbai is that its positivity rate has fluctuated wildly — from 46% on June 1 when it was doing very few tests (just a bit over 3,000), to 6.8% on July 28 when it conducted around 10,200 tests, to 10% on August 11 when it did around 9,200, to 16.3% on August 12 when it performed around 7,000 tests. This volatility shows that the city’s administrators have been inconsistent when it comes to testing intensity. It also means that the testing in Mumbai is perhaps inadequate. They should be conducting more tests every day, perhaps at least 10,000 — every time they have exceeded this benchmark, the positivity rate has fallen to 10% or even lower.Second, Chennai. HT’s dashboard has Chennai’s testing data only from July 3. The city has been more consistent when it comes to testing than Mumbai. The number of tests it has conducted in this period has never gone below 8,000, and the modal value is closer to 10,000. Its positivity rate shows an interesting trend. The consistency and adequacy of testing in Chennai meant that the city’s positivity rate touched around 10% in mid-July, and has largely stayed at the same level. For the past week, it has ranged between 7% and 9%. Interestingly, this has happened without any appreciable decline in the number of daily cases (once the positivity rate reached the 10% mark). Clearly, Chennai is going through a long plateau.Third, Delhi. The Capital’s journey has perhaps been the most interesting. It definitely wasn’t testing adequately in June, and its positivity rate in the second week of June actually hovered around the mid-30s — which meant one in every three people being tested was found to be infected. The city ramped up testing rapidly, though, and by late June, the positivity rate fell to below 20%. By mid-July, with testing numbers continuing to remain high, the positivity rate came down to 6% and it has largely stayed at that level since. Like in Chennai, the number of daily new cases has remained rangebound (with a mode of around 1,000) since the positivity rate reached the 6% level. Delhi, too, it is evident, is seeing a long plateau.Both Chennai and Delhi have to guard against the plateau becoming an upward slope. And Mumbai has to test adequately and consistently to get to the plateau, although it is almost there. Data on available hospital capacity in all three cities seems to suggest that the worst is behind them (there are beds available, even in critical care units).All three cities do a mix of molecular (RT-PCR and NAAT) and antigen tests. The mix is skewed in favour of molecular tests in Chennai and Mumbai and antigen tests in Delhi. Given that all three cities are seeing (or beginning to see) a plateauing of cases, they should try and use molecular tests to the extent possible, especially if they have the capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jRUQEWl7jOMxp0vsKHY9uN.html
15-08-2020||India||US advisory hints at 3-month immunity||People who have recovered from Covid-19 need not quarantine themselves for up to three months after they have recovered, the American Centers for Disease Control (CDC) said in recently updated advisories for their citizens, the first time public health officials anywhere have expressed confidence in some duration of immunity infected people develop.The advisory was available on the website of US CDC which, according to New York Times, appeared to suggest that it was safe for people to mingle with others for three months.“People who have tested positive for Covid-19 do not need to quarantine or get tested again for up to three months as long as they do not develop symptoms again,” said the guidance on cdc.gov. If someone does develop symptoms – such as cough, fever or difficulty breathing – they “may need to be tested again if there is no other cause identified for their symptoms”, the advisory added. Scientists around the world are yet to conclusively determine the question of how long immunity may last after a Covid-19 infection, which first began infecting humans a little over eight months ago. In this period, studies have indicated the antibodies – proteins in the human body that can prevent a re-infection with a pathogen – wane over two to three months. At the same time, there are also studies – including one from Wuhan published on Thursday – that showed antibodies lingered on for over six months. People may also be protected by something known as memory T cells, a part of the immune system that learns how to fight infections. T cell memory may not necessarily prevent an infection but can quickly ramp up the production of antibodies and killer immune cells that can prevent a serious bout of Covid-19 second time around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-advisory-hints-at-3-month-immunity/story-NItq1xFXRDZSwaBGpFTtkN.html
15-08-2020||India||Pandemic rumour-mongering led to deaths, injuries and violence: Analysis||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has fed at least 2,000 rumours, conspiracy theories and stigmatizing posts that were shared in 25 languages across 87 countries, where they have led to hundreds of deaths, thousands of hospital admissions, and triggered acts of violence, according to an analysis published on Monday.India, the United States, China, Spain, Indonesia, and Brazil, were the countries where such phenomena were most prominent, said the peer-reviewed study published in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. Some rumours were harmless. They included the ones that propagated drinking cow urine, or camel urine spiked with lemon juice, to prevent Covid-19. Others were not. Like the one that prescribed drinking methanol to cure Covid-19; it has been linked to 800 deaths, some 5,876 hospital admissions and 60 cases of “complete blindness”, the study found. Stigma against healthcare workers and people of Asian ethnicity were linked to at least 26 violent attacks until April 5, said the report on the tide of misinformation that the World Health Organisation has called an “infodemic”.The study analysed 2,276 Covid-19-related reports on news websites and social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter between December 31, 2019 and April 5 2020, and found 1,856 claims to be false (82%), 204 correct (9%), 176 misleading (8%), and 31 unproven (1%).“The most common media platforms were Facebook and Twitter. We did not analyse whether they vary by media platforms across regions or countries,” said lead author Mohammed Saiful Islam of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, and School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia, on email.Managing rumours, dispelling misinformation and conspiracy theories are essential to pandemic response,  experts. “Countering misinformation requires quick and easily comprehensible clarifications communicated by credible figures through a variety of channels. Conventional as well as social media must be utilised for crisp expert communication. Regulatory measures must also be used to curb the spread of malicious misinformation even while correcting misguided persons,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. Among rumoured Covid-19 prevention and cures were eating garlic, Vitamins C and D and medicinal herbs, keeping the throat moist, and avoiding spicy food. Popular drinking cures that were propagated were bleach, alcohol, tea, cow urine (India), and camel urine with lime (Saudi Arabia). Holding one’s breath for more than 10 seconds to self-diagnose Covid-19 infection was also suggested in a widely shared post.“Health communication must be simple in wording, transparent in adhering to available evidence, willing to accept uncertainty where it exists but building confidence in science as a trustworthy resource to resolve uncertainty and find solutions. Public health experts must also be open to new evidence and self correction, so that they are not seen as doggedly dogmatic,” said Dr Reddy.Conspiracy theories were more common in China, Iran, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States, the study found. The theories that went viral included one according to which Covid-19 being a bioweapon made in China, a virus manufactured by international agencies to sell vaccines, and a conspiracy against the culture of some religious cities in Iran and the Middle East, found the study.Infodemics in the past led to violence, mistrust, and social disturbances. Health workers were accused of deliberately spreading Ebola and attacked in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2019; AIDS denialism led to 330,000 deaths in South Africa in the early 2000s; and the Zika virus was called a biological weapon during the 2015–2016 outbreaks in Brazil.“The government should run media surveillance to identify misinformation in real-time and correct that information with scientific evidence… Since social media is the platform through which misinformation spreads so quickly, policymakers should also use this platform to spread correct information. Health agencies should engage the local community, particularly young people, to spread correct information,” Islam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-rumour-mongering-led-to-deaths-injuries-and-violence-analysis/story-JylvrbHC9olphq9vE5tWwJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Lav Agarwal tests positive for Covid-19||The joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Lav Agarwal, who has been the face of the government’s fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has tested positive for Covid-19.“Dear All,Just to inform that I have tested positive for Covid 19 and initiating home isolation as per guidelines. Requesting all my friends, colleagues for self monitoring. Contact tracing will be done by Health Team. Hoping to see everyone soon,” Agarwal tweeted on Friday evening.A 1996-batch IAS from Andhra Pradesh cadre, 48-year-old Agarwal has been a permanent feature in the government’s press briefings. He was present during Tuesday’s briefing also. Sources in the ministry said that all persons who had come into contact with Agarwal recently will be closely monitored and people showing symptoms will be tested. Contact tracing will be initiated by department concerned soon, said officials.With his daily Covid-19 press briefings, Agarwal had managed to connect with the masses, carving out a unique public presence for an Indian administrative service official. Many people would keep the 4pm slot free to listen to his detailed updates on Covid-19. In the initial stages of the pandemic, especially, when people had several queries about the disease, Agarwal used to answer all doubts patiently. The briefings had made him a household name and that could be gauged by the fact that minutes after he tweeted about testing positive for Covid-19, his followers on Twitter and users of the social media platform began wishing him a speedy recovery from the infection. “Get well soon Sir. Good wishes and prayers. Your afternoon updates have been instrumental in many of us not panicking and getting a better understanding of COVID19 and it’s initial spread,” read a tweet from the handle guyfromvalley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lav-agarwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-fPaPOWQNKKsCovS9A9wgUN.html
15-08-2020||India||SC seeks details of spectrum users of insolvent firms||The Supreme Court on Friday asked bankrupt telecom companies, including Reliance Communications Ltd (RCom), Aircel Group and Videocon Telecommunications Ltd, to furnish details of those using spectrum with insolvent firms. This came after RCom told the apex court that Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd has been using its spectrum.A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra asked Shyam Divan, counsel representing the resolution professional of RCom, that if Reliance Jio has been using the spectrum with RCom and whether Jio can pay the adjusted gross revenue (AGR)-related dues of RCom. While Reliance Jio is owned by Mukesh Ambani, RCom is led by his younger brother Anil Ambani.Divan said RCom is in asset-sharing agreement with Reliance Jio since 2016, and the DoT has been informed about the pact along with payment of required fee to use the spectrum. The bench said spectrum is government property and no debtor can come in the way of public interest. The next hearing in the case is on 17 August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-details-of-spectrum-users-of-insolvent-firms/story-Tt0bcBR5TQuSAoQLCqUkFN.html
15-08-2020||India||Amit Shah tests negative for Covid, to remain in home isolation||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said that he has tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19) infection and will follow home isolation, on the advice of doctors. “Today my corona test report has come negative. I thank God and express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who blessed me and my family by wishing for my speedy recovery. I will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors,” Shah tweeted. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had tested positive for the Covid-19 disease earlier this month after showing initial symptoms of the viral infection. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on August 2. After testing negative, Shah thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of Medanta Hospital for treating him and helping him fight off the infection. A senior government official, who requested anonymity, said that the home minister is at his residence at present. The home minister, the official cited above said, has been continuously working from hospital and will continue to do so from his residence as well. As Shah is in home isolation, he will be watching the Independence Day celebrations and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech live from his home on Saturday, a second official said. Shah was supposed to attend the ground breaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, but could not do so after testing positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, Union AYUSH minister Shripad Naik, who was in home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, was shifted to a private hospital in Panaji of Goa, his family members said on Friday.The 67-year-old BJP member of Parliament from North Goa was shifted to the hospital on Thursday night. He complained of fever, after which he was taken to the hospital on Thursday night. His fever has subsided now, Naik’s eldest son, Sidhesh, told PTI.The minister and his wife had both tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and they were in home isolation.Sidesh said that his mother has also been admitted to the hospital and is under medical observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tests-negative-for-covid-to-remain-in-home-isolation/story-jDrZRypD6jy6WwtVsdRSbI.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi to address nation from Red Fort on 74th Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the iconic Red Fort on Saturday.According to a Defence ministry statement, the prime minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police. Major Shweta Pandey will assist the prime minister in unfurling the National Flag.On his arrival at 7.18 AM in front of the Lahore Gate of the Red Fort, the prime minister will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar.The defence secretary will introduce the General Officer Commanding (GoC), Delhi Area, Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra to the prime minister. The GoC Delhi Area will then conduct the prime minister to the Saluting Base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present general salute to him, following which he will inspect the Guard of Honour, the statement said.The Guard of Honour will be positioned directly in front of the National Flag across the moat below the ramparts.This year, Army being the coordinating Service, the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Lt Col Gaurav S Yewalkar. Army contingent in the prime minister’s Guard will be commanded by Major Palvinder Grewal, the Navy contingent by Lt Commander K V R Reddy, while Squadron Leader Vikas Kumar will lead the Air Force contingent and the Delhi Police contingent will be led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jitender Kumar Meena. After inspecting the Guard of Honour, the prime minister will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort where he will be greeted by the defence minister, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. The GoC Delhi area will conduct the prime minister to the dais on the rampart to unfurl the National Flag. After the tri-colour is unfurled by the prime minister, the National Guard will give ‘Rashtriya Salute’ to the National Flag, the statement said. The unfurling of the tri-colour will synchronise with the 21 Gun Salute fired by the gunners of the elite 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial). The ceremonial battery will be commanded by Lt Col Jitendra Singh Mehta and the Gun Position Officer will be Naib Subedar (AIG) Anil Chand.The National Flag Guard comprising 32 men and one officer each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police will present ‘Rashtriya Salute’ at the time of unfurling of the National Flag by the prime minister. Major Surya Prakash from the Army will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard. The Naval Contingent for the National Flag Guard will be commanded by Lt Commander Vivek Tingloo, Air Force contingent by Squadron Leader Mayank Abhishek and Delhi Police contingent by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sudhanshu Dhama. After unfurling the National Flag, the prime minister will address the nation. After the speech of the prime minister is over, the National Cadet Corps cadets will sing the National Anthem. A total of 500 NCC cadets (Army, Navy and Air Force) from different schools will be taking part, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-from-red-fort-on-74th-independence-day/story-pci3JowEagedJ7MErLGHkL.html
15-08-2020||India||Does lower testing in Delhi point towards a lowering of guard?||Testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi appears to have dropped from its peak levels, raising questions about whether the Capital is lowering its guard too soon in its efforts to contain the pandemic, after becoming the first major hot spot in the country to successfully rein in the outbreak last month.Delhi conducted 21,660 daily tests at an average for the week ending July 9, what has been the city’s highest recorded rate of testing till date. Since then, this number has dropped to 18,491 in the past week — down by around 15%. In the same period, the national average of daily tests has increased from 246,677 a day on July to 700,860 — up by around 184%.The government attributes this dip to factors such as inclement weather and public holidays. “The number of tests done on some days is lower. This is mainly because people do not come to the dispensaries or hospitals. For example, yesterday it was raining for most of the day and people did not come. Or, there were holidays like Rakshabandhan or Eid during which people do not want to step out. We are prepared, no one is refused a test if they need it,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. Indeed, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, in an interview to HT on July 1, said the city was heading to 40,000 tests a day. “This is the benefit of rapid testing — you can do it at a large scale. You cannot scale up RT-PCR to that level. We are moving towards 40,000 tests a day. And, the day we do that, it is possible that 4,000 people will test positive, I am prepared for that,” he said. Delhi had started scaling up the tests mid-June. In the first week of June, Delhi was testing 5,500 samples a day.Instead of scaling up, however, the data suggests that Delhi’s testing number is dipping. Daily testing in the rest of the country has touched at an all-time high, particularly since Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s decision to set a target of testing a million samples a day. HT reported on Friday that the national scale-up of testing appears set to meet the target in 12 days.To be sure, Delhi has consistently had one of the highest testing rates in the country. The city has conducted over 63,000 tests per million residents against the national average of 20,778.The Capital was the first major hot spot in the country to have successfully reined in the outbreak last month. At the end of June, the city was reporting over 3,400 cases every day at an average, which has since dropped to 1,100 as of last week.“Scaling down testing is not an option for Delhi as the cases remain high. For testing to be scaled down, you should have a positivity rate of 5% or below for a prolonged period of time,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR.Experts also questioned the city’s increasing share of antigen, or rapid tests, which are not as reliable as the gold-standard RT-PCR tests, in the city’s total testing numbers. And they believe that the city should use its spare RT-PCR testing capacity instead of over-relying on antigen tests. “Yes, we have a capacity to do more tests, but it is like saying I have a capacity to treat 14,000 people. If there are no cases in Delhi, who should admit on these beds? Similarly, the positivity rate of the infection has gone down from 30% to 6%, so we don’t need as many RT-PCR tests,” said Jain. A senior district official said that RT-PCR tests are largely being used for confirmation only. The first test to be done is a rapid antigen, the official said on condition of anonymity. “This is part of a planned strategy agreed upon by a joint committee on Covid-19 management. Those who are symptomatic and test negative on rapid antigen test are tested using RT PCR,” said a senior official from the health department.“The tests in Delhi are being conducted strictly as per ICMR guidelines. RT-PCR tests are readily available at all flu clinics, laboratories and hospitals. Anyone who has Covid-like symptoms can visit any of these centres and easily get an RT-PCR test. No problems have been reported where a person who wants to get an RT-PCR test done has been unable to do so,” a Delhi government spokesperson said. “Earlier, when the cases were high more people were visiting these centers to get themselves tested. Now since the number of cases has dipped, the number of RT-PCR tests has also fallen down accordingly.” The recent stagnation in Delhi’s daily tests is also reflected in a plateau the weekly average positivity rate — the fraction of tests that come back positive — in the Capital. The number, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, has not gone down further. Around 6.2% of tests have come out positive in the Capital for the week ending August 13. Overall, 11.8% of all tests in Delhi have come back positive (the national average is 8.9%).According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least 14 days before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. In case the positivity rate rises, WHO recommends increasing testing numbers for prolonged periods of time till the number drops below 5%. Antigen tests generally provide results within hours and are relatively cheap, but they are not as reliable as the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. The latter is the most definitive test currently available for Covid-19 and experts say should be used to the extent possible, especially if authorities have the capacity to do so.In Delhi, over 72% of all tests in the past week have been antigen. This is a higher share of antigen tests than what is done elsewhere in the country. Three other states release daily breakup of testing data other than Delhi — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal. Antigen tests have been roughly half the tests in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in the last week, while in West Bengal a third of all tests were antigen. On August 5, senior ICMR officials had said during a media briefing that antigen tests constituted between 25-30% tests of the total tests done in the country till then.In absolute numbers RT-PCR tests have dropped much below the peak capacity exhibited by city authorities towards the end of June. On June 29, 9,619 RT-PCR tests were conducted in Delhi, the highest single day RT-PCR test count recorded. On August 13, the number of RT-PCR tests was 5,721.“What is the problem with using antigen testing? No other state is testing as many samples, we are doing well. So people want to find loopholes. What is the problem with antigen testing? Some people say rapid antigen tests are not as sensitive and miss out some positive cases, so does RT-PCR. My first test was negative. In the case of rapid test too, if someone is symptomatic, then an RT PCR test is done for confirmation,” said Jain. “It is so easy to get a test done in Delhi that people from other states are also coming here and getting tested.” Experts say RT-PCR remains the gold standard as it gives fewer false negatives, but that authorities end up picking test type based on whether they want accuracy or speed. “RT-PCR is the gold standard of testing because it has higher sensitivity, which means false negatives are less. In containment zones, RT-PCR should be ideally done, and rapid antigen is better suited for cold zones where you don’t expect too many cases. Having said that, rapid antigen testing is more useful for faster results, so there’s no hard and fast rule in this accuracy-verses-speed challenge,” says Dr Kant.To be sure, the Delhi government has warned against complacency right through, and cautioned residents not to stop using measures such as wearing marks and practising social distancing even though the cases have fallen off their peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-lower-testing-in-delhi-point-towards-a-lowering-of-guard/story-AjDBiE9z5puV9WadPdQn9K.html
15-08-2020||India||India-China military talks hit a roadblock||Military talks with China on reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) have hit a roadblock, with the Indian Army taking the hard line with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as it (the former) seeks to restore the status quo ante of early April in eastern Ladakh. According to top officials who spoke to HT on Friday on the condition of anonymity, the Indian Army has asserted that the sanctity of the LAC is non-negotiable. The comments came on a day when defence minister Rajnath Singh assured the armed forces that India will not hesitate to deliver a “befitting reply” to any attacks from a foreign power. Five rounds of top-level military talks have failed to break the deadlock due to serious differences between India and China that flared following transgressions by the PLA earlier this summer. “Talks are stuck in a stalemate because of the India Army’s insistence that the PLA must withdraw to positions held by it as of April 2020, and the Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some areas,” said one of the officials cited above.  The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. “The Indian Army has clearly told the PLA that shifting of the LAC in any area is not acceptable. This was most recently conveyed on August 2, when corps commanders from the two sides met. There is no question of us budging,” said a second official. There is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. “The PLA is facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s strong response. It will ultimately have to look for a face-saving exit strategy. We have made preparations for a long haul,” said a third official. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. On Friday,a day ahead of Independence Day, defence minister Singh delivered a radio message to the armed forces, saying that the country believes in winning hearts and not land. “But it does not mean we will let our self-esteem be hurt. If enemy country attacks us, then we will give a befitting reply like every time,” he added.The Union external affairs ministry separately said that several meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs and corps commanders had discussed the implementation of the disengagement process and “further steps to ensure it is completed at the earliest”. Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava noted both sides had made “some progress” after reaching agreement on the broad principles of disengagement, but more needs to be done. He said “translating these principles on ground is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”. On August 10, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat informed a committee of lawmakers that de-escalation in Ladakh could be a long-drawn process but the Indian military is prepared for this and has made all arrangement for the long haul through the harsh winter. “Our position is unambiguous – status quo ante has to be restored and we will not accept any shifting of the LAC. The ball is in China’s court now. Achieving our goal will take time and we will have to be patient,” said Lt Gen (retired) Vinod Bhatia, a former director general of military operations. The August 2 military negotiations between corps commanders came three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim. Sun’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger Area. Before PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8 km apart. During a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains a concern, with Beijing yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-talks-hit-a-roadblock/story-N4Hnn3bXNjbxQ2da3kq7kJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Move to cancel exams not political, SC told||The University Grants Commission (UGC) should not read politics behind Delhi and Maharashtra’s move to cancel final year exams because of the Covid-19 pandemic, a three-judge Supreme Court bench hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the July 7 directive of the higher education regulator asking universities to compulsorily hold examinations by September 30 was told.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the petitioners, told the court that there was nothing political about the decision of Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel the examination. He said the state governments took a collective decision after taking stock of the ground realities and consulting the vice-chancellors of their respective universities.“Besides Maharashtra and Delhi, states of Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Odisha have informed the ministry of human resource Development (MHRD) that it is not possible to conduct exams as per the July 6 directive. There is no politics involved but it is the convergence of states. These are responsible governments. They are not mad to affect the students’ future,” Singhvi said.He said this is a time when the pandemic is at its peak and both fresh cases and deaths due to Covid-19 are rising. “The National Disaster Management Act is applicable throughout the country as these are not normal times. States have been issued guidelines by the Centre asking them to stringently follow lockdown rules, breach of which will invite punishment under the Act,” Singhvi said. During such times, he wondered why the MHRD did a “volte-face” by pressing for mandatory conduct of exams when its past directives of April 15, May 1, and June 29 made it optional for universities to hold exams.Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who represented Yuva Sena, the student wing of Shiv Sena, said that in Maharashtra most colleges and hostels have been converted into quarantine facilities. Intra-city and inter-city transportation is not provided and communication in far-flung areas is still a challenge.The Union government has given relaxations to colleges and universities across the country and allowed them to open for the conduct of final-year examinations, which will be held in accordance with an order issued by UGC, the Union home ministry said in an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/move-to-cancel-exams-not-political-sc-told/story-LtQECj0lfSp5Hxyo1QVQGP.html
15-08-2020||India||Two cops killed in J&K terrorist attack||Two policemen of the Indian Reserve Police (IRP) were killed and another injured when unidentified militants attacked a police party at Nowgam Bye Pass at the city outskirts.According to the police, on Friday morning, militants fired at the police party deployed at Nowgam and injured three of them. They were admitted to a hospital where two of them succumbed to their injuries. The militants escaped after the attack.The attack came a day before Independence Day, when security was already on high alert. The police have established fresh checkpoints within the city.A spokesperson for the police confirmed that three personnel were injured in the attack and two of them succumbed to their injuries. Soon after the attack, the top brass rushed to the spot. The third injured policeman is said to be stable. All three men were from the IRP 20 battalion. The deceased policemen were identified as Ishfaq Ahmad and Fayaz Ahmad.Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar blamed Jaish-e-Mohammad militants for the attack on the policemen.“We are trying to identify the militants responsible. There were inputs that an attack could take place anywhere in the city. The policemen were wearing bulletproof gear, but were still fatally shot.’’After the attack, a search operation was launched in the area. No group has claimed responsibility so far.Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) strongly condemned the attack. In a statement, a party spokesperson termed the attack “inhuman”. “Violence is not a solution but a gigantic impediment that spreads hatred. In any of its manifestations, violent extremism is unacceptable in a civilised society, regardless of political, ideological or religious motivations,” the spokesperson said.The BJP and the PDP also condemned the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-cops-killed-in-j-k-terrorist-attack/story-OYSD1GXpIxQKOvmuuUgcxO.html
15-08-2020||India||Need to work jointly to end tension: India||India on Friday called on China to work jointly for “complete disengagement and de-escalation” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the disputed frontier.The external affairs ministry emphasised the need to complete the disengagement process “at the earliest” shortly after Indian envoy Vikram Misri met a senior general of China’s Central Military Commission (CMC) in Beijing to brief him on New Delhi’s views on the situation along the border in eastern Ladakh.Misri’s meeting with Maj Gen Ci Guowei, director of CMC’s office of international military cooperation, came two days after the envoy met Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) central committee’s foreign affairs commission. The meetings are part of India’s outreach to the Chinese leadership to resolve the standoff.President Xi Jinping heads CMC, which is responsible for the administration of the armed forces. Misri briefed Maj Gen Ci on “India’s stance vis-à-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT (union territory)”, the Indian embassy tweeted without giving details.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing that several meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs and corps commanders had discussed the implementation of the disengagement process and “further steps to ensure it is completed at the earliest”. More meetings are likely “in the near future”, he said.“We, therefore, expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas as agreed by the Special Representatives,” Srivastava said.“This is also necessary and essential in the context of the overall development of our bilateral relationship. As external affairs minister [S Jaishankar] had noted in a recent interview, the state of the border and the future of our ties cannot be separated,” he added.Srivastava said completing the disengagement as soon as possible will require the two sides to work together. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides,” he said.The process of thinning out tens of thousands of troops deployed by both sides has run into problems at some friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, people familiar with developments said.Srivastava noted both sides had made “some progress” after reaching agreement on the broad principles of disengagement, but more needs to be done. He said, “Translating these principles on the ground is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC.”He added, “It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions.”Engagements through diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement are in line with the agreement of the Special Representatives on the border issue – National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and foreign minister Wang Yi – that “early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”, Srivastava said.The Indian envoy’s two meetings in Beijing this week followed several rounds of diplomatic and military negotiations held since June. They also came against the backdrop of experts suggesting political intervention at the highest level is required to end the impasse.The Indian embassy hasn’t shared details of the two meetings, or, for that matter, why they were held as the Communist party hierarchy and the Chinese government are aware of India’s stance on the border. The Chinese side too has been silent on the meetingsAt the top of the hierarchies of CPC and the government is President Xi, who is the general secretary of CPC and chair of CMC.Chinese troops are said to have pulled back from the Galwan Valley, the scene of the June 15 clash that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties, and some friction points, but the troop withdrawal hasn’t moved forward in the Finger Areas of Pangong Lake, Gogra and Depsang.Sameer Patil, a fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the Indian envoy’s meetings in Beijing reflected a fresh effort by the leadership in New Delhi to push forward the disengagement after discussions at the diplomatic and military levels failed to yield results.“Between the bad and worse options available to India, the best way out is political intervention at the highest level. However, if the Chinese side doesn’t show any inclination to disengage even after this, that is a signal with significant implications and it could further jeopardise the entire relationship,” he said.“India has very little manoeuvring room left as domestic opinion is completely anti-China. It is now a game of who blinks first,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-work-jointly-to-end-tension-india/story-LhcPN61fSZ0qrQ6THxj9yN.html
15-08-2020||India||Mosque in Ayodhya likely to be named Masjid Dhannipur||A proposed mosque coming up on a five-acre site outside Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh is likely to be named after the village of Dhannipur where it is located, and not Babri Masjid, senior officials overseeing the construction of the complex announced on Friday.Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the 15-member trust in charge of the mosque and other utilities, said the name Masjid Dhannipur was at the top of the list of proposed names. Other suggestions included Aman (Peace) Masjid and Sufi Masjid. “We are getting suggestions regarding the name of the mosque. But, of the many, the name ‘Masjid Dhannipur’ tops our priority list. Most probably, the mosque would be named ‘Masjid Dhannipur’,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF). The complex is likely to include a mosque, a hospital, a community kitchen, and an educational centre.The Uttar Pradesh government handed the plot, currently occupied by rice fields 20km from Ayodhya town, to the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) earlier this month in accordance with the Supreme Court’s November 2019 verdict that cleared the way for the construction of a Ram temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya. The court also ordered the government to award five acres of land at an alternative site for the construction of a mosque. But the trust, helmed by the UPSCWB, made it clear that they didn’t want to associate the new mosque to the disputed 16th century structure that was demolished by a mob on December 6. 1992. “The board has maintained its stand since Day One that the mosque would not be named after Mughal emperor Babur,” said Hussain.A senior official of the trust explained that the trust wanted to steer clear of any controversy and therefore was not in favour of naming the mosque after any emperor. “In any case, it is an established tradition that mosques are often named after the locality or region,” said Hussain. The trust has received a number of pledges for donation and other commitments, and specifications and dimensions of the mosque would be decided in the days to come, he said. “So far, we have only invited applications from architects all across the country to help with the design of the mosque that would be on the Indo-Islamic theme,” added Hussain.The trust has faced significant opposition from within the Muslim community with a section of people saying that a mosque cannot be constructed on land given by the government. On Friday, the All India Muslim Women’s Personal Law Board joined the ranks of those against the construction of the mosque. Shaista Amber, AIMWPLB chief, said, “I truly respect the Supreme Court verdict, but I personally believe that a place of worship should not be on disputed land or on given land. I don’t think the mosque should be constructed on the allotted five-acre land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mosque-in-ayodhya-likely-to-be-named-masjid-dhannipur/story-Pbqm8CVLzmI06pmcHFfbJM.html
15-08-2020||India||SC holds Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for his tweets||Advocate Prashant Bhushan’s tweets of June 27 and June 29 , one criticising Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and the other raising questions about the conduct of former CJIs and the court are based on distorted facts and have the effect of destabilizing the foundation of the Indian judiciary, the top court ruled on Friday, holding the activist lawyer guilty of criminal contempt of court in a decision that provoked extreme reactions. In a strongly worded judgment, a three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said that the allegations levelled in the tweets against the court and CJI are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalize the court and such conduct is not expected from Bhushan, who is a lawyer of 30 years standing at the Bar.“The Indian judiciary is not only one of pillars on which the Indian democracy stands but is the central pillar. An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said. The quantum of punishment — contempt could mean a fine and up to six months in prison — will be decided on August 20. While some supported the court’s actions, pointing out Bhushan’s own support for such actions in 2017 when the court took high court judge from Tamil Nadu, Justice CS Karnan, to task for making allegations against Supreme Court judges, others said the court was being a tad touchy in seeing comments against individual judges as those against the court. “The view aired by Bhushan is not different from the views held by many people. That the court had to pick out two of Bhushan’s tweets and hold him guilty of criminal contempt smacks of insecurity from the realisation that the image of court in public eyes is very low. It seems like an attempt to scare people into respecting the court,” senior resident fellow at Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Alok Prasanna Kumar, who is also a member of Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms, of which Bhushan is a convener, told HT.“There is a world of difference between an allegation that Supreme Court is a poor defender of democracy and a statement alleging corruption or collusion with other arms of state. The former is protected by freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution while the latter can be penalised by a law protected under Article 19(2) which provides for exceptions to free speech. The tweets in question fall under the latter category,” Supreme Court lawyer Kanu Agrawal said.Bhushan himself was unavailable for comment but in his defence to the court in his affidavit filed on August 2 had said that “I am entitled to form, hold, & express (opinion) under Article 19(1)(a)”.The court observed that Indian judiciary is considered by the citizens as the last resort when they fail to get justice elsewhere. An attack on the Supreme Court will hamper not just the confidence that the public has in the Supreme Court but will also shake the confidence that judges of other courts in the country have in the Supreme Court. Further, if a malicious attack against the highest court is not dealt with the requisite degree of firmness, “it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations”, the court added.Bhushan who is part of the institution of administration of justice should have protected the majesty of law; instead he indulged in an act which tends to bring to the institution of administration of justice, the court noted.India’s contempt of court law is derived from British law, but in 2013, the United Kingdom abolished ‘scandalizing judiciary’ as a form of contempt of court on the grounds that this went against the freedom of expression while retaining other forms of contempt like behaviour causing disruption or interference with court proceedings.The court had also initiated contempt proceedings against Twitter but the same was closed on Friday after the court was satisfied with the social media platform’s explanation that it is only an intermediary and had also suspended the controversial tweets immediately after the top court initiated the case.Bhushan posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29. Mehek Maheswhari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. As per law, a contempt petition filed by a private individual should have the consent of the Attorney General before it can be listed before the Supreme Court for hearing.Maheswari’s petition did not have such consent but the court decided to proceed suo motu (on its own) with the contempt case after the registry brought the petition to the notice of the court on the administrative side. The court listed the case for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day.Bhushan’s first tweet, reproduced in the court order, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second referred to the Bobde and was also cited in the order. It said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan refused to apologise for his tweets, contending they are protected by the freedom of speech guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. He cited the speeches on dissent made by Supreme Court judges DY Chandrachud on February 15 and Deepak Gupta on February 24 to buttress his case.In defence of his perception that the Supreme Court aided in destruction of democracy, Bhushan referred to the press conference held by four judges – justices Jasti Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph -- of the Supreme Court in January 2018 against the manner in which cases in Supreme Court were being assigned to selected benches.Regarding the tweet of June 27, the apex court held that tweet is directed against the Supreme Court and gave an impression that the apex court and its four CJIs had a major role in the destruction of democracy in the last six years.“There is no doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of judiciary. The tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI,” the court said.Regarding the June 29 tweet, the court said that it was intended to give an impression that the CJI kept the Supreme Court shut denying fundamental rights to citizens even though the court was functioning through video conferencing.However, this, the court, held was patently false because the court was functioning through video conferencing though physical functioning of the court was suspended due to Covid-19.“Immediately after suspension of physical hearing, the Court started functioning through video conferencing. The total number of sittings that the various benches had from March 23 till August 4 is 879. During this period, the Court has heard 12748 matters. In the said period, this Court has dealt with 686 writ petitions filed under Article 32 of the Constitution,” the judgment highlighted.Thus, the two tweets were not fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary, or made in good faith or public interest, the court held.“In our considered view, the said tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI and directly affronts the majesty of law…. The tweets which are based on the distorted facts, in our considered view, amount to committing criminal contempt,” it ruled.Another suo motu contempt petition is pending before the same bench against Bhushan for calling past chief justices corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine.Bhushan, in that case, had offered an explanation for his statements but the Supreme Court refused to accept it and ruled, on August 10, that it will proceed with the case. That case is now listed for hearing on August 17.Minutes after he was held guilty of contempt of court on Friday, Bhushan along with senior counsel Dushyant Dave appeared before another bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao in a public interest litigation seeking inquiry into the alleged non-transparent manner in which the central government handled the Covid crisis.That matter was adjourned for detailed hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-holds-bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-for-his-tweets/story-DJ6BavieLqfM7JPlozEQhM.html
15-08-2020||India||ITBP personnel who aided army in Ladakh recommended for medals||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Friday said it has recommended the names of its 21 personnel for gallantry medals for fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with the army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay amid the border standoff between the two countries over the last three months in Ladakh.The paramilitary force, which is responsible for guarding the 3,488-km de facto border between the two countries, or the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said its 294 personnel have been awarded the commendation disk of the ITBP’s director-general for their bravery in Ladakh.An officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, clarified ITBP’s statement on Friday detailing how its troops have responded to the Chinese in Ladakh relates to over half-a-dozen smaller incidents there since May in which ITBP and the army responded collectively. The statement is not just about the June 15 Galwan Valley clash in which 20 Indian and unspecified Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldiers were killed, the officer added.Tensions between India and China escalated when Indian soldiers were attacked with rocks and clubs in the worst clash in decades between the troops of the two countries on June 15. Five rounds of top-level military talks have since failed to break the deadlock.The ITBP statement said its troops responded fiercely to the PLA’s advancing soldiers and brought the situation under control. “With the highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” the statement said. “Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving a befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA.”The statement said due to their high altitude training and manoeuvre experience in the Himalayas deployments, ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay. It added due to the all-out and befitting response of ITBP jawans at almost all fronts, many areas were safeguarded in the hypersensitive areas.The statement is the first official account of the force of its role in Ladakh.ITBP said it has also awarded the commendation disk to its personnel for their courage in anti-Maoist operations in Chhattisgarh. It has recommended the names of 318 of its personnel and 40 troopers from other paramilitary forces for the home minister’s special operations medal for their dedicated services in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“The names of 318 ITBP personnel and 40 other CAPF (central armed police force) personnel have been sent for the award of Union Home Minister special operations medals for their dedicated services in the fight against the COVID-19,” it said.The force is operating over 10,000-bed Covid-19 Sardar Patel hospital, the country’s largest such facility, at the Radha Soami Beas in Delhi’s Chhattarpur since July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-personnel-who-aided-army-in-ladakh-recommended-for-medals/story-da4t5BkquV1YROhNgZLJ0N.html
15-08-2020||India||J&K cops, CRPF troopers win most medals for ops||Jammu & Kashmir police and paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel have bagged a bulk of gallantry medals this Independence Day--81 and 55 out of 215--on the back of successful counter-insurgency operations in the Union Territory, the home ministry said on Friday.Naresh Kumar, an assistant CRPF commandant who has led quick action teams of the paramilitary force during gunbattles, has received his seventh gallantry medal within four years. Officials said Kumar, 35, has taken part in many operations in which terrorists were gunned down. CRPF spokesperson M Dhinakaran described Kumar as “an officer with the sharp tactical acumen and indomitable courage”. Indian Police Service (IPS) officers Sandeep, Gurinderpal Singh, and Atul Kumar Goel, who are posted in Jammu & Kashmir insurgency-hit South Kashmir, have got the medal for gallantry for the first time. Two other IPS officers from the Union Territory, deputy inspector general Vidhi Kumar Birdi, who is on deputation with the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and Tejinder Singh, have been awarded the medal for a second and third time.Goel arrested suspended police officer Davinder Singh in January this year while he was ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in his car to Jammu. Davinder Singh has since been charge-sheeted for anti-India activities.“Among the majority of the 215 gallantry awards, 123 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in Jammu & Kashmir, 29 personnel for their gallant action in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas and eight personnel for their gallant action in the north-east region,” the ministry said in a statement.Security forces have eliminated over 130 terrorists till July end this year. The recruitment of locals in terror ranks has come down due to action against terrorists.As many as 23 Uttar Pradesh police personnel have also got the gallantry medal. They include seven members of an inspector general Asim Arun-led team that killed terror suspect Saifullah in Lucknow in March 2017. The Delhi police have 16 awardees, Maharashtra (16) and Jharkhand (12). The remaining recipients are from the other states, union territories, and central armed police forces.As many as 80 officers from across the country have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished services while 631 have received the Police Medal for meritorious services. In all, 926 police personnel have been given medals in three categories.CRPF’s deputy inspector general, Annie Abraham, who has served in Jammu & Kashmir, is among the recipients of the medal for distinguished service. Eight Intelligence Bureau (IB) and six Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers have also received the medal. Among 631 officers awarded the medal for meritorious services, 26 are from CBI and 28 from IB.Abdul Rashid Kalas has been awarded Kirti Chakra posthumously while deputy inspector general Amit Kumar of the Jammu & Kashmir police has been decorated with Shaurya Chakra. The two were involved in a counter-insurgency operation following the 2019 Pulwama attack. Three Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists were killed in the operation.Central Industrial Security Force officers Mahaveer Prasad Godara, Eranna Nayaka, Mahendra Kumar Paswan and Satish Prasad Kushwaha have also been awarded Shaurya Chakra posthumously. They died while trying to douse fires in Delhi in March 2019 and in Mumbai in September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cops-crpf-troopers-win-most-medals-for-ops/story-THzWVB3N57IZfvMTIhczfN.html
15-08-2020||India||84 security personnel to get top gallantry awards||A Jammu and Kashmir police constable, a Special Forces officer and an Indian Air Force pilot are among the 84 security personnel whose names have been approved for top gallantry awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of Independence Day, according to a government release issued on Friday.While head constable Abdul Rashid Kalas of JKP has been posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra — India’s second-highest peacetime gallantry award — for outstanding bravery, nine security personnel have earned the Shaurya Chakra for valour. The latter is the country’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award.The Shaurya Chakra awardees are Lieutenant Colonel Krishan Singh Rawat, Major Anil Urs, Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey, Wing Commandeer Vishak Nair, JKP DIG Amit Kumar, CISF sub-inspector Mahaveer Prasad Godara (posthumous), CISF head constable Eranna Nayaka (posthumous), CISF constable Mahendra Kumar Paswan (posthumous) and CISF constable Satish Prasad Kushwaha (posthumous).  The other decorations awarded are five Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 60 Sena Medals (Gallantry), four Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and five Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry). Lieutenant Colonel Rawat, 1 Para (Special Forces), has been awarded the Shaurya Chakra for an operation near the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir. Rawat and his team waited in ambush for 36 hours before they engaged a group of terrorist infiltrators. Four terrorists were killed in the operation. His citation praises his resolute leadership and conspicuous gallantry.Major Urs also led an operation along the LoC in which five terrorist infiltrators were killed. His citation says he displayed “raw courage, marksmanship and rare combat leadership, while ensuring safety of his team.”During a counterterrorism operation in Kashmir, Havildar Dubey killed a Category A++ terrorist at short range. “His courageous action prevented the escape of the terrorists and eventually resulted in the elimination of all four terrorists,” his citation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84-security-personnel-to-get-top-gallantry-awards/story-75AVdxRah0VRwCIjRpFmyK.html
15-08-2020||India||23 AI crash rescue op members test +ve||: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his seven ministerial colleagues on Friday self-quarantined themselves after 23 state government officials, who were part of the rescue operation after a plane overshot the runway in heavy rain near Kozhikode last week, were tested Covid-19 positive. Vijayan, governor Arif Mohammad Khan were among those who visited Kozhikkode after the accident claimed 18 lives. Governor is yet to announce his decision. In a statement, Vijayan’s office said the chief minister will be unable to unfurl the Tricolour on Independence Day on Saturday and tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran will preside over the ceremony in his place.Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan and police superintendent U Abdul Kareem are among the 23 tested positive for the disease. They supervised the rescue work with local people on Friday last.Health minister K K Shaialaj and police chief Loknath Behra are among others who have self-quarantined themselves. Some district officials were put under quarantine after some of those injured in the accident tested positive for Covid-19.“Some symptoms were there since yesterday and later it was confirmed positive. This is part of our job. I am relieved we could limit the death toll to 18,” said Gopalakrishnan, who reached the spot in 20 minutes and took command of the rescue work.The Central Industrial Security Force earlier on August 11 asked its personnel, who were part of the rescue operation, to go into quarantine. Kondotty, where the airport is situated, was a containment zone when the accident took place. Several residents rushed to the scene to help in the rescue work. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Air India have lauded their efforts.Kerala reported 1,569 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths on Friday, which took the toll from the disease to 140. The state’s infection tally has gone up to 41, 246.Shailalja has said the cases were likely to peak by next month and experts have warned daily cases will go up to 15,000. Kerala was the first to report a Covid-19 case in the country in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-ai-crash-rescue-op-members-test-ve/story-BsUZQpNsGE1ulkixiaq3aN.html
15-08-2020||India||26 Corona crusaders will attend ‘At Home’ event||A nursing officer who organised ICU care for patients in the most difficult working conditions, a laboratory technician who conducted RT-PCR and rapid antigen Covid-19 tests in high-risk areas and a Delhi Police head constable who distributed food packets among the poor and migrant workers are some of the 26 “Corona Warriors” who will sit in a special enclosure at the “At Home” function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Independence Day. Among those who have been invited for the function, four people will represent the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and three will represent the Safdarjung Hospital. Out of the 26 special guests, eight are women, according to the list of invitees accessed by HT.About 100 guests, including the “Corona Warriors”, are expected to attend the programme which will begin with a brief speech by President Ram Nath Kovind to honour the frontline workers. Dishes such samosa, tea and dhokla will be served by a limited number of waiters amid social distancing guidelines over the Covid-19 pandemic. All waiters have tested negative for Covid-19, a person aware of the developments said. All guest tables will be named after rivers of India and each guest will be ushered in to his or her assigned place, the person added. From senior and junior doctors to nursing officers, technicians, pharmacists, midwives and Asha workers, nursing orderlies, security guards, sanitation workers and housekeeping staff — a wide range of people involved in India’s prolonged battle against Covid-19 will be honoured at the event. The list also includes three members of the Delhi Police and a wood-cutter at the Nigambodh Ghat, where funerals are conducted. While all of the 26 “Corona Warriors” have shown exemplary work in their line of duty, head constable Manish Kumar, posted at the Community Policing Cell, Dwarka, established a community kitchen to feed 800 needy people daily, provided dry ration kits to workers who lost their jobs during the lockdown and helped install hands-free sanitiser machines. He also distributed 4,400 washable cotton gloves among police personnel and more than 1,375 litres of sanitiser to them, according to an official note.Kumar arranged refreshments, face shields and gloves for police patrols and pickets and was engaged in regular announcement of guidelines and sensitisation people, the note added. Also a poet, he distributed milk food for newborns and arranged water, food and fresh fruits for migrant workers. While nursing officer Asha Shabarwal of GTB Hospital worked hard to organise ICU care for patients, Kriti Sharma, a laboratory technician has been credited with “outstanding work by doing RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test in most high risk areas during Covid-19.”Pharmacist Vinod Rohilla arranged drugs and other items even late at night without hesitation, even when his grandmother was hospitalised.Amar Singh, a wood-cutter at the Nigambodh Ghat, helped people at the cremation ground in maintaining social distancing and was always “alert when bodies arrived at cremation ground for cremations regarding less number of people should be at the time of performing rituals and must have to wearing PPE kit so that infection should not spread to others,” the official note said. Dr Rahul Tyagi and Dr Ankesh Gupta, senior and junior residents, nursing officer Rekha Kumari and Naresh Kumar, an OT technician, have also been selected from AIIMS to attend the prestigious function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-corona-crusaders-will-attend-at-home-event/story-F0z7g2SUbFU9i205pkr3MO.html
15-08-2020||India||In message on I-Day eve, President hails Galwan heroes, Covid warriors||Exactly two months after the fierce clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan valley, President Ram Nath Kovind sent out a clear warning on Friday that India is “capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression” as he addressed the nation on the eve of 74th Independence Day.Though Kovind did not name China, he slammed the neighbour’s “misadventure of expansion” at a time when the world needs to come together to fight against Covid-19, which he described as the “the greatest challenge before humanity”. The bloody conflict in the Galwan valley on June 15 left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Since then, the two sides are locked in discussions to disengage and de-escalate but China has so far not moved back from some critical areas despite five rounds of top-level military talks between the two sides.“The world now realizes what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family; “Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam”. However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion,” Kovind said. The President also spoke about India being at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the Covid pandemic, and said that timely and “superhuman efforts” contained the pandemic in the country and saved many lives. He touched upon the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, describing it as a “moment of pride for all”.Paying respect to the Indian soldiers who lost their lives defending the borders, Kovind said “Those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley.” He added: “Their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression,” expressing pride in Indian armed forces, paramilitary forces and police personnel “who protect the borders, and ensure our internal security”. As India gears up to an unprecedented subdued celebration of Independence Day, Kovind hailed Covid warriors as national heroes, said the pandemic has taught “tough lessons” of life and “demolished the illusion that human being is the master of nature”. He appealed to the humanity to “correct its course and live in harmony with nature” and said he crisis offered opportunities for economic revival. Even as the Modi government’s handling of the Covid situation has come under immense criticism in the political circle, the President said that the Centre, “while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded effectively and well in time” and added that it requires “superhuman efforts for a country so vast and diverse with high population density” to meet these challenges. Kovind said India’s committed efforts that “succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives” is worth emulating by the wider world. The pandemic, like climate change, has awakened the global community to our shared destiny, said Kovind as he saw more importance in “human-centric collaboration” than ”economy-centric inclusion”. He also appealed to rise above all man-made differences, strengthen virtue in conduct, expand public health infrastructure and accelerate developments in science and technology—a reminder on how India built Covid-related medical items such as ventilators or PPE kits almost from a scratch, and is now able to export them to other countries. Kovind’s speech, just 10 days after the “bhoomi pujan” of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, dubbed the event as “a moment of pride for all” as he mentioned how people maintained “restraint and patience” for a long time and reposed “unflinching trust in the judicial system”. “The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony,” he said on Thursday. In the backdrop of the pandemic, the President narrated all welfare interventions such as the “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana” to help the poor and daily wage-earners — the worst-hit people in the pandemic — and enabled millions to earn their livelihood, and mitigate the impact of job losses. He also spoke about the largest free foodgrain distribution programme to help about 800 million people every month, while “Vande Bharat Mission” brought back more than 1 million Indians through the Indian Railways. “In responding to calls from countries for supply of medicines, India has once again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the pandemic. The overwhelming support India got at the elections for the non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council is a testimony to the goodwill we enjoy internationally,” said Kovind. With India embarking on a new Atmanirbhar policy boost its internal economic potential, Kovind sent a message that India’s tradition has always been not to live for ourselves, “but work for the well-being of the entire world”. “India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity,” the President said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-hails-galwan-heroes-covid-warriors/story-H1LV1RbUOeffOZBOHmyFYK.html
