17-08-2020||News||The importance of Kamala Harris | Opinion||Kamala Devi Harris, a Black-identifying woman of Indian heritage, has been picked as the vice-presidential candidate for the Democratic Party. African-Americans form only 12% and Indian-Americans under one per cent of the electorate. Overwhelming majorities of both groups already support the Democrats. Historically, three women have appeared on the presidential ticket before Harris. All of them have lost. So, then, why did Joe Biden pick Harris as his running mate in what many are calling the most crucial election in American history?In diverse democracies such as America and India, identity-based fault-lines often organise politics. We know that for a political party, having a voter base is not enough; whether it shows up to vote is what counts. Harris’ selection will preserve the Democratic Party’s support among Blacks and women, two groups that have been energised by the Black Lives Matter (BLM) and the women’s movements, and boost their turnout in the November election.Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, Harris and her sister were raised as Black. She attended a prestigious historically Black college, Howard University, in Washington, DC. Blacks may be 12% of the electorate, but they contribute 25% of the Democratic Party’s vote share. This should give the group leverage with the party, but it does not. Republicans do not compete for their vote and the Blacks are stuck with the Democrats. In 2016, nine out of 10 Black voters voted the Democratic Party ticket. So, Blacks, as a one-party constituency in a two-party system, get sidelined.Brutalised by police violence and devastated by the pandemic, the African-American voters are hurt. They are tired of being taken for granted. The BLM movement was propelled by this injustice. These disappointed voters can punish the Democratic Party for its neglect by not showing up to vote. The 2016 presidential election signalled the Black disaffection; turnout of the group fell by 7% from the 2012 election. Black turnout is critical for winning in swing states such as Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Florida. Trump won all four states in 2016. Biden and the Democratic Party have received this message. They are hoping that the presence of Harris, a strong and charismatic Black candidate, on the ticket will improve turnout among Black voters.Seven out of 10 American voters are White, and Harris’ nomination revives an old fear in American politics that by reaching out to Black voters, the Democratic Party may drive the White voters away. One distinguishing feature of Harris’ biography has been her embrace of her multiple identities, including her immigrant identity. She has cut her teeth in the Democratic Party in California, America’s most populous state, which is only 5.8% Black. To succeed, she had to fall back on her multiple identities to amplify her appeal beyond Blacks. In California, she was able to build support among the White and Hispanic communities, skills which should help her broaden her appeal at the national level. While race drives voter choices, gender does not have a similar hold on voter behaviour. In 2016, for example, White women voted for Donald Trump (47%) over Hillary Clinton (45%) by a small margin; a startling outcome given Clinton was the first female candidate, who also happened to be white, and Trump’s blatant misogyny. Harris is smart, competent, and walks into the nomination with the necessary experience. These attributes do not protect her from the conscious and unconscious biases against female candidates in the electorate and the media. The prejudice is only harsher against women of colour. President Trump has already rolled out the longstanding trope of the angry Black woman against the senator, calling her nasty, mad, vicious and mean.Angered by Trump’s insults and the stories emerging from the Me Too movement, women have been mobilising since 2016. Biden and the Democratic Party are betting on this historic moment in which women and people of colour are energised against Trump. Biden already holds a lead of 25 points over Trump among potential women voters and he hopes to further bolster it after picking Harris. While Harris’ race and gender have received attention, her skin tone has not. Although her complexion may not have explicitly mattered to her nomination, implicit impulses may explain her ascent. Harris identifies as Black and phenotypically appears Black. She places on the lighter side of the skin colour spectrum among Blacks, though. Research on electoral effects of candidate skin tone suggests that the lightness of her skin tone enhances her electoral appeal. Studies find while skin colour does not predict who runs for office among African-Americans, it does impact which candidates win elections. Implicit bias against dark skin tone makes it more likely for lighter-skinned candidates to win than their darker-complexioned counterparts.Indian-Americans are a minuscule part of the electorate, few reside in swing states, and like other recent immigrants, their turnout is low. Indian-Americans and Indians are rightly proud of Harris. Her election to office in November would mark a substantial achievement for a person with Indian roots. Still, it is important to remember that Harris is not on the ticket for her Indian heritage. There are other parts of her identity, not to mention her competence, that are responsible for her selection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-importance-of-kamala-harris/story-qOkh8mKA0ubBCaNMd1KE8L.html
17-08-2020||News||How the Supreme Court let down poor workers during the pandemic, writes Gautam Bhatia||The coronavirus pandemic — and the measures taken by the central and state governments to contain it over the last five months — has led to widespread disruption across the country. A substantial part of this disruption is asymmetric in nature; that is, it has disproportionately affected vulnerable and marginalised people, those unable to work from home, and so on. As we have seen, migrant workers have been particularly affected: The closure of shops, establishments, and industries, in accordance with the lockdown, led to large-scale migration, as workers were left with no source of daily wages to sustain themselves in the cities where they worked. Accordingly, on March 29, the National Executive Committee, acting under the Disaster Management Act (DMA), issued an order requiring all employers to pay wages to their workers, on the due date and without any deduction, for the period that they had been under closure. The measure was an important one, as it sought to provide a source of basic financial support to workers, at a time at which they had been deprived of their source of livelihood. The order was subsequently withdrawn in May, and so — effectively — what it required was the payment of wages for a period of 54 days, by employers to their workers.This order, however, was challenged before the Supreme Court (SC). It was argued, among other things, that DMA did not give to the government the power to mandate payment of wages, and, that, in any event, it impinged upon the rights of the employers. The apex court was, therefore, asked to adjudicate upon whether the government had acted legally, and whether its direction for the payment of wages was valid. Unfortunately, however, SC passed a series of orders that effectively decided in favour of the employers, and against the workers, but without explicitly doing so. First, it, for all practical purposes, stayed the direction by ordering that no coercive action could be taken against employers for failing to comply with the government’s directions. It then took more than a month — and multiple hearings — to hear the case, even as the pandemic and lockdown were in progress, and the issue — involving the payment of wages to people who are compelled to live paycheck to paycheck — was an urgent one. And finally, in an order on June 12, it adjourned the case to the “end of July”, and directed the employers and workers to “negotiate” with each other, even as it extended its order insulating employers from any coercive action for non-compliance with the government’s directions. Needless to say, the case has not been heard after that. The apex court’s orders are unfortunate, as they effectively left workers in the lurch. On the one hand, SC has not yet found the payment of wages direction to be illegal or unconstitutional. Consequently, it remains in force, and is presumptively valid. On the other hand, however, SC had prevented its enforcement, thus rendering it toothless, and a mere scrap of paper on the statute book. The consequence of this has been that the class of people directly affected by the order are precisely those for whom non-payment of wages is — quite literally — an existential issue: The large-scale migration (and the suffering that this has unleashed), predominantly caused by the closure of industry and the absence of livelihood options for workers who already exist in an extremely precarious economic situation, bears clear testimony to that. Crucially, the court’s order to the employers and employees to “negotiate” is a particularly unkind one: The very reason for the payment of wages direction, in the first place, was the correct assessment that in India, employers and workers exist in a highly unequal relationship. An “open negotiation” between the (relatively) powerful and the powerless is no negotiation at all. Thus, staying the payment of wages and ordering a negotiation is not any kind of balance. It has completely skewed the field in favour of the employers, without any judicial finding that the payment of wages direction itself was illegal.As the end of August approaches, one hopes that the case will be taken up expeditiously by the Court, and resolved in clear terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-supreme-court-let-down-poor-workers-during-the-pandemic/story-fNTkGeHvYPhd1Wyycx9t5K.html
17-08-2020||News||NEP 2020 is silent on the contract teacher system | Opinion||The draft National Education Policy (NEP) of 2019 made an unequivocal statement on the discontinuation of the unequal system of contract teachers/para-teachers at all levels, from primary right up to colleges and universities. It recognised the need to relieve teachers of non-educational duties, facilitate vibrant professional communities and give more autonomy in the classroom. It recognised that none of the ideas discussed in the draft policy would be possible without a road map to transform the way teachers are positioned in the system. And the first step towards restoring the status of teachers was to ensure that all of them had the same service conditions, regarding pay, in-service teacher-training, transfers and other benefits. Unfortunately, NEP 2020 does not make any unequivocal statement on discontinuing the practice of hiring contract teachers. It starts with a recognition that “the teacher must be at the centre of the fundamental reforms in the education system… (it) must re-establish teachers, at all levels, as the most respected and essential members of our society… (it) must help recruit the very best and brightest to enter the teaching profession at all levels, by ensuing respect, dignity, and autonomy…”. It recognises teachers “as the heart of the learning process”, and, thus, the need for “recruitment, continuous professional development, positive working environment and service conditions”. The words recruitment and service conditions are neither explained nor qualified — leaving it open to multiple interpretations.While discussing foundational literacy and numeracy as being a core objective of the new policy, NEP 2020 states: “Teacher vacancies will be filled at the earliest, in a timebound manner — especially in disadvantaged areas and areas with large pupil-to-teacher ratios or high rates of illiteracy. Special attention will be given to employing local teachers or those with familiarity with local languages… Teachers will be trained, encouraged and supported with continuous professional development — to impart foundational literacy and numeracy”. This is the uncomfortable part — what will the working conditions and salaries of local teachers be? Who will hire them? The schools or school complexes? Will they be paid a fraction of what regular teachers get and work on short-term contracts?After discussing foundational learning, holistic development of learners, experiential learning, flexible course choices, multilingualism, new ways of assessment and related ideas, the policy document discusses teachers in section 5 (page 56). This is where the policy marks a departure from the draft NEP of 2019.No one can disagree with the opening statement in Section 5 about the value of teachers or the need to end the practice of excessive teacher transfer, strengthen teacher eligibility tests, ensure adequate teachers across subjects, and promote local language and a technology-based teacher-recruitment regime. These ideas are indeed relevant and the fact that the policy talks of “overhauling the service environment and culture of schools ...to maximise the ability of teaches to do their jobs effectively, and to ensure that they are part of vibrant, caring, and inclusive community of teachers…” should be welcomed.But the policy is notable for its silence on equal service conditions for all teachers. The idea of locally-recruited teachers, without clarifying their service conditions, is worrisome. The practice of hiring contract teachers/para-teachers began in the mid-1990s without any policy-level approval in the 1986 policy. Why is this issue important? The total number of contract teachers was about 600,000 in 2017-18, according to the Unified District Information System for Education. Across India, in percentage terms, 12.7% of teachers are hired on contract today, with 13.8% being in the primary sector and 8.4% in secondary. States such as Jharkhand (57.05%), Mizoram (29%), Himachal Pradesh (28.16%), Delhi (25.28%), and West Bengal (21.48%) have more than 25% of the teacher workforce on contract. Across India, 79.1% of teachers on contract are working in “small schools” with an enrolment of 90 or less. As enrolment goes up, the presence of contract teachers decreases. In 2017-18, 68,445 schools functioned exclusively with contract teachers. During the lockdown, many states have not paid the contract teachers. We can only imagine the adverse impact on small schools and those that have only contract teachers.Teachers argue that hiring teachers on contract is a blow to the profession. They also point out that the dual system (different pay for equal work) goes against the spirit of the constitutional guarantee of equal pay for equal work. Evidence from several countries reveals that short-term contractual appointments have a negative effect on the motivation and social status of teachers. Contract teachers are typically posted in the most-disadvantaged or poor areas and poorly-resourced schools. Regular teachers get postings in well-connected, big schools. As a result, small schools have more contract teachers, many with basic qualifications and almost no in-service training opportunities. This unequal system needs to be set right by addressed by accepting the recommendation made in the 2019 draft NEP of discontinuing the practice of contractual appointment of school teachers and teachers in colleges and universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-2020-is-silent-on-the-contract-teacher-system/story-rn1IKY2yJCBDF2R6SQOCKM.html
17-08-2020||News||Embrace the national digital health mission, but with care and safeguards||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a National Digital Health Mission in his Independence Day speech. It is an ambitious plan to create a digital infrastructure for health care delivery, which will include personal health IDs and e-records for citizens. This will greatly facilitate tele-medicine, e-pharmacy, and collection, consolidation and inter-operability of health data. This is welcome. At a recent roundtable organised by the Digital Identity Research Initiative (DIRI) at the Indian School of Business (ISB), health experts, entrepreneurs, academics and thought leaders discussed agreed that digitisation of health care in India is the future that we must embrace, with speed and with care.Personal data, especially health data, is sensitive, and its privacy must be protected. We now have the technology to ensure that happens. We can use Blockchain technology to guarantee that data that is created is encrypted and cannot be altered. Consent for accessing and storing individual data, in part or in whole, will stay with the individual and can be given to a trusted authority such as a physician, a pharmacy, a test laboratory or a research institution as necessary and deemed fit by the individual. So, for example, if you approach a doctor for a second opinion, you could allow the doctor to see the complete diagnosis and previous care provided. A test lab needs to only get the samples without the patient identifying information. Consent must also be taken to anonymise personal data so that it can be made part of a public data set. Hospitals and clinics can, and must, anonymise individual data before sharing it with others who may aggregate it to create useful indices. Some of these indices can be made public to help detect patterns and predict the onset of health crises before they actually arrive in full-force so that public health agencies can intervene appropriately to manage these. Anonymisation ensures that if you are diagnosed with tuberculosis, for example, no unauthorised person should be able to infer this from the data. Aggregation, on the other hand, will be able to alert public health officials, for example, that a given geographic region is showing a spike in cases and further investigation and intervention might be needed.Even the storage of aggregate data on cloud-servers need to be made hack-proof. First, the data that is stored must be encrypted. Second, the data must be distributed across several independent servers so that even if data is hacked and downloaded from one server, the original sensitive data cannot be recovered. Recent technological advances allow the creation of such a protocol. Third, the encrypted data should contain useful tags so that when it is downloaded with proper authentication and consent, only at the authorised level of aggregation, the data can be recovered for appropriate use. Again, recent advances in computer science allow, with a judicious use of symmetric and asymmetric private keys, retrieval that is fast and convenient using existing technology.The use of health data and related health care services must create a level-playing field that encourages free-entry and entrepreneurship by small and big players, both in the private and the public sector. Inter-operability and public-good features of the health data will facilitate competition and entrepreneurship.India is a large, growing country and its health care needs are immense. Advanced health care expertise is concentrated in large cities whereas a large population with health care needs is geographically distant from such expertise and facilities. Not everyone can get admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at short notice not only because such capacity is limited but also because costs and time constraints prevent most from being able to access such care. Tele-medicine can alleviate these limitations to a great extent. If the patient cannot reach the right doctor or the right facilities, the doctor can reach the patient through tele-medicine and test-results can be communicated electronically with speed. Only a fraction of the patients would need to be moved to facilities far away from home, and while the patient travels, the diagnosis, some palliative care and tests can continue seamlessly without interruption.Many of the developed countries have created models of digital health with excess and waste, even as they reaped the benefits of digitisation. As India is embarking on an almost greenfield health care digitisation spree, we should take lessons from their experience — leapfrog for sure, but don’t commit similar infrastructural errors as this would be financially disastrous, given India’s scale. Hence it is imperative to have the veterans of industry, technology and business deploying needful and future-proof technologies in developing our model of digital health care.India is a unique country in many ways and the effective solution for our needs will have to be uniquely Indian. We must create an infrastructure that allows us to do this not only to meet our needs effectively and in a cost-effective manner, but also to create something that much of the rest of the world can emulate.Kris Gopalakrishnan is an IT and health care expert. Dr Rajeev Sharma is a medical doctor who has created a Blockchain platform for health care. Bhagwan Chowdhry, who co-authored the piece, is a professor at the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/embrace-the-national-digital-health-mission-but-with-care-and-safeguards/story-9ITJ2cbLtw2IK7Gpzw4G1H.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Large hearted Ganpati gets smaller as festivities are toned down due to Covid-19||City-based fourth generation sculptor Khokhan Adhikari, 50, looks forward eagerly to Ganesh Chaturthi, when he and 15 small-time sculptors from his native West Bengal make idols to earn a decent amount that helps them get by every year. Khokhan’s paternal uncle Govardhan, 65, runs a similar operation and employs 12 artists each year.The Covid-19 outbreak, however, has changed the way religious festivals are celebrated, hitting people like Adhikari hard as costs of religious idols have crashed because of lack of demand even as Ganesh Chaturthi is just round the corner on August 22. Last year, Adhikari, who has been running his idol making unit at the Kalibari temple premises in Ram Darbar for the last three decades, got an order of over 400 medium and small size idols of Ganesh and 50 big idols, their height ranging from 6 to 12 feet. While the price of a large sized idol is Rs 10,000, the smaller ones are in the range of Rs 500 to Rs 2,500, but this year larger Ganeshas have all but disappeared and demand for smaller sized idols cut down by half, curtailing their overall turnover to one-fourth. The number of hired hands has come down to just four from 15.The eldest of the Adhikaris, Govardhan, whose idol-making unit is in Shiv Mandir, Baikund Dham in Ram Darbar, too had a flourishing business last year, but this time orders are limited. Govardhan’s son Subhash, 40, and three of their relatives have made the idols, without any of their regular outstation artists for the first time in 35 years.“Because of pandemic, people are avoiding gatherings even for pooja, so no one has ordered the big idols and ask for smaller ones that can easily be immersed at home. Earlier, apart from Ganesh Chaturthi, we used to get some work preparing tableaux for temples during Janmashtami and then Durga Pooja. But this time there was no work during Janmashtami and Durga Pooja too is going to be the same,” says Anubhav Adhikari, 19, a second year BA student, and who helps his father in the business. “Every year we use to get 14 to 15 sculptors to meet the demand, but this time because of the pandemic we have only four artistes from Bengal,” he adds. “Demand has been increasing every year, but this year things have changed,” says sculptor Nepal Noskar, 70, who has been coming to Chandigarh from West Bengal for the last 34 years without a break. Artists who left Bengal have got work but those who stayed back are struggling as there is no work over there with Durga pooja plans cancelled, he adds. This year, the cost of idols has also gone up by 20-25%, with Adhikari (Khokhan), who is flying in his artists this time and coping with limited demand, is trying to cover costs.  “The only thing that I will remember of the Covid times is that for the first time in my life I got a chance to travel by air,” says Parikhit Sardar, 55, who also has been visiting Chandigarh over the years.“Hope Lord Ganesh will see to it that the situation improves by next year or we’ll have to look for other work,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/large-hearted-ganpati-gets-smaller-as-festivities-are-toned-down-due-to-covid-19/story-lRzGXM6fOVIhBD79v53SdL.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Missing senior pvt bank executive found dead in Delhi canal, SIT to probe case||Gurugram Police have formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the death of a 38-year-old vice president of a private bank, whose body was found in a canal in Delhi, days after he had gone missing while taking a stroll outside his Sector 46 house on August 5 .The family of the victim has alleged that he was kidnapped and murdered and claimed negligence on part of the city police for not conducting a proper investigation initially, when the family first reported the man missing. A three-member SIT, under the supervision of the assistant commissioner of police (crime), Preet Pal was formed on Monday to look into the case. According to the police, on August 5 around 7.45pm, the victim, Dheeraj Ahlawat, who worked in the corporate banking department of a private bank, was last seen walking on a service lane near his house in Sector 46. After he failed to return later that evening, his family launched a search and looked around for him and enquired with friends and relatives. The following day, his family filed a missing person’s complaint at Sector 50 police station. An FIR under section 346 of Indian Penal Code was lodged based on the complaint. The victim’s brother, Jasvir Singh, alleged that the family told the police that Dheeraj could have been kidnapped as he dealt in huge loan amounts as part of his job. But the police dismissed their concerns, stating that he may have gone somewhere of his own volition.“He returned home on August 5 evening and changed into a T-shirt and went for a stroll in his slippers around 7.45pm. Before leaving, he grabbed the mask from his car and kept the car keys in his pocket. If he wanted to go somewhere far, he would have taken the car. He had no money on him. Both his phones were later found switched off. He did not have any personal enmity with anyone,” said Jasvir. Singh said that they had contacted a relative in Delhi police soon after, who told them that a body matching Dheeraj’s description had been fished out of a canal near Rohini on the night of August 7. “We received information on August 12 regarding a body and I went to the hospital in Delhi, where the body had been kept, to check. I identified the body, which only had an underwear on, through the rakhi, which my sister had tied on his left hand, and by his build. According to the police, Dheeraj’s body was found completely naked except the underwear when it was found. We suspect that he was kidnapped and then murdered. He was a decent swimmer,” said Jasvir. After his body was found in Delhi, the victim’s family informed the police in Sector 50 and a kidnapping charge was added to the FIR. A post-mortem was conducted on August 12 and police said that viscera samples have been sent to the forensics laboratory for examination. Jasvir said that they met the commissioner of police on Monday demanding a thorough probe into the death. “My brother’s work involved disbursement of corporate loans worth several hundred crores. It is possible that he was targeted due to some money related dispute,” said Singh. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “A three-member SIT has been formed to investigate the case. We had registered an FIR immediately after the family had reported that the person had gone missing. The body was later found by Delhi Police and the charge of kidnapping was added as per the circumstances and facts of the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/missing-senior-pvt-bank-executive-found-dead-in-delhi-canal-sit-to-probe-case/story-d0hW7T62941HxmgQIfcXvO.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police to launch drive to check misuse of social media by teens||The city police, in a move to create awareness among teens on the misuse of social media, will start an awareness campaign with the help of schools, officials said on Monday. In this campaign, the cyber-crime cell officials will rope in experts to take online classes for school students and educate them on the use of cyber space, including social networking websites. The awareness campaign by the police come sin the backdrop of a 17-year-old British national of Indian origin being allegedly sexually assaulted, thrashed and threatened in Sushant Lok-1 on July 23 allegedly by 10 boys, whom he had met through a social networking app. The incident was reported on Saturday, following which a case was registered. Police commissioner KK Rao said that the motive behind starting such an awareness drive was to check the rise of cybercrime incidents involving students. “These days teenagers try newly launched applications and use them to upload their personal information and their pictures. Students take to social media to open their hearts and connect with strangers, without weighing the pros and cons of such situations,” he said. In May, a controversy had erupted after a social media group — comprising mainly schoolboys — that discussed purported plans to rape a classmate was discovered. In Gurugram, a 14-year-old boy had committed suicide soon after the incident by jumping off from the 11th floor of his apartment building. He was not part of the social media group but was scared of being named as a molester by a girl who made a ‘#metoo’ social media post after screenshots of the group went viral on social media platforms. Rao said parents need to watch the internet usage of children and must monitor their activities on social media platforms. “The social media platforms these days are mostly used by youngsters. Looking at the cases that are coming up, we realise that it’s the teenagers who are misusing them also. Lack of awareness is a major issue and these teens don’t know where to draw a line,” Rao said, adding that focus should be on sharing laws on misuse of cyber space. The police said they are taking the help of schools in carrying out their campaign. Sudha Goyal, director, Scottish High International School, said that the official age to use social networking website is 18 years and above. But that age rule is hardly followed and its easy to create fake accounts to register on any sites. “We can’t stop students from using the cyber space, but we can educate them . Just like we talk about “good touch and bad touch” during regular classes, our teachers regularly counsel students, specially the little ones, on issues of online stranger acquaintances, social media encroachers and cyber security. We will also start a fresh awareness drive to educate students and will rope in cyber experts for the same,” she said. Rohit Malik, director, Lancers International School, said that social media usage can have both positive and negative influence. “It all depends on how a student interacts with the medium. Even the parents need to create social media literacy so that children can use the medium for their benefit. Instead of asking students to just get off social media, which they won’t, we must educate them how and what to use and what should be avoided,” he said.Neeti Kaushik, principal of Mount Olympus School in Sector 47 said that learning is an integrated process where we learn together about threats and challenges of technology and social media through continuous interaction in the form of class wise group discussions by principal and teachers. “We believe that guidance and care should never stop and that the sole aim of guidance is to enable our learners with the life skill to choose wisely. We choose to instruct less and empower more so that our learners are able to think of consequences and make decisions that are trustworthy. We believe in keeping our learners constructively engaged and occupied in pursuit of health, knowledge, creativity and self-development. We focus on building a positive school climate that enthuses happiness, positivity and free expression without judgment,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-to-launch-drive-to-check-misuse-of-social-media-by-teens/story-hYUA7KnWvLB4zlsxNDcXPL.html
17-08-2020||Noida||Man arrested for minor’s abduction||Police on Sunday arrested a 21-year-old man from Ambikapur village for allegedly kidnapping a 14-year-old girl in Noida Phase 2. Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer of Noida Phase 2 police station, said that the minor girl had gone missing on July 13 after she had gone to the local market to buy grocery. “The victim’s family launched a search when she did not return in the evening. They also spoke to their relatives and local people but failed to trace her. Five days later, the family filed a complaint of abduction,” he said. The victim’s family suspected the role of three local persons – Mahboob, Salman, Sabir and one unknown person in case. The police registered a case against them under sections 363 [abduction] and 366 [kidnapping and compelling woman to marriage] of the Indian Penal Code. Pundir said that the police questioned the suspects who revealed that a person named Dhramveer had fled with the girl to Badaun. On Sunday, a team searched the suspect’s house and arrested him. “We also rescued the minor from his house. The victim has been sent for a medical examination and report is awaited. She will be produced before the magistrate to record her statement. We will press charges of rape if the medical report suggests,” he said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-arrested-for-minor-s-abduction/story-btio1uy6ekVXEUmuC9cSQJ.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Smuggling of Covid drugs: Two more held from Jhajjar; 13 arrested for far||htreporters@hindustantimes.com The special investigation team (SIT), constituted to investigate the black marketing racket of pharmaceutical drugs and medicines, including those used in the treatment of Covid-19 and cancer, arrested a pharmacist and a supplier of medicines from Jhajjar on Saturday, taking the total number of arrests related to the case to 13 so far. On Saturday, the five-member SIT conducted raids in Jhajjar and arrested a pharmacist named Naveen Sharma, and a medicines supplier named Deepak Sharma. The police said the accused men had sold over 7,100 prohibited injections and 12,000 tablets worth over ₹7 lakh to two Iraqi interpreters in Sector 57. The consignment, the police said, was supposed to be sent to Iraq and sold for a premium. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “During interrogation, the two Iraqi suspects, who were arrested from Sector 57, during the first raid, had disclosed the names of Naveen and Deepak. They had been in touch with the interpreters for over six months and had supplied the medicines and injections for a commission.” After the racket was busted, they had escaped to Jhajjar, from where they were arrested, said the police. Naveen runs a medical store in South City-1 and Deepak is a supplier of pharmaceuticals in the city. So far, the police have arrested four Iraqi interpreters, six pharmacists, two wholesale distributors and a medicines supplier, who are allegedly a part of the racket. The Iraqi interpreters were arrested on July 28, after conducting a raid in which the police had seized 48 vials of remdesivir, 55 strips of fabiflu and 18 packs of Lopikast ( drugs used to treat Covid-19) among other medicines. Since then, the police have followed a pattern of reverse tracking to uncover the nexus, with the probe widening to four cities — Delhi, Gurugram, Jaipur and Agra. A week after the racket was busted, the police had arrested several pharmacists and medical store owners from Gurugram and Delhi. The probe had revealed that the pharmacists, in turn, had procured the medicines, including remdesivir, from wholesale medicine distributors in Agra and Jaipur. One of the wholesalers was a distributor of remdesivir. The police have also written to the manufacturing company of the drug to get to the source and unearth the nexus. Earlier, the police had said that the role of some hospitals in Delhi was also under the scanner for facilitating the supply of drugs. Police probe has revealed that the Iraqi interpreters had been smuggling medicines to Iraq for at least two years, and since the pandemic, they had started dealing primarily in drugs used to treat Covid-19 that were in short supply and were sold at exorbitant prices in Iraq. The suspects worked as translators for medical tourism patients at private hospitals and enlisted the patients or their attendants as conduits, asking them to carry the medicines in flights to Iraq, from where they would be collected by an agent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/smuggling-of-covid-drugs-two-more-held-from-jhajjar-13-arrested-for-far/story-Xv2YAnLKEJ5FCOajDXjx1O.html
17-08-2020||City||Gurugram: District lagging in survey of vulnerable sections for Covid relief||Gurugram: During the initial stage of the national lockdown, the Haryana government had directed each district across the state to form unit committees, sector committees, and a zonal committee in early April to help streamline relief operations. However, even after four months, the properties surveyed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have been less than one-third of the total in the district.Unit committees comprise a junior-level government employee, a local resident of a particular survey area and some social workers or members of civil society organisations. They were assigned the responsibility of identifying underprivileged households across the city who need ration and cooked meals, keeping a database of the elderly, single-women households, children with special needs as well as unorganised daily-wage earners through surveys and to identify their specific needs.On the basis of this information, sector committees led by MCG junior engineers and assistant engineers would provide assistance to unit committees, wherever required, and relay their operations and on-ground findings to the zonal committee. The Zonal committee members, which include four MCG joint commissioners, superintending engineer, and senior town planner (STP) in Gurugram, would then inform the district administration or the MCG for initiating relief measures in such localities. In this regard, a review meeting was held with all zonal committee members by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Monday.In the meeting, the zonal committee members revealed that so far only 97,000 properties have been surveyed by over 600 unit committees, whereas as per MCG’s property tax records there are 2.97 lakh properties under the agency’s jurisdiction in the city.According to a senior MCG official who attended the meeting, the main reason given by zonal officers for the progress rate in the survey work was attributed to unit committee members allegedly being frequently absent following which Singh directed them to take action against such employees and to terminate their services, if needed.“In most districts of Haryana, the survey work has either been completed or is nearing completion. MCG commissioner also passed on this information to all zonal officers and directed them to expedite work and initiate action against those workers showing negligence or laxity,” said the official, wishing not to be identified.In the meeting, officials of the zonal committee were directed by MCG commissioner Singh to expedite the pending survey, direct workers in the unit committee to explain their reason for poor performance so far, set them new targets, and review their survey at least twice a week. In addition, the zonal committee officers were further directed to review the performance of employees engaged in the survey work. The MCG commissioner directed that if the performance of the unit committee workers is found to be unsatisfactory, then to send a letter to their respective departments for action against them.“All zonal officers were directed to constantly review the survey work and get the work completed on a priority basis. In addition, zonal officers were further directed to provide a list of polling booths to the unit committee, which will give them the requisite information of the total number of people living in a particular area, their demography, location and such additional information, all of which will aid them in completing the survey at the earliest,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-district-lagging-in-survey-of-vulnerable-sections-for-covid-relief/story-pga2RysYoMsjnCzvHw0bFL.html
17-08-2020||City||Criminal arrested for Rs 45 lakh extortion from transporter||The Noida police on Monday said they had arrested 45-year-old Sahdev Bhati, brother of known gangster Sunder Bhati, from Delhi’s Mayur Vihar for attempting to extort a transporter of ₹45 lakh. Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that on June 26, 2020, the transporter had filed a complaint at the Surajpur police station against three members of Sunder Bhati gang. The complainant said that Sunder Bhati’s nephew Anil Bhati made a phone call and demanded Rs 45 lakh extortion. “On June 25, two criminals had come to my office and demanded ₹45 lakh. They also threatened of consequences if the demands were not met,” the complainant said. Police registered a case against Anil Bhati, and his two accomplices Lokesh Bhati and Nagesh Chaudhury under sections 386 [extortion] and 506 [criminal intimidation] of the Indian Penal Code. The police investigation revealed the involvement of Sahdev Bhati, Anil’s father, said Aggarwal. A police team from Surajpur on Monday conducted a search operation at Sahdev Bhati’s native house in Ghaghola village in Greater Noida. “He was missing. The team received information that the suspect would be hiding another address in Mayur Vihar where we found him,” said police. Aggarwal said that the suspect was wanted in 18 criminal cases including that of extortion, rioting, criminal conspiracy, Gangster Act in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/criminal-arrested-for-rs-45-lakh-extortion-from-transporter/story-z16gi5G0Z1YnXFoHZfbVwI.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Five men arrested for duping over 100 people of ₹1 crore on pretext of offering jobs||Five men were arrested from Gurugram for allegedly duping over 100 people of over ₹1 crore, on the pretext of offering them jobs in multinational companies, the police said on Monday. The police were apprised of the alleged crime by a resident of Bengaluru, who was duped of ₹13 lakh, on the pretext of being offered a job in his home town. The police said the suspects ran a placement agency and used to call victims, claiming to be representatives of prominent multinational companies. They also placed an advertisement on an online job portal and asked their victims to transfer money in order to process their job requests and for other related expenses. The suspects were identified as Sanjay Kumar, Sonu Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Dhruv Srivastava and Lokesh Kumar who were operating from Sector 43. They were arrested on Sunday and produced before the district and sessions court. Later, they were taken on a two-day police remand on Monday. The police said that as per their bank statements, they had duped at least 100 people and had raked in more than ₹1 crore. Currently, they had 9 lakh in their bank account. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they received a complaint from one Ninganagouda S Amminabhavi — 40-year-old senior executive of a private company based in Bengaluru — who was allegedly duped of ₹13 lakh in total in three different transactions. “The suspects had called him, offering jobs in prominent companies and had asked him to deposit ₹5,500 in order to process his request. They lined up interviews with various companies and had shared their ID’s as well. Despite waiting for a week, the victim did not hear from the companies. He then started asking the suspects to refund his money, following which they again duped him of ₹2,73,000 on pretext of signing bond papers for which he took loan from friends and relatives. Finally, they again duped him of the remaining amount in the pretext of finalising his job offer.” he said. The police said the gang members had created several fake email ids and domains of the companies to dupe their victims. The police had received several complaints from residents across the country, following which they handed over to case to the cybercrime cell on Saturday. Goel said the police began tracking this gang after they received a direct complaint from Bengaluru-based executive on August 15. “The gang operated in an organised manner and had different people performing different tasks, such as making calls, creating bank accounts with fake documentation, and withdrawing cash. They had opened a bank account after getting the company registered and they were running a call centre out of Delhi where more than 20 boys and girls were working. They used to duped people and later transfer money into their account through e-wallets to escape police scanner ,” he said. The cybercrime police arrested Manoj and Dhruv on Monday from Sector 43. Earlier on Sunday, the police arrested the three main suspects, Sanjay, Sonu and Lokesh, who shared the location of the other two. The police said the business was started by two brothers, Sanjay and Sonu, in 2017 from Gurugram. “They later contacted their relative Lokesh. In March last year, they decided to start their own call centre but came in contact of Dhruv and Manoj , who had already set up a call centre in Delhi. Dhruv and Manoj gave them the idea of duping people by buying data from various vendors and platforms. They majorly targeted people from south India,” said Goel. The police said there are conducting investigation if more people are involved in the fraud. A case under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 120 B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and Section 66D of Information Technology(IT) Act was registered at the Cyber police station on Saturday. The police recovered seven mobile phones and ₹75,000 in cash from the suspects’ possession. They also freezed their bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-men-arrested-for-duping-over-100-people-of-1-crore-on-pretext-of-offering-jobs/story-BqjxuhC2L4rRle335LHdIM.html
17-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Unauthorised sewage disposal can now earn hefty fine, prison term||Gurugram: Unauthorised disposal of sewage in open areas, drains, or private plots will now result in a tank owner being slapped with a minimum penalty of ₹25,000 and might also lead to a prison term of up to six months, a public notification issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday stated.The notification further stated that a 20% hike on penalty fines will be imposed on subsequent detections by the same violator, while under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) the violator could also be imprisoned for up to six months. Until last month, the fine for unauthorised dumping of sewage waste was ₹5,000.In many parts of the city, especially the new sectors – 56 to 115 – residential areas are still not connected to master sewerage lines of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). Thus, the practice of unauthorised dumping of sewage is very common in such areas.A January 2019, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) report had stated that at least 80 million litres of untreated sewage is being dumped in storm water drains across the city which results in choking water bodies and drains, polluting the underground water table, and leading to water logging during the monsoon season.“To curb the unauthorised disposal of sewage, twelve agencies have now been registered by MCG through the tendering process. Details such as the list of agencies for each ward and their charges per trip, etc., have also been uploaded on our official website – www.mcg.gov.in from where residents or RWAs can avail their facility. We realise the problems associated with the unauthorised disposal of sewerage and have accordingly revised our penalties for such violations,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG. MCG has also listed numbers – 9811356914 and 8700089711 – on which residents can contact the civic body to avail the services of registered tankers.Coincidentally on Monday, the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) also issued a direction to commissioners of municipal corporations and deputy commissioners across the state for “strict compliance of septic tank management policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-unauthorised-sewage-disposal-can-now-earn-hefty-fine-prison-term/story-PXgUbGyTnwxgiOK47CVWFO.html
17-08-2020||City||Noida: Cobra rescued from metro station’s canteen||Noida: A two-foot-long baby cobra has been rescued from the canteen of Okhla Bird Sanctuary Metro station in Sector 94. The Metro staff spotted the snake sitting under a table. A rescue team from Wildlife SOS, an NGO that caters to protection of wild animals, rushed to the spot with protective gear and rescued the cobra. Officials of Wildlife SOS said that the cobra might have come through the green patches which have come up due to rainy season. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said the rescue team had received a call about a cobra sighting at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary Metro Station around 8pm on August 14. “The Delhi Metro staff were shocked to find the snake under a table in the canteen. They immediately alerted the NGO’s emergency helpline +91-9871963535,” he said. Notably, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary Metro station is located on Magenta Line of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). A rescue team reached the spot in half-an-hour. “The team rescued the cobra swiftly. Cobras are shy in nature but when suddenly confronted they may attack in self-defence. Juvenile cobras also have the potency of venom, so it is very important to remain cautious,” Satyanarayan said. The rescue work was completed in 20 minutes and the cobra was later released in the forest range in Tughlakabad.The Wildlife officials said that during monsoon the natural homes of these reptiles get flooded and hence they come out. The NGO receives the highest number of calls for reptile sighting during this season, they said. A DMRC spokesperson said that whenever they spot reptiles, they inform the wildlife department. India is home to a variety of snake species ranging from extremely venomous like cobra and common krait to relatively harmless and non-venomous ones like sand boa, wolf snake and rat snake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-cobra-rescued-from-metro-station-s-canteen/story-bpCsI2mf2CKmlPsxeRKv2L.html
17-08-2020||City||No Covid-19 fatality in GB Nagar after August 1||NOIDA Gautam Budh Nagar has not reported any death due to Covid-19 in the past 16 days, bringing down the mortality rate to 0.66% on Monday. The district’s fatality rate on August 2 was 0.79%, according to the state’s Covid data.However, as many as 1,113 new positive cases have been detected in the district from August 2 to August 17. The last time when GB Nagar had reported Covid-related death was August 1. The recovery rate has also improved in the district, as it has gone up to 86.96% (August 17) from 82.89% on August 2. According to an analysis of the Covid data, GB Nagar (with 43 deaths) has the lowest mortality rate among the districts having more than 2,000 cases across the state. Among such districts, Deoria tops with 4.66% fatality rate, followed by Balia (4.26%), Kanpur (2.94%), Meerut (2.79%), Jhansi (2.75%), Varanasi (2.17%), Bareilly (1.96%), Prayagraj (1.84%), Gorakhpur (1.59%) and Lucknow (1.24%). Among all 75 districts in the state, GB Nagar stands at 69th position in terms of the fatality rate.In terms of Covid-related deaths (till Monday), Kanpur leads with 309 deaths, followed by Lucknow (217), Varanasi (125), Meerut (123), Agra (104) and Prayagraj (102), the data shows. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the district administration is leaving no stone unturned to check the case fatality ratio (better known as mortality rate) and increase the recovery rate. “Our district has lowest mortality rate among all the districts in the state, which has more than 5,000 cases. It is mainly because of aggressive testing and early detection, coupled with quick isolation and effective treatment protocol. Not only that, our teams of doctors, sometimes, assert to keep Covid-19 patients having co-morbidities in hospitals rather than providing them home isolation. It might appear rude to those patients, but the fact is that we can’t take chances with people’s lives,” he said. Echoing similar views, district’s chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that early testing of the symptomatic patients and organizing health camps in different localities for identifying the patients with co-morbidities and influenza like symptoms are the main reasons of downward trend of mortality rate and active cases. “Focussing on critical age groups and patients with co-morbidities has resulted in low fatality rate and more recoveries. Also, our doctors at different Covid-19 facilities are doing exemplary job in treatment of the infected people,” he said. Dr Vivek Gupta, head of micropathology in Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, said that early detection of cases and timely treatment of patients have helped reduce the mortality rate. “If my observation in the laboratory is any indication, the cases are on receding trend in the district. And, since the patients with other ailments are being tracked on time, the mortality rate has to go down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-covid-19-fatality-in-gb-nagar-after-august-1/story-LSEjhTPU9EDi1cappodrjP.html
17-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Unidentified men shoot at petrol pump guard, flee with his licensed gun||Ghaziabad: Two unidentified men in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday shot at and critically injured the security guard of a petrol pump near Sainthli area of Muradnagar in Ghaziabad, near the Delhi-Meerut Road, and also fled with his licensed weapon during the incident. Police officers said that they have registered an FIR into the incident and are probing it from all angles.The incident took place around 12.30am on Monday when several staff members of the petrol pump deployed to disburse fuel and the guard, 47-year-old Naresh Kumar, was stationed at the exit of the station.“Two men arrived at the pump around 12.30am on Monday and approached the guard. They wanted water and the guard informed them they could get it from the RO system installed at the station. After having the water, they went near to the guard and one snatched his double barrel gun while the other fired a shot at him. The guard sustained a gunshot wound to his chest and fell down,” said Saurabh Gupta, the owner of the pump. “The two men immediately fled to the other side of the road where probably their other accomplices were waiting in vehicles and fled the spot. They also took away the licensed gun of the guard. The incident was captured in the CCTV installed and the police have taken it for investigation. The guard is admitted to an ICU of a private hospital in Nehru Nagar in Ghaziabad and is under observation for three days,” he added.He added that the two assailants did not come close to the office of the fuel station where the cash is generally kept. The guard is from Shahjahanpur district and resided locally at nearby Mainapur village, he added.“The two men were unidentified and the guard was shot at during the incident. He is admitted at a hospital and is under treatment. We have registered a case and are investigating all angles,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, acting superintendent of police (rural).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-unidentified-men-shoot-at-petrol-pump-guard-flee-with-his-licensed-gun/story-FJ3ClO7RwF8FqYL7lHVZmI.html
17-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad completes over 98% contact tracing||Ghaziabad The district, which was struggling to trace contacts of Covid-19 positive patients till mid-July, has completed over 98% contact tracing till August 16. According to official records of the district health department, the teams involved in contact tracing have traced 41,933 contacts of 6,526 (out of total 6,634) positive patients till August 16. This provides the district an overall contact-tracing rate of 98.3%, officials said. Notably, the district had managed to trace the contacts of only 65% of the positive patients till July 16. The officials said that in August, they have been able to trace an average of 10.16 contacts per positive patient while the figure stood at 4.6 contacts till July 16. The contact-tracing activity is vital to control the spread of infection. The officials said that the district administration also roped in electronic surveillance services of the district police to trace contacts of patients who often give away wrong mobile numbers or addresses. “The contact-tracing activity was slow till July, but we brought back focus and our teams responded well. With the activity going on at a fast pace, we have been able to trace more contacts of positive patients overall and the average contact per patient has further increased in August. The teams have done 98.3% contact tracing and the data has been uploaded on the portal,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the health department has also taken up testing of 96.29% of the contacts traced. “Of the 41,933 contacts traced, testing of 40,381 have been done so far. We have an average of about 6.42 contacts traced per positive patient since March (till August 16). We have been asked by the state officials to trace at least 10 contacts of every patient to contain the Covid-19 spread,” said Gupta. “Of about 1,600-odd positive cases in the first 16 days of August, we have traced contacts of 1,302 patients while the work is on for other patients. During the period, we have traced 13,238 contacts of 1,302 patients with an average of 10.16 contacts per positive patient,” he added. The officials said that of the 13,238 contacts traced in the ongoing month of August, they have been able to test 12,840 (96.99%) of them. With the overall 98.3% contact tracing done, the district has moved to green category as per the criteria. “For moving to green category, the district must trace over 95% contacts of positive patients and also test over 95% of traced contacts. So, the district is now under green category. Based on different criteria, the districts are placed under green, yellow and other categories,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, nodal officer (Covid) from the state health department. For the contact-tracing exercise, the administration had also roped in services of the district police in July and 18 police officers from as many police stations across the district were assigned special duty for tracing of contacts, along with officials from the administration and the health department. Under the arrangement, tracing teams visit the houses of contacts and also use electronic surveillance in order to track locations of people. The contact tracing activities are also monitored from the integrated command and control centre which is operational at the district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-completes-over-98-contact-tracing/story-XnONwudnuZkhkUhKXuRfyO.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Number of hospitalised Covid patients shoots up; no cause for worry, says CMO||The number of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in various private hospitals of the city has witnessed an increase in the last few days. Although hospitalisation figures are dynamic as they continue to change every day, the number of such patients have reached above 90 in the last one week. From 64 Covid-19 patients hospitalised on August 6, the figures had soared to 96 as on August 16. Health officials said that they were evaluating all the cases. Data shows that on June 30, at least 417 Covid-19 patients (Gurugram residents) were admitted in various hospitals. By July 7, the number had come down to 197, dropping further to 175 (July 14) and 165 (July 20). On July 27, the hospitalisation numbers reduced to double digit, with 96 cases. The number further declined consistently and reached 64 on August 6.However, in the last 10 days, the numbers have again started to increase. On August 10, at least 89 positive patients were in hospitals. It increased to 98 on August 13. After a few patients getting discharged, the numbers reached 96 on Sunday. On Monday, 91 patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus were undergoing treatment in various hospitals, according to the district health bulletin. Currently, 720 Covid-19 cases are active in the district out of the 10,360 cases reported in the city so far. At least 9,510 have recovered and 130 have succumbed to the virus so far. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that healthcare teams are evaluating the increase in hospitalisation figures. “Firstly, surgeries and other health treatments have started in hospitals. So before patients are admitted, they are tested for Covid-19. If a patient tests positive, they are included in the hospitalised positive patients list. Also, many a times. a symptomatic patient prefers gets admitted in a hospital rather being home isolated. Secondly, there are no critical patients of Covid-19, except one who is on ventilator.” Currently, the administration has reserved 1,486 general isolation ward beds, inclusive of 192 Intensive Care Unit beds and 92 beds with ventilator support system, in 40 hospitals of the city . The number of hospitals include 37 private and two state-run hospitals (apart from All India Institute of Medical Sciences – Jhajjar).As reported by HT earlier this week, the health department was thinking of reducing the number of reserved beds in various private hospitals for Covid patients from the existing 25% to 10-20%, as number of cases continues to decline in Gurugram. Several private hospitals of the city have also approached the health department to reduce the number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. Yadav said that a reduction in number of reserved beds can be considered only after the positivity rate falls below 5%. Gurugram’s current positivity rate is 7.1%. He said that government hospital like ESIC, where mildly symptomatic patients are being admitted, might function as isolation wards, but with a minimum of 10 beds for Covid patients. There are no plans to reduce the number of beds in Medeor Hospital, a Covid-19 designated facility for critical patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/number-of-hospitalised-covid-patients-shoots-up-no-cause-for-worry-says-cmo/story-3jKxqeXV8vWxiDDdhfcfXJ.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||After drastic drop between March and July, admission in city’s emergency wards sees an uptick||archana.mishra@hindustantimes.com With a decline in the number of active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city and increasing relaxations after the lockdown, various private hospitals are reporting a rise in admissions in the emergency units with cases of accidents, injuries, cardiac and brain strokes being reported. After witnessing a drastic downfall of almost 50-60% in the inflow of emergency patients between March and July due to the lockdown, doctors said that emergency numbers are gradually rising as people are overcoming their fear of getting infected and are no longer hesitant to visit hospitals. “In the last two weeks, our emergency facility has seen an increase of 16-17% in footfall,” said Dr Salil Malik, consultant and head of department, emergency medicine, Max Hospital, Gurugram. “Compared to last year, the emergency unit noticed a fall of 40% patients between March and July this year. With the gradual unlocking and regular traffic becoming operational, trauma cases are coming with the patients reporting fever, dengue, pneumonia and urinary tract infections,” said Malik. Dr Nikhil Mishra, chief of medical services, Columbia Asia Hospital, Palam Vihar, also agreed that in the last two weeks inflow of patients in emergency has increased by 15%. “It is less than 2019. If were having 1,000 patients in the emergency in 2019, the number got reduced by almost 50% this year,” said Mishra. Hospital data shows that in 2019, emergency cases, such as those of assault, poisoning, drug overdose, injury, renal issues and trauma, among others, were somewhere between 1,100- 1,300 between March and August 2019. This year, during the same period, the number has dipped to 520-590, with mostly cases of renal issues and injuries being reported. Earlier in March this year, the Central government had issued an advisory, directing medical institutions and hospitals to postpone elective surgeries. Later, between May and June, these services were resumed. “Fear of contracting Covid-19 made people avoid multiple visits to the hospital,” said Dr Swadesh Kumar, consultant and head of emergency department, Naryana Hospital. According to him compared to 2019 (between March and July), there has been a 40-45% drop in the patients coming to the emergency. Likewise, a significant drop of 30-40% in the number of patients who got admitted. “The decline was also due to a drop in accident cases and drink driving during lockdown,” he said. Apart from the decline in the number of road accidents, there has also been a drop in the number of emergency cases coming in from other states primarily due to fear of travelling, according to Dr Ritu Garg, Zonal Director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. “In comparison to last year, the emergency footfall is currently at 60 -65%. Earlier there was a dip in emergency footfall as people were keeping indoors and were apprehensive of coming to the hospital for treatment. Now with relaxation in the border movement, we have seen a rise in the number of emergency visits,” she said, adding that most of the patients getting admitted in emergency are cases of cardiology, neurology and gastroenterology.Kumar, however, said that they are also getting 40-50% cases of brain haemorrhage or brain strokes, although the numbers are still low. “After a person gets a brain stroke there is a window period of four hours. A patient must be admitted in the hospital within this time period or else it further increases the risk. Some of the cases are being reported after this window period is over. To avoid infection, people are still putting their brain health at risk,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-drastic-drop-between-march-and-july-admission-in-city-s-emergency-wards-sees-an-uptick/story-tiGekBxLibrqiR0yqUG2QJ.html
17-08-2020||City||Liquor mafia being run under the patronage of Cong leaders, says AAP state chief||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Monday said that no one from the Congress party has been arrested in the hooch tragedy even when people have been accusing the ruling party leaders of patronising the liquor mafia in the state.Mann said that a case under Section 302 (murder) has not been registered so far even after chief minister Amarinder Singh announcing the same. On Monday, Mann and AAP state observer Jarnail Singh visited the city to attend a ceremony at Shingar cinema road to welcome leaders from Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) into the party fold.Jarnail Singh said, “The working of the ruling government can be judged from the fact that its leaders are joining the opposition.”Lashing out at the CM over the hooch tragedy, Mann said that ‘Raja Sahib’ had not fulfilled even 29 promises listed in his 129-page election manifesto. “He is rather offering patronage to the mafia taking its reins from the Badals. The CM reacted only after AAP staged a protest over his absence even when the state had witnessed a major tragedy,” he said.Mann said that the party will announce the name of its CM candidate before contesting the 2022 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-mafia-being-run-under-the-patronage-of-cong-leaders-says-aap-state-chief/story-PN9ninlERYPl1xv6IQBxSN.html
17-08-2020||City||Case fatality rate in Ghaziabad falls below 1%||The overall case fatality rate (CFR) in Ghaziabad has fallen to below 1% of the total Covid-19 cases, according to the state government’s Covid portal till 3pm on Monday.The state government’s daily health bulletin, which gives a 24-hour report, on Monday read a CFR of 1%. The Covid portal on the other hand gives real-time data that read 67 deaths over 6,730 cases gave a CFR of 0.99%, marking the first time that the statistic fell below 1%.While the number of cases in the district keeps on increasing, experts say that this was expected given the increase in testing. The focus, they said, should be on reducing deaths.Overall in UP, the CFR stood at 1.58% till August 17, according to the health bulletin, and 23 of 75 districts had a rate below 1%. The district administration officials said that the rate was achieved with putting in place certain measures and more efforts will be put in to further lower down the death rate. “The Uttar Pradesh chief minister had directed all districts to work hard to lower down the CFR. Now, we will try to reduce it further. We are constantly trying to maintain 3,000-3,500 tests per day along with extensive focussed surveillance activities to detect suspected cases. Once detected, they are tested and referred to appropriate Covid facility if found positive. The idea is to detect cases and get them treated before they move to stage of complication,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “For this, the district has also come up with an integrated command and control centre where all the Covid-19 related activities like those related to contact tracing, monitoring of patients in Home isolation and surveillance teams, assigning ambulances and other activities are integrated. We also have ICU beds reserved in private hospitals where the patients from government facilities can immediately be referred in case of need,” he said. A majority of death cases in Ghaziabad were reported in the month of June when 51 fatalities were added to the tally. Thereafter, the officials put in measures and the fatalities reduced to nine in July and three in August till now. “We have also come up with 200 L-2 (moderate cases) beds at Santosh Medical College,, while 200 are reserved as L-3 (serious cases) beds. Since the L-2 and L-3 beds are at the same premises, the time required in transferring patients was considerably reduced. At present we have overall 135 ICU beds in Ghaziabad with 98 in private hospitals and 37 in government Covid facilities,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. Upto August 17, 30 Covid-19 related deaths have taken place at hospital in Ghaziabad while 33 took place in Meerut besides two each at hospitals in Delhi and Noida. “We have also stopped referrals to Meerut besides strict monitoring of patients in home isolation is being done. With constant monitoring, there has been no fatality of any patient in home isolation,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a recent interaction over video-conferencing with the chief ministers of 10 states, including UP, on August 11, had encouraged them to take CFR to below 1%. “It is good that the CFR is on decline. However, the efforts to contain cases should continue. Rapid antigen kits have made a lot of difference for early detection of cases and it must continue. Otherwise, the RT-PCR test reports take 2-3 days to arrive and suspected cases continue to be under risk. While attending different seminars it has come out that the effect is on decline. But monitoring should continue as many facets of Sars-CoV-2 are still unknown,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad. According to the official figures till August 16, the district completed testing of 153992 samples, which include 86688 through the rapid antigen kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-fatality-rate-in-ghaziabad-falls-below-1/story-XoI3orgZbnAOejD1I7W5rM.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||High court tells Delhi University to hold physical exams from Sept 14, varsity says huge task||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed Delhi University (DU) to conduct examinations for final-year students in the pen and paper mode from September 14 even as the varsity said “it was too short a time frame and there was immense pressure on the available manpower due to the ongoing open book examinations (OBE)”. The move comes days after the Union home ministry, in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, said colleges could reopen to conduct final-year examinations.The university had proposed to hold physical examinations for students who could not take the online exams, and those who want to better their performance in OBE, from September 20. But a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said the timeline was “quite unreasonable” and asked DU to advance the date.The court noted that the university had earlier said it would be able to gauge the number of leftover students who would write the physical exams only after it measured those who participated in the online mode. “By now, the online examinations have been conducted for an entire week. There should be enough data for the university to analyse the number of students who intend to sit for the examination physically in September,” the court observed.The court said the “university should expedite conducting physical examinations so that the entire process can be over at the earliest”. It said even though at least two weeks are required after the online examinations are over on August 31, for the university to gear up, physical examinations should commence by September 8.When senior advocate Sachin Datta, appearing for DU, said it would be too short time to complete preparations, the bench changed the date to September 14. It asked DU’s counsel to file an affidavit and indicate the end date of the physical examination, after he expressed his inability to inform the end date immediately to the court.The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) is not happy with the court’s order. Abha Dev Habib, treasurer, DUTA and assistant professor, Miranda House, said, “This will mean those students who could not appear for OBE because of adverse circumstances will now have to take health risks and appear for exams physically. Blind students, those living in different parts of the country and facing issues of connectivity will have to travel to Delhi, expose themselves to the virus and spend Rs 40,000-50,000 on travel and rent to take exams. These physical exams will be monitored, while all such important parameters to ensure credibility were relaxed for OBE.”An official in the DU’s admission branch, who wished not to be named, said, “It’s going to be a huge task to conduct physical exams amid the pandemic. DU has students from across the country and it won’t be possible for many to travel to Delhi since public transport right now is not completely safe. Also, it will be very difficult for the university to complete the evaluation process for the online exams before September 14.”The court expressed anguish over DU in not providing details of grievances to the redressal committee reconstituted by the Delhi HC itself for fairness and transparency. The bench said if the varsity claims that there has been hardly any complaints, it is all the more necessary that the complaints received were satisfactorily addressed by the grievance officer (1st tier) and placed before the committee (2nd tier).The bench, while hearing a bunch of pleas by PwD students seeking various facilities for the open book exams, directed the University Grants Commission (UGC) to take steps to issue a fresh advisory to all central universities to defer their demand of seeking provisional certificates for admission to postgraduation courses.The court directed DU to verify the number of PWD category students who were let out of OBE, and those in the segment who wish to sit for the physical exam even though they may have taken the online mode, for working out modalities of a place of stay and transportation from their present residence to Delhi.The court was informed that the students had gone back to their home towns due to the lockdown and arrangements would have to be made to bring them back. The court directed Delhi University to create a separate e-mail ID, where students can e-mail their requests along with details of foreign universities where they have secured provisional admission so that a request letter can be addressed directly by the Delhi University to the institute concerned.The court sought to know from the varsity the date by which the results will be declared for all streams of final-year courses and posted the matter for further hearing on August 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-court-tells-delhi-university-to-hold-physical-exams-from-sept-14-varsity-says-huge-task/story-5ixZU6gwUmJ8rILrhzsPHL.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||UG exams to continue as per schedule, says Himachal education minister||Despite Himachal Pradesh high court’s order to postpone undergraduate examinations in the state, education minister Govind Thakur on Monday said the exams will continue as per the schedule.While addressing the media on Monday, Thakur said this matter is pending in the Supreme Court (SC) and it has not issued any stay order on these exams. The matter will be heard in the SC on Tuesday and further decision by the state will be taken after the apex court’s call on the issue, the minister said.Preparations to conduct these exams had been done by the state government and Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), and students also appeared for the same on Monday at 9am, while we received the information about the high court’s order around 10am, Thakur said.He added that the state government is taking legal suggestions and the advocate general will file the special leave petition soon.Himachal Pradesh high court on Monday had ordered to postpone undergraduate examinations. A petition regarding this was filed by Yaseem Bhatt who stated that it was not right and safe to conduct exams amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.In July, HPU had released the datesheet for the sixth-semester examinations of UG courses as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines. These exams are scheduled to take place between August 17 and September 8.Three-hour examinations will be conducted in morning and evening sessions — 9am to 12am and 2pm to 5pm. As many as 134 examination centres have been established throughout the state and around 36,000 students are expected to appear in the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ug-exams-to-continue-as-per-schedule-says-himachal-education-minister/story-5AgUk86oy4JzW3indWwdOP.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 killed, 2 injured in separate road accidents in Himachal||Three persons were killed while two sustained injuries in two separate road accidents in Himachal Pradesh, police said on Monday.In the first case, two people died on the spot and one was seriously injured when the car they were travelling in veered off the road and crashed into a roadside tree at Rajiana in Nagrota Bagwan sub-division of Kangra district.The mishap took place in the morning hours of Monday on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway.The deceased have been identified as Ravi Kumar (41) of Tharet village in Baijnath sub-division and Desh Raj (53) of Rit village in Palampur area. Driver Vinay Kumar (30) of Palampur’s Ghad village has been admitted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, and his condition is stated to be critical.Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan said the victims were on their way to Pathankot. Prima facie is seems the driver lost control due to overspeeding, and the impact was such that the car also caused damage to a nearby furniture shop. Police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by rash and negligent act) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of IPC.In the second accident, driver Dharmendra (35) of Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh, was killed while Gautam Yadav (19) of UP’s Anjani was injured when their truck plunged into a deep gorge near Charabra, around 13 kilometres Shimla on Sunday night. The truck carrying apples was on its way to Odisha.Shimla SP Omapati Jamwal said the injured youth has been hospitalised and the deceased’s kin have been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-killed-2-injured-in-separate-road-accidents-in-himachal/story-3PWTMACnHcXUqKyrQRUbNJ.html
17-08-2020||City||Shadow over monsoon session as 20UP assembly staffers test Covid +iv||LUCKNOW Twenty UP assembly staffers, including security personnel, tested Covid-19 positive on Monday, casting a shadow over the monsoon session of the state legislature that is commencing here from August 20.Assembly speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit confirmed that about 600 assembly and other government staffers were tested and 20 were found Covid positive.It is felt that the number of Covid positive people may increase further once members of the two houses and other staffers are tested for the virus in the coming days. “Yes, 20 persons, including security personnel of the assembly, have been found positive for Covid-19. Those who have tested positive include an officer of the under-secretary rank. We are waiting for the final test reports as about 300 staffers, who will be deployed to perform various works/assignments during the monsoon session, have been tested,” said a functionary of the assembly secretariat. A meeting of leaders of all political parties in legislative council was also held and a decision to test all MLCs and Vidhan Parishad staff for Covid-19 was taken.“We will test all members and the staff. Tests will begin on Tuesday and continue till August 20,” said Vidhan Parishad chairman Ramesh Yadav after presiding over the all-party meeting. On the question of whether the assembly will also get MLAs tested, speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit said: “We are informing all members about the places in the Vidhayak Nivas or a point close to them that will have facility for testing w.e.f. August 19. Testing facility will also be available in the Vidhan Bhawan complex.” Asked whether the test will be mandatory for members, Dikshit said: “We will arrange facility for Covid-19 tests for all members.”SENSE OF FEARMeanwhile, a sense of fear gripped a section of the assembly staff as testing began on the assembly secretariat premises on Monday. “We will come to know about our fate only after the test results. We are not afraid. But we are certainly anxious to know about the test results,” said a functionary. Although senior officers of the assembly secretariat refused to comment on the issue, a large number of positive cases has raised serious concerns about the health of those to be deployed for work during the brief monsoon session.On first day, the assembly will be adjourned after mourning the deaths of its sitting members -- cabinet ministers Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan -- who died after being admitted to hospitals for treatment of Covid-19.The state government proposes to carry out legislative business in the remaining two days, tabling ordinances that have been promulgated after the last session and the bills to replace them. The Uttar Pradesh assembly has a sanctioned strength of 403 members. As seven seats are vacant, the effective strength of state assembly has come down to 396 members. When constituted in 2017, the assembly had nearly half of its members in less than 50-year age group.Amid serious concerns in the corridors of power about the prevailing pandemic, a considerable chunk of members, including ministers, have tested positive in the past few weeks.Besides ministers and ruling party’s members, leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary and other Samajwadi Party members have also undergone treatment for Covid-19. Adding to these concerns are the deaths of Kamla Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan. PRECAUTIONS The assembly and council secretariats are taking all safety precautions. In both the houses the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ lobbies, along with viewers’ galleries, will be used to ensure a vacant seat between two members to follow social distancing during the session. The assembly has decided to have ultraviolet filters in the air-conditioning system. Automatic sanitiser dispensers have been installed at the entry gates. The security personnel have been given infrared thermometers to scan members who would be asked to mandatorily wear the ask in the house. A mask is likely to be gifted by the staff to members who reach the house without wearing a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shadow-over-monsoon-session-as-20up-assembly-staffers-test-covid-iv/story-P1L6V9qa5BWgYdXqW1kJjO.html
17-08-2020||City||IITs should focus on finding solution to problems of rural India: Naidu||New Delhi: Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu , during a virtual address at the diamond jubilee celebrations of Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi on Monday, said IITs should pay attention to the problems of rural India and start major research programmes to boost the rural economy. Naidu also said higher education institutions should focus on finding solutions to problems faced by mankind. “With more than 50% of our population still dependent on agriculture, it is important for IITs to start major research programmes to boost the rural economy through the development of sustainable technologies...Indian institutions will be counted among the world’s best only when they start impacting societies around them by developing optimal and sustainable solutions to the problems faced by the nation,” he said.Calling for greater investment in research and development projects that focus on finding solutions to societal problems, he urged the private sector to collaborate with academia in identifying such projects and fund them liberally. “Higher education institutions should not work in silos, and should form a symbiotic relationship with the industry to develop cutting-edge technology. The industry experts in various areas should act as mentors in guiding researchers. This type of collaboration will help in fast-tracking projects and produce quicker results,” he added. Union human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, who had also attended the online event, lauded IIT-D for its contribution in the nation’s fight against Covid-19. “From developing the world’s cheapest RT-PCR-based Covid-19 diagnostic kit to supplying over 40 lakh PPEs to India and the world, the institute’s researchers have done a remarkable job,” he said.Speaking on the occasion, IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao said the institute is now on its next phase of growth. “In the next phase, the target is to touch a billion lives through IIT-D technologies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iits-should-focus-on-finding-solution-to-problems-of-rural-india-naidu/story-7BITPynysWnRRguAgpsLoM.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||787 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi tally to over 1.53 lakh; death toll climbs to 4,214||Delhi recorded 787 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.53 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 4,214, authorities said.The number of tests conducted on Monday stood at 14,988, they said.Eighteen fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.On Sunday, the daily cases count was 652 and eight deaths were reported.The active case tally on Monday rose to 10,852 from 10,823 the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike till date of 3,947 cases.The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,196 on Sunday.Monday’s bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection had risen to 4,214 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,53,367. The positivity rate on Monday stood at 5.2 per cent while the recovery rate was over 90 per cent, as per the bulletin.According to the bulletin, out of the total number of beds in COVID hospitals, 10,551 are vacant.Also, 3,423 beds in COVID care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission flights and bubble flights, it said.According to the bulletin, 1,38,301 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.The number of people in home isolation stands at 5,552.The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Monday stood at 10,882 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 4,106, in all adding to 14,988, according to the bulletin.The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 13,17,108.The number of tests done per million, as on Monday was 69,321, it said.On Monday, the number of containment zones in the national capital stood at 557.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/787-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-to-over-1-53-lakh-death-toll-climbs-to-4-214/story-BsQCSVoifs5b1Q9FDUyT2J.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Concerns over Dalai Lama’s security after Chinese spy’s arrest in Delhi||The exiled Tibetan community residing here has expressed concern over the Dalai Lama’s security after a Chinese spy, who was allegedly snooping on the spiritual leader, was arrested in Delhi recently.Lau Sang or Charlie Peng, who is accused in a ₹1,000 crore hawala racket, allegedly bribed some Tibetan monks living in Majnu-Ka-Tila, a Tibetan settlement in Delhi, to gather information on the Dalai Lama and his close aides.Sang, who was holding a fake Indian passport, created a web of sham companies to launder hawala funds and paid ₹3 lakh each to some monks in Majnu-Ka-Tila to spy on the Dalai Lama.Deputy speaker of Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile Acharya Yeshi Phuntsok, on the sidelines of a press conference, said it was a concerning matter and the Government of India should stay alert.“Chinese come here for trade, but the real motive remains something else,” he said.Though he was caught, he must have sent some vital information not only about the Dalai Lama or the exiled government, but also about the Indian establishments to his handlers, added Phuntsok.He said it was not the first instance of China sending a spy to snoop on Dalai Lama.“Whenever we hold some programme in Delhi or other places, they come under the garb of media personnel. We can’t prevent their entry as they are given visa by the Indian government,” said Phuntsok.He said the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), its security department and state agencies looking after the Dalai Lama’s security details were fully alert.Reportedly, a man of Tibetan origin was arrested in Dharamshala in 2013 for spying for China. Later, it was revealed that he was working as a double agent and was on the rolls of Indian intelligence agencies.SHANTA BATS FOR RAMPING UP SECURITYMeanwhile, veteran BJP leader and former chief minister Shanta Kumar has expressed deep concern over the matter and demanded that the centre and state governments ramp up Dalai Lama’s security.“It is quite disturbing that a Chinese agent was residing in India for such a long time carrying out hawala transactions and snooping on the Tibetan spiritual leader,” Shanta said in a statement issued here. He suggested chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to meet officials in Delhi and seek a thorough probe into the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/concerns-over-dalai-lama-s-security-after-chinese-spy-s-arrest-in-delhi/story-fRTAdsyi0tLBZJbR1mVrNM.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||As monsoon intensifies, Delhi to see more rain||Several parts of the city recorded moderate rainfall (7.6mm to 35.5mm) on Monday afternoon.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Safdarjung recorded 23.2mm, Palam recorded 0.6mm, Lodhi Road recorded 24.3mm and Ridge recorded 6.4mm.The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi, has issued an orange category warning for Tuesday in Delhi. One or two spells of moderate rain and thunderstorms are likely between Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning which can cause minor traffic disruptions, according to RMC. An orange category warning implies that disaster management agencies should prepare to avert any rain or flooding-related disasters.IMD also issued a red category alert for Tuesday in Uttarakhand and east Rajasthan for Wednesday in east Rajasthan, as the monsoon is likely to intensify over northwest India.A red category warning implies that disaster management agencies should take action against rain or flooding-related disasters.Delhi had a 13% monsoon deficit as on Monday morning, considered to be normal by IMD. “We are also expecting some heavy spells of rain in certain parts of Delhi on Tuesday and Wednesday. Overall, the rain is likely to be in the moderate category. The monsoon trough is south of Delhi. For the next three or four days, it’s likely to oscillate near Delhi. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea are bringing in a lot of moisture. There is also a cyclonic circulation over northeast Madhya Pradesh. The combination of these factors will bring rain to the entire northwestern region till August 20,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.There is low pressure over northeast Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas of north Chhattisgarh and southeast Uttar Pradesh. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards and weaken during the next 24 hours. The monsoon trough is active and is south of its normal position (Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal). It is very likely to be active and near the normal /south of its normal position during the next four or five days.The convergence of strong moist southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea over the plains of northwest India is likely to further strengthen August 18 onwards. A fresh low-pressure area is very likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal around August 19. It is likely to become further marked during the subsequent 24 hours. Due to these favourable conditions, IMD is expecting enhanced rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy showers over northwest India, including the western Himalayan region till August 20, IMD said in its Monday bulletin.Extremely heavy rain is likely over east Rajasthan on August 18 and 19 and over Uttarakhand on August 18. Widespread and heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal during the four or five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-monsoon-intensifies-delhi-to-see-more-rain/story-JpCgF2tSO1CxiBY3tmI1NP.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||DRI busts racket, seizes drugs worth ₹47 crore||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai, officers have busted a multi-state drug cartel and seized total 250kg of mephedrone (MD), ketamine and ephedrine drugs worth ₹47 crore. The DRI has also seized foreign currencies worth ₹45 lakh. Three people have been arrested in the case.The racket was manufacturing drugs in Hyderabad and was sending it to Mumbai via a private bus. A laboratory set up in a residential unit in Mumbai and a chemical factory in Hyderabad were raided by DRI, leading to the huge recovery of drugs. DRI officers received specific information about the arrival of drugs on August 15 in Mumbai from another state. Following this, a consignment was intercepted as soon as it arrived in Mumbai from Hyderabad. The consignment, which contained mephedrone, was concealed in a private passenger bus and had no person accompanying it. DRI officers, however, succeeded in locating the recipients of the consignment in Mumbai and their premises were raided. The raids resulted in the seizure of mephedrone and ketamine.“We have also seized some samples of other psychotropic substances that indicate sophisticated distribution network both within the country and abroad,” a DRI officer said.In a three-day intensive operation, DRI officers raided multiple premises and in Mumbai and Hyderabad and seized a total of over 250 kg of different drugs (mephedrone – 210 kg, ketamine – 10kg and ephedrine – 31kg) worth nearly ₹47 crore in the grey market. Also, cash of ₹45 lakh in Indian rupees, US dollars and euros were seized.DRI investigations have revealed that a drug manufacturing laboratory in a residential premise in Mumbai and a factory in Hyderabad, were operational. From this lab and factory, a huge quantity of various chemical raw material was recovered. The chemicals were supposed to be used for further manufacturing of the drugs, DRI officers stated.“The mephedrone was manufactured in Hyderabad and sent via bus to Mumbai, while the ephedrine was intended for supply to another major city. The syndicate had a well-established chain of supply both within and outside the country. The payment for the raw material and finished products took place through hawala channels,” DRI officer said.Three people have been arrested. One of the accused has a criminal past and was arrested by DRI in 2017 in a drug trafficking case.Mephedrone is a synthetic stimulant drug popular among the urban college-going crowd. It is also known as MD or meow meow, etc. and is known for its effects similar to that of MDMA, amphetamines and cocaine.Ketamine, popularly used as a party and date rape drug. Also known as special K or kit-kat, Ketamine leaves the user with a sense of euphoria or a feeling of disconnect from the self. While Ephedrine is a highly sought-after chemical precursor in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dri-busts-racket-seizes-drugs-worth-47-crore/story-1FjRmWhnvJ3olBUa5rKfNO.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Degree admission third list: Cut-offs high; one more list on Aug 25||The University of Mumbai (MU) released its third merit list for admissions to degree courses on Monday evening, with only a handful of names in the lists of popular courses in coveted colleges and no seats in arts section in some colleges. Looking at a large number of seats that remain vacant after three merit lists in a majority of its affiliated colleges, MU has asked institutes to release a fourth merit list at 11am on August 25. The third merit list for the Bachelors in Arts (BA) course at Jai Hind College had names of 82 students, all who scored between 93.83% and 93%,. The second merit list for the same course had ended at 94%. “The difference in cut-offs between the second and the third merit list is very miniscule because we had only a handful of seats vacant in popular courses. We witnessed very few admission withdrawals,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of the institute. St Xavier’s College at Dhobi Talao had no third merit list for the BA course. “Withdrawal of admissions is otherwise a very common trend because students who have opted for numerous colleges end up finding a seat in a course and college of their choice with every consequent list, but this year, surprisingly, only a handful of students have opted out of courses,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College, Churchgate. Compared to the second merit list, the cut-offs at the sought-after colleges didn’t drop by more than a couple of percentage points. The only exception was BSc, which witnessed a steeper drop in cut-offs at most of the colleges. Most unaided courses, especially Bachelors in Mass Media (BMM) and Bachelors in Management Studies (BMS), Bachelors in Accounting & Finance (BAF), etc remained in demand and their cut-offs at most top colleges remained on the higher side. Wilson College in Worli was one of the colleges that witnessed a seven percentage point rise in their BA cut-off in the first merit list this year compared to last year, and their third merit list for BA and BMM still remained on the higher side. “I believe most withdrawal of admissions will take place in BSc course, once admissions to professional courses (medical and engineering) commence,” said a spokesperson for the college. Students whose names appeared on the third merit list have time till August 21 to finish the process of confirmation of admission. MU is also keeping the pre-admission registrations link open between August 18 and 21, for students who are yet to finish the process in order to be eligible for the fourth merit list. After August 28, the colleges will have to release a list of vacant seats across courses, if any, and students will then have the choice to opt for these seats by approaching each college individually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/degree-admission-third-list-cut-offs-high-one-more-list-on-aug-25/story-5Cr2aXQIn0eBtq6Ptum6AO.html
17-08-2020||City||Delhi exceeds target, plants 1,000,000 saplings so far this monsoon||New DelhiDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the Delhi government has planted 1,000,000 saplings so far this monsoon. Though the Central government gave Delhi a target of planting 1,500,000 saplings, the city government aims at 3,100,000 lakh saplings this financial year. The minister in a statement said he had participated in a digital meeting of all state environment ministers presided over by the union environment and forests minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday. “Delhi government will work together with the Central government on environment-related issues in the city. We have surpassed the plantation targets given by the Central government since 2018-19. To increase the city’s green cover, we have developed 12 city forests while work is underway to develop four more such forests,” Rai said. The city forests include Garhi Mandu Pocket - A2, near Shastri Park Metro Station, ITO (loop number 4), Hauz Rani, Butterfly Park, Tughlakabad and Aravali Aranya Centre among others. Under the Nagar Van Yojana, there are 20,000 parks and gardens spread across 8,000 hectares of land. Similarly, he said, under School Nursery Yojana, the government has created eco-clubs in 2000 schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-exceeds-target-plants-1-000-000-saplings-so-far-this-monsoon/story-75GwhMvjVPcA2GGqTINs0L.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Caught on cam: Kathua cops shower money on woman dancer at I-Day party||The video clips of cops showering currency notes on a woman dancer at a police station in Bani area of Kathua district on Independence Day has left the J&K police red-faced.A local said the police had organised a cultural programme at Bani police station on August 15 evening. “The SHO, a few other cops and invitees were seen dancing around the woman, while some among them showered money on her,” he added.The videos are being seen in bad taste by the civil society here.Admitting that a ‘Bada Khana’ function had been organised at the police station, Kathua SP Ramnish Gupta said the matter has been brought to his notice and it is being looked into.Deputy magistrate OP Bhagat said, “The videos are being checked for authenticity. We will see if there was any violation of service conduct rules.”Despite repeated attempts, Bani SHO Ghulam Kamal Hassan could not be reached for his take.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/caught-on-cam-kathua-cops-shower-money-on-woman-dancer-at-i-day-party/story-Hdrcgoeoh7ZOiEpEz1XxpM.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||NM, Mithibai release merit list for minority admissions||Two prominent colleges in Vile Parle - Narsee Monjee (NM) and Mithibai - released their first merit list for admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC), under the Gujarati minority quota on Monday. At NM College, the cut-off for the commerce stream under the first list rose from 89.8% in 2019 to 92% this year. Mithibai College closed its first minority list for commerce at 89.40% as opposed to 86% in 2019. The cut off for arts is 81.60%, while that for general science is 62.50% a jump from 2019 wherein it was 78% and 62% respectively. Other prominent minority colleges like Sophia, Jai Hind and KC colleges have allowed students to take walk-in admissions under the minority quota. These colleges have uploaded a detailed schedule of the admission timeline on their official websites. Colleges have to complete the admission process for various quotas like the minority, management and inhouse by August 22. From August 23, regular admission rounds would begin.“We are helping colleges finish their quota admissions easily by sharing student data. This helps both colleges and students especially in the current situation where admissions should be zero-contact,” said an official from the state education department. Until Monday evening, more than 1.76 lakh students had filled part-two of their admission forms which includes marking their college preferences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nm-mithibai-release-merit-list-for-minority-admissions/story-9ltroO8vgJxF7t1uDS67WI.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||2 held for sending abusive messages to minor||The crime branch on Sunday arrested two people for allegedly harassing a 17-year-old girl and sending abusive messages to her. The accused – Sandeep Nishad, 20, and Kush Yadav, 20 – reside in Powai and used to stalk the girl and tried to speak to her. However, she always avoided them, said a crime branch officer. The police said Nishad asked the girl’s friend for her mobile number and on July 27, she received a message from an unknown number. The girl did not reply, following which he sent her abusive messages. She then blocked Nishad’s mobile number, said the officer. He then started sending abusive and vulgar messages from Yadav’s number. The girl got scared and told her parents about the incident, following which a case was registered by the Powai police on August 9. Officers from crime branch unit 10 initiated a parallel inquiry and traced the accused through their mobile locations and brought them to the unit office, said deputy commissioner of the police Akbar Pathan. Their mobile phones were seized and handed over to the Powai police. The duo were arrested under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 354 (5) (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-held-for-sending-abusive-messages-to-minor/story-vsqMpBpWe3HtyeoFTpwV0N.html
17-08-2020||City||3 rescued by Arnala locals from drowning||The three persons aged between 20-25 years were rescued by the locals of Arnala beach from drowning, on Saturday. All three, in an inebriated state, dived in the sea for a swim. However, they were swept away by strong currents. The three locals rushed to help and rescued them safely. The Arnala Coastal police have booked Rahul Patil, Shubham Jha and Pradip Jha for violating lockdown rules and disobeying the district collector’s order. All three are residents of Dongarpada in Virar (West).Meanwhile, on Monday, the Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation officials issued an appreciation certificate to the locals who rescued the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-rescued-by-arnala-locals-from-drowning/story-nwyw2tkYfQiFh5QG3lctWM.html
17-08-2020||City||MNS workers’ assault MBMC Ward for ‘drinking’ in office||A group of MNS workers on Sunday attacked Prakash Kulkarni, a ward-6 official, at his office. They alleged that Kulkarni and other officers indulged in drinking at the workplace. The party workers then posted the video on social media. The Kashimira police are awaiting the medical report to ascertain, whether the officials were drinking alcohol. Kulkarni said, “We are having a meeting about the death of a youth who fell into a sewer in Sheetal Nagar, last week. We explained the same to the MNS workers, who had barged in. But they assaulted me.” “We did not consume alcohol and I am ready to undergo a medical test,” said Kulkarni in a video clip which was posted on social media. Senior inspector Sanjay Hazare of Kashimira police said, “We have sent the blood samples for testing at the Indira Gandhi Hospital to ascertain whether they had consumed alcohol. We did not find any liquor bottles and glasses from the spot. We will register a case only after the medical report is received and also after the MNS workers give us a written complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mns-workers-assault-mbmc-ward-for-drinking-in-office/story-lfcLTNGyURVEmZ8bwckuZI.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Forest department arrests 3 more in whale shark case||The state mangrove cell arrested three more persons, including the trader and boat operators, in the recent case where the carcass of a whale shark was found cut up into pieces at Sassoon Dock in south Mumbai last week, taking the tally of offenders to five. All five accused will be presented before a metropolitan magistrate at Mumbai’s Esplanade (killa) court on Tuesday. According to forest department, all persons involved in the case have been arrested including the trader - Krishna Vasant Buchade, 29 - who cut up the whale shark into pieces and boatmen Dilip Hari Sivakar, 40 and Gopinath Damodar Mhatre, 38 - who accidentally caught the marine animal in their net and left it at the fish landing centre at Sassoon Dock. While the boat operators belong to Kelvane village in Panvel, the trader is a resident of Machimar Nagar, Cuffe Parade.Last week two others were arrested that helped the department identify others involved. “With inputs from the fisheries department on details of the boat, its license and operations, information from the Mumbai Port Trust officers about the list of traders at Sassoon Dock, and details from the interrogation after the first two arrests, all helped us track persons involved,” said Suresh Warak, range forest officer (Mangrove Cell).Whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. All five were arrested for violating various sections of WPA.On August 12, the carcass of an approximately 20-foot-long dead female whale shark was caught by a fishing boat which was brought to Sassoon Dock. As authorities made their way to the spot, the shark was cut into pieces in an attempt to sell it to a distributor. At the time, the forest department had arrested - Jan Bahadur Yadav, 49 and Shamdhar Yadva, 31 - who had reached Sassoon dock to buy the remains of the whale shark and transport it using a tempo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/forest-department-arrests-3-more-in-whale-shark-case/story-7meb6PcUUkr3rHOFVjZlCL.html
17-08-2020||City||Nurse found dead in Amritsar; hospital manager among 4 booked||Amritsar A 20-year-old nurse, Jyoti, was found dead in mysterious circumstances at her paying guest (PG) accommodation at Green Field locality on the Majitha road on Monday. Jyoti, of Khemkaran village in Tarn Taran, had been worked at Florem hospital, Majitha Bypass Chowk, for the past few months, and was doing a course in nursing to improve her skills. Police have booked the hospital manager Sanjay Sharma, his wife Kirti Sharma, public relations officer Munish and Dr Gurpreet Singh under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at the Sadar police station.The victim’s father, Willium, said, “After getting a call from an unknown number, informing me about the death of my daughter, I reached the PG where she had been living at about 3.30am. I found that her body was lying on the bed and there were some marks of sharp-edged weapons on the body. It seemed she was murdered.”He said, “My daughter often complained to me about the misbehaviour of senior staff of the hospital, where she was employed. There is a conspiracy.”Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-north) Sarabjit Singh along Sadar SHO Parveen Kumar reached the spot. The SHO said based on complaints of family members, they have registered a case against the accused. “More sections, if needed, will be added once our probe is completed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurse-found-dead-in-amritsar-hospital-manager-among-4-booked/story-BvnUzs1vZ1LQFCT4w711rK.html
17-08-2020||City||Punjab minister assures action against culprits for manhandling health worker||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu, on Monday, enquired about the health of health worker, Mastan Singh who was attacked during his visit to a religious place in Khanpur village to persuade inmates for getting tested for coronavirus.Mastan Singh is undergoing treatment at Community Health Centre (CHC) in Dehlon. Interacting with Singh, Sidhu assured him that strict action would be taken against all culprits who manhandled him while he was on duty. Sidhu was accompanied by Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, civil surgeon, Dr. Rajesh Kumar Bagga, besides others.Condemning the incident, Sidhu said that the health workers of Punjab are working day and night to keep the people safe from this deadly disease. Any attack on a health worker will not be tolerated at all. He directed the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana to ensure the security of health workers as Ludhiana recorded the higher number of Covid-19 cases. He also directed the police to arrest the accused at the earliest and take strict action as per the law so that no such incident happens in the future. Sidhu also appealed to the general public that they should respect the efforts being made by the health department’s employees to tide over this crisis.Citing the delay by residents in disclosing the symptoms/disease as a major reason behind the rising number of positive cases and mortality, Sidhu said that a special campaign is being conducted to trace every suspected symptomatic patient. Posted at the Malaud CHC, Mastan Singh had visited Prabhu Ka Dera in Khanpur village for screening the residents. When he reached the dera to get the information about the suspected symptomatic patients, Singh was brutally manhandled by the sadhus and some of their associates, and a video of the entire incident was captured.A case under sections of the IPC and the Epidemic Act 1987 was registered at Dehlon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-minister-assures-action-against-culprits-for-manhandling-health-worker/story-BLXH0E9i3NiKMnKlasAtXL.html
17-08-2020||Ranchi||Woman, accused of practising witchcraft, beaten to death in Jharkhand’s Giridih||A woman was beaten to death for allegedly practising witchcraft in Jharkhand’s Giridih district on Monday, police said. An FIR has been filed in connection with the incident that happened in Khesnaro village under Gawan police station of the district.Police said the victim, identified as 30-year-old Geeta Devi, had arrived at her in-law’s house in the morning. As she reached there, her neighbour and relative Munshi Mahto, along with10-15 villagers, allegedly caught hold of her and started beating with lathi and rods. When her brother, daughter and mother in-law tried to save her, they, too, were thrashed by them. Geeta Devi was allegedly dragged on road and beaten till she died on the spot.By the time the police reached the village, Devi was already dead. Gawan police station officer in-charge Parmeswar Singh said Geeta Devi was lynched for allegedly practising black magic. “On the complaint of deceased’s mother in-law, an FIR has been lodged against Munshi Mahto and others in this connection. The body has been sent to Giridih sadar hospital for post-mortem”, he said.According to the villagers, Munshio Mahto’s family had accused Geeta of practising witchcraft and threatened to kill her after Mahto’s son died due to some illness about two weeks ago.Geeta went to her father’s house in Kankani village following the threat. But, upon her return on Monday, she was beaten to death by Mahto and some others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/woman-accused-of-practising-witchcraft-beaten-to-death-in-jharkhand-s-giridih/story-v9hxuh5DnfIlECa6icQcRI.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Moderate rain likely in Chandigarh till Thursday||After trace rainfall in some southern sectors and dry weather in remaining part of the city on Monday, India Meteorological Department has predicted chances of moderate showers up to 50mm in Chandigarh till Thursday.“Intensity of rain will be maximum on Tuesday and Wednesday, and will drop from Thursday onwards, though light showers up to 20mm will remain likely. Cloudy weather will keep the mercury from rising during this period,” said an IMD official.Maximum temperature dropped from 34°C on Sunday to 32.6°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went up from 26.4°C to 28°C. In the next three days, the mercury will hover between 26°C and 32°C, according to the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moderate-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-till-thursday/story-lhJH8IQkcBrZz6lnFLehcJ.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Rain hampers work at jumbo Covid-19 facility in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is likely to miss the August 19 deadline for setting up the jumbo Covid-19 facility at College of Engineering, Pune (COEP) grounds, due to incessant rains in the city.Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Due to rains, we will miss the August 19 deadline to complete the work of the 800-bed jumbo Covid-19 facility at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP), ground. However, we are trying to start the ICU section by that time. The oxygen bed facility will be ready in the next few days.”Rao said, “Though the work is getting delayed, currently the bed availability in Pune is at a comfortable level. There are no complaints from residents.”While work is in progress at two jumbo facilities - College of Engineering Pune and Annasaheb Magar ground, Pimpri - the setting up of facility at All India Shri Shivaji Memorial Society (AISSMS) ground is on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rain-hampers-work-at-jumbo-covid-19-facility-in-pune/story-JzHoFsjWKKVEIGlYFK8dDK.html
17-08-2020||City||Punjabi University syndicate presses for staff rationalisation||Patiala Punjabi University syndicate, its highest decision-making body that was meeting after a year, deferred discussion on key inquiry reports in its meeting on Monday. These reports pertained to allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds during 2007-2017.In the two-and-a-half hour digital meeting, syndicate members strongly pressed for restructuring and reassessing of workforce, to curtail expenditure in order to improve fiscal health. The syndicate also put on all agendas related to regularisation of teaching and non-teaching staff, extension cases of guest faculty teachers and other recruitment. “The syndicate has asked university authorities to focus on rationalisation of staff to contain increasing expenditure. It has also been decided that the syndicate meeting will be held in the second week of every month,” said Rahul Bhandari, secretary higher education.The university is going through an acute financial crisis and has failed to meet its committed expenditure. According to budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, with expenditure at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. The overdraft from the bank has touched ₹150 crore.A syndicate member said the university has also been asked to stop practice of taking decisions without taking its approval. “This is an illegal practice and prior syndicate approval is required for the university to take future decisions,” a member said.Meanwhile, the much-anticipated discussion on inquiry reports could not be taken up syndicate members wanted university authorities to first handover the sealed reports to them. “The university should have provided details of reports in advance to all syndicate members. It is not possible for us to first listen to these reports and then fix responsibility,” a member said. Later, in press release from the university vice-chancellor prof BS Ghuman said they had made all preparations for tabling these reports before the syndicate. “It has been unanimously decided to discuss these reports in the next meeting. Sealed copies of the reports will be sent to syndicate members,” Ghuman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-syndicate-presses-for-staff-rationalisation/story-pDZHqHsmOX7fZMNIvPK9NJ.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest outside pvt school in Ambala over levying of annual charges||Parents of students from St Joseph School, Ambala, protested against the school management on Monday for not allowing their wards to attend online classes due to non-payment of annual charges. “Earlier, we paid the tuition fees after they stopped sending link for online classes, and now, the school authorities are asking for annual charges. They should levy the charge only if they have a government order. When I asked for the copy of the order, they didn’t have it,” one of the parents said. The protesters were seen arguing with police personnel and members of the school management. Amita Sachdeva, principal of the school, could not be reached for comments despite several attempts. District education officer (deputy) Sudhir Kumar Kalra, said, “The education department has not received a written complaint against the school. I found out after the protests that the school is levying annual charges after a high court ruling, but private schools should first wait for a letter/order from the director of the education department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-outside-pvt-school-in-ambala-over-levying-of-annual-charges/story-LbBOHuSYl2N6ICRxEUawnL.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana custodial death: Family seeks murder case against cops, move application for CBI inquiry||Family members of Deepak Shukla, who had died in police custody six months ago, are seeking that a murder case be registered against police personnel including sub-inspector Richa Rani, former station house officer at division number 5 police station, ASI Charanjit Singh and ASI Jaskaran Singh. The family has filed an application in Punjab and Haryana High court seeking CBI inquiry. Next hearing of the case is on October 6.Meanwhile, after lodging an FIR against the police personnel under Sections 188 and 342 of Indian Penal Code and Section 12 of Contempt of Court Act at division number 5 police station, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has transferred sub-inspector Rani. Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, who was an additional SHO at Sarabha Nagar police station has been given the charge of the SHO.Deepak’s uncle, Rakesh Shukla, said they are running from pillar to post for justice. He added the police lodged the FIR only after intervention of the court.He said they are pursuing the registration of a murder case against the cops and have made an appeal before the court for transferring the case to CBI.He said Rani in her statement to the court said Deepak had died of natural causes, but the postmortem stated he had seven injury marks on his body.He alleged that the police kept Deepak in custody illegally, even after the court had ordered him to be sent to jail on judicial remand on February 24 after he was arrested on February 22.The police had subsequently informed the court that they were late in taking Deepak to jail due to delay in his medical examination, following which the jail staff refused to admit him.The court had asked the cops why they waited till 1pm on the next day to transfer him.Further, the jail record did not have any mention of Deepak being taken to jail on February 24. The record reflected that he was taken there at 5pm on February 25.There, Deepak had complained of severe pain in his legs and nausea and was taken to the civil hospital for treatment on February 26, where he died.Deepak Shukla, had been picked up by the police on February 22. He died on February 26 allegedly due to police torture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-custodial-death-family-seeks-murder-case-against-cops-move-application-for-cbi-inquiry/story-h2r7zFLg8AksnpOGKu6BXO.html
17-08-2020||City||230 test Covid-19 positive, 13 succumb to virus in Ludhiana||As many as 230 tested positive for coronavirus and 13 lost their lives on Monday. The Covid-19 death toll has mounted to 254 and the infection tally reached 6,823.Those tested positive include 18 health workers, two domestic/international travellers, four pregnant women and 18 undertrials among others. All the undertrials at Ludhiana central jail tested positive during random sampling. Fatalities include a 55-year-old woman from Mundiyan Kalan, a 76-year-old man from New Kidwai Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Kidwai Nagar, a 66-year-old woman from Basant Vihar, a 52-year-old man from Pratap chowk area, a 72-year-old man from Friends colony, a 55-year-old man from Hario Kalan in Khanna, a 41-year-old man from New Samrat colony, a 39-year-old woman from Bhagwanpura in Samrala, a 72-year-old man from Giaspura, a 50-year-old woman from Lakhowal Kalan in Samrala, a 45-year-old man from Chet Singh Nagar and a 32-year-old man from Mahaveer Jain Colony. Ludhiana civil surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “So far, 254 people succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana. The Covid-19 tally has reached 6,823, while 4,549 have been cured so far.”Two peons in MC chief’s office test positiveAfter municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal’s personal assistant, Deepak Goyal and his family members tested positive for the virus on August 10, two peons of the office have also tested positive. As many as 21 employees of MC chief’s office had undergone the Covid-19 test on Saturday. The remaining staff members have joined the duty on Monday. MLA placed under home quarantineShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA (Dakha constituency) Manpreet Singh Ayali who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 12 is under home isolation at his residence in Ayali Khurd.Earlier Congress MLA (Ludhiana East) Sanjay Talwar and his four family members had also tested positive on August 7.Ayali said that he might have got infected during public dealing as hundreds of residents used to meet him on a daily basis.Congress councillors Manpreet Grewal, Rakesh Prashar and Sukhdev Sheera, senior Congress leaders Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Ashok Prashar Pappi and the party’s former district president (R) Gurdev Lapran had tested positive for the virus in the past. Besides, senior BJP leader Gurdev Sharma Debi, Sunil Moudgill and former district president Ravinder Arora had also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/230-test-covid-19-positive-13-succumb-to-virus-in-ludhiana/story-33ol3ybfgYmU8f9oroVPuK.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railway engineers develop battery-operated rail engine||With the aim to reduce expenditure on fuel, engineers of Ludhiana railway station have developed a battery-operated rail engine. This will be used mainly during shunting to move the train rack from one place to another. The engine’s maximum speed is 15 km per hour, which is ideal for shunting. However, the engineers are working to increase speed and power. The engine can work on both tracks –overhead transmission and normal tracks. Mohan Swaroop, senior divisional electrical engineer, Electric Loco Shed, said the WM-4 engine, which has been developed into a battery-operated engine, was produced in 1974 and brought to Ludhiana in 2001. The engine was in use till 2009 and then sent to the electric shed. It was used till 2015 for shunting, but it was not used on track without overhead transmission and hasn’t been used for the last five years, Swaroop added.“We have fitted 48 bolts and 800 ampere battery sets and installed an in-built charger. When it will work on overhead transmission tracks, the batteries will get fully charged automatically in 40 minutes,” the senior divisional electrical engineer said.“It will minimise cost with almost no pollution. It will also helpful reduce response time and lower chances of mishaps,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-railway-engineers-develop-battery-operated-rail-engine/story-z77o59dEnQES2fdnIV0fzN.html
17-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Four held in snatching cases, 32 phones recovered||Basti Jodhewal police have arrested four persons in snatching cases registered against them and recovered 32 mobile phones and a scooter from their possession. The accused have been identified as Gaurav of Shimla Colony of Kailash Nagar, Nirmal Singh of Puneet Nagar, Kulbir Singh of New Kuldeep Nagar, and Narayan Pandey of Amrit Vihar.ASI Harmesh Lal said that on Sunday, the accused snatched a mobile phone from Sushil Kumar, 19, at Kailash Nagar road.In his complaint, Sushil said that he was crossing from Subhash Nagar when the accused brandished a sharp-edged weapon on his neck and snatched his mobile phone. He jotted down the registration number of the vehicle and informed the police.A case under sections 379B (snatching and use of force) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Basti Jodhewal police station. Later, the police arrested the accused and recovered 32 mobile phones from their possession.The ASI added that the accused confessed their involvement in several incidents of snatchings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-four-held-in-snatching-cases-32-phones-recovered/story-nviccYeq4fKWkV597uohtK.html
17-08-2020||City||Couple thrash pickup driver, rob him of vehicle in Ludhiana||A couple allegedly thrashed and robbed a pickup driver near Jandiali on Chandigarh road on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The couple had hired the pickup from Mohali to shift household items. In his complaint to the police, Dalbir Singh said that a couple had hired his pickup to move their household items from Mohali to Ludhiana. When they reached near Jandiali at around midnight, the couple asked the driver to stop. The couple then alighted from the auto and hit Dalbir with a wooden log and pushed him out of the pickup and fled the spot with his vehicle.Commuters noticed Dalbir lying unconscious on the roadside and informed the police. The police took him to a nearby hospital where his condition is said to be stable.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP, city 4) Kuldeep Sharma said that a police team has been sent to Mohali to investigate the matter. The police have been scanning CCTVs installed on Chandigarh Road to trace the accused.The ADCP added that a case has been registered against unidentified persons at Jamalpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-thrash-pickup-driver-rob-him-of-vehicle-in-ludhiana/story-rnpacQBq1Jj1qYFDL8Rh8O.html
17-08-2020||City||Barnala admn sets up martyrs’ gallery in DC office complex||Barnala In a mark of respect and tribute to martyrs of Barnala since 1947, the Barnala district administration has set up a Martyrs’ Gallery at the district administrative complex on Monday. Barnala deputy commissioner Tej Pratap Singh Phoolka said the gallery featured 65 martyrs. This included pictures and details of 1965 war heroes of China war, Pakistan war, Sri Lanka operation and those who laid down their lives for the motherland in combat operations. The gallery is at the main entrance hall.“The martyrs’ gallant bravery and indomitable spirit for the country is heartening. The idea is to let the young generation know their martyrs and pay a tribute to those who loved India more than their own lives,” said Phoolka, adding that it was an arduous task to collect record of every martyr from villages/cities and set up these photos in a gallery with their service records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/barnala-admn-sets-up-martyrs-gallery-in-dc-office-complex/story-3utMsNsMakMr6b6ApaEHYI.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||₹70,000, jewellery stolen from house in Ludhiana||Burglars stole Rs 70,000 and gold jewellery from a jeweler’s house in Upkar Nagar in the wee hours of Monday, police said. The complainant, Sanjiv Madaan, told police him, his wife and two sons were asleep when the incident took place. He said his wife woke up at 4am and found the cupboard of their room lying open and the cash and gold missing.Inspector Jarnail Singh, station house officer at division number 8 police station, said the image of one of the accused has been captured on a CCTV camera installed in the house. Police said the burglars came into the house through the grill installed near the main gate of the house at around 1.30am. The inspector added that it is suspected that the accused used something on the family members so they lost consciousness. The accused remained in the house for about 30 minutes.A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-000-jewellery-stolen-from-house-in-ludhiana/story-LZGHS4LJGqEkzUrROL0pbI.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||10-bed Covid care centre gets off the ground in Ludhiana’s Lifeline hospital||A 10-bed Covid-19 care centre has been started at Lifeline Hospital in New Kartar Nagar. So far, around 50 private hospitals have started providing Covid-19 treatment.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal visited the hospital on Monday and lauded the management for starting the services.DC Sharma assured residents that there is no shortage of beds for Covid treatment in Ludhiana district. He added that people should not panic and check the status of vacant beds through the mobile app, HBMS Punjab, or on the official websites, https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district/ or www.hbmspunjab.in He said that data of all private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment has been added on the mobile app as well as the web links.The police commissioner urged managements of other private hospitals to help the administration contain the spread of the virus by starting Covid treatment centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-bed-covid-care-centre-gets-off-the-ground-in-ludhiana-s-lifeline-hospital/story-Re3xJ3s0sDK67Qp8Mn6Z3H.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Achievement Survey: Mock tests in September for students of govt schools||The state education department will conduct the Punjab Achievement Survey for all students of government schools to prepare them for the National Achievement Survey which is expected to be held in November 2020. The mock tests will be conducted online in September for students of primary classes to Class 12.Currently, students are participating in online quizzes based on the parameters of National Achievement Survey. The learning outcome of students will be assessed on the basis of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) as per syllabus of selective subjects including English, science, mathematics and social studies. The aim of conducting this survey is to assess effectiveness of the government school system. The findings of the survey will also help improve teaching-learning methodologies.Teachers have also prepared question banks to develop comprehensibility of basic concepts of different subjects. The state education department is also organising training programmes for district and block mentors, Parho Punjab district coordinators (PPDCs), block master trainers (BMTs) and cluster master trainers (CMTs).Education secretary Krishan Kumar said, “The purpose of conducting the survey is to prepare students of all classes for the National Achievement Survey. It will also improve their reasoning ability. Mock tests will be conducted next month. This will help teachers understand areas where they can guide students to improve their learning levels.”District education officer (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said, “We have briefed school heads and block primary education officers regarding this survey and all of them are making their best efforts to ensure maximum students participation. The link is shared with students daily and the response has been good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-achievement-survey-mock-tests-in-september-for-students-of-govt-schools/story-z50pVeRq0nUhiKlco2C5CK.html
17-08-2020||City||Infant locusts damage crops in 2 Dadri villages||There seems to be no end to the plight of farmers in Charkhi Dadri’s Kalali and Adampur villages as locusts have once again damaged their crops. This is the third locust invasion this year. Earlier, swarms of locusts had entered the district twice from Rajasthan via Pakistan’s Sindh province. This time, the infestation is by locusts that emerged from breeding during the previous invasions. Raj Karan, a farmer from Kalali village, said he has lost cotton crop on seven acres this time. “We had suffered losses earlier as well. But this time, the attack is by locally bred locusts. Agricultural officials had failed to kill the entire swarm last time, which is why the new ones have emerged,” he added. Karan further said that the infant locusts have more capacity to cause damage. Rishal Singh, another farmer from Adampur village, said, “The government and the district administration had claimed to have tackled the situation. But if that was true, then where have the new insects come from. We have lost our bajra, cotton and guar crops. Over 70 acres have been damaged in our village. The government should initiate a special girdawari and compensate the farmers whose crops have been damaged,” he added. The farmer further said the government was relying on old techniques such as beating of drums and vessels to scare away the locusts. They should have provided choppers and drones for spraying pesticides and chemicals at affected areas, he said. Dadri deputy director (agriculture) Zile Singh Yadav said, “We have started an operation to kill the locusts with the help of farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-locusts-damage-crops-in-2-dadri-villages/story-XrcQOZVAjqLQz6jK5W6LgP.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Daily Covid count goes past 100 for first time in Chandigarh||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh crossed the 1,000 mark, as it witnessed record 114 cases on Monday. The death of an 82-year-old man from Burail was also reported, taking the Union Territory’s toll to 30.Earlier, it was on Sunday that the UT recorded its steepest single-day spike with 93 cases.The number of infections has reached 2,216, of which 1,183 patients have been cured. On Monday alone, 46 patients were discharged.The elderly man who died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, had “suffered respiratory failure because of complex lung injury due to COVID-19 infection”, according to the health department bulletin.Meanwhile, Punjab Engineering College has restricted entry to its administration block after a faculty member tested positive for Covid-19. The new cases are spread across the urban and rural pockets of the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/daily-covid-count-goes-past-100-for-first-time-in-chandigarh/story-Dmichpijqx3rXuVTMDhWbI.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra crosses 6 lakh mark; 228 die, 11,391 recover||Maharashtra on Monday crossed the six lakh mark with the addition of 8,493 new cases of Covid- 19, while 228 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official.The state’s coronavirus count rose to 6,04,358 after 8,493 fresh cases were reported, while 228 new deaths took the fatality tally to 20,265, he said.Also, 11,391 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recovered cases to 4,28,514. There are 1,55,268 active cases in the state, the official added.Mumbai reported 753 new cases and 40 deaths, taking its tally to 1,29,479 and the toll to 7,173, he said.The number of active cases in Mumbai stood at 17,704, he added.Pune city reported 919 new cases along with 26 deaths, pushing up its Covid-19 tally to 80,407 and the toll to 2,077, the official said.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 6,04,358, new cases 8,493, deaths 20,265, discharged 4,28,514, active cases 1,55,268, people tested so far 32,06,248.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-crosses-6-lakh-mark-228-die-11-391-recover/story-JvnhVIyoVVHrnphUWzJwHP.html
17-08-2020||City||4 people succumb to Covid in Panchkula, toll doubles to 8||In the biggest spike yet, four deaths related to Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula district on Monday, doubling the toll to eight. Meanwhile, with 14 people testing positive, the total climbed to 1,224. Among those dead, there are two men who were suffering from diabetes: a 61-year-old man from Sector 21 and a 59-year-old man from Sector 9. A 57-year-old woman from Kona village, who also had kidney injury with pneumonitis, and a 62-year-old woman from Barelli village also succumbed to the disease. Among the fresh cases, four surfaced in Sector 10 and two in Sector 9. The remaining too are mostly from Panchkula city. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said reports of 84 people are awaited. Currently, there are 335 active cases in the district and 861 patients have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-people-succumb-to-covid-in-panchkula-toll-doubles-to-8/story-hdGUBh5kqMl8Zl2CCA56QN.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patient dies after jumping off second floor of hospital in Amritsar||A 46-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection at a hospital here ended his life by allegedly jumping off the second floor of the building, police said.Swaran Singh, a resident of village Sandhpur of Tarn Taran district, was admitted to the Government Medical College’s Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on August 15, they said.He broke the window of the washroom to enter the balcony before jumping off the second floor of the hospital.Singh was immediately shifted to the ICU where he succumbed to the multiple head injuries, they said Police said it is yet not known why he took the extreme step. According to doctors, he was also given psychiatric treatment on Sunday. The patient was suffering from breathlessness and stomach ache, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-patient-dies-after-jumping-off-second-floor-of-hospital-in-amritsar/story-dvYwbwDguddnZTadLSxBbI.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid patient jumps to death from Amritsar hospital’s second floor, DC marks probe||A day after he tested positive for Covid-19, a 46-year-old man from Tarn Taran district committed suicide by jumping from a window on the second floor of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar on Monday morning. The patient was admitted to the hospital on August 15 after he reported symptoms of coronavirus infection. On admission, his swab samples were collected and sent for testing. His reports came out to be positive on Sunday, officials said. “A team of counsellors met Covid-19 patients on Sunday evening and noted down their details. They assured the patients of their recovery. At 7.45am on Monday morning, the patient asked police personnel and Class 4 hospital staff on duty to let him go to the washroom,” additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal said. “The officials allowed him to go but he jumped out of the washroom window. He suffered head injuries and was rushed to the emergency ward. He was given treatment for 15 minutes but could not be saved,” he said.“Previous health records of the patient reveal that he was addicted to alcohol and opium. So far, reason behind his taking the extreme step is not clear. We will talk to his family members to know if he was upset after testing positive or if there was any other reason. The patient’s body was taken for post-mortem and his last rites will be performed by his family in the presence of district administration officials,” Aggarwal added. Soon after the incident, Amritsar deputy commissioner (DC) Gurpreet Singh Khaira marked an inquiry into the matter and asked ADC Aggarwal and GMCH principal Dr Rajiv Devgan to ascertain the reason for the suicide and find lapses on part of the hospital.The investigation officers will start the probe from Tuesday and will submit a report. Some hospital staff claimed that the patient might have jumped off the window with a motive to escape from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-testing-positive-covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-from-amritsar-hospital-s-second-floor/story-tYLCqDos8mvO4ARbOC0VHP.html
17-08-2020||City||Daily Covid count goes past 100 for first time in Mohali||The daily Covid count crossed the 100 mark for the first time in the tricity area, as Mohali district registered its steepest single-day spike of 102 cases on Monday.Regional transport authority (RTA) Sukhwinder Kumar along with four employees of his office and one field employee of the tehbazari wing of the Mohali municipal corporation are among those who tested positive, taking the total number of infections in the district past 1,900.The RTA office, located in the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76, has been sealed for three days and is being sanitised thoroughly. Even earlier, on July 24, an RTA employee had tested positive, which had led to a three-day closure. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said the RTA and other infected government employees have been home quarantined as they are asymptomatic. “We will be taking samples of their family members,” he said.Among the fresh cases, 43 are from Mohali subdivision, 30 from Kharar and 29 from Dera Bassi. The total number of infections has reached 1,911, of which 989 remain active. As many as 977 people have recovered so far, of whom 28 were discharged on Monday. The district has recorded 36 deaths related to Covid-19 so far. Dr Singh said most of those tested positive are either contacts of already diagnosed patients or have travel history. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, who reviewed the status of pandemic spread with health officials on Monday, said: “We expected the cases to surge at any given point of time. So, we prepared our Covid spike management plan well in time and have now put it into action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-covid-count-goes-past-100-for-first-time-in-mohali/story-V1LXBH7H62VKneyHIqk95I.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP govt did not defend jobs of 1,983 PTIs, says Deepinder||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government of not defending the jobs of 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs) in Haryana due to political reasons. Addressing a press conference, the MP said the jobs of PTIs could have been saved had the government put forward the facts of the case. “The PTIs’ selections were set aside merely on technical grounds. The apex court never put any question mark on the merit or qualification of the 1,983 PTIs,” said Deepender.The selections were made by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) in 2010 during the Congress rule. A single bench of the high court had on September 11, 2012 set aside the selections on account of the changes made in the selection process. The decision was upheld by a HC division bench and later by the Supreme Court on April 8, 2020.An apex court bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice Navin Sinha had said that HSSCs decision of June 30, 2008, to cancel the written examination, the July 11, 2008 decision to call eight times more candidates than the number of vacancies for interviews and the decision of July 31, 2008 to call all the eligible candidates for interviews were arbitrary. The decisions were taken without any reason to change the selection criterion published in 2006 which have the effect of downgrading the merit in the selection, the court said.Deepender’s father and former chief minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda had last week said that the Congress legislature party will bring a private member’s bill during the upcoming assembly session to facilitate the reinstatement of the 1,983 PTIs.Deepinder said the BJP-JJP government is also in the process of removing 1, 518 employees appointed to Group D posts from sports quota.“This government is doing layoffs for Ayush doctors, tourism corporation employees, assistant professors, temporary sanitation workers and computer operators from universities and colleges,” he alleged. He said the BJP government has consistently taken decisions that have harmed the farmers. “Three new ordinances introduced by the central government is an indicative of this mindset. Such serious policy decisions have been taken without the consent of the Parliament. The government wants to promote capitalists by demolishing the government buying mechanism which had been set up to protect the interests of the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-govt-did-not-defend-jobs-of-1-983-ptis-deepinder/story-pazoLOqGBzblix0MjxijmI.html
17-08-2020||City||Khattar faces flak for shifting martyr Dhingra’s statue in Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar came under fire on Monday for shifting the statute of martyr Madan Lal Dhingra from a park in the city to the new bus stand.Khattar, who had come to unveil the statute at the bus stand, faced the wrath of protesters, who felt that the government had insulted the freedom fighter on his martyrdom day by uprooting the statue from one spot and installing it at another location.“The chief minister and his government could have arranged a new statue instead of shifting the one that was installed about 12 years ago,” said Kulwant Singh, a protester. “If they could spend Rs 32 crore on the construction of a bus stand, they could have spent a little more on a new statue,” he added.The CM tried to pacify the protestors but to no avail. Later, Khattar remarked that people should refrain from using the name of martyrs for furthering their own political interests.On the decision to shift the statue, the CM said, “Earlier the statue was installed at a small place and not many noticed it. But now, the statue has been installed at a place where thousands of people come everyday and gain inspiration by seeing the statute.”He also said that a martyr’s memorial will be built at the Madan Lal Dhingra Park.Plasma bank inauguratedThe CM also inaugurated a plasma bank at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal, and urged Covid-19 survivors to come forward and donate plasma. He further said that Haryana was doing well in the fight against Covid-19 and the recovery rate has improved.Says Haryana ready for joint meeting on SYL issueReplying a question about Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat convening a joint meeting of the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab on August 18 to discuss the SYL issue, Khattar said, “Haryana’s stand is clear. The state will get its due share of water as per the Supreme Court’s orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khattar-faces-flak-for-shifting-martyr-dhingra-s-statue-in-karnal/story-pORsqbBJSlbU4E13MwpcqJ.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Post of PSPCL director generation lying vacant since May||The post of director (generation) in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been vacant since May 8 when previous incumbent SK Puri retired. In the absence of a regular appointee, the charge is held by director (finance) Jatinder Goyal. In June, the recruitment for the post was stalled despite the fact that 23 engineers and power sector experts applied for it. The Punjab government then had rejected the entire panel, saying none was found eligible and the process will be initiated afresh soon. “It has been two months when the panel was rejected, but nothing has moved forward,” said a senior engineer in the power corporation. On June 13, the state government appointed Gopal Sharma as director (commercial) and DIS Grewal as director (distribution). Sharma was shortlisted for both the posts. The two posts were filled but the post of director (generation) was kept in abeyance despite the fact that there were many eligible contenders for it as none found favour with the selection panel. The hiring is likely to take place in November as the government want to adjust a serving engineer. “The generation is a full-fledged wing of the corporation. There are issues related to the PSPCL-owned coal mines in Pachhwara, Jharkhand besides day-to-day matters of the three privately owned thermal plants in Punjab. Moreover, we are in the middle of the paddy season which needs proper power management,” said an official. The incumbent is appointed for a term of two years which is extendable up to the age of 65. As per the rules, anyone who has worked in the power sector for 25 years and has attained level of a chief engineer in the generation wing for one year besides having worked as superintendent engineer for three years can become director (generation). PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A. Venu Prasad said the process for recruitment will begin soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-of-pspcl-director-generation-lying-vacant-since-may/story-a6UWWee8C5uh9ZdCAAyUCI.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s Covid-19 case tally rises by four to 2,672: BMC||Dharavi slum sprawl in Mumbai on Monday added just four new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 2,672, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said.Of the 2,672 cases, 2,333 patients have already recovered and discharged from hospitals, he said, adding that the slum colony now has only 80 active cases.According to the BMC, the G-north ward that houses Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim areas has a total of 6,921 Covid-19 cases.Of these cases, Dharavi’s share is 2,672, followed by Dadar (2,237 cases) and Mahim (2,012 cases).Meanwhile, with addition of 19 cases in the day, Mahim’s tally has also crossed the 2,000-mark.Interestingly, compared with Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim have more number of active cases at 465 and 256, respectively, the BMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-s-covid-19-case-tally-rises-by-four-to-2-672-bmc/story-FdnLMMPBNBkHGXpXsnMZPJ.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||612 lawbreakers arrested in a fortnight in Haryana||Haryana police arrested 612 offenders, including most-wanted criminals and proclaimed offenders, in a fortnight long operation, beginning July 16. Additional director general of police (ADGP, law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said that of those arrested, 11 were most-wanted criminals, 297 were arrested for holding illicit arms and 304 were arrested on charges of smuggling and possession of drugs.Virk further said that as many as 408 persons caught during the operations were proclaimed offenders while 275 were bail and parole jumpers suspected to be involved in heinous crimes like robbery, dacoity and theft among others. He said the operations led to the seizure of 229 illegal pistols, 19 revolvers, 53 desi kattas, 10 magazines and 438 cartridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/612-lawbreakers-arrested-in-a-fortnight-in-haryana/story-fPqlp9RsjIKNFwAkdWq1IO.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s tourism industry wants Covid curbs eased to revive economy||It’s been over a month since the Himachal Pradesh government opened its doors to tourists amid the Covid-19 pandemic but the stringent restrictions to enter the state have kept visitors at bay. Tourism industry stakeholders now want the government to relax the rules to give a fillip to the hospitality sector that is struggling for survival. In a letter to state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Tourism Sector Stakeholders’ Association president MK Seth said, “Most hotels in Himachal Pradesh remain closed and the ones that are open are seeing poor occupancy. Other tourist states such as Rajasthan, Kerala and Goa don’t have such strict restrictions and that’s helping tourism pick up pace there.” He said that tourists with valid documents are being turned back from Shoghi at the Shimla district border even after being allowed entry into the state from the Parwanoo barrier. “It is unfair that after hours of journey, tourists are kept waiting at district borders for re-checking. In several cases, they are even sent back,” he said. Tourists with Covid-negative reports, who apply for e-registration, have not got approval within 72 hours, he said, adding visitors are hesitant to visit Himachal Pradesh because of the mandatory Covid-negative report for the entire family. He said that restrictions in Himachal are the most stringent in the country and this was not only causing revenue loss to the government but also resulting in job losses and near collapse of the hospitality industry. ‘SIMPLIFY ENTRY RULES’ The association suggested that checking of tourists’ documents should be done at inter-state barriers only and those coming to the state for less than 72 hours should be exempted from the Covid-negative report requirement. The e-registration system should be simplified and approval from the district magistrate should be done away with, it said. The tourists should be asked to fill the information needed online and the booking of hotel units should also be done virtually. The rider of minimum five-day stay should be removed and the Covid-negative certificate requirement should be only for those who intend to visit Himachal Pradesh for more than 72 hours. The validity of the Covid-negative test should be extended to 96 hours and the report should not be mandatory for children below 12 years, Seth said. The association also wants food outlets, bars, and restaurants to be allowed to remain open after 8pm as night curfew has been lifted. Hoteliers want clarity in the standard operating procedure (SOP) if a guest tests positive. Association secretary Divij Sood said that the government must clarify if the entire unit or floor or only the room where the patient stays will be sealed and for what duration. “It is not practical to seal the entire unit as the hotel may be fully occupied and vacating the premises may cause harassment to guests. Instead, only the particular room should be sealed for 48 hours and sanitised,” Sood said. WHAT TOURISM INDUSTRY WANTS Checking be done at state border only Tourists coming to the state for less than 72 hours and children be exempted from Covid-19 negative report; validity of the report be extended to 96 hours Simplification of the e-registration system; approval of DM must be done away with In case of a Covid positive case in a hotel, only the particular room be sealed  Interest subvention and financing schemes be implemented through state-owned banks EASE INTEREST SUBVENTION SCHEME The association said that the interest subvention scheme launched by the state government was welcome but it had failed to provide relief to hoteliers as banks were not entertaining their proposals. Sood said that if hoteliers approach cooperative banks to avail benefit of the scheme, they are told to get an no-objection certificate (NOC) from banks from where the unit is financed. “The financing bank refuses to issue the NOC, saying there’s no provision to create a second charge on a property,” he said. Sood said that the association suggests implementing the scheme through state-owned banks and the condition of NOC be removed. “The working capital loans up to Rs 15 lakh should be given collateral free on the basis of an affidavit submitted by the borrower to repay the loan in time. Small registered tourism units should be given loan without the requirement of details of GST deposited. Loan to small units should only be provided on the basis of the number of rooms registered with the tourism department,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-tourism-industry-wants-covid-curbs-eased-to-revive-economy/story-5AaaGA5cUQs3qzsrCqMh7L.html
17-08-2020||Ranchi||17 prisoners in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad Divisional Jail test positive for Covid-19||As many as 17 inmates of Dhanbad Divisional Jail in Jharkhand have tested positive for novel coronavirus, an official said.Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Dhanbad Raj Maheswaram said, rapid antigen tests were conducted on 76 prisoners on Sunday and 17 results came out positive.“The infected inmates have been isolated. Doctors are monitoring their condition,” Maheswaram said.There are total 935 prisoners in the jail as on date.Earlier, many inmates in Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, Godda District Jail and Dumka Central Jail in the state had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/17-prisoners-in-jharkhand-s-dhanbad-divisional-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Bk0dxS0ANtV0G9wHMY3TQP.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Almatti dam discharge to 2 lakh cuses||Heavy rainfall in western Maharashtra for four consecutive days have forced authorities to release water from various dams in the region including Koyana, which has led to increase in water level of Krishna river, resulting into large inflow for Almatti dam. Due to heavy rainfall in Satara district, Koyna dam’s water discharge was increased upto 52,146 cusecs by 5 pm on Sunday in the downstream Koyna river, a district official said on Sunday. According to officials, to prevent flooding at backwaters in border areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka, water discharge Almatti from the Almatti dam in north Karnataka has been increased by 20,000 cusecs to 2 lakh cusecs by 6 pm on Sunday. The discharge was increased upto 2 lakh after Maharashtra minister Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar spoke with Karnataka’s water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi Last year, backwater of the Almatti dam caused flooding in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, causing large scale damage with 60 persons losing their lives. By evening Koyna dam was filled to 86 per cent of its total capacity of 105 TMC while ater is also beingreleasedat the rate of 14,486 cusecs from the Chandoli dam on the Warna river, which separates Sangli and Kolhapur districts. In Kolhapur district, the catchment area of the Radhanagari dam has been receiving intermitten tshowers. “Four gates of the Radhanagari dam are opened andwater is being currently discharged at the rate of 7,112 cusecs,” a Kolhapur district official said. Catchment areas of four Dams that supply water to Pune also continued to receive good rains on Sunday as Temghar and Warasgaon received 102mm rain while Panshet and Khadakswala received 106mm and 44mm respectively. The water level storage at all four dams stands at 81.7%. Meanwhile, an “orange alert” has been issued by the Met department for ghat areas in Pune district for Monday. “Isolated heavy rainfall to very heavy rainfall in ghat areas of Pune district is likely to occur for all four days from August 17 onwards,” the IMD said. An orange alert has been given in the flat areas of Pune district as there are chances of low visibility, slippery road and chances of landslide adjacent to the hilly region, a Met department official said. On Sunday till 5: 30 pm, Shivaji Nagar received 9mm while Lohegaon and Pashan received 6mm and 18.4 mm rain respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/almatti-dam-discharge-to-2-lakh-cuses/story-aUjcmDnrVHKgCKQYimUXII.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||One-day Punjab Vidhan Sabha session on August 28 to meet constitutional requirement||Chandigarh: The Punjab Vidhan Sabha will meet on August 28 for a one-day constitutionally mandated session, for the first time since the Covid pandemic broke out. The go-ahead for the session came on Monday during a video conference (VC) meeting of the state cabinet, chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The cabinet noted the constitutional requirement to hold a session within six months of the previous session and decided on a day-long session within two sittings on August 28, to be followed by a regular session later, when the Covid situation improves. With the cabinet decision, the Punjab governor has been authorised to convene the 12th session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha, as per clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution. The session has been scheduled to open with obituary references, after which it will adjourn for a while and reconvene for the next sitting, during which legislative business will be conducted. The 11th session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha concluded on March 4, 2020. As per clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution, the governor is authorised to summon the state legislature to meet at such time and place, as he thinks fit. Six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session. Therefore, the 12th session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha is to be summoned before September 4, 2020. According to the rules of business of the Punjab Government, the approval of the council of ministers is necessary for summoning the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-day-punjab-vidhan-sabha-session-on-august-28-to-meet-constitutional-requirement/story-pmVL2Rjw86xhGxq19CJkLL.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Unable to build retaining wall, PMC issues notice to Gururaj society members to vacate flats||At least 500 residents of the Gururaj co-operative housing society in Dhankawadi are facing an eviction from their homes after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s building permission department issued a notice to the society warning them about the threat of impending floods.According to PMC, the possible flooding might endanger the lives of the residents since the retaining wall of the society was washed away during last year’s flash floods. The notice was served and signed by deputy engineer of building permission department (Zone 5) which clearly asked them to vacate the premises within 24 hours. The notice also states that the society building has become old and it was dangerous for the residents to stay there during the monsoon season. “The compound wall was not constructed by the society and so, we issued them a notice. It was a private compound wall which was washed away in the floods and it is the society’s responsibility to construct it in the larger interest of citizens’ safety. Tomorrow, if any mishap takes place, then the society is responsible for it and we have given the evacuation notice for the same,” said Harshada Shinde, executive engineer (Zone 5) of PMC. Gururaj society management committee member Devika Thorat said, “The PMC has waived off its responsibility of constructing the retaining wall for the society. The society’s fencing wall fell down because of the riverbed encroachment. The water entered our society last year and we sustained huge losses. We did a structural audit and none of the buildings are a threat. This notice has been issued only to put the blame on the society. The notice says that our building has become old without any PMC official visiting our building. How has the PMC decided that our building is old and is a threat to the lives of residents.” Dipak Ghadge, a resident of the society, said, “The notice has been issued to the society management asking vacation of the premises within 24 hours. Where are we going to go during the Covid-19 crisis period where even relatives will not be inclined to accept us? It is the time to remain quarantined where we are and not move to some other place. The PMC building permission department was supposed to construct the fencing wall which it has not done since the last one year. Now, it is a very convenient method to issue notice and wash their hands off the responsibility. Tomorrow in case the area is flooded, then the PMC will show the notice and say that we had warned the citizens in advance,” he said. Ashwini Kadam, a local corporator, said, “The PMC did not construct the fencing wall and it’s estimated cost is over Rs 1.5 crore. It is an old society and people belong to the middle class segment of the society. The threat to the society is more from PMC because of its inaction in protecting the lives of the citizens. The PMC must immediately withdraw the illegal notice issued to the society which has been solely done to put the onus on the society when the PMC itself is responsible for the delayed construction of the fencing wall,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unable-to-build-retaining-wall-pmc-issues-notice-to-gururaj-society-members-to-vacate-flats/story-e8cLWKGD1z57ojsp2axjQM.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Virus after-effects: Sporadic cases of lungs fibrosis reported among patients in Pune||As the number of Covid-19 positive cases surge in the city- sporadic cases of lung fibrosis among those who have recovered from the infection, are now being reported. Such cases were reported earlier in Mumbai’s KEM when 22 such patients had complained about breathlessness and fatigue. City hospitals are now preparing their staff and informing them about such possible instances when a recovered person might land up at the hospital complaining about similar symptoms.As of Sunday of the 1,30,606 progressive positive cases, 86,393 have recovered in Pune district, according to the state health department.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri hospital, said, “We have had two instances where a Covid-19 patient who recovered from the virus complained of fatigue and breathlessness on exertion and upon further examination, we diagnosed fibrosis of the lung and reduced lung functions through CT and pulmonary functions.”“We have not received any more cases after that, but we are expecting that more such cases might come up with time,” he said.Dr Satyajit S Gill, medical director, Jehangir Hospital, said, “We have had a couple of patients who complained of difficulty in breathing and they had recovered from Covid-19. I cannot cite an exact number for now, but we have had such cases coming up.”“Usually when we get X-rays, it shows some lung changes, normally the lungs look dark because it has air, but in case of these patients, it looks white because it has some changes in the lung tissue. Since they have recently recovered they are likely to have the antibodies and their swab is negative and they have no fever or any symptoms except breathlessness. So even though they are cured of the virus, the impact continues to stay evidently,” he said. Dr Sanjay Gaikwad, pulmonologist, Sassoon General Hospital, said, “We have had a few patients who need oxygen even at the time of discharge because of lung fibrosis. There is a need for prolongation of oxygen supplementation even after the patient is cured of the virus.”“Till now we have not had any such cases, but it has been predicted now that few of them may come back and so we have arrangements in place to attend to such cases in the future,” he said.Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital, said, “We have not had any such case as of now, but we are aware that such a case can be reported. In case of other lung infections, we know the sequence, but since this is a new virus, there is a lot we do not know yet.” What is lung fibrosis?Lung fibrosis or pulmonary fibrosis is a lung disease when the tissues of the lungs are damaged and scarred. This thickened stiff tissue makes it difficult for the lungs to function properly and for the person to breathe leading to fatigue and difficulty in breathing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virus-after-effects-sporadic-cases-of-lungs-fibrosis-reported-among-patients-in-pune/story-EJrZ6xCXLozrl3iG4OHlEN.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Rajesh Deshmukh is appointed as Pune district collector||The state government on Monday appointed Dr Rajesh Deshmukh as the new district collector of Pune, according to an order issued by Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary. Deshmukh, a 2008 batch Indian Administrative officer, comes as Pune district collector from Haffkine institute in Mumbai where he is currently managing director. In his order, Kunte asked Deshmukh to take charge as Pune district collector on immediate basis. Kunal Khmenar, another IAS officer, will replace Deshmukh at Haffkine. The new district collector is likely to take charge by Tuesday in Pune, which is one of the worst affected district due to Covid pandemic. On Sunday, Pune crossed Mumbai to become the district with highest number of total Covid positive cases in the state. Pune’s tally as on Sunday was 130606 while Mumbai reported total 128726 cases. “Currently I have two responsibilities here including Haffkine institute and Haffkine bio pharmaceutical. I am hoping to join as collector by Tuesday once I handover these responsibilities,” said Deshmukh over phone from Mumbai. On the Covid front in Pune, Deshmukh isn’t oblivious to the situation. “I have been monitoring the situation in Pune since the beginning. As Managing Director at Haffkine, I am involved in so many Covid related activities including setting up testing centres.” Deshmukh was instrumental in setting up two labs in March when state government together had only six laboratories across Maharashtra. He was also associated with procurement and assembling of equipments for various medical colleges. On controlling Pune’s covid spread, Deshmukh said, “The golden rule to control this pandemic is trace, track and test,” indicating that the administration has to trace more contacts, track them and finally carry out their tests. “Early intervention is the best strategy to tackle this crisis,’ he said. Deshmukh was previously the district collector at Yavatmal where he was credited with reducing the number of farmers suicide. He was also chief executive officer at Satara Zilla Parishad. Deshmukh’s order came two weeks after Naval Kishore Ram was transferred in Prime Minister’s Office as deputy secretary. Following Ram’s transfer, Pune Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer Ayush Prasad was given additional charge as collector. The main reason for delay in appointment of new collector, according sources, was because names considered by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar were not approved by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. However the appointment of Deshmukh indicates that Pawar finally convinced chief minister of his choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajesh-deshmukh-is-appointed-as-pune-district-collector/story-XgieCQDltVKAwHMSQYvYhI.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda SSP tests positive for Covid-19, finance minister Manpreet Badal in quarantine after attending I-Day function||Bathinda: Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhupinder Jit Singh Virk and district Congress leader Khushbaz Singh Jattana tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Both of them were present at the district-level Independence Day function, where state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal was the chief guest on Saturday.The finance minister has announced that he will be in home quarantine as a precautionary measure after the SSP tested positive. In an official statement issued on Monday afternoon, deputy commissioner B Srinivasan also said that he is following the quarantine protocol and isolating himself as he was sitting near the SSP during the Independence Day function. The deputy commissioner has appealed to all those who met the SSP in the past few days to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Jattana chaired a function at Talwani Sabo on Sunday where a youngster was felicitated for ranking in the first 200 in the Union Public Service Commission’s civil service entrance exam, the result for which was declared recently. Bathinda range inspector general Jaskaran Singh, improvement trust chairperson KK Aggarwal, district market committee chairperson Mohan Lal Jhumba, and several local Congress leaders were present at the Independence Day function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-ssp-tests-positive-for-covid-19-dc-in-quarantine-after-attending-i-day-function-together/story-h04CxABdXMkZIIfX7XUGzI.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: There’s no freedom from coronavirus... or humidity||It was a trifle disconcerting to see social distancing rules go for a toss during Independence Day celebrations at the Parade Ground in Panchkula’s Sector 6, where a small crowd was in attendance for the low key affair. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, too, quite forgot about covering his face and took off his mask briefly while speaking to mediapersons as he left the venue. Worse, even though the home affairs ministry guidelines had barred children from joining celebrations, school students were present, singing the National Anthem and playing the band. Though Independence Day is about India’s freedom from the British Raj, many people are starting to forget that we are not free from grasp the deadly coronavirus – as yet.Too warm for comfortThe heat and the humidity at Panchkula’s Parade Ground got a bit too much for some police personnel during Independence day celebrations – some of them were seen being taken off the ground on stretchers after they fainted. “They are standing here since 6 am. The temperature and humidity levels are very high. And to add to this, they have been wearing masks, so it just got a bit too much. They are also human,” said a senior police office on duty at the ground. We understand and hope our vardi wallahs are well now and back in action.Touch and goThe entire UT secretariat is in a tizzy after staff of the UT adviser’s office tested positive. “Important files of the departments go through the hands of the UT adviser’s staff. Even though two of them had taken leave after they complained of sore throat and fever late this week, but, earlier many office documents passed through their hands before being circulated in different departments. Now, more departments need to get their personnel tested,” said a UT employee requesting anonymity. Someone should have thought about sanitising all the documents and files first, what say?Update the Mohali MC website pleaseEven though it’s been four months now since the five-year term of the municipal councillors ended, the Mohali municipal corporation’s website, www.mc mohali.punjab.gov.in, is still displaying a message by former mayor Kulwant Singh, which reads: In pursuance of the policies, I will strive to work hard to provide you transparency in functioning of the Municipal Corporation and improve the civic amenities of the city. While all the former councillors are gearing up for new MC elections scheduled for October this year, someone had better update the website before the new lot comes in and everyone else has a tough time guessing who the new mayor is and who is not. First start, then stopThere was much confusion in Panjab University (PU) on August 3 when online classes for UG batches were started as, on the same day, the varsity’s registrar issued an order stating that classes would remain suspended till August 31 in the University and its affiliated colleges. While many wondered aloud how PU could start classes and suspend it on the same day. Things were cleared soon enough, however, because the DUI quickly issued a notice withdrawing the registrar’s order, saying teaching would continue as scheduled, much to the relief of students eager to complete their studies. Policing the cows in PanchkulaLife’s tough for traffic police in Panchkula, with the poor men managing not just traffic, but also stray cattle ambling into areas under their jurisdiction. Those driving towards Nada Sahib often see a police Gypsy parked on the highway with some men in khaki trying desperately to chase away the cows – some even sitting right in the middle of the busy road (the cows, that is!). “There’s a chance of accidents, so it has become a routine affair to chase away the animals,” a policeman explained. Nope, some creatures are not afraid of the vardi!Entry fees? What entry fees?The Chandigarh municipal corporation’s recent proposal to charge an entrance fees for parks has roused the citizens’ ire. They feel they are being robbed of their rights to enjoy some green and open spaces. “When Corbusier designed the lake and the parks of the city did he want to charge people for entry? What will they do next? Charge us for breathing the city’s air?” asked an incensed FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu. In these pandemic times, everything comes at a premium, doesn’t it?Be polite: PGI director’s appeal to staffIt’s not easy being Covid Warriors, facing the threat of infections while going about treating patients, but even then, the staff of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research are always expected to be on their best behaviour. So, during Independence Day celebrations at the institute, director Prof Jagat Ram, in his speech, requested all the employees to be disciplined. “Be empathetic and polite with the patients and work wholeheartedly for the Institute,” he was heard saying. Given how wonderfully PGIMER staff have been handling the Covid situation, that should be a cakewalk, reallyBy Munieshwer Sagar, Hillary Victor, Dar Ovais, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-buzz-there-s-no-freedom-from-coronavirus-or-humidity/story-cRl0F7HkK56O3zv1675YiM.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases doubled faster in last week: BMC||The coronavirus cases doubled at a faster rate in Mumbai last week as compared to the previous week and the average growth rate of the viral infection also went up, according to the city civic body.On August 8, the country’s financial capital recorded the slowest doubling rate of 89 days and the lowest growth rate of 0.79 per cent.On Saturday, the rate of doubling became faster at 83 days and the average growth rate of Covid-19 cases rose to 0.84 per cent.The average doubling rate in the city again slowed a bit on Sunday to 85 days and the growth rate decreased to 0.82 per cent, as per figures of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The city’s D-ward, which includes areas like Peddar Road and Malabar Hill, had the fastest doubling rate of 50 days on Sunday, while the M-East ward, that includes Chembur (East) area, had the slowest doubling rate of 119 days.The D-ward also had the highest growth rate of 1.40 per cent, while the M-East ward had the lowest growth rate of 0.58 per cent as on Sunday.The average doubling and growth rates are calculated taking Covid-19 cases of past seven days into consideration.Till Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,28,726 Covid-19 cases and 7,133 deaths due to the disease.On June 15, the city had an average doubling rate of 28 days and the average growth rate of 2.49 per cent. On July 31, the doubling rate improved to 77 days and growth rate to 0.9 per cent, according to BMC data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-doubled-faster-in-last-week-bmc/story-HhLw2FaPTEV8IOZSENKUUJ.html
17-08-2020||Noida||Unidentified body found in Greater Noida canal||An unidentified body of a man was found along a canal in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida on Monday morning, police said.The body was spotted near Kot Nahar in Dadri area by locals who alerted the police, officials said, adding the deceased appears to be around 30 years of age.“Efforts are underway to ascertain the identity of the dead man and the cause behind the incident. The local police have contacted nearby villages for any relevant lead in the case and we will soon come out with details,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Vishal Pandey said.The deceased, around 5 ft 10 inches tall and wearing a black shirt paired with blue denim jeans, had a rubber band with “Mahakaal” inscribed on it on his right hand, the officials said.The body has been sent for postmortem and further proceedings were underway, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/unidentified-body-found-in-greater-noida-canal/story-lWUbIapIve0ogJl8RfOJqN.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Landslide blocks Shimla-Mataur highway; traffic restored on Gaggal-Dharamshala road after rain||Dharamshala: Heavy rain since Sunday night has caused landslides in Kangra district, disrupting traffic on highways and rural roads. The Shimla-Mataur national highway (NH-88) was blocked for traffic since Monday morning due to a landslide near Smaila tunnel. A flashflood in the nearby nullah brought debris and muck on to the highway. Kangra tehsildar Vijay Sanga said that the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has pressed men and machinery into service to clear the road. Sanga said that the Kangra-Samirpur, Old Kangra link road and Rajal-Nandrul roads are also blocked for traffic. The public works department has swung into action to clear these roads. A kutcha house collapsed in the Samirpur Khas panchayat of Kangra sub-division, rendering three families homeless. People living in the house have been shifted to safer place, Sanga said. Meanwhile, a landslide occurred on the Gaggal-Dharamshala highway near Chetru village. Traffic on the route was restored later in the day. Dharamshala town received 80mm of rainfall followed by Palampur (28.4 mm), Dehra (23mm), Baijnath (15mm) and Kangra (13.6 mm). The state meteorological department has forecast heavy rains in the region on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landslide-blocks-shimla-mataur-highway-traffic-restored-on-gaggal-dharamshala-road-after-rain/story-BQaGGHhhIoiGL5iVrMVFbP.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana turns Punjab’s Covid capital as cases, deaths explode||The coronavirus cases and the deaths attributed to the disease have exploded in Punjab’s industrial and financial hub of Ludhiana to the extent that it has virtually turned into the state’s Covid-19 capital. Such is the situation that the district tops the state’s tally of case count at 6,500 as well that of fatalities at 226 till Saturday. What makes the situation even more alarming is that fact that Ludhiana also has the highest number of active cases (2,028). A look at the figures reveals that the neighbouring district of Jalandhar ranks a distant second with 3,773 confirmed cases, including 1,270 active cases and 96 deaths, followed by Patiala (3,577 cases), Mohali (1,732 cases) and Sangrur (1,490 cases). Ludhiana accounts for 22% of all cases and 29.4% of deaths reported in Punjab due to the coronavirus. Moreover, given that it is Punjab’s most populated (35 lakh) city and witnesses a massive interstate movement of people due to bustling commercial activities, Ludhiana continues to remain more vulnerable to the spread of virus more than any other urban pocket. It is hardly surprising that the city alone has 19 micro-containment zones. The overall scenario appears to be bleak at the best. Consider this: The district’s case count per 1 lakh population is 258.5, far higher than the state’s figure of 104.5. Of the 6,438 cases reported till August 13, as many as 1,718 were reported in the preceding seven days alone, pointing towards a steep rise. In contrast, Patiala and Jalandhar reported 994 and 820 cases in seven days from August 7 to 13. Cases in Ludhiana have nearly doubled from 3,439 in July-end to 6,560 till August 15. Of a total of 793 coronavirus patients admitted to Ludhiana hospitals, 143 are at level stage III (critical care), also the highest for any district in the state. The one reassuring aspect is that the district has conducted the maximum number of coronavirus tests in the state with the number of collected samples exceeding 90,000. Equally reassuring is the fact that it also so far has the highest number of recoveries at 4,304. DEATHS DOUBLE FROM JULY-END TO AUG 15 Figures also reveal that 95% of the 226 deaths in Ludhiana were reported the lockdown was relaxed in early June when businesses started reopening and people began venturing out of their homes. This was besides the return of a section of migrant workers to the district. The deaths rose twofold from 88 in July-end to 226 on August 15. Till the lockdown was lifted on June 8, the district had recorded only 11 deaths. The district’s testing number (90,966) is ahead of Amritsar (62, 410), Jalandhar (58,285), Patiala (54,503) and Gurdaspur (48,464). It has tested 1.5 times more than Jalandhar which has the second highest number of cases. Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, who was Ludhiana deputy commissioner till mid-June, said, “Unlike Jalandhar and Amritsar where people are cautious of visiting the civil hospital to get their test done, more people volunteered to be tested in Ludhiana even if they exhibited mild symptoms. More testing facilities in Ludhiana is another reason for a large number of samples being tested.” HOME TO MAJOR CHUNK OF INTERSTATE TRAVELLERS Of the 2,456 travellers having tested positive for the disease in Punjab, a major chunk is from Ludhiana, a hub of cycle, cycle parts, hosiery and sewing machine industry. A large number of people from the district travel to other states for business deals on a regular basis. As per official figures, 3.47 lakh people entered the state ever since the curfew was relaxed in Punjab. Of these, samples of 1. 51 lakh (43%) were collected. Rahul Ahuja, chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), says labourers in a large number have started returning to Ludhiana to resume work. “It is but natural for the city with the largest population to have the highest number of cases in the state,” he said. COPS, MC OFFICIALS WORST-AFFECTED As many as 260 police personnel and 20 civic body employees have tested positive for the disease. At least 160 cops are still getting treatment. Besides the death of an additional commissioner of police (ACP) due to the cononavirus in April, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) also succumbed to the infection last week. The infected civic body employees also included the personal assistant of the MC commissioner. INADEQUATE HEATH INFRASTRUCTURE Government hospitals in Punjab’s most populated city have no ventilators or intensive care units (ICUs) as they are completely dependent on private facilities for treatment of patients with severe symptoms. There are just 43 ventilators in private hospitals in Ludhiana. At least 17 patients are currently on ventilator support. While the cases are rising in the district, the health infrastructure has proved to far from adequate. Compared to 450 isolation wards in government hospitals in the district, the private hospitals have 787 such facilities of which 628 (80%) are occupied. Interestingly, only 159 of a total of 450 beds in government hospitals for Covid patients in Ludhiana are occupied. This is because nearly 1,000 of those having tested positive are being treated at home. Maheshinder Singh Grewal, a senior Akali Dal leader from Ludhiana, said, “The same level of rigour (for those found infected) cannot be observed at home. The government doesn’t have enough beds and they are left with no other option but to send a majority of positive patients home. This further increases the risk of spreading the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-turns-punjab-s-covid-capital-as-cases-deaths-explode/story-OSZA1o9zTspK4b5ZTinRtJ.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali tests positive in Punjab’s Covid capital of Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana district, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislator from Dakha constituency, Manpreet Singh Ayali, has tested positive for coronavirus. He is in home quarantine at his native place, Ayali Khurd, since he tested positive on August 12. Ayali said that he may have caught the infection during public dealing as residents would meet him daily. “I was having cough and fever on August 11, so I isolated myself and stopped public dealing. I got myself tested and the report came out positive on August 12. I had fever for the first two days, but am fine now. My family members, including my son who returned from Canada recently, have tested negative,” he said. Doctors have advised him to remain in home isolation till August 25. On August 7, the Congress MLA from Ludhiana East, Sanjay Talwar, and his four family members tested positive. Local Congress councillors Manpreet Grewal, Rakesh Prashar and Sukhdev Sheera, senior Congress leaders Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Ashok Prashar Pappi and the party’s former district president (rural) Gurdev Lapran have tested positive for the virus in the past. Besides, senior BJP leader Gurdev Sharma Debi, Sunil Moudgill and former district president Ravinder Arora have also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akali-dal-mla-manpreet-singh-ayali-tests-positive-in-punjab-s-covid-capital-of-ludhiana/story-Hj2o2VQfggJPkRlzDOLYNI.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at Mumbai’s Crawford Market, 8 fire tenders at spot||A fire broke out at Mumbai’s iconic Crawford Market on Monday. As many as eight fire tenders have been rushed to the spot to douse the fire, news agency ANI reported. Fire-fighting operations are underway at present. More details on the accident and the cause of the fire are awaited. Mumbai: Fire breaks out at Crawford Market. 8 fire tenders present at the spot. Fire-fighting operation underway. More details awaitedThis comes months after a level two fire broke out at Mumbai’s British-era market in June. The market is among the city’s busiest spots and houses several shops. The iconic market is at a walking distance from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-mumbai-s-crawford-market-8-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-reports-ani/story-jj100dCV8EZiBLv5N3DL4O.html
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkapura violence case: SIT declares Sikh preachers innocent||The special investigation team (SIT) headed by inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh has declared Sikh preachers Bhai Panthpreet Singh, Bhai Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, Amrik Singh Ajnala, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, Giani Kewal Singh and 18 others as ‘innocent’ in the Kotkapura violence case registered in 2015.The SIT has removed their names as accused from the case.The development came with the SIT’s move of filing a chargesheet against then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh Sidhu and SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher on Friday.As per the case, the Sikh preachers — Bhai Panthpreet Singh, Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, Amrik Singh Ajnala, Harjinder Singh Manji and others — were leading the protest against the then Shiromani Akali Dal government over the Bargari sacrilege incident, demanding the arrest of the accused.The police on October 14, 2015 registered an FIR against 15 Sikh preachers and unknown persons at Kotkapura city police station for allegedly instigating the protesters to attack the police with sharp edge weapons and opening fire on cops.The case was registered under sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections of the IPC, Arms Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, on the complaint of then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh.Following the incident, Bhai Panthpreet Singh, Mander Singh, Rachhpal Singh, Balpreeet Singh and five others were arrested by the police in the case.The Faridkot court released the Sikh preachers on October 16, 2015. The SIT also recorded their statements in the case. The probe found that the preachers and others were protesting peacefully over the sacrilege incident.The SIT claimed that then DSP Baljeet Singh Sidhu and SHO Gurdeep have framed many innocent persons in the violence case. It said Pandher and Sidhu made an attempt to destroy 11 pieces of evidence, manipulated and fabricated crucial facts of the case. The SIT claimed that they were part of a conspiracy to create a self-defence theory to justify the police stand that protestors had attacked the police in Kotkapura.Pandher, who is presently under judicial custody, was arrested by the SIT on June 25. Later Sidhu was also named an accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkapura-violence-case-sit-declares-sikh-preachers-innocent/story-JUaJheU6WJGjgT1OeI8UdO.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Rocky, the police dog that solved 365 police cases, dies||Rocky, the trustee canine colleague who helped the Beed Police solve 365 cases breathed his last on Sunday and received a farewell from his fellow police personnel. “At 4 pm today, Rocky, our canine companion and colleague passed away due to a long illness. He had helped in the solving of 365 cases. The Beed Police family is deeply pained by his demise. A tribute was paid to the brave dog,” Beed Police tweeted along with pictures of Rocky. Some dogs are specially trained to assist police and other law-enforcement personnel for various services like searching drugs and explosives, finding evidence, and locating people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rocky-the-police-dog-that-solved-365-police-cases-dies/story-tbKENAfPLxXOlO4c0JgtYJ.html
17-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 1,317 new coronavirus cases, 14 deaths||Rajasthan reported 1,317 new coronavirus cases and 14 deaths till 8.30 pm on Sunday, according to the state health department.The total number of cases now stands at 61,296 including 13,816 active cases, 46,604 recoveries and 876 deaths.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia registered 63,489 new coronavirus cases and 944 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, while the cumulative death toll in the country is nearing 50,000-mark.The country’s coronavirus count touched 25,89,682 including 6,77,444 active cases, 18,62,258 discharged patients and 49,980 deaths.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 7,46,608 samples were tested on August 15 and nearly three crore samples have been tested so far. As many as 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15.Taking to Twitter on Sunday, the Union Health Ministry informed that India has one of the lowest Covid-19 mortality globally as the case fatality rate (CFR) in the country is below 2 per cent.The Ministry said aggressive testing and early detection coupled with quick isolation and effective treatment protocol are the reasons behind low mortality rates are low in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-1-317-new-coronavirus-cases-14-deaths/story-BVCsflJXjPd3SFm4GipoXI.html
17-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 546 new Covid-19 cases||With 546 new Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Sunday, the total number of coronavirus cases reached 23,224, the State Health Department said.In a Covid-19 bulletin, the state government informed that 14 persons succumbed to the virus on Sunday.The total count of coronavirus cases includes 8,233 active cases, 14,747 recovered/discharged and 244 deaths, the department added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia registered 63,489 new coronavirus cases and 944 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, while the cumulative death toll in the country is nearing 50,000-mark.The country’s coronavirus count touched 25,89,682 including 6,77,444 active cases, 18,62,258 discharged patients and 49,980 deaths.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 7,46,608 samples were tested on August 15 and nearly three crore samples have been tested so far. As many as 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15.Taking to Twitter on Sunday, the Union Health Ministry informed that India has one of the lowest Covid-19 mortality globally as the case fatality rate (CFR) in the country is below 2 per cent.The Ministry said aggressive testing and early detection coupled with quick isolation and effective treatment protocol are the reasons behind low mortality rates are low in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-546-new-covid-19-cases/story-p6rjJuxDiE5EILhz1eiaRM.html
17-08-2020||Jaipur||Gehlot welcomes Maken’s appointment as Congress’ Rajasthan in-charge||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday welcomed Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s decision to appoint senior party leader Ajay Maken as the new general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan.Gandhi has also set up a three-member committee to resolve the issues raised by party rebels in the state.Senior party leader Ahmed Patel, general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken and general secretary organisation KC Venugopal have been made members of the panel.“I welcome the decision of Sonia Gandhi ji to appoint Ajay Maken as AICC General Secretary in-charge of Rajasthan,” Gehlot said in a tweet. I welcome the decision of CP Smt. Sonia Gandhi ji to appoint Shri @ajaymaken as AICC General Secretary in-charge of #Rajasthan.In another tweet, he said, “I congratulate Maken and hope that his vast organisational experience will help strengthen the party and energise party workers in the state. Eagerly looking forward to working with him.” Gehlot also thanked the outgoing national general secretary and state in-charge Avinash Pande for his support. I congratulate Shri Maken and hope that his vast organisational experience will help strengthen the party and energise the party workers in the state. Eagerly looking forward to working with him.“My heartiest thanks to Avinash Pandey ji for his valuable support and guidance as the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan. His efforts to establish coordination between the party organisation and the govt have been highly commendable. I wish him all the best,” he said.The appointments come close on the heels of the Congress government in Rajasthan winning a crucial trust vote with the backing of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and and his loyalist MLAs, who had revolted against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot but later called a truce with the party after assurance by top party leadership.An important part of the reconciliation plan was the Congress’ announcement that a high-powered three-member committee would be formed to duly address the grievances of dissidents in a time-bound manner.The Pilot camp has been seeking active participation in governance and flagging concerns over the “manner of functioning” of CM Gehlot. Pilot and other rebels welcomed the move and expressed hope that all their issues would be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gehlot-welcomes-maken-s-appointment-as-congress-rajasthan-in-charge/story-DZ4Vx6HNrOzIpPvbFC6vgK.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 652 fresh Covid-19 cases||The Capital added 652 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the fewest fresh infections in the city since July 27, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. While the drop in daily cases on Sunday is partly attributable to the drop in testing on account of Independence Day — 10,709 tests, compared to 18,271 the previous day, Delhi also recorded the joint lowest Covid-19 deaths since May 19 – eight. Further, active cases dropped in the Capital for the first time since August 10. In fact, since dropping below 10,000 on August 4 for a day, active cases in the city rose for 10 of the 11 days after that. There were 11,489 patients still recovering from the disease as of Saturday evening. But with 1,022 recoveries recorded in the 24 hours pertaining to Sunday’s bulletin, the active case-count dropped to 10,823.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The Capital has seemingly turned a corner in its fight against the disease, and has recorded an average of 1022 new cases a day over the past seven days, a significant drop from a month ago. On July 16, Delhi had a weekly new case average of 1,656. At its peak in end-July, the capital was adding an average of above 3,000 cases a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-652-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-MBfHRAjjQ0Y7zR4WUYWYiP.html
17-08-2020||City||31-year-old held for lover’s murder near Mumbai||A 31-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly killing his girlfriend, 24, on August 9 and hanging her body on a tree along the Mumbai-Nashik Highway to pass off the crime as suicide. According to the police, the accused committed the crime because the woman refused to marry him.On August 12, Kongaon police received a call from some pipeline workers in the area, who discovered the body of the woman hanging on a tree with a dupatta near Tata Amantra society. “We registered a case of accidental death first and started investigating the matter. The body was sent to Sir JJ Hospital for further investigation,” a police officer said. Meanwhile, the police began the process to establish the identity of the victim. The discovered that on August 10, a missing complaint was filed by a woman at Bazarpeth police station in Kalyan. The police called the woman and learnt that the complaint was filed by the victim’s sister. On August 13, the woman’s sister identified her body. “The victim is a divorcee and lived with her sister and mother in Kalyan. She worked as a domestic help in some societies. On August 9, when she didn’t return home from work, her sister approached the police to file a missing complaint,” the officer added. Senior inspector Sanju John from Kalyan crime branch said, “During the investigation, we discovered that the accused and the woman were having an affair. The accused, who worked as an ambulance driver, resided near the victim’s home. He is also divorced. We discovered that he was absconding since four days. We began our search for him and found him on Saturday from Dombivli station. After interrogating him, he confessed to the crime.” The accused wanted to marry her, but she refused, leading to a fight between the two. “On August 9, the accused got drunk and asked the woman’s mother where she was. Later, he went to the society where the victim worked and forced her to get into a rickshaw. He took her inside the bushes near Tata Amantra on the pretext of resolving the fight. But when she again refused to marry him, the accused strangled her with her dupatta and hanged her on a nearby tree and fled,” added John. Kongaon police have registered a murder case against the accused and have taken his custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-year-old-held-for-lover-s-murder-near-mumbai/story-KwnnPjhCSu6PRDBCo8KX5J.html
17-08-2020||City||Army man assaulted by 9 in Navi Mumbai||An autorickshaw driver and eight others allegedly assaulted a 38-year-old army personnel in Taloja after he and his wife asked the driver not to litter the road. The personnel, who is in the city for his leave, has sustained minor injuries. All the nine accused are booked for assault, rioting and criminal intimidation. The complainant, Pratap More, and his wife Rutuja, 32, stepped out to purchase vegetables on Saturday around 7pm in Rohinjan area. An autorickshaw driver, later identified as Mithun Ulwekar, 31, flung two empty plastic bottles on the road. Rutuja asked him to pick up the bottles but the driver started to hurl abuses at her, said the police. The rickshaw driver argued with Rutuja and told her that it is the government’s duty to clear the litter and refused to pick up the bottles. “More intervened and told the driver not to misbehave with his wife, but the accused assaulted him. There was a scuffle between the complainant and the driver and at least eight more people joined Ulwekar and assaulted More,” said Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector, Taloja police station. More suffered injuries on his hand and near his eye. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-man-assaulted-by-9-in-navi-mumbai/story-Y75TNjnEqLRtAkb7nZ8iaL.html
17-08-2020||City||Valuables worth Rs12 lakh stolen from jewellery shop at Navi Mumbai||Nerul police filed a case against unidentified people for allegedly stealing gold valuables worth Rs12 lakh from a jewellery shop early on Saturday. The incident came to light after the owner of the shop, located at Sector 8 near Manak Hospital, opened the shop in the morning. “Some unidentified accused broke the shutter of the jewellery shop and stole gold ornaments and valuables worth Rs12 lakh. We are still probing the case to establish how many people were involved in the crime. We are checking the CCTV footage of the nearby area for more leads,” said an officer from Nerul police station. The police said that the shop had been closed during the lockdown and the owner had only opened it back a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/valuables-worth-rs12-lakh-stolen-from-jewellery-shop-at-navi-mumbai/story-kbqn0WX5KVzlcEZQQOK4wN.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Fraudster tricks man to share nude clip, blackmails him for money||A 21-year-old man, who is the son of a popular TV show writer, allegedly lost Rs20,000 after he was tricked into sharing his nude clip during a video call with a girl he came across on social media. The girl later blackmailed him for money by using the clip. The complainant is a graphic designer from Goregaon (East). According to the police, on May 30, he received a message from a girl, who identified herself as Pragya on a social media site. She asked the complainant if he would like to speak to her over a video call. After he agreed, he received the call from the girl. The girl was allegedly nude in the three-second video call. Later, she began chatting with him and asked him to go nude over the video call. After he agreed to do so, the girl allegedly recorded his video. The complainant then received a message from her in which she threatened to share the clip with his friends and relatives on his contact list if he did not pay her Rs20,000, the man’s police complaint stated. The complainant got worried and transferred Rs2,000 first, following which the fraudster sent his clip to his female friend. The complainant then transferred the remaining amount too, following which he stopped getting calls and messages from the fraudster, said a police officer. On July 12, he again received a message from the fraudster, demanding for more money. The accused also sent him abusive messages. The complainant then blocked her and approached Dindoshi police, where a first information report (FIR) was lodged. In his statement to the police, the complainant stated that while using the money transfer platforms, the accused used the name Lalu Prasad Pragya Jain. The police have registered a case under sections 384 (extortion) 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) and 67A (publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. The police have initiated the process of seeking details from the service provider and also obtaining the call details of the phone number used by the accused, said an officer from Dindoshi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fraudster-tricks-man-to-share-nude-clip-blackmails-him-for-money/story-2k06pF8WHkh6YSsFnsFvAL.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway undertakes construction work on Belapur-Uran corridor||Taking advantage of the restrictions on movement during the lockdown, the CR has undertaken construction work for the new suburban railway corridor between Belapur and Uran railway stations.The estimated cost of the Belapur- Uran railway project is ₹1,782 crore and the project is being undertaken on a cost-sharing basis, of which 66% is borne by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) and 33% by CR.The construction activities were undertaken between Kharkopar and Uran railway stations. The work includes upgrading the platforms at the new Rajanpada railway station, along with foundation and sub-structure work of Nhava-Sheva, Dronagiri and Uran stations.The construction work of a subway at Uran and the foundation work of two bridges were also undertaken during the lockdown.“Amid the lockdown and unlock period, CR has completed several infrastructure projects, including the work for speeding up the construction of the remaining 14.60km Kharkopar and Uran railway lines of the 27 km Belapur -Seawoods and Uran project. The completion of the project will cut the distance between Mumbai and Uran by almost 50%,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.The construction for the Mumbai’s fourth suburban railway corridor between Belapur and Uran railway stations received the nod in 1967. The first phase of the corridor opened between Belapur and Kharkopar (12.5km) station in November 2018. Currently, 40 local trains operate on the Belapur-Kharkopar railway route every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-undertakes-construction-work-on-belapur-uran-corridor/story-GyteN50elhAnkHpqNPOtJN.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Chandrapur human-tiger conflict: Trained Karnataka elephants to join Maharashtra tiger trail in 3 months||Come November, Maharashtra will have a unit of six elephants to tackle the human-tiger conflict at Chandrapur. Three trained elephants from Karnataka will be brought to Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer area. These elephants will join the three other elephants at the reserve area to curb conflicts across wildlife habitats interspersed with villages. The decision was presented before the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) during its August 7 meeting. Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said, “All formalities to bring the three tuskers from Mathidogu and Dubare elephant camps in Karnataka have been completed. The three elephants already at the TATR buffer help in patrolling and are being trained for tracking tiger movement.” Forest officials said Bhim, one of the three trained elephants from Karnataka to make their way to Maharashtra to tackle conflict, was originally from Sindhudurg district. “The elephant, along with a herd of two other elephants, was captured in March 2015 after being involved in several instances of crop damage. The elephant was relocated to Dubare camp in Karnataka, where he was trained specifically in tracking tigers and patrolling forests. Bhim will now return back to Maharashtra as per the agreement with the Karnataka forest department,” said Kakodkar. While tracking tigers, elephants can help the forest department navigate through difficult terrain (dense forest patches that are not easily accessible through foot patrolling or vehicles) and unfavourable weather, in addition to providing an elevated view of the landscape, allowing easy and safe tranquilisation of animals, and surround tigers easily once located. “We are already in the process of recruiting mahouts (elephant riders). However, forests in Maharashtra are dry and deciduous, and elephants need a lot of fodder. In summers, it becomes difficult to feed them. As they are also let out in the evening, there’s a possible damage to the bamboos in the Tadoba buffer,” said Kakodkar. The forest patches of Chandrapur district, which are home to 175 of the 312 tigers, account for 56% of the estimated tiger numbers in the state, resulting in this landscape witnessing the maximum human-animal conflict in India. Of the 27 human deaths owing to tiger attacks in Maharashtra between January and August, 23 were from Chandrapur. So far, four tigers – including three from Chandrapur – involved in the conflict, have been captured. Training elephants to address conflict was proposed over a decade ago. However, the proposal was stalled after a mahout was attacked and killed by a trained elephant at the TATR buffer last year. In another case, the same elephant killed a woman in Yavatmal district in October 2018 as well as a man in the adjoining Wardha district. “We are exploring the possibility of recruiting experienced fodder cutters (assistants to mahouts) as mahouts since they are traditionally equipped to train the elephants better. Unfortunately, any class 4 recruitment for the forest department needs a Class 10 certificate. We requested the state to waive off this educational qualification requirement for the fodder cutters,” said Kakodkar. SBWL members explained that elephants are used for collecting and transporting wood at Melghat and Gadchiroli district. “A few years ago, elephants were brought from Gadchiroli for tourism purposes (safari) in spite of our opposition. However, using elephants to tackle conflict is welcome. Gadchiroli and Melghat elephants can be trained for tackling conflict. Also, tranquilising tigers using elephants and restricting the movement of the wild cats is a much easier and safer option,” said Kishor Rithe, member, SBWL. In December 2018, the swift capture of slain tigress (T1) Avni’s female cub was carried out with the help of trained elephants from Madhya Pradesh. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) then suggested the Maharashtra government to train elephants similarly like MP. “Bringing elephants to this particular landscape is extremely important, considering the present situation. It is always better to track tigers using elephants as they are versatile animals. It’s also one of the proven concepts of tackling conflict,” said SP Yadav, member secretary, NTCA. Experts said more focus should be on an alert system where villagers can be informed in time if a tiger is lurking in the vicinity. “The Chandrapur landscape is pretty vast and Maharashtra is lagging behind in terms of tiger monitoring using elephants, which is regularly done across Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttarakhand since at least a decade now,” said Nitin Desai, director (central India), Wildlife Protection Society of India. TIGERS IN CHANDRAPUR Apart from the 82 tigers in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), The Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India 2018-19 study, identified 23 tigers in Central Chanda, 31 in forests, 39 in Brahmapuri, taking the tally in Chandrapur to 175 tigers. Combined with wildlife sanctuaries of Karandla (11 tigers) and Tipeswar (five tigers) and Bor (six), the tiger population in Vidarbha block was estimated at 219 (ranging from 185 to 252). The Chandrapur area has become overpopulated, which is a worry, and there is a need for controlling the tiger population, said YV Jhala, lead author of the report that called for dispassionate, and professional removal of problem individual tigers, as per NTCA protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chandrapur-human-tiger-conflict-trained-karnataka-elephants-to-join-maharashtra-tiger-trail-in-3-months/story-WeVvw7VxzBf3B8XmoxTvyL.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar drops visit to Baramati, but NCP leaders say all’s well||The drama around Parth Pawar, the son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, continued on Sunday – five days after his granduncle and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar publicly rebuked him. A day after a meeting between selected members of the Pawar family at Baramati, it is still unclear if the family drama has been resolved. On Sunday, Pawar reached his Modi Baug residence at Pune in the afternoon and was reportedly scheduled to go to Baramati. He had a telephonic conversation with Ajit Pawar, his nephew, after which the NCP chief reportedly cancelled his Baramati visit. “It is believed that that both (Pawar and Ajit) had a positive conversation pertaining to Parth. We are hoping that things have sorted out,” said an NCP insider. Pawar had ticked off Parth for deviating from the party line over the Ayodhya temple construction issue and for demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The former Union minister called his grandnephew “immature” and said he doesn’t care about what Parth says. The senior leader’s statements gave rise to speculations over Parth wanting to quit the party and seeking a discussion over the issue with other family members before reaching on to a decision. On Saturday evening, a meeting was held at the Baramati home of Shrinivas Pawar (Parth’s paternal uncle), where the young leader, along with his parents Ajit and Sunetra, as well as Shrinivas’s wife Sharmila were present. The details of the family meeting were kept under wraps as Ajit and Parth maintained complete silence on the issue. Both of them also stayed at Baramati till Sunday evening. A day after Pawar’s public rebuke, Parth went to Silver Oak, the senior leader’s south Mumbai home, on August 13, where the young politician had a discussion with his aunt Supriya Sule (Sharad Pawar’s daughter) for over two hours, but could not meet his granduncle. “The party chief can never accept a stand other than the party line, only because Parth is his nephew’s son. Instead of making unnecessary statements, he (Parth) can work a lot in the Maval parliamentary constituency as the party is in the government and his father is a deputy chief minister and finance minister as well” said another NCP leader. Senior NCP leader and Member of Parliament (MP) Praful Patel said there is no family feud. “There is no issue such as Sharad Pawar versus Ajit Pawar. Parth’s issue is not a big one and there is no dispute. I have personally met members from the Pawar family, had discussions with them and it is not a big political issue. It is being given unnecessary importance,” Patel told reporters in Nagpur on Sunday. Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian from Pune, Girish Bapat, also said that it was a family issue and also ruled out any possibility of his party inducting Parth. Patel also said that the NCP is now bigger than the Congress in the state and the NCP chief has become the biggest leader. He further said that the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is “stable” and mocked those saying that it will fall. “They are astrologers who know nothing,” said the former civil aviation minister. This is not the first time where the rift in the Pawar family has come out in the open. Parth lost the Lok Sabha polls to sitting Shiv Sena parliamentarian Shrirang Barne last year. Soon after the results, Sharad Pawar started promoting Rohit Pawar, the son of his other nephew, Rajendra. With Pawar’s encouragement, Rohit successfully contested the Assembly elections from the Karjat-Jamkhed constituency in Ahmednagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-drops-visit-to-baramati-but-ncp-leaders-say-all-s-well/story-6eoXnSOnzw6Tw8IHRaES9O.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Latur’s study model is key to 100% Class 10 success formula, say schools, teachers||“It has been a long busy year, but the results are worth the backbreaking hardship,” said 15-year old Sayli Khamitkar, a student from Latur who scored a perfect 100% at the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination this year. Sayli’s school, Deshikendra Vidyalaya, had 22 perfect scorers, while another school in the vicinity, Keshavraj Vidyalaya, had 25. Lal Bahadur Shashtri Vidyalay in Udgir had 14 students who scored 100% in the Class 10 exams. Of the 242 students who scored a perfect 100 across the nine divisions in the state this year, 151 are from the Latur division. Taking forward the much talked about the Latur pattern of study, schools in the district have been able to establish their hold over the elite ‘100% club’, a phenomenon that is seen in the state board results post 2016, after the state education department introduced bonus marks for art and culture for the Class 10 exams. Latur division’s phenomenal results, however, are not accidental. They are a product of years of planned and calculated study which is intrinsic to the teaching model of most schools in Latur. “We have a very serious and holistic approach towards board exams. We first take a test in the month of May every year before the new academic year begins for students. On the basis of this test, we divide students into A, B, C and D. The A division consists of the top scorers, while the B division is formed by the moderate students and so on. This way, we train every division as per their needs. Our teachers aim to complete the entire SSC syllabus by Diwali vacations (in October). Even the Diwali break, which is a long holiday for most students, is only a break of five-six days for our students. After they return from the break, they are given several papers to solve and the best students are then trained again to ensure that they do not lose out on a single mark,” said Manjuldas Gavate, principal of Keshavraj Vidyalaya. Of the 700 students who appeared for the SSC exams from the school this year, 303 scored 90% and above. At Deshikendra Vidyalaya, teachers who teach Class 10 students are in school practically the entire day. “The school begins at 7am and ends at 1pm. After this, we give students some free time to go home, eat their lunch and attend classes, if any. After the Diwali break, we identify about 250 students who are expected to score near-perfect marks and accordingly give them additional training from 5pm to 7pm every day. These classes consist of solving hundreds of question papers and getting doubts solved from experts who we call from outside to guide our students. Our students are motivated to get perfect scores from the very first day and we just give them the right advice,” said Manoj Mothe, the school’s science teacher. The Latur pattern of study is a model that emerged in the 1980s as an initiative of a group of passionate educationists in the district, who wanted to improve the status of education in the region. With the district being carved out in 1982, schools and colleges started consciously training students with the support of parents to improve the learning outcomes. “The term ‘Latur pattern’, however, was coined when the then education minister Vilasrao Deshmukh used it while felicitating meritorious students at an event in 1988”, said Vivek Ghotale, a Pune-based researcher and educationist, who has published a book on the district’s political process. As years passed, however, the pattern was used by coaching classes and private schools to develop a more rigorous study model, which promised students to help them crack competitive exams such as the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET), Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and Common Entrance Test (CET). For most students in Latur, the road to a good career starts by getting admission in the district’s reputed Rajarshi Shahu College, which is also known for its rigorous teaching style and good results. “The cut off for the first-year junior college (FYJC) seats in the institute is as high as 98-99% every year. This means that students have to start preparing from school to be able to make it there. This is a major motivating factor for students to aim for cent percent scores,” said Jashan Devpriya Dole, who teaches at a Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) school in Udgir. Sayli for instance, had already made it to the college even before her SSC results came out. “The college takes a screening test for students a week after the board exams end (in April) and students who pass the exam get direct entry to the institute. I cleared the exam and have been attending online classes ever since. I am still behind some of my classmates who have completed the entire syllabus for Class 11 and 12 already,” said Sayli. Like most of her classmates, Sayli wants to crack the JEE test and become a computer engineer. While scoring 98-99% is achievable with rigorous study, achieving a perfect score also requires excelling at extra-curricular activities. Students who excel in drawing, dance, music and sports are allotted bonus marks. Ranging from three to 15 marks, depending on the child’s achievements, these points help the students get the perfect 100. “We train students from Class 1 to excel in different activities, which helps them in scoring well later. This is not for marks but to ensure their all-round development,” said Sanjay Vibhute, principal of Lal Bahadur Shastri Vidyalay in Udgir. This year, 5,714 students in the Latur division were allotted bonus marks for art, culture and sports, which is 14% of the total number of students who appeared for the exams from the division. Tanaji Patil, a teacher of Shri Shambhugir Vidyalaya, Wadgaon, who worked as a member on the Latur divisional board in the past, said, “These schools also give a lot of incentives to teachers and that motivates us to work for extra hours. Parents, too, are quite aware here and start planning for their child’s professional career from early on.” Ghotale said that while several schools in Latur help students from socially and economically backward backgrounds get good scores, only a few schools that dominate the top-scorers list are usually considered to be prestigious. “In reality, these schools get students from comparatively privileged socio-economic backgrounds, which means that their parents are aware as well as willing to spend for their education. Many of these students also take additional coaching from early years, which gives them the desired results,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/latur-s-study-model-is-key-to-100-class-10-success-formula-say-schools-teachers/story-6ohkz3ZyBCc1kgOcaWeI1M.html
17-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid toll crosses 20,000 as tally nears 6L||Maharashtra on Sunday crossed the grim mark of 20,000 fatalities due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it added 288 deaths, taking the toll to 20,037. The state also recorded 11,111 new Covid-19 infections, taking the tally of total confirmed cases to 595,865.Of the 288 deaths reported on Sunday, 233 were from the previous 48 hours and 31 were from last week. The remaining 24 deaths were from the period before last week. With the new infections, the total active cases in the state stood at 158,395. On Sunday, 8,837 people were discharged, taking the tally of recovered to 417,123; the recovery rate improved to 70%.The case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra stood at 3.36%, however, the absolute number of deaths reported daily is on the rise. In the past one month alone, Maharashtra has added 8,843 deaths or 44.13% of fatalities to the toll. On July 16, Maharashtra had 11,194 fatalities.The state government, according to a senior bureaucrat, is concerned about the high number of deaths in the state. “The chunk of deaths has come from urban areas, but now, fatalities are being reported from rural and semi-urban areas. The chief minister has already directed district officials and municipal commissioners to bring it under control through various measures, including early detection and segregating people with co-morbidities, etc. We will see the results soon. The state has planned to bring it down to under 2% in a month,” he said, without wishing to be named.Mumbai has the highest number of fatalities in the state with 7,133 and has a CFR of 5.5%, much higher than the state’s percentage. Thane, Pune districts have most fatalities, followed by Mumbai, while Nandubar, Solapur and Akola districts have the highest CFR after Mumbai, of 4.5%, 4.4% and 4.2%, respectively.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member on the state-appointed Covid-19 task force said, “In Mumbai, the number of deaths is seeing a downward trend now. We want to reduce the CFR below 1% [in the state] and we are implementing all [possible] strategies to bring it down.” Regarding the fatalities going up outside Mumbai, Dr Joshi said, “There are various factors. Peaks are different in different geographies. When a region or area is at peak the numbers of cases and fatalities would naturally be higher.”Meanwhile, on Sunday, Pune district, which comprises Pune city, Pune rural, and Pimpri-Chinchwad, surpassed Mumbai to become the most affected district in the state with 130,606 confirmed cases, while Mumbai, which recorded 1,010 new infections on Sunday has 128,726 confirmed cases. Mumbai recorded 47 fatalities, taking the death toll to 7,133.Pune recorded 1,539 new cases and 32 fatalities, taking the total tally and toll to 79,488 and 2,051, respectively. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 905 new cases, taking its tally to 34,579. It reported 19 fatalities, taking its toll to 603. Pune district reported 644 new infections, taking the tally in Pune rural to 16,539. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, reported 2,095 new infections, taking the count to 158,572. The region also reported 39 fatalities.Maharashtra clocked a positivity rate of 21.69% on Sunday with 51,226 samples being tested and 11,111 of them turning positive. The positivity rate is higher than the state’s overall positivity rate of 18.84%. Kolhapur, Sangli, Latur, Osmanabad, Nashik, Ahmednagar, and Nagpur districts continued to report a large number of cases in the state. Nagpur city reported 552 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 9,571. While the rural part of the district saw 139 cases. Nashik city reported 478 new cases, taking its tally over 18000.No rush to relax lock down completely: CMChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday had indicated that he is not in a rush to open up restrictions on activities. Thackeray, while speaking to Covid-19 task force members Dr Shashank Joshi and Dr Rahul Pandit said that he does not want a second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak after relaxations were provided. Thackeray, who has been cautious in providing relaxation in the curbs put to control the spread of Covid-19, said that wherever there was a hurry to open up the lockdown, it had to be re-imposed after cases increased. “We are in the first wave and I don’t want a second wave in Maharashtra under any circumstances. And the second wave comes when we pat our backs on how we controlled the coronavirus and become complacent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-toll-crosses-20-000-as-tally-nears-6l/story-WCJoA3YKZj4Qy0Y531QzMM.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||Two kids suffer burns while trying to retrieve stuck kite in Nihal Vihar||Two children, aged 13 and 11 years, suffered burns on Saturday when they came in contact with a high-tension wire while trying to disentangle a stuck kite in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar. The 13-year-old boy suffered 92% burns and is fighting for his life at Safdarjung Hospital. The other boy sustained eight percent burns and is undergoing treatment at the same hospital, police said.A senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said that the two children were collecting kites outside their home in Laxmi Nagar, near Nihal Vihar, on Saturday morning. Around 11am, the boys saw a kite falling and ran to grab it. The kite got stuck in a high-tension wire and its string was dangling down, the officer said.“The 13-year-old boy tried to pull the kite using its string, causing him to get electrocuted and his body catching fire. The other boy who was standing behind him also suffered an electric shock and was thrown at a distance He also suffered burns,” the officer said, adding that many locals witnessed the incident and called the police.A police team immediately reached the incident spot and rushed the two injured children to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, from where they were later shifted to Safdarjung Hospital. A case of disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant and causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others was registered under Sections 188 and 337 of Indian Penal Code against unknown persons at the Nihal Vihar police station.“We checked the kite string and found some traces of metal on it. Prime facie, it appears that the presence of metal on the string may have led to the electrocution. We will seek assistance from forensic and electrical experts to ascertain the cause of electrocution,” the officer added.The father of one of the children is driver by profession while other’s father work in a private company, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-kids-suffer-burns-while-trying-to-retrieve-stuck-kite-in-nihal-vihar/story-ioNJAhPJejqyBwnXl0xS9O.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The apartment block’s very own writer||The coronavirus pandemic has temporarily put on hold the hyperactive lives of many folks, including of Ved Kumari Pahwa. “I was feeling especially frustrated during the lockdown... I was, and am still, very angry with corona,” says the lady, talking on phone from her fourth floor flat in Gurugram’s Sector 52.But then Ms Pahwa did what any writer like her does. “I wrote poems and couplets during my housebound days.”In her late 70s, Ms Pahwa was born in pre-Partition Multan, which is now in Pakistani Punjab. She lives with her son and his family, and has a daughter living in the US. During her 38-year-long career in education, she served as a school principal for 19 years until retiring in 2002 from Gargi Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, in south Delhi’s Green Park. It was then that she moved from her “big house” in Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave to her “caring son’s” home in Gurugram. “But I have my own life and interests, and I insist on doing things on my own despite my age,” says the lady. Ms Pahwa confesses frankly that she is very popular in her housing society and “every child here knows me, some call me Naani and others call me Daadi.”Until the coronavirus pandemic put an end to all sorts of outdoorsy activities, she would go to shopping malls, have cheese pizza (of course), browse about showrooms and then would settle down to pursue her favourite activity: “I would sit on a bench and watch people walking about.... wondering about their relationships to each other and getting subject matters for my poems.”Ms Pahwa doesn’t bother to send her writings to publishers. She, instead, gets them typed into a few copies that she circulates among her friends “who would read and offer me comments.” In fact, many of the people in her housing society are her loyal readers including “Mr Dua, Dr Sharma and his wife, Dr Shukla, Rajeshwar Vashisht, Nirmal Kanti, and many others.” She says her readers find her language simple and themes relatable to daily life. She also pens original bhajans that are occasionally sung in the kirtan ceremonies held weekly in the residential complex’s club.Just before the pandemic forced the first shutdown in March, Ms Pahwa hosted a launch of her most recent poetry collection Katra Katra Chun Liya, “which is an account of my personal experiences.” There were speeches and readings that evening “and about ten people who had already studied those poems in advance shared their views about them.”Additionally, during the first Monday of each month, a literary meet in the housing society would give Ms Pahwa the opportunity, along with other artistic people in the neighbourhood, to read her works to a willing audience.Like most writers, Ms Pahwa has a fixed place at home for her writing. “I’ve reserved this corner of the dining table for myself... it has my copy, my kalam (pen), my stapler and the glue... there is everything that I might need while writing so that I don’t have to get up and disturb my flow.”Suddenly getting somber, Ms Pahwa talks of the two great events of her life that did pull her down for a while. One was the death of her husband, a scientist, the same year that she retired from her job. And two years before that, her arm had gotten paralyzed. “It was very traumatic... the right part of my body still doesn’t work... I was right-handed so I had to learn to start writing from my left hand.”As is true with many people who harness their experiences into their artistic pursuits, Ms Pahwa says she has tried to distil disparate aspects of her life into her work. She continues to be full of plans. Her next project: “to get my new coronavirus poems typed.” And once the pandemic becomes history, she hopes to resume her mall hopping in search of ideas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-apartment-block-s-very-own-writer/story-aGsOZ6rqhTrAVYO6MyfODJ.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Certificate courses to upskill students to be initiated in city colleges||The state government has given its nod for the initiation of five new value-added courses in 35 government colleges across the state for the new academic session. The decision has been taken in view of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council’s (NAAC) accreditation process, which gives 30 additional points to colleges offering value-added courses. The state government has taken a slew of measures since last year for the improvement of NAAC grades of state colleges. All three government colleges in the city — Dronacharya Government College, Government College in Sector 9, and Government Girls College in Sector 14— will be starting a set of five new courses each this year. Each college will have its own set of courses. Some of the subjects in which these colleges will be offering certification will include digital marketing, gender studies, cyber security, marketing and advertising, business communications and green chemistry, among others In a written directive shared with principals of all colleges on Friday, the department said that it had granted permission for the initiation of five value-added courses in each college across the state. Each course would be for a duration of 30 hours and need to be implemented by college teachers. The department also said that final year students will be enrolled for these new courses in the first phase. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that these courses were being started to upgrade the existing skill sets of the students in diverse concentrations and help them improve their placement prospects. “These courses will give an upper edge to the students during the placements. It will immensely benefit them since the courses are chosen from a diverse pool,” said Khullar. She said that teachers from the college will be trained online from experts from Ashoka University and GD Goenka University before the courses are started in the new academic session. Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the government had chosen a set of five courses for different colleges in the state that were supposed to undergo the NAAC accreditation process. “NAAC offers 30 points to colleges that offer value-added courses. With colleges slated to undergo NAAC review, this will be an additional gain for us. All the three colleges in Gurugram will be offering a different set of courses. There will be no overlap in the courses in different colleges. We plan to start with 50 students for each course,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/certificate-courses-to-upskill-students-to-be-initiated-in-city-colleges/story-LDruPlY4VzwExibVKYgvZN.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||Man accused of multiple thefts arrested from Sohna Chowk||The police on Saturday arrested a man, accused of involvement in several thefts in the city, from Sohna Chowk. The police said, so far, he has confessed to his involvement in three cases of thefts in Bilaspur, Manesar and Shivaji Nagar areas. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Alok, a resident of Delhi Gate, was a native of Meerut, Uttar Pradesh. He was arrested by a team of crime branch, Manesar, after a tip-off was received that he was on his way to Sohna Chowk to sell some of the stolen items. The police said on August 2, he had barged into a house in Prem Nagar in Shivaji Nagar area and decamped with a man’s wallet and two mobile phones while the victim was asleep in another room of his house. In the police complaint, the victim had said that his wallet had two ATM cards, one credit card, a driving licence, PAN card, Voter ID card and some cash. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “During questioning, the accused man has confessed to two more cases of theft in Manesar and Bilaspur areas. We are questioning him to ascertain if he acted alone or is part of a gang.” A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “The suspect had stolen inverter batteries after breaking the shutters of a shop in Jamalpur, Bilaspur on February 17 this year. On March 13, he had stolen batteries from two trucks in village Naharpur. So far, three cases have been traced against him and we are questioning him to trace more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-accused-of-multiple-thefts-arrested-from-sohna-chowk/story-jz1kMjXkxmlpwc78ddlSlL.html
17-08-2020||Gurugram||10 booked for sexual assault of 17-year-old British national in Gurugram||The police on Saturday booked 10 boys for allegedly sexually assaulting, thrashing and threatening a 17-year-old British national of Indian origin. The victim, a resident of Sector 54, had reached Sushant Lok -1 to attend a friend’s birthday party on the night of July 23. The suspects caught hold of the boy after his father dropped him outside the society’s gate. Investigators said the victim had met one of the suspects on a social media app for house parties in July this year. In a video of the incident, which was circulating online, the suspects are shown assaulting the boy, tearing his T-shirt and beat him up, and asking him to apologise to ‘a certain someone’, who police are yet to identify. There are four videos that were shot and uploaded by the suspects on social media, police said. According to the police, the incident took place in a residential society in Sushant Lok -1. Police said on July 23, at least 10 boys followed the teenager from Sector 54 enroute to Sushant Lok -1, where the victim was going to attend a party. The 17-year-old’s father dropped the boy and left. Immediately after, the group of boys, who were tailing him, surrounded him and started abusing and thrashing him on the road, the police said.Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police, said that the incident came into light on Saturday (August 15) after the family discovered that the boy had started missing his online classes and was not talking to them properly.“After being repeatedly cajoled, the boy finally revealed his ordeal to his parents and told them that he was beaten, abused and sexually assaulted by a group of boys whom he met on a ‘House Party application’ and had had a tiff with. The boy claimed that he had apologised later, but the suspects did not spare him and swore revenge,” she said. During investigations by the police it was revealed that the suspects had sodomised the victim and had sexually assaulted him, while recording some videos in order to blackmail him later. The family members said that their son did not retaliate or fight back or even attempt to call for help as he knew his life was in danger and he was outnumbered. His clothes were torn and he had bruises all over his body, which he tried to hide as he was scared of the suspects, they addedBijender Singh, station house officer of Sushant Lok police station said that the suspects had sodomised the boy and recorded the act. They had later threatened him not to tell anyone about the incident or else they would upload the video on social media. “We have got all the videos of the act and have roped in the cyber team to get the IP address of the suspects to arrest them. Their age are still unknown,” he said. A case under section 147(rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimation) of Indian penal Code and sections 6 and 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at Sushant Lok police station. Police said they have recorded the statement of the victim and family members and have got a medical examination conducted of the victim. “The victim has given us a few names, who have been identified and their movements are being tracked. We will arrest them soon,” said SHO Singh. On Saturday, the mother of the victim took to social media with a long post which read: “Nobody on earth except a mother dying in desperation of wanting justice knows what I’m going through because those videos have put a permanent damage on my mind & soul and I know that my son is not safe in a society where this horrific event went on for 5 mins and nobody came to rescue my baby! HE WAS ALL ALONE![Sic]”. The parents said that the boy now wants to leave India as he is emotionally, physically and mentally drained and traumatised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ten-boys-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-a-17-year-old-in-sushant-lok/story-9cnI57dtbQHy1kSiq3VlTJ.html
17-08-2020||Noida||Noida breathes cleanest air of the year, courtesy rain||Noida breathed the cleanest air of the year on Sunday thanks to the rain the city has been receiving lately. The air quality index (AQI) on Sunday stood at 53 (‘ satisfactory’ level), as recorded by Central Pollution Control Board, a value that the city had not reached even during the nationwide lockdown during which most industrial activities had come to a halt.The air quality of Noida and adjoining regions had improved during the coronavirus induced lockdown, which was imposed on March 24, with most industries being shut and vehicular movement at minimal. However, with various meteorological forces at play, the month of August is now on its way to becoming the cleanest so far, even as many commercial activities are back on track with Unlock 3.On Sunday, Noida saw an average rainfall of 8.6mm and the average level of PM 2.5,or particles in the air with a diameter less than 2.5mm,was at 19.94 micrograms per cubic metres (µg/m3). Since June 1, district has recorded a rainfall of average 19.5 mm.According to the records from CPCB and Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the air quality index (AQI) for Noida in April 2020 oscillated from 73 to 184 on a scale of 0 to 500, the AQI for May oscillated between 97 and 160, in June between 63 and 272 (poor), in July between 62 and 160, while the highest AQI was recorded at 119.The air quality is categorised as ‘good’ when AQI is between 0 to 50, ‘satisfactory’ when AQI is between 0 and 100, while its ‘moderate’ with AQI between 100 and 199 and, is considered poor for values between 200 and 299.“It’s primarily the meteorological conditions such as rains that have improved the air quality of the region, In May and June dust carrying winds from Rajasthan had arrived in the region negatively impacting the air quality. However, rains arrive by July and August, improving the air quality,” says Shambahavi Shukla, program officer (air quality), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).According to CPCB, for the month of April 2020, the average PM2.5 level was recorded at 45.86 (µg/m3). The average volume of PM2.5 for May was 50 (µg/m3). In June, the PM2.5 values remained almost the same at an average of 50.36 (µg/m3). In July it improved to 36.16 (µg/m3) and so far in August, the level has improved to 27.61 µg/m3.“The major reason for the improvement in air quality is rainfall. Rain suppresses the particles or dust, and that is why we sprinkle water to suppress particulate matter when the pollution is at its peak. Many industries not operating at a full swing due to the pandemic have also contributed to improving the air quality,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB (Noida).According to an assessment of CPCB’s data, however, Noida has not seen a single day of ‘good’ air.The air quality in Noida has been oscillating between ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-breathes-cleanest-air-of-the-year-courtesy-rain/story-BG70f59XYE98zIxYW4ANBK.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||33-year-old cyclist run over by speeding car near Siri Fort auditorium||A 33-year-old cyclist was killed after being hit by an allegedly speeding car near the Siri Fort Auditorium in south Delhi on Friday night. The errant driver and the car are yet to be identified, the police said on Sunday.The cyclist, identified as Farooq Ahmed, was admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre by an unidentified man, who gave his wrong details and contact numbers before disappearing from the hospital. Police officials suspect that the man who took the injured cyclist to the hospital could be the same person who had hit the cyclist. Ahmed worked as a security guard in the office of a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in Siri Fort area, his relatives said. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on Friday around 9.40 pm, the Hauz Khas police received information regarding an accident near Jija Bai ITI for Women and that the injured man was admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre.“The injured man, Farooq Ahmed, succumbed to his injuries during treatment on Saturday evening. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death has been registered at the Hauz Khas police station. We scanned CCTV cameras around the area and found that a white car was involved in the accident. Efforts are on to trace the car and the person who was driving it at the time of the mishap,” said DCP Thakur.On Sunday, Ahmed’s family members and relatives reached the Hauz Khas police station and demanded swift action from the police in the case. Senior police officers assured them that they will nab the errant car driver soon. Ahmed’s brother-in-law Mohammad Sajid said that they learnt about it after someone called them from Ahmed’s cellphone and informed that he was admitted to the hospital. Ahmed was cycling to his work place when he was hit.“The caller had identified himself as a policeman deployed in a PCR van. However, we suspect that it was caller was the same person who hit Ahmed’s cycle, took him to the hospital and fled from there. No policeman was at the hospital when we reached there,” said Sajid.Ahmed had purchased the cycle around three months ago to commute between his home in Jasola and office. He is survived by his mother, wife and two children, said Sajid.On April 13, a 52-year-old doctor, who served as a Covid-19 nodal officer and was cycling back home from work, was killed in a hit-and-run accident near Malviya Nagar police training college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-year-old-cyclist-run-over-by-speeding-car-near-siri-fort-auditorium/story-glEFukoLModGPXaJLFJPFO.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||Covid effect: DDMA prohibits Ganesh Chaturthi pandals, Moharram procession; calls for strict vigil||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has prohibited processions, large idols in pandals, public gatherings and community celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi and Moharram in any public place in adherence to restrictions concerning the ongoing lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (covid-19).While the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are scheduled to start on August 22, Moharram will be observed on August 29.On Friday, the DDMA issued an order that said: “During Ganesh Chaturthi festival, no idol of lord Ganesh shall be set up in a tent, pandal or public place, nor any kind of permission shall be granted for procession. People shall be encouraged and advised to celebrate the festival at their homes.”The order, which was signed by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, further said: “Similarly, no permission will be granted for procession(s) during Moharram and the public shall be advised to celebrate the same at their homes and not in public places.” HT has seen the order. Dev, in the order, said all DMs and district commissioners of police will hold meetings with religious leaders before any festival that has the possibility of a large gathering to get their cooperation to maintain law and order, harmony and also to sensitise people to comply with guidelines.Dev, who is also the chairman of DDMA’s state executive committee, said it should be ensured that the crowd does not gather at any religious or public place.All empowered authorities may resort to imposing fines for violating the directives, he said, adding that all enforcement authorities should be properly briefed about the strict implementation of the instructions a day before every festival, Dev said in the order.“The prohibition on celebrations is not surprising in the light of social distancing norms and the current covid situation. This year, the government and the police also did not issue no-objection certificates (NOC), citing lockdown-related orders. It is understandable. People will have to limit the scale of celebrations in the light of the pandemic,” said Ashok Bansal, general secretary of Ganesh Mahotsav Samitee in south Delhi’s Mehrauli.Bahadur Abbas, secretary of Anjuman-e-Haideri, the management committee of the Jor Bagh Karbala, said: “The government order imposes certain restrictions but does not impose a blanket ban on Moharram programmes. If social distance of not less than 2 metres between individuals is adhered to, it technically does not amount to public gathering. People should wear masks and there will be no crowded procession that violates covid guidelines. We are committed to the government’s Covid-19 guidelines.”Another order issued by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Thursday – seen by HT – said that idol immersion shall not be allowed at any of the Yamuna ghats, lakes, ponds or other water bodies. It also advised the ritual to be performed within residential premises. The Ganesh festival ends with a ritual of immersion of the idol in a water body – it is scheduled on September 1.IDOL IMMERSIONThe Delhi government has initiated the process of hiring contractors to create at least 15 artificial ponds in the city for idol immersion but public gatherings at the immersion locations are prohibited, senior officials said on Sunday.“Not everybody has adequate space for immersion or disposal of the idol at home or in their localities. Hence, it is important to have an emergency plan ready and adhere to the suggestion of artificial ponds which was made in January 2019 by a committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal to curb pollution in Yamuna. However, no processions will be allowed, social distancing have to be followed and there can be no public gathering during the immersion as per government orders,” said a government official who did not wish to be identified.Between August 1 and Friday, the Delhi government floated at least 15 tenders for artificial water bodies to be dug for Ganesh idol immersion in localities that include Kishangarh, Netaji Place, Delhi Cantonment, Inderpuri, Janakpuri, Mayur Vihar, Haiderpur and Moti Nagar. HT has seen the tender documents.Work contracts on these tenders are yet to be issued.More than 100 committees seek permission for community celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in Delhi every year but thousands of people celebrate in their residences and they follow the idol immersion ritual too, often in smaller gatherings, said a government official.Idol immersion is a ritual associated with the Durga Puja too. The festival this year is scheduled to culminate with the idol immersion ritual on October 22. However, clouds of uncertainty loom large over the possibility of community celebrations and public gatherings – marked by decorated pandals, temporary food courts, cultural programmes, etc.The government is yet to take a call on Durga Puja celebrations which – if allowed, depending on the covid-19 situation in the city after a month – would require re-use of the artificial ponds and digging several more, the officials said.“Whether Durga Puja is allowed this year, will depend on the assessment of the covid-19 situation till mid-September. Even if pandals are allowed, there will definitely be restrictions on organising processions for immersion and size of gatherings in the pandals. However, in case Durga Puja is allowed, more artificial ponds will be needed for idol immersions,” said another senior government official who did not wish to be identified.More than 500 committees seek permission for community celebration of Durga Puja in Delhi every year.Robin Bose, general secretary of the Kashmere Gate Durga Puja Sammittee – which also happens to be Capital’s oldest one and celebrated its 110th anniversary last year – said: “Usually, forms for availing NOCs are available in police stations two months before the festival. This year, the forms are yet not available. Even if allowed, the celebration will be much smaller in scale in every aspect – idol and pandal to size of crowd. There will be no processions and social distancing have to be adhered to.”In 2019, the Delhi government had created around 30 artificial ponds for Ganesh idol immersion. All these were re-used – and around 85 more were created – for idol immersion after the Durga Puja festival. It was the first time Delhi had witnessed all idol immersions in artificial ponds.According to a report of the DPCC released in October last year, the water quality of Yamuna was found to be better compared to the period after idol immersion in 2018, in parameters that include total suspended solids (TSS), bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-effect-ddma-prohibits-ganesh-chaturthi-pandals-moharram-procession-calls-for-strict-vigil/story-0ljZPKBsU6bUGl3Yg2cf0I.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||19-year-old domestic help kills self, her family pelts stones at housing society||A 19-year-old domestic help killed herself at her employer’s home in outer Delhi’s Rohini on Wednesday night -- allegedly after being harassed and not being allowed to meet her family for the past three months -- prompting her family and neighbours to pelt stones at the residential society the next day, the police said.Four police personnel were injured in stone pelting in controlling the mob, said PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini).The police have arrested the employer, who runs a business in Chandni Chowk, and booked him for abetment of suicide. Since the dead domestic help’s mother alleged that some others also in the 11-member family would harass her daughter, the police also added Indian Penal Code section 34 (an act done by several persons with a common intention). The police have registered a separate FIR in the mob violence under nine sections of the IPC and two of the Epidemic Diseases Act. “We have not arrested any of the suspected rioters yet. We have asked them to join investigations,” said the DCP.  “For the last four-five years, the dead woman’s mother had been working at the home as a domestic help. But ever since the lockdown has been imposed, her 19-year-old daughter had been working here. She was kept as a full-time help,” said the DCP, quoting the victim’s mother. But, the house owner and his family allegedly didn’t let the teenaged domestic help leave the house. “One day when I came to meet my daughter, they refused to let me see her. After requesting the family, I was allowed to see and speak to her from behind closed gates,” her mother told the police in her statement. “She appeared unhappy,” the mother added. When her son came down to meet his sister, he allegedly wasn’t allowed.While the employer is in jail and his son refused to share speak to HT, the DCP said that the family has claimed that they refused to let the domestic help’s mother or brother into the house as they felt it could leave them exposed to the coronavirus infection. On Wednesday evening, when the domestic help received a call from her mother, she allegedly informed her that the occupants of the house had left for a family function. “They had locked the locked the house from outside,” said the DCP.When the family returned home around 11.30 pm, they found the 19-year-old hanging from the ceiling fan, the DCP added. While the police were still investigating the death and awaiting the autopsy report, the dead woman’s family and neighbours allegedly arrived in the society on Thursday morning and began protesting.“They were armed with stones and rods. I heard that they targeted the businessman’s house and smashed doors and windows of some other houses in the society. When I reached the spot, I found the police trying to control the situation,” said Amit Goswami, the local RWA general secretary, on whose statement the FIR against the mob was later registered at the Rohini (North) police station. The DCP said on Sunday that the situation is under control and the investigators are awaiting the autopsy report to determine if it was a suicide or if there was any foul play involved. “There were no external injuries on the woman’s body and no visible evidence of sexual assault,” said the officer.The dead woman’s family, whose members too have been named for the rioting, refused to speak on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-domestic-helps-hangs-self-her-family-pelts-stone-at-housing-society/story-MHASJ3IMaUBC0TbQNygMYI.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||5th Metro bridge over Yamuna, for Majlis Park-Maujpur stretch||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has started work on its fifth bridge over the Yamuna river, as part of the Phase-4 Metro expansion plan. The 560-metre-long bridge, part of the Majlis Park-Maujpur Metro corridor, will be built between the Wazirabad and Signature bridges in north Delhi.The eight-station, 12.58-km corridor will connect north and northeast Delhi, and will, once ready, put Yamuna Vihar, Bhajanpura, Khajuri Khas, Sonia Vihar, Soorghat, Jagatpur Village, Jharoda Majraa and Burari on the Delhi Metro map.The city will also get its first double-decker viaduct — with Metro tracks on the upper deck and a flyover for vehicular traffic beneath — on a 1.4 km-stretch between the Yamuna Vihar and Bhajanpura stations. In another first, the DMRC will be constructing a cantilever bridge — a rigid structural element that extends horizontally and is supported at only one end, where the spans will be longer than the ones used in regular elevated corridors.  The bridge, to connect Soorghat and Sonia Vihar, is likely to be completed by 2023.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “A cantilever construction allows overhanging structures without additional support. Use of this technology will make the bridge look better, apart from lowering the number of piers that will be needed.”According to a metro official, the use of cantilever technology will also help ensure minimise hindrances to the flow of the river, because fewer piers will be needed to support the bridge. The official said, there are 15 piers in the 574-metre-long Kalindi Kunj Metro bridge. But just nine piers will be constructed for the Soorghat bridge, which will be almost twice length. “The spans of the Yamuna bridge have been kept as large as 60m and 80m to limit number of piers needed in river bed, so there is minimum hindrance to its flow,” Dayal said. The DMRC has constructed four bridges over the river to provide connectivity between trans-Yamuna areas and the rest of the city, between the following stations: Kashmere Gate – Shastri Park (Red Line), Sarai Kale Khan– Mayur Vihar Phase – I (Pink Line), Indraprastha-Yamuna Bank (Blue line) and Okhla Bird Sanctuary-Kalindi Kunj (Magenta Line).For Soorghat bridge, the DMRC has constructed a cofferdam away from the active course of the river by raising the ground level. Dayal said, “The level of cofferdam has been kept the same as the level of adjacent road to ensure supply of requisite construction materials.”Though the Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor is one of the shortest in the Capital, it is one of the two corridors where the DMRC plans to construct a double-decker viaduct for metro and vehicular traffic.As per the plan, DMRC will construct double-decker viaducts on a 1.4km-stretch between Bhajanpura and Yamuna Vihar stations. The upper deck will have Metro tracks and the lower will have a flyover for road traffic.According to DMRC officials, the integration of two modes of transport are being integrated because of the densely population in the area. Further, traffic congestion in the area has also necessitated a flyover.A similar move is planned on the Tughlaqabad-Aerocity corridor, also part of the Phase-4 plan. According to officials, the double-decker viaduct will be constructed between Ambedkar Nagar and Saket G Block stations.The tenders for civil work for the project were floated last year. The DMRC started the construction work of its much-delayed Phase-4 in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5th-metro-bridge-over-yamuna-for-majlis-park-maujpur-stretch/story-oReeZmTnlKcxKDQhoMwUsO.html
17-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up bravery awards, applications open||Starting next year, the state government will, every Republic Day, felicitate 10 residents of the national capital for their display of “exemplary courage”. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has opened applications for the first Delhi Bravery Awards, for which residents of all age-groups are eligible, and can register till August 31.“The Delhi government has constituted the Delhi bravery awards to honour people who have displayed exemplary courage, presence of mind and bravery in the face of acute danger and who have performed deeds of outstanding bravery and selfless service risking their lives to protect others.” reads a circular issued on Friday by the directorate of education’s (DoE) awards branch.Explaining the possible such acts, the circular read, “The awards will be given for showing courage and promptitude under circumstances to great danger to the life and bodily injury to the rescuer in saving life of those in crises from drowning, fire, various disasters, and other dangerous situations. The act of bravery will be recognised and honoured during the Republic Day 2021 government function.”The awards will be given in a single category and winners will be awarded a medal, a citation and ₹2 lakh cash. “The number of awardees will be capped at 10 per year. Persons from all walks of life are eligible for these awards,” the circular added.The candidates will have to apply within two years of the incident. For 2021, as an instance, the respective act should have taken place between September 2018 and August 2020. Eligible candidates or any other person on behalf of the applicants can submit their applications with the respective district magistrate or deputy commissioner’s (revenue) offices.Delhi government officials and spokespersons in the chief minister’s office did not respond to calls and texts requesting comment.A senior DoE official, who asked not to be named, said candidates will have to fill up a form, available for download on the Delhi government home department’s website. “In addition to the bio-data, the candidates will have to give a written narrative of the incident within 200 to 250 words, clearly bringing out the sequence of events and the role of the concerned person. The entries will be screened and scrutinised by a special committee,” the official said.BS Vohra, president of the East Delhi RWA Front — an umbrella body of over 100 associate RWAs-- said, “The initiative will help motivate youngsters in Delhi. For instance, if someone is being awarded for helping women, senior citizens or children from some untoward incident, it will motivate others to follow suit. However, the selection process for the awards should be transparent.”Students also lauded the initiative. “The national bravery awards see entries come from across the country, and competition is very strong. The chances of Delhiites getting more recognition for their courage will increase when we have our own bravery awards,” said Rishabh Ahuja, a student of class 12 at a government school in Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-sets-up-bravery-awards-applications-open/story-Wqx7t9KcGa6dEGtvIEs7eO.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Pune district overtakes Mumbai to become state’s worst affected; tally at 1,30,606||Pune on Sunday reported 3,088 fresh Covid-19 cases and became the district worst-affected by the pandemic in Maharashtra, with a tally of 1,30,606 progressive positives, as per the state health department. The district has now more cases than Mumbai, which has been considered as the worst-hit by the pandemic in the state. Mumbai on Sunday reported 1,010 fresh positive case and 47 deaths, taking its progressive positives to 1,28,726 and death toll to 7,433.Pune district recorded 63 deaths over the last 24 hours, taking the virus-related toll to 3,193, as per state figures. Pune district’s population as per 2011 Census was 9,429,408 while Mumbai’s population was recorded as 12,442,373. Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePune reported the first Covid-19 positive case in the state on March 9 and since then the number of cases has continued to multiply. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said that multiple reasons have contributed to the spurt in cases in Pune district. “After restrictions were relaxed, people began travelling a lot and therefore, a large number of cases are being reported from rural parts. At the same time, the administration has increased testing samples on a large scale, as a result of which, there has been a rise in the number of cases,” said Salunkhe.The state health department has reported 16,539 progressive positive cases and 539 deaths in Pune rural;79,488 progressive positive cases and 2,051 deaths in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 34,579 progressive positive cases and 603 deaths in PCMC, till August 16. Meanwhile, PMC recorded 1,522 fresh positive cases on Sunday while the state health department recorded 1,539 fresh positive cases for the city. PMC conducted 5,707 tests in 24 hours which takes the total count of tests conducted to 3.59 lakh. PMC reported its progressive positive count as 74,098. Of the 14,702 active patients, 760 are in critical condition, of which 462 are on ventilators in ICU and 298 are in ICU without ventilators. Also, 2,458 people are undergoing oxygen treatment. Of the 29 deaths reported due to Covid-19 in the city, seven have been recorded at Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), five at Poona hospital, three each at Inlaks and Budhrani hospital and Kashibai Navale, two at Chintamani hospital and Naidu hospital and one each from Shree hospital, Sahyadri hospital, Sana hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic and Bharati hospital.Also, six deaths were reported from city hospitals of residents from out of PMC limits. Two doctors dead in 24 hours due to Covid-19Two doctors were reported dead due to the coronavirus infection in the past 24 hours. Dr Nandkumar Shah, an ophthalmologist, aged 71, was working with a private hospital in Raviwar peth, but had not been practicing since the past five months. He had diabetes and was admitted 24 days ago, said one of his friends. He is survived by two daughters and a wife. Dr Anil Salgia, aged 74, had not been practicing since the past ten years. He was an orthopedic surgeon and had tested positive for Covid-19. He had also worked at DY Patil hospital in Pimpri as head of the department. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said, “This is the fifth death of a doctor due to Covid-19 in the district. Earlier, we had reported three doctors, one a general practitioner in Pune city and two from rural Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-overtakes-mumbai-to-become-state-s-worst-affected-tally-at-1-30-606/story-SegOB9ziO67itPaFSvgpJM.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Ganpati idols find temporary shelf space in various stores across city||Ahead of the upcoming Ganpati festival as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has restricted the sale of idols on footpaths and traditional markets amid the Covid-19 pandemic; stationery shops, bakeries, general stores, medical stores and cloth shops in the city can be seen selling idols.“Ganpati celebrations will be different this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and it has also affected the idol selling pattern. Many options are available to buy idols online, but still, some are providing idols in temporary shops,” said Rahul Khole, idol maker from the city.“As the PMC has not allowed the sale of idols on roadside shops, this year we have rented a small outer space of the stationary shop for a month at Tilak road, where we have displayed the idols,” said Khole.Usually every year one month before the Ganpati festival the city is flourished with idol shops where residents throng to buy them. There are makeshift shops on all the prominent roads and also there are specified areas where PMC has permitted sellers from outside Pune to come and sell the idols.These places include Shivajinagar road area outside the Shaniwarwada, road near Juna Bazar bridge, road near Sarasbaug garden and several others.Another idol maker Santosh Pakhare from Katraj said, “I have opened up my Ganpati idol shop in a relative’s clothes shop here in Katraj. One part of the shop we are using for the sale of idols and the other for the sale of clothes. We are getting a good response but the business has gone down this year by around 30 per cent.”“Having a different pandal of Ganpati idols with flashlights and the prominent display is better, but we will manage for this year as a safety precaution amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.Shreyas Rathi, a resident of Rasta peth, said, “Every year we go to Shaniwarwada road to purchase the Ganpati idol, but this year there are lesser number of shops and comparatively fewer options, so we booked our idol from a nearby shop which is a general store where the owner has also kept idols for sale.”“We always prefer Shaduchi mati (clay) idol and we got it near our house, so we are happy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganpati-idols-find-temporary-shelf-space-in-various-stores-across-city/story-uQGM9SXvaCybSJkjBNfraP.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Ninth organ donation in Pune city amid Covid-19 pandemic||The city, on Sunday, saw its ninth organ donation during the Covid-19 pandemic. A 39-year-old woman lost her life due to internal bleeding in the brain and her donated organs helped save five lives.The six organs retrieved from the woman include heart, cornea, both lungs, kidneys and liver. The organs were sent to different hospitals across the city and a private hospital in Chennai and Hyderabad.Aarti Gokhale, Pune zonal transplant coordination committee, said, “This is the ninth organ donation during the Covid-19 pandemic since May.”“The 39-year-old female suffered from internal bleeding in the brain or intracerebral haemorrhage. She was a housewife and her husband consented to donate the organs, We could retrieve her heart which was sent to Chennai, lungs to Hyderabad, cornea and liver to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and both the kidneys to Jupiter hospital, Baner,” she said.Pratik Deshmukh, coordinator, Deenananth Mangeshkar Hospital, where the woman was undergoing treatment and was declared dead, said, “The woman had slipped after losing consciousness. She was admitted on August 13 and then declared brain dead at the hospital. The family was counselled about organ donation. Most of the organs were sent out to recipients immediately and we have stored the cornea at our eye bank.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ninth-organ-donation-in-city-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-AHHHSxqtxwBA0qYL9UNr5K.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Man murders pregnant live-in partner, surrenders before police in Pune||A man allegedly killed his 24-year-old pregnant live-in partner in Karegaon, Ranjangaon MIDC area, officials said on Sunday. The accused, who works at a local industrial unit, later went to Ranjangaon MIDC police station and confessed to his crime. According to officials, the incident happened on Friday, following which the 27-year-old accused visited the police station and asked the police to give him a pen and paper. “The man came to the police station and wrote on paper that he is under depression and in this state, he has committed the murder. He also said that he strangulated his girlfriend,” said police naik PN Sutar. The police have arrested the suspect who was living with the woman at Rajgad Plaza in Karegaon since the past four to five months. The FIR has been lodged by police constable Gajanan Shinde. Shinde in his FIR stated that he and another police constable GG Sutar were at the police station when the accused Kiran Balasaheb Phunde (27) arrived at 6:35pm on August 15 and gave a written submission of strangulating his live-in in room number 33 of Rajgad Plaza at Karegaon in Shirur tahsil of the district and said that he had locked the room from outside. The accused handed over a key of the room to them. The police teams immediately rushed to the spot and opened the door lock in the presence of local residents as eyewitnesses. As per Phunde’s statement, they found the dead body inside the room.The accused said that he had been staying with the victim in a live-in relationship and she had become pregnant. The couple wanted to terminate the pregnancy, but did not have money to go to the doctor. Phunde later wanted to restart a physical relationship with the victim which she denied. Enraged over the rejection and feeling insulted, he strangulated her to death, the FIR stated. Police inspector Suresh Kumar Raut said that a murder case has been lodged against the accused and investigation was on ascertain more circumstantial evidence obtained by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-murders-pregnant-live-in-partner-surrenders-before-police-in-pune/story-0HE99azX22mWzFRKGVba8L.html
17-08-2020||Pune||Malls, hotels in Pune witness lukewarm response||Malls and hotels resumed their operations in the city since August 5, however, there has been a lukewarm response from customers because of the fear of the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.On August 5, the state government allowed malls and hotels to reopen with rigid standard operating procedures (SOP).“Amid the rise in positive cases, there is still a fear in the minds of the people and so nobody from our circle is visiting the mall. Even Independence Day was celebrated at home,” said Kiran Shinde, who generally visits Pheonix Market City on every Independence Day with his friends.However, mall owners have observed a rise in footfall over the last one week.“People are following all the SOPs and the best part is people who are actual buyers are visiting malls more which is helping shop owners gain more profit. There is a good footfall at footwear, jewellery shops,” said Arun Arora, Centre director, Pheonix Market City.The hotels, which are allowed to operate at 33 per cent capacity, are still struggling to find visitors.“With sightseeing and visits to temples not allowed, we are receiving only a few bookings for the Ganpati festival, most of the bookings are done by people who are on business trips,” said one of the owners of a hotel in Baner requesting anonymity.The markets, which are now open after the even-odd rule was scrapped, are also not recording good footfall.“Customers are seen visiting only innerwear shops while others have no takers,” said Salim Shaik, Muskaan dress materials, Kothrud.Federation of Traders’ Association of Pune, secretary, Mahendra Pitaliya said, “Footfall will grow as the festive season approaches. Our traders have noticed a rise in customers over the last few days, especially for home decoration material for the Ganesh festival.”The customers at Laxmi road were less as compared to every year during Ganesh festival.“As people have been impacted financially due to the lockdown, they are keeping the festive season simple and are not seeking expensive material for decoration,” said Ram Mehta, who runs a decoration shop at Laxmi road.“The charm of Laxmi road is missing, traders were always busy earlier, but now they sit idle at shops,” said Amol Patil, a customer at Laxmi road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/malls-hotels-in-pune-witness-lukewarm-response/story-6KYCeeQ72M1JQsdqTBAHCL.html
17-08-2020||World||At 54.4°C, Death Valley in US sees hottest temp since 1913||A thermometer at Death Valley’s Furnace Creek in the Southern California desert has soared to 54.4 degrees Celsius, the highest temperature in more than a century, the US National Weather Service said.“If verified, this will be the hottest temperature officially verified since July of 1913,” NWS Las Vegas said of the reading on Sunday afternoon, emphasising that it was preliminary. It will need to undergo a review before the record is confirmed, it said on its Twitter feed.The automated weather station close to the Furnace Creek visitors’ centre near the border with Nevada hit the high at 3.41pm local time.Death Valley’s all-time record high, according to the World Meteorological Organization, is (56.7°C) taken on July 10, 1913 at Greenland Ranch. It still stands as the hottest ever recorded on the planet’s surface, according to the WMO. Coming soon: Arctic Summer Without IceThere’s a standard image of the Earth as seen from space: vast blue seas, green bands of forests, and frozen white caps on the top and bottom. But by the summer of 2035, it may no longer be so. Scientists say that in just 15 years, Arctic summer sea-ice could disappear. The new research is the latest in a steady stream that has moved up the predicted time frame for the ice-free Arctic milestone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-54-4-c-death-valley-in-us-sees-hottest-temp-since-1913/story-5gmrGAlR6D83bYngRadMQK.html
17-08-2020||World||Workers heckle embattled Belarus leader amid strikes||Workers heckled and jeered President Alexander Lukashenko on Monday as he visited a factory and strikes grew across Belarus, raising the pressure on the country’s leader to step down after 26 years in power.On the ninth straight day of mass protests over the official results of the August 9 presidential election that demonstrators say was rigged, Lukashenko flew by helicopter to a factory in the capital of Minsk to rally support, but he was met by angry workers chanting, “Go away!” He told the workers, “I will never cave in to pressure.”Lukashenko said the country could have a new presidential election, but only after approving an amended version of its constitution - an apparent bid to buy some time amid the growing political crisis. He told the workers that those who intend to strike could leave if they want, but added the protests are ruining the economy and said the country would collapse if he steps down.“Some of you might have got the impression that the government no longer exists, that it has tumbled down. The government will never collapse, you know me well,” the 65-year-old former state farm director shouted.As he spoke, over 5,000 striking workers from the Minsk Tractor Plant marched down the streets of the city, joining an increasing number of state-controlled factories across the nation of 9.5 million in walking off the job.Miners at the huge potash factory in Soligorsk also said they were joining the strike. The giant Belaruskali factory that accounts for a fifth of the world’s potash fertilizer output is the nation’s top cash earner. The workers want Lukashenko to give way to Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the leading opposition candidate in the election.Tikhanovskaya, who fled to Lithuania after the elections, said she was willing to lead the country. Lithuania, a Nato member, said Belarus has started military drills on its western border.European Union leaders meeting over the latest developments in Belarus will send a message to the Russian government to stay out of the former Soviet republic, even as Britain said it rejected the results of the “fraudulent” polls.A senior US official said Russia must respect Belarus’ sovereignty and right of its people to freely elect their own leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/workers-heckle-embattled-belarus-leader-amid-strikes/story-fxd5vcX9YMuUJRKAUCamIN.html
17-08-2020||World||Donald Trump says he’ll send feds if NYC can’t stop bloodshed||President Donald Trump is again threatening to send federal agents to New York City if local authorities don’t stop a surge of violence that has left seven people dead and more than 50 people shot since Friday.Trump, who’s running for re-election on a law-and-order agenda as a counterweight to the police and criminal justice reform movement, reacted to the news of the mayhem in his hometown Sunday night on Twitter.“Law and Order,” Trump wrote, directing his message at the city’s Democratic mayor, Bill de Blasio. “If (he) can’t do it, we will!” It was the latest in a string of bloody weekends that have roiled the city in the wake of coronavirus-related shutdowns, rallies against police brutality and a month-long protest encampment in front of City Hall.According to police, 51 people were shot from Friday through Sunday, six of whom died from their injuries. Another man died after a physical altercation, police said.Eight people were shot and five people were killed over the same span last year.De Blasio on Monday dismissed Trump’s tweet as “bluster,” telling reporters that a recent uptick in gun arrests was a hopeful sign that the NYPD “will turn this tide.” De Blasio’s press secretary, Bill Neidhardt, noted that Trump sent his tweet hours after retweeting a pundit who said Democratic cities should be left to rot.Trump has used violent spikes in Democratic-led cities such as New York, Chicago and Philadelphia to justify claims that recent reforms and cuts to police budgets have handcuffed officers and allowed criminals to run amok. His re-election campaign has been airing farcical television commercials suggesting no one will be there to answer 911 calls if his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joe Biden, is elected president.“The only thing rotten is Trump’s mind,” Neidhardt tweeted in response.Trump, a Republican who grew up in Queens and built his namesake tower on Manhattan’s chic Fifth Avenue, backed off a threat last month to send federal agents to New York City to deal with protesters and increased violence, as he had in Portland, Oregon.De Blasio had said the city would take legal action to stop such a move and Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Trump told him by telephone that he wouldn’t send any extra federal law enforcement personnel to the city without discussing it with the governor first.Trump’s emphatic loyalty to the men and women in blue — “We love our police!” he’s bellowed at rallies — and his aversion to some of the many reforms enacted across the U.S. after the Minneapolis police killing of George Floyd in May has translated into increased support from the law enforcement community.On Friday, Trump received the endorsement of New York City’s largest police union, the Police Benevolent Association. At a ceremony with the union’s leaders at his New Jersey golf course, Trump said recent changes to state and city laws governing officer conduct and accountability have “totally taken away their incentive.” New York state lawmakers in June repealed a decades-old law that had kept police disciplinary records a secret. They also banned officers from using chokeholds. City lawmakers went a step further, ordering officers to avoid the torso while making an arrest.“They’ve taken away their lives, in a sense, because they don’t allow them to do their job,” Trump said.New York’s recent crime wave has upended years of at-or-near record lows that had city leaders touting it as the “Safest Big City in America.” Still, it remains far safer than in the early 1990s, when there were more than 2,000 killings per year.This year, the city has seen a 82.1% increase in shooting incidents and a 88.5% increase in shooting victims over last year, according to police. More than 1,000 people have been shot in the city from Jan. 1 through Sunday, police said.Homicides have climbed more than 30%, to 259 as of Sunday from 199 at the same point last year.What’s behind the rash of violence isn’t clear.Police have blamed bail reforms that went into effect at the start of the year, but there’s little evidence that police freed from jail are behind the new crimes. Mayor Bill de Blasio blamed pandemic-related courthouse closures, but court officials said they were functioning all along. (AP) PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-he-ll-send-feds-if-nyc-can-t-stop-bloodshed/story-DhqjQzh68cvTsn9BPiFwSL.html
17-08-2020||World||‘Lies, dirty tactics’: Kamala Harris slams birther attacks floated by Donald Trump||Kamala Harris, presumptive democratic nominee for vice-president, rejected false and racist theory promoted by President Donald Trump questioning her eligibility, terming them as “lies” and “dirty tactics” to distract attention from the administration’s failures. “They are going to engage in lies. They are going to engage in deception. They are going to engage in an attempt to distract form the real issue that is impacting the American people,” Harris told TheGrio , a news focussed on covering Black Americans, on Sunday, addressing the issue for the first time.“I expect they will engage in dirty tactics and this is going to be a knock-down, drag-out and we are ready,” said Oakland, California-born Harris. President Trump has refused to reject a theory floated on the right, falsely arguing that Harris was not qualified to run for vice-presidential seat, because she was not a natural-born citizen as required constitutionally. As the theory went, her immigrant parents — mother from India and father from Jamaica — were probably not naturalised citizens at the time, 1964. And that she was an “anchor baby”, a term used for children born in the US for the express purpose of facilitating the immigration of the rest of the family.Harris, 55, was born in Oakland, California. And that makes her a natural-born US citizen and eligible to be president if she needed to step in.Trump has praised the writer of a Newsweek column, who first put out the falsehood in print, as a “brilliant lawyer”, but said Saturday, “It’s not something that I’m going to be pursuing.” And that it “does not bother me at all”. But he refused to say, when pressed by a reporter, if he believed Harris was eligible to run.Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, was clearer in an interview on CNN Sunday. “Sure,” he said when asked if he believed Harris was eligible to run, adding that, “And I think the president spoke to this yesterday. This is not something that we’re going to pursue.”On Thursday, the president had said, when asked about the conspiracy theory for the first time, “I have no idea if that’s right. I would have assumed the Democrats would have checked that out before she gets chosen for vice president.”Instead of dismissing the starkly false argument, Trump said. “That’s a very serious... they’re saying she doesn’t qualify because she wasn’t born in this country?” he had asked.President Trump claimed for years — birthing what came to be called the “birther” theory — that President Barack Obama was not eligible to be president because he was not born in the US. Obama, who was born in Hawaii, was forced to release his birth records to squash this theory. Trump, however, gave up in 2016, when he was running for president.The same year, however, Trump had launched another “birther” theory. This time about Ted Cruz, the Republican senator who raced Trump to the finish line for the Republican nomination for president before quitting. Cruz was born in Calgary, Canada to a father from Cuba and mother who was American.The president has reacted viciously to Harris. He has called her “nasty”, and claimed that though she is of Indian heritage, “I have more Indians than she has.”Harris’s mother Shyamala Gopalan was from Chennai — though she had also lived with her family in Delhi for years. She came to the United States in 1958, became a breast cancer researcher. She met and married Donald J Harris in 1963. Kamala Harris was born to them in 1964. Younger sister Maya Harris, was born in 1967.Harris has named Sabrina Singh, an Indian American, as her press secretary. “I’m so excited to join the #BidenHarris ticket as Press Secretary for @KamalaHarris! Can’t wait to get to work and win in November!,” Singh wrote in a tweet Sunday. He was formerly the spokeswoman for Michael Bloomberg’s primary campaign and New Jersey Senator Cory Booker, who is a close friend of Harris.Harris has also brought on to her team Rohini Kosoglu, her Sri Lankan-born chief of staff from her own presidential campaign that she discontinued last December, as a senior advisor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lies-dirty-tactics-kamala-harris-slams-birther-attacks-floated-by-donald-trump/story-5yTNqcQAKJxyx4Jzd93gzM.html
17-08-2020||World||Italy sees drop in coronavirus cases and tests||Italy’s day-to-day new case numbers dropped for a second straight day, but so did the number of swab tests performed to detect coronavirus infections.According to Health Ministry figures on Monday, 320 coronavirus cases were registered since the previous day, and 30,666 swab tests were carried out at the end of Italy’s big summer holiday weekend. Two days earlier, when Italy registered 629 case —the first time the daily caseload had topped 600 since May— there were more than 53,000 swab tests performed.From the start of August, the number of hospitalized patients has climbed from just over 700 to 810 on Monday. Still, the situation is dramatically different than in the first weeks of the pandemic, when thousands of people in Italy were being hospitalized daily with Covid-19.Infectious diseases experts fear that Italy’s caseload will tick upward again as many holiday-goers return from vacations abroad, including in Spain, where the climbing number of coronavirus infections lately has been stirring alarm.Italy now records 254,235 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Four deaths were registered in the last 24 hours, raising the nation death toll in the pandemic to 35,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-sees-drop-in-coronavirus-cases-and-tests/story-T1A3gewQ0hXtxEg6zpVoYN.html
17-08-2020||World||Kamala Harris calls birther attacks ‘lies’||Kamala Harris has lashed out at her critics over questions about her eligibility to run based on her parents’ immigration status at the time of her birth as “lies” and “dirty tactics” to distract attention from the Trump administration’s failures.“They are going to engage in lies. They are going to engage in deception. They are going to engage in an attempt to distract from the real issue that are impacting the American people,” Harris told the news outlet TheGrio, addressing the issue for the first time. “I expect they will engage in dirty tactics and this is going to be a be a knock-down, drag-out and we are ready,” she said on Sunday.President Donald Trump has refused to reject a theory floated by the right wing that falsely says Harris is not qualified to run for vice-president, claiming she is not a natural-born citizen as required by US Constitution. On Saturday, Trump said the issue is “not something that I’m going to be pursuing”, adding that it “does not bother met at all”. Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff , told CNN on Sunday that he believed Harris was eligible to run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-calls-birther-attacks-lies/story-xSNFuzn7sWbNQDKkIoNJmL.html
17-08-2020||World||Donald Trump’s plane nearly hit by small drone: Reports||President Donald Trump’s jet was nearly hit by what appeared to be a small drone as it approached an airport near Washington Sunday night, according to several people aboard Air Force One.The device, which was yellow and black and shaped like a cross, was off the right side of the plane. It was seen by several passengers on the jet, which occurred shortly before the plane touched down at 5:54 p.m.The Secret Service didn’t immediately respond on Monday to a request to confirm the reports. The North American Aerospace Defense Command, which coordinates air security issues in North America, referred questions to the Secret Service. The Federal Aviation Administration referred questions on the matter to the Air Force.While it has been notoriously difficult for aviation safety investigators to verify such fleeting events, it appears to be among the thousands of such safety incidents involving unmanned devices in the U.S. that have prompted calls by law enforcement and homeland security agencies for greater measures to rein in their use.Most civilian drones weigh only a few pounds and probably couldn’t take down a jetliner. But government research suggests the damage could be greater than that from a similar-sized bird, which could shatter a cockpit windshield or damage an engine.Trump was flying in the modified Boeing Co. 757 that is among the fleet of jets known as Air Force One when the president is aboard.The FAA receives thousands of reports per year in which drones fly too close to other aircraft or operate in restricted areas. Most of the reports come from pilots.Under current federal regulations, drones must be flown within sight of the operator and no higher than 400 feet (122 meters) above the ground without special waivers. While the most popular drone models are equipped with software designed to prevent longer range flights, incidents continue to pile up, according to government records.There have been a handful of instances in which drones actually struck aircraft, but none have resulted in a serious crash or injuries, according to National Transportation Safety Board data.A hobbyist drone being flown illegally near New York City struck an Army helicopter on Sept. 21, 2017, the NTSB found. The impact damaged the helicopter, but it was able to land safely.The NTSB last month concluded that a drone most likely struck a KABC-TV chopper flying above downtown Los Angeles on Dec. 4.Drone sightings have occasionally disrupted operations at major airports, such as when pilots nearing Newark Liberty International Airport reported nearly colliding with a small drone in January 2019.The FAA hopes to unveil regulations requiring that civilian drones transmit their location and identity by the end of the year. The new requirement is designed to help prevent the devices from being used by terrorists and to reduce the risks they pose to traditional aircraft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-plane-nearly-hit-by-small-drone-reports/story-XniuHfLru6yYp9JS8UnNfJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Labour’s 2019 Kashmir motion not party policy, says India group||The September 2019 motion adopted at Labour’s annual conference, seeking international intervention in the Kashmir issue and a referendum, is not the party’s official policy, co-chairmen of the Labour Friends of India group within the party insisted on Monday.The resolution, adopted when Jeremy Corbyn was party leader, sparked a diplomatic row and cost the party many votes from the 1.5 million strong Indian community in the December 2019 elections. Under new party leader Keir Starmer, the party has been keen to win back support.Co-chairmen Labour MP Darren Jones and deputy mayor of London Rajesh Agarwal admitted to members of the Indian Journalists Association that the party lost ground in the community, but insisted that under Starmer the party has begun the long process of rebuilding trust.Labour has long been the party of preference of the Indian community, but younger, aspirational members have gravitated to the Conservative party in recent years, particularly after David Cameron assiduously wooed the community when he took over as party leader in 2005.Jones, MP for Bristol North-West, said“We have to be honest about this. We not only lost Indian votes but votes of others (in December 2019). Starmer has been keen to rebuild trust and the historic relationship with India and the community here”.“The Kashmir motion is not party policy. In future you won’t see that happening again. You will see a different style of leadership under Starmer, who is going around the country listening and engaging with people”, he added.According to Indore-born Agarwal, “all sorts” of motions are adopted at conferences. Labour MPs speak on behalf of their constituents, but that does not necessarily mean their perspectives become party policy. He said: “No doubt we have lost some Indian votes, we need to work harder. We have a long way to go, but we can do it”.“Starmer has already made it clear that we must not allow issues of the sub-continent to divide communities here. Any constitutional issues in India are a matter for the Indian Parliament and Kashmir is a bilateral issue for India and Pakistan to resolve peacefully,” he added.As part of the party’s efforts to regain support, a Mahatma Gandhi Future Leaders Programme is to be launched on October 2 to encourage people from the community to join politics at various levels. Starmer, Agarwal said, is keen to visit India next year.Set up in 1999, the Labour Friends of India group includes MPs as well as others. According to Agarwal, it is now a community-led group rather than one led by the “Westminster bubble”, though the distinction was not entirely clear.Labour has seven Indian-origin MPs in the current House of Commons, its highest from the community so far: Navendu Mishra (Stockport), Virendra Sharma (Ealing Southall), Slough (Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi), Seema Malhotra (Feltham and Heston), Preet Kaur Gill (Birmingham Edgbaston), Lisa Nandy (Wigan) and Valerie Vaz (Walsall South).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/labour-s-2019-kashmir-motion-not-party-policy-says-india-group/story-HpZgYWNcPWmvLsJIsC588H.html
17-08-2020||World||New French Covid-19 infections sharply down, hospitalisations edge higher||The French health ministry reported 493 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours on Monday, sharply down from a caseload of above 3,000 each on the two previous days.However, the number of hospitalisations for the disease rose by 65 to 4,925, increasing for the third day running.France’s cumulative total of cases now stands at 219,029.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-french-covid-19-infections-sharply-down-hospitalisations-edge-higher/story-JqHYQbVayjAxmhCX3yxYHK.html
17-08-2020||World||Thousands of partygoers without masks pack into Wuhan water park in China||Thousands of partygoers packed out a water park over the weekend in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the coronavirus first emerged late last year, keen to party as the city edges back to normal life.The popular Wuhan Maya Beach Water Park was filled with people frolicking in swimsuits and goggles for an electronic music festival, many perched on rubber dinghies or wading up to their chest in water.The water park reopened in June after Wuhan gradually opened up after a 76-day lockdown and strict restrictions to try and control the spread of the virus.The park -- which local media says has capped attendance at 50 percent of normal capacity -- is offering half price discounts for female visitors.A performer in a stage show at the front of the water waved at the crowd, packed close and waving their arms back, some snapping photos on phones protected in plastic pouches round their necks.Another performer on a water jet board entertained his audience by hovering above them with sparks shooting from his back.Some of the crowd had donned life jackets, but none of the tightly-packed partygoers were seen to be wearing face masks as a DJ in bright yellow headphones played on stage.The first known cases of Covid-19 emerged in Wuhan late last year, a city of 11 million people, before the virus spread across the world, killing hundreds of thousands and crippling economies.The lockdown was lifted in April, and there have been no new domestically transmitted cases officially reported in Hubei province, where Wuhan is the capital, since mid-May.To try and boost the local economy, the Hubei government has been offering free entry to 400 tourist sites across the province.China has largely brought its domestic epidemic under control, but sporadic outbreaks and a summer of severe flooding have exacerbated the economic fallout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-partygoers-without-masks-pack-into-wuhan-water-park-in-china/story-ZMeZ6197COeQpz7l58EBjP.html
17-08-2020||World||Democrats to kick off convention with Bernie Sanders, Michelle Obama’s addresses||US Democrats will kick off Monday night their first virtual convention yet with Senator Bernie Sanders stressing party unity as a lead speaker. Michelle Obama, the former first lady, will close the evening, possibly with an inspiring speech similar to her “we go high as they go low” in 2016.Sanders had been a hold out at the 2016 convention and only nominally offered truce after a bruising primaries in which party officials had brazenly worked to help Hillary Clinton clinch the ticket. He is truly on board this time and is expected to exhort his legions of supporters to rally behind Joe Biden.“I understand we do not agree with Joe Biden on all of the issues — believe me, I know that, I ran against Joe Biden,” Sanders told delegates in a call last month, as reported by The New York Times. “But at this moment, what we need to do is engage in coalition politics with the goal of defeating Trump.”Former first lady Obama remains extremely popular in the party and is an inspiring speaker. She had set up Clinton’s 2016 run as a glowing contrast to Donald Trump’s divisive campaign.“Our motto is, when they go low, we go high,” she had said. That phrase was all her own, her speech writer has said since, and continues to reverberate till this day.The four-day convention — to officially nominate Biden as the Democratic party nominee for president — will be a two-hour daily mix of pre-recorded videos and live speeches, all done virtually because of the Covid-19 epidemic that continues to ravage the US. It remains the worst-hit in the world with tens of thousands of new infections every day and hundreds of fatalities.The convention was preceded Sunday by an interfaith service that included Sikh leader Pardeep Kaleka and Hindu leader Neelima GonuguntlaThe Trump campaign will be stalking the convention with a plan called “The Real Joe Biden”, a mixture of on-ground activities, ads and live speeches. President Trump is expected to speak live just hours before the start of the convention on Biden’s “economic failures”. And the campaign will have live commentary till the end of the day. That’s the plan for the duration of the convention, with Trump expected to pick a new issue every day.The two parties continued to clash over the Trump’s attempts to curtail mail-in voting by overhauling the US postal service. The president has alleged, without proof, that mail-in voting is vulnerable to widespread fraud. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has called a session of the House to pass a legislation blocking Trump’s attempts to overhaul the US postal service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-to-kick-off-convention-with-bernie-sanders-michelle-obama-s-addresses/story-tcHAGmRnA663knqmbMA98H.html
17-08-2020||World||US announces new restrictions on China’s Huawei to limit technology access||The Commerce Department announced further restrictions on Huawei Technologies Co. aimed at cutting the Chinese company’s access to commercially available chips, the latest move in an increasingly tense relationship between Beijing and Washington.The changes, which the department announced in a written statement on Monday, build on restrictions announced in May, adding 38 Huawei affiliates in 21 countries to an economic blacklist as the US seeks to limit adoption of the company’s 5G technology.“We don’t want their equipment in the United States because they spy on us,” President Donald Trump said Monday in an interview on “Fox and Friends.”The move is the latest tit-for-tat in escalating tensions between Washington and Beijing over everything from the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic to China’s increasingly tight grip over Hong Kong. Despite the US decision, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Fox Business that talks with China continue on various levels.Ross said the action was aimed at closing loopholes the company explored after previous U.S. actions. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo praised the move as a “direct blow” against the Chinese Communist Party.The company has long rejected accusations that its technology can be used to spy on foreign nations or companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-announces-new-restrictions-on-china-s-huawei-to-limit-technology-access/story-r3BGk7DxJvyYWXaFgG1D5I.html
17-08-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi calls House back into session to vote on Postal bill||Speaker Nancy Pelosi is calling the House back into session over the crisis at the U.S. Postal Service, setting up a political showdown amid growing concerns that the Trump White House is trying to undermine the agency ahead of the election.Pelosi is cutting short lawmakers’ summer recess with a vote expected the Saturday on legislation that would prohibit changes at the agency as tensions mount. President Donald Trump’s new postmaster general, Louis DeJoy, has sparked nationwide outcry over delays, new prices and cutbacks just as millions of Americans will be trying to vote by mail to avoid polling places during the coronavirus outbreak.“In a time of a pandemic, the Postal Service is Election Central,” Pelosi wrote Sunday in a letter to colleagues, who had been expected to be out of session until September. “Lives, livelihoods and the life of our American Democracy are under threat from the president.”The decision to recall the House, made after a weekend of high-level leadership discussions, carries a political punch. Voting in the House will highlight the issue after the weeklong Democratic National Convention nominating Joe Biden as the party’s presidential pick and pressure the Republican-held Senate to respond. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell sent senators home for a summer recess.Earlier Sunday, Democratic lawmakers demanded that leaders of the Postal Service testify at an emergency oversight hearing Aug. 24 on mail delays.The House Oversight and Reform Committee said it wants to hear from DeJoy and from the chair of the Postal Service board of governors, Robert “Mike” Duncan.With heightened scrutiny of its operations, the Postal Service is requesting a temporary preelection rate increase, from mid-October through Christmas, although not for first-class letters.The agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment about whether the two men would appear before the House committee. But it said Sunday it would stop removing its distinctive blue mailboxes through mid-November following complaints from customers and members of Congress that the collection boxes were being taken away.“Given the recent customer concerns the Postal Service will postpone removing boxes for a period of 90 days while we evaluate our customers’ concerns,’‘ Postal Service spokeswoman Kimberly Frum said.House Democrats are expected to discuss the lawmakers’ schedule details on a conference call on Monday and were likely to be in session next Saturday, said a senior Democratic aide, speaking on condition of anonymity because the plans were private.The legislation being prepared for the vote, the “Delivering for America Act,” would prohibit the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or level of service it had in place on Jan. 1.DeJoy, a major Republican donor and ally of the president who took control of the agency in June, has pledged to modernize the money-losing agency to make it more efficient, and has eliminated most overtime for postal workers, imposed restrictions on transportation and reduced of the quantity and use of mail-processing equipment.Trump said last week that he was blocking a $25 billion emergency injection sought by the Postal Service, as well as a Democratic proposal to provide $3.6 billion in additional election money to the states. The Republican president worries that mail-in voting could cost him reelection. The money for the post office is intended to help with processing an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Both funding requests have been tied up in congressional negotiations over a new coronavirus relief package.On Saturday, Trump tried to massage his message, saying he supports increasing money for the Postal Service. He said he was refusing to capitulate to Democrats on other parts of the relief package, including funding for states weighed down by debt accumulated before the pandemic.But the president’s critics were not appeased, contending that Trump has made the calculation that a lower voter turnout would improve his chances of winning a second term.“What you are witnessing is a president of the United States who is doing everything he can to suppress the vote, make it harder for people to engage in mail-in balloting at a time when people will be putting their lives on the line by having to go out to a polling station and vote,” said Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.In announcing the upcoming hearing, congressional Democrats said in a statement: “The postmaster general and top Postal Service leadership must answer to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions, just months before the election.”The lawmakers included Pelosi of California and New York Rep. Carolyn Maloney, the committee chair, along with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and Michigan Sen. Gary Peters, the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, which oversees the Postal Service.Funding a cash-strapped Postal Service has quickly turned into a top campaign issue as Trump presses his unsupported claim that increased mail-in voting will undermine the credibility of the election and Democrats push back.Trump, who spent the weekend at his New Jersey golf club, derided universal mail-in voting as a “scam” and defended DeJoy as the right person to “streamline the post office and make it great again.”His chief of staff, Mark Meadows, tried on Sunday to counter criticism that Trump was trying to stifle turnout with national and battleground state polls showing him facing a difficult path to reelection against Biden.“I’ll give you that guarantee right now: The president of the United States is not going to interfere with anybody casting their vote in a legitimate way, whether it’s the post office or anything else,” Meadows said.But Democrats said changes made by DeJoy constitute “a grave threat to the integrity of the election and to our very democracy.”The agency in the meantime is now seeking a short-term, end-of-the-year rate increase, according to a notice filed Friday with the Postal Regulatory Commission. The reasons: increased expenses, heightened demand for online packages due to the coronavirus pandemic and an expected increase in holiday mail volume.The plan would raise prices on commercial domestic competitive parcels, including Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, first-class package service, Parcel Select and Parcel Return Service.Most of the proposed increases would be less than 10%. They range from 24 cents for Parcel Select Service, which starts at $3.05, to a $1.50 increase for Priority Mail Express Commercial, which starts at $22.75. The regulatory commission is expected to decide on the proposals next month.The Postal Service is the country’s most popular government agency with 91% of Americans having a favorable opinion of the service, according to a Pew Research Center Survey published in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-calls-house-back-into-session-to-vote-on-postal-bill/story-BKrtQWCWNBdTiewoD32IpO.html
17-08-2020||World||‘Very worrying’: Few UK Asian volunteers in Covid-19 vaccine trials||Indians and Asians are among those who have been disproportionately affected by the coronavirus pandemic, but new figures released on Monday show that barely 3 per cent of over 1 lakh volunteers enrolled for vaccine trials come from these sections of the UK population.A targeted campaign in Punjabi, Gujarati, Urdu, Bengali and other minority languages is to be launched to encourage more people to enrol for future trials of several vaccine candidates currently being developed in the UK.Health officials said that researchers welcome people from all parts of society, especially those who are more likely to benefit from a vaccine, including those over 65, frontline health and social care workers, and those from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds.According to Bradford-based Dinesh Saralaya, consultant respiratory physician and one of the directors of the recruitment programme, only 3 per cent Asians enrolling for the trials is “very worrying”.“It’s very important that we dispel the myths in the Asian community that vaccines are going to be harmful. It’s perfectly safe. They are very, very closely monitored and there are very strict protocols. The standard of care is in fact better than what you would receive outside of a trial (and) the side effects are very, very minimal,” he told The Guardian.Business secretary Alok Sharma said: “Scientists and researchers are working day and night to find a vaccine that meets the UK’s rigorous regulatory and safety standards, but they need hundreds of thousands of people of all backgrounds and ages to sign-up for studies to speed up this vital research.“I urge everyone to play our part in the fight against coronavirus and join the 100,000 people who have already registered, so we can help save and protect millions of lives”, he added.The highest number of non-white patients infected by the virus and who died in England, are ‘British Indian’: 792, as of August 12. Indian and other non-white communities accounted for 15 per cent of the deaths in England by that date.Several trials in the UK are expected to begin this autumn. Launched on July 20, the Vaccine Research Registry is an online service allowing members of the public to register their interest in vaccine studies and be contacted to participate in future clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/very-worrying-few-uk-asian-volunteers-in-covid-19-vaccine-trials/story-DHJNWPU1buN70JxryQk7FM.html
17-08-2020||World||Japan’s leader visits hospital, raising health concerns||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe went to a hospital on Monday for what Japanese media said was a regular health checkup, although the visit generated renewed concerns about his health.Videos of Abe being driven in a car to Keio University Hospital in Tokyo on Monday morning were widely shown on Japanese TV news reports. Public broadcaster NHK TV later showed him leaving the hospital at about 6 p.m.The Prime Minister’s Office declined to comment on the hospital visit, saying it was not on his official schedule. Abe has been on a summer break recently, as has much of Japan.A governing party lawmaker, Akira Amari, remarked on television over the weekend that Abe feels guilty about taking time off but needs rest.Abe, 65, has had health concerns before. He stepped down in 2007 during an earlier stint as prime minister, citing health problems.Kyodo News said the visit was part of a regular checkup Abe gets about twice a year.Although Abe sometimes goes to his summer home in the countryside about this time of year, he has stayed in Tokyo amid widespread concerns about the coronavirus pandemic, according to Kyodo.Abe is the longest-serving prime minister in Japanese history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-s-leader-visits-hospital-raising-health-concerns/story-v1vicEIxKqNTTLPynhqtNK.html
17-08-2020||World||Ready to work with India to manage our differences: China||China on Monday said it is ready to work with India to enhance political mutual trust, properly manage their differences and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said this at a regular briefing when a Western media journalist sought China’s reaction to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks that the Indian armed forces have given a befitting reply to those challenging the country’s sovereignty. Modi, in his 74th Independence Day address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, said the armed forces have given a befitting reply to those challenging the country’s sovereignty “from LoC to LAC”, in a veiled reference to Pakistan and China. “From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces have responded in the language they understand,” Modi said. Modi’s comments came amid India’s bitter border row with China along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and rise in incidents of ceasefire violations along the LoC with Pakistan in the last few months. Responding to the question, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao said that “we have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech.” “We are close neighbours, we are emerging countries with over one billion people. So, the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world,” he said. “The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao said. “So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step-up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties,” the spokesman added.  In his speech, Prime Minister Modi also said that “whether it is terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting both with determination.” Referring to the Galwan Valley clashes in eastern Ladakh in June, the prime minister said respect for India’s sovereignty is supreme and the world has seen in Ladakh what its brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve. “I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort,” Modi said, adding the whole country is united in protecting the sovereignty of the country. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed during the clashes on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ready-to-work-with-india-to-manage-our-differences-china/story-7Pb9Bgy9WFp4ZayPygE5LL.html
17-08-2020||World||Sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Lebanon after deadly port blast||Lebanon is facing a surge in coronavirus cases after a devastating blast at the Beirut port earlier this month killed scores and wounded thousands, prompting medical officials to urge Monday for a two-week lockdown to try to contain the pandemic.Virus numbers were expected to rise following the August 4, explosion of nearly 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate stored at the port. Around 180 people were killed, more than 6,000 wounded and a quarter of a million left with homes unfit to live in. The blast overwhelmed the city’s hospitals and also badly damaged two that had a key role in handling virus cases.Ahead of the surge, medical officials had warned of the dangers of crowding at hospitals in the aftermath of the explosion, at funerals or as people searched through the rubble. Protests and demonstrations also broke out after the blast as Lebanese vented their anger at the ruling class and decades-long mismanagement.On Sunday, Lebanon registered 439 new virus cases and six fatalities. The new infections bring to 8,881 the total number of cases in the small country of just over 5 million, where Covid-19 has killed some 103 people.Separately, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA, said four Palestinians died of the virus over the weekend — doubling to eight the number of dead so far in Palestinian camps.Initially, strict measures had kept the numbers of cases under control in Lebanon but they surged after a lockdown and nighttime curfew were lifted and the country’s only international airport reopened in early July.Health Minister Hamad Hassan warned the true number could be far higher. Following a meeting Monday with medical officials who demanded another two-week lockdown, he urged everyone wear a mask, saying the virus has now spread in every city and almost every village in Lebanon.“It is a matter of life and death,” Hassan said, adding that soon private and public hospitals might not be able to take more patients.Lebanon’s health sector has been challenged by the pandemic that hit amid an unprecedented economic and financial crisis. The explosion in Beirut’s port only increased the pressure on the Lebanese capital’s hospitals, knocking out at least three of them.Dr Firas Abiad, director general of Rafik Hariri University Hospital which is leading the fight against coronavirus, described the situation as “extremely worrisome,” warning that without a lockdown, the numbers will continue to rise “overwhelming the hospital capacity.” Hassan urged every expatriate or foreigner returning to Lebanon not to leave their hotels until they are tested and cleared. People traveling to Lebanon will be required to be tested both before and upon arrival.He also called for field hospitals and said some public hospitals will exclusively handle virus patients.Petra Khoury, medical adviser to outgoing Prime Minister Hassan Diab tweeted that Covid-19 positive rate has increased from 2.1% to 5.6% in just four weeks.“The virus doesn’t differentiate between us. A rate 5% is real threat to all our nation,” she warned.Meanwhile, Iran, which has the region’s largest and deadliest outbreak of the coronavirus, reported 165 more deaths from Covid-19, bringing the overall death toll to 19,804.Health ministry’s spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari said Iran has so far confirmed 345,450 cases of the virus. (AP) SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sharp-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-in-lebanon-after-deadly-port-blast/story-bjzkVpACO7gYJDYQvtKLgL.html
17-08-2020||World||Southeast Asia detects mutated coronavirus strain sweeping the world||Southeast Asia is facing a strain of the new coronavirus that the Philippines, which faces the region’s largest outbreak, is studying to see whether the mutation makes it more infectious.The strain, earlier seen in other parts of the world and called D614G, was found in a Malaysian cluster of 45 cases that started from someone who returned from India and breached his 14-day home quarantine. The Philippines detected the strain among random Covid-19 samples in the largest city of its capital region.The mutation “is said to have a higher possibility of transmission or infectiousness, but we still don’t have enough solid evidence to say that that will happen,” Philippines’ Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire said in a virtual briefing on Monday.The strain has been found in many other countries and has become the predominant variant in Europe and the U.S., with the World Health Organization saying there’s no evidence the strain leads to a more severe disease. The mutation has also been detected in recent outbreaks in China.There’s no evidence from the epidemiology that the mutation is considerably more infectious than other strains, said Benjamin Cowling, head of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Hong Kong. “It’s more commonly identified now than it was in the past, which suggests that it might have some kind of competitive advantage over other strains of Covid-19,” he said.As Southeast Asian countries take various steps to prevent a resurgence while reopening limited travel, they struggle with people breaching quarantine rules after returning from overseas as well as false negative test results at borders.The man who returned from India had tested negative when he arrived in Malaysia. He has since been sentenced to five months in prison and fined for breaching quarantine.People’s Cooperation“People need to be wary and take greater precautions because this strain has now been found in Malaysia,” the country’s Director-General of Health Noor Hisham Abdullah wrote in a Facebook post, saying the strain can make it 10 times more infectious without citing a study. “The people’s cooperation is very needed so that we can together break the chain of infection from any mutation.”The strain “might be a little bit more contagious. We haven’t yet got enough evidence to evaluate that, but there’s no evidence that it’s a lot more contagious,” University of Hong Kong’s Cowling said.Noor Hisham warned that the strain could mean existing studies on vaccines may be incomplete or ineffective against the mutation. That’s even as a paper published in Cell Press said the mutation is unlikely to have a major impact on the efficacy of vaccines currently being developed.While Malaysia has largely managed to prevent a resurgence of the virus seen elsewhere in the world, the number of new cases found in the country has been picking up. The country reported 26 new cases on Saturday, the most since July 28.Confirmed cases in the Philippines have surged 76% from the end of July to a total of 164,474 as of Monday. It overtook Indonesia more than a week ago to become the country with the largest outbreak in Southeast Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/southeast-asia-detects-mutated-coronavirus-strain-sweeping-the-world/story-Bevk1WS7ffdmaqJSLMglpL.html
17-08-2020||World||Tehran says tankers seized by US were carrying Iranian fuel||Four tankers seized by the U.S. while en route to Venezuela were carrying cargoes of gasoline loaded in Iran, Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said.His acknowledgment is the first public statement by an Iranian official that the ships were transporting fuel from Iran when the U.S. confiscated them last week. The seizure was an unprecedented step by Washington and could destabilize global oil shipments if Iran retaliates.“The cargoes were loaded from Iran, but neither the ships nor the cargoes belonged to Iran, and the U.S. declared victory for itself in the middle of this,” Zanganeh said on Monday at a briefing in Tehran. “The fuel was Iranian, but it had been sold to Venezuela and its payment had been cleared.”Retaliatory action by Iran could disrupt energy markets if Tehran interferes with international oil tankers transiting the Strait of Hormuz, the world’s most critical choke point for oil shipments. However, the impact on oil prices may be less pronounced than what it once might have been given lower fuel consumption in the face of pandemic-driven lockdowns.Benchmark Brent crude gained 0.5% and was trading at $45.02 a barrel at 8:31 a.m. in London, down 32% this year.The tankers were transporting 1.1 million barrels of petroleum, the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement Friday. It’s not clear where the ships were at the time of the seizures because they had all turned off their satellite-tracking systems to avoid detection between May and July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Iran has been exporting gasoline to fuel-starved Venezuela in defiance of U.S. sanctions that are intended to choke off both nations from oil revenue. The Justice Department said the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which the U.S. designates as a foreign terrorist organization, was behind the shipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tehran-says-tankers-seized-by-us-were-carrying-iranian-fuel/story-lY7UXUpgc8NMLdDqMzDioJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Millions of beetles are wiping out forests all across the world||A plague of tiny mountain pine beetles, no bigger than a grain of rice, has already destroyed 15 years of log supplies in British Columbia, enough trees to build 9 million single-family homes, and are chewing through forests in Alberta and the Pacific Northwest. Now, an outbreak of spruce beetles is threatening to devour even more trees in North America just as similar pests are decimating supplies in parts of Europe, creating a glut of dead and dying logs.The bugs are thriving as climate change warms winters that would normally keep them at bay, destroying a swath of the world’s timber supplies. That may eventually spur shortages for the global housing market. Right now, lumber prices are soaring to record highs thanks to a  surge in pent-up repair, renovation and housing demand sparked by the coronavirus pandemic.All told, the beetles felled 730 million cubic meters of pine between 2000 and 2015 in British Columbia, Canada’s largest exporter of timber to the U.S. housing market. That’s erased more than a decade of lumber supplies and and will reduce the allowable production in the B.C. Interior by a staggering 40%, said David Elstone, owner of Vancouver-based Spar Tree Group. Provincial modeling indicates about 55% of B.C.’s marketable pine trees will be dead by 2020.Squashing these bugs is no easy feat, according to Caroline Whitehouse, a forest health specialist for the province of Alberta. Helicopters scour areas of Alberta’s northern timberland looking for signs a pine tree’s green needles have turned a ghastly red. Whitehouse’s team on the ground then ferrets out pines oozing a creamy, reddish resin to confirm the beetles have bored into the bark and overwhelmed their host.Finally, infected trees are cut down with chainsaws before they are chopped into bits and burned with fuel to destroy any chance the larvae could spread.“You’ve got to utilize these dramatic, very effective techniques of cut and burn,” said Whitehouse, noting Alberta’s efforts have reduced the area that could have been impacted by the mountain pine beetle by 30%. Still, the pests have affected more than 2.2 million hectares (5.4 million acres) and the outbreak is unlikely to subside for another five or six years. “Certainly it’s a difficult thing. When you have an outbreak you have millions and millions and millions upon millions of beetles in the forest.”Decades ago, the mountain pine beetle was part of the forest’s normal cycle of death and regrowth. The pests would feast on mature trees, providing fuel for forest fires that would then spur new growth. But by 1950, humans became very good at putting out forest fires, leaving a ‘smorgasbord’ of older trees for the insects to attack, said Allan Carroll, professor of insect ecology and director of the Forest Sciences Program at the University of British Columbia.Temperatures have climbed in the province more quickly than across the world in general. The nighttime minimum average temperature in winter rose by 3.1 degrees Celsius (5.6 degrees Fahrenheit) between 1900 and 2013, according to provincial records. As winters warmed, more of the beetles were able to survive and extend their reach into areas that used to be too cold to live.The wily insects chew through the bark and convert the tree’s only defense mechanism—a toxic sticky, resin—into pheromones to alert thousands of their friends to join in on the mass attack, using it as a place to lay their eggs and eventually killing it.The only way to stop the rapid spread is to find and destroy infected trees. The epidemic, which took off in the early 2000s, spurred a massive salvage operation in B.C. as sawmills raced to process and export timber before the dying trees lost market value. Since 2005, about 40 sawmills have gone out of business following the collapse of the U.S. housing market and as timber shortages emerged from the fallout of the bugs. Further closures are expected to occur in the coming years, Elstone said.The beetles have spread to neighboring Alberta, where they have destroyed chunks of forest normally harvested for timber in addition to valuable caribou habitat. At the same time, the bug’s cousin, the spruce beetle, is threatening to take a bite out of B.C.’s spruce tree supplies.The situation is even worse in Europe, where several years of hot summers and dry winters has left drought-stressed trees ripe for the spread of bugs. About a dozen European countries have outbreaks of the spruce bark beetle, including significant infestations in Germany and the Czech Republic, said Russ Taylor, managing director of FEA Canada. The amount of lumber destroyed in the outbreak could surpass how much the mountain pine beetle killed in B.C. should existing climate conditions persist, according to an FEA report.“In the Czech Republic the beetle kill is bigger than their total harvest capacity,” Taylor said. “They’re fighting a losing battle.”It’s a vicious cycle. As a result of climate change, forests are more easily attacked and killed by beetles as older, more mature trees are the most affected by drought, Taylor said. The bugs in turn, impact the ability of forests to absorb carbon and emit oxygen, indirectly creating more climate change and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.The situation has already upended normal trade flows. Central Europe is now one of the world’s lowest cost suppliers, sending a surge of cheap, damaged timber to China. Eventually, Europe will be in the same boat as B.C., tightening supplies just as U.S. housing starts recover and need more wood, Taylor said.To be sure, there is still an ample supply of lumber down in the southern U.S. and forest inventory could grow as parts of the world become more adept at using technology to plant and grow faster-maturing trees, said Mark Wilde, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York. Right now, it can take as many as 80 years for a pine tree in B.C. to reach maturity.Canadian producers have already shifted their sights to the U.S. South, where they have bought mills and expanded their operations. Less than half of Canfor’s lumber capacity comes from Canada, down from 88% just seven years ago, according to a company spokeswoman.Meanwhile, scientists like Carroll say increased climate variability and warmer temperatures are going to boost the number of outbreaks of beetles and other insects in the decades to come. The bugs are able to thrive as forests become stressed and the markets often don’t accommodate what he calls the solid and beautiful truth: “ecology trumps all.”“I’m astonished how an animal the size of a grain of rice could alter the ecological landscape,” Carroll said. “That’s the craziness of this whole thing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-beetles-are-wiping-out-forests-all-across-the-world/story-Z6LY6Wixjx5dyH61wxPUHK.html
17-08-2020||World||The first Arctic summer without ice is coming in just 15 years||There’s a standard image of the Earth as seen from space that we carry in our heads: vast blue seas, green bands of forests, and frozen white caps on the top and bottom. By the summer of 2035, it may not be accurate. Scientists estimate that in just 15 years Arctic summer sea-ice could disappear for the first time since primitive humans left Africa. “The point is, this is happening soon,” says Maria-Vittoria Guarino, an Earth system modeler at the British Antarctic Survey and lead author of a study published earlier this month in the journal Nature Climate Change. “We will have less and less time to get ready for it, or less time to act upon it if we want to do something about it.”The new research is the latest in a steady stream that has moved up the predicted timeframe for the ice-free Arctic milestone. The amount of sea-ice floating atop the Arctic Ocean at summer’s end has fallen about 13% per decade since 1979. The 13 years with the smallest ice extents on record have all happened over the previous 13 years—and this summer is a sure bet to be No. 14. The 2035 estimate made by Guarino and her colleagues is based on what’s known about past climates. Scientists over the years have assembled evidence about previous eras from chemical traces in ice, rocks, and sediment. The new Arctic study looks specifically at a period 130,000 years ago, called the Last Interglacial. That period was 4° Celsius hotter than than the pre-industrial era—a plausible preview of conditions humans are creating for the future. Current warming on average is already around 1°C, and the Arctic is warming more than twice as fast as the rest of the planet.Guarino’s research joins a debate about the pace of global heating that has drawn in climate scientists this year. Some newly updated models, like the one Guarino’s team used, now suggest that warming will occur much, much faster than previously thought. There remains disagreement among scientists over modeling results that show accelerated warming. But, as Guarino sees it, the fact that at least one of these models with hotter-than-expected results has successfully matched physical evidence from the Last Interglacial period makes it difficult to dismiss the findings. Earlier climate models struggled to match the geological evidence from the Last Interglacial.Estimates like these come with lots of uncertainty, which leaves open the possibility that ice may stick around longer, according to Zachary Labe, a postdoctoral researcher in Atmospheric Sciences at Colorado State University. “I’m also hesitant to focus on the year 2035 too much,” he says. “It’s challenging to predict the first ice-free Arctic.”Scientists from North Carolina State University and the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration earlier this year used a different model to arrive at a similar 2035 target for the ice-free Arctic summer. By “ice-free,” scientists usually mean an extent of less than 1 million square-kilometers. The lowest it has reached is 3.4 million km² in 2012.Ge Peng, research scholar on the North Carolina State University team, also noted that unexpected events could alter the timeline. The eruption of a large volcano, which spews chemicals into the atmosphere that block sunlight and lower temperatures, could push the estimates out a few years. Whichever summer is the first to lose its sea ice, Peng and her colleagues warn that businesses, governments, and people living in the Arctic need to prepare now for changes in regional geopolitics, transportation, and food availability.Once the pandemic has lifted, Peng hopes to travel to the still-frozen Arctic and find it the way we imagine it with our eyes closed. “I want to do that soon,” she says, “because I don’t want the sea ice to be gone by the time I take the cruise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-first-arctic-summer-without-ice-is-coming-in-just-15-years/story-nTS5z2VJR9AgDvaUdoZ7AN.html
17-08-2020||World||Malaysia detects coronavirus strain that’s ten times more infectious||Malaysia has detected a strain of the new coronavirus that’s been found to be 10 times more infectious.The mutation called D614G was found in at least three of the 45 cases in a cluster that started from a restaurant owner returning from India and breaching his 14-day home quarantine. The man has since been sentenced to five months in prison and fined. The strain was also found in another cluster involving people returning from the Philippines.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe strain could mean that existing studies on vaccines may be incomplete or ineffective against the mutation, said Director-General of Health Noor Hisham Abdullah.“People need to be wary and take greater precautions because this strain has now been found in Malaysia,” he wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday. “The people’s cooperation is very needed so that we can together break the chain of infection from any mutation.”While Malaysia has largely managed to prevent a resurgence of the virus seen elsewhere in the world, the number of new cases found in the country has been picking up. The country confirmed 26 new cases on Saturday, the most since July 28, and added 25 cases on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-detects-coronavirus-strain-that-s-ten-times-more-infectious/story-b1WAvfgMBrEDqY4rO6LL8M.html
17-08-2020||World||A fifth billionaire emerges from Malaysia’s glove-making industry. But the boom may fade||Malaysia has long been a place where vast fortunes have been amassed over time. The Kuoks, Tehs and Queks are custodians of palm oil, property and banking empires that stretch back decades.That was until Covid-19, when the country’s low-key rubber industry -- or more precisely, glove making -- became one of the hottest on the planet.Wong Teek Son, who co-founded Riverstone Holdings Ltd. in the 1980s after working as a research chemist, last month became the fifth billionaire in the country from manufacturing gloves. He’s now worth $1.2 billion as shares of his company rallied almost sixfold from a low in March, thanks to growing demand for protective products during the coronavirus pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA Riverstone spokesman declined to comment on Wong’s net worth.The speed and strength of the gloves boom has been extraordinary, but there are signs the rapid rise could reverse, especially as research for a Covid-19 treatment and vaccine progress.Glove companies were hammered last week when Russia’s president said his nation had cleared the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine for use, while Moderna Inc. and Johnson & Johnson are among those reaching deals with governments to supply their shots. Riverstone slumped 13% in its worst week since March and slipped another 2.2% by 9:25 a.m. in Singapore on Monday.Even though a vaccine may not result in lower demand for gloves, investors may sell their shares in anticipation that it’ll reduce the number of cases, RHB Research Institute analyst Alan Lim noted in an Aug. 13 report.Malaysia KingWhen it comes to gloves making, Malaysia is king: It produces about 65% of the world’s supply for rubber gloves, and the Plantation Industries and Commodities Ministry estimates exports will climb 45% this year.Riverstone peers Top Glove Corp. and Hartalega Holdings Bhd. are now among the five most-valuable companies on Malaysia’s equity benchmark index. Their shares have jumped more than 192% this year, lifting the net worth of their billionaire founders, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.Fortunes in the country are booming even as the economy contracted by the most since the Asian financial crisis. That’s exacerbating already wide inequality. Knight Frank estimates wealth creation is the 10th fastest in the world -- while the mean income was 7,901 ringgit ($1,882) last year. The firm’s 2020 wealth report projected that the number of Malaysians with more than $30 million will swell by 35% between 2019 and 2024, compared with 2% between 2018 and 2019.The glove industry’s rise to global dominance has created a huge need for foreign workers, leading to controversy over their treatment. The U.S. last month barred imports of the products from two Top Glove units due to “reasonable evidence of forced labor.”The world’s largest glove producer said last week that while it’s continuing discussions with the U.S., demand is picking up in many other countries where the outbreak is resurfacing.Singapore listingUnlike its rivals, when Riverstone decided to go public in 2006, it picked neighboring Singapore. That’s because Malaysia had stricter currency controls and the funds raised in the city-state were more easily transferable to China and Thailand, where the company was expanding, according to its spokesman.Riverstone has an annual production capacity of about 9 billion gloves, according to its latest annual report. Its profit more than doubled to 137.5 million ringgit in the first half of the year.Wong co-founded the maker of nitrile gloves in 1989 after working as a research and development chemist in a company that supplied cleanroom products. He hadn’t planned to venture into building his own business.“The opportunity presented itself only because the company I worked for shut down, and we were able to use their production lines,” he said in an interview with the Singapore Exchange in 2016. With the competition being strife, many peers in Malaysia had to close down. “We realized we needed to provide a service to our customers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-fifth-billionaire-emerges-from-malaysia-s-glove-making-industry-but-the-boom-may-dade/story-5MCGczetQ0Nl5C2WkDas4J.html
17-08-2020||World||Over $700K raised for slain boy’s funeral in North Carolina||More than $700,000 has been raised for the funeral service expenses of a slain 5-year-old boy in North Carolina whose death has captured national attention.The donations poured into a GoFundMe page organized by Gwen Hinnant, who identifies herself on the website as Cannon Hinnant’s grandmother.“This family has faced unimaginable pain because of this senseless act of violence,” the post read, “We offer our sincerest appreciation in this extremely difficult time, #justice for Cannon.”Cannon’s funeral service was held Thursday, days after the 5-year-old was fatally shot in the family’s driveway as he rode his bike, news outlets reported. A neighbor, 25-year-old Darius Nathaniel Sessoms, has been charged with first-degree murder in his death.A day before the funeral, police in North Carolina warned about false information circulating on social media about the case, including posts that resembled news releases from investigators.“These are fraudulent posts,” the Wilson Police Department said in a statement while encouraging people to report the fake Facebook posts to the social media company. The department repeated the ask on its Facebook page Saturday and told people to avoid sharing the posts.Some have taken to social media to claim that race was a factor in Cannon’s death. Cannon was white and Sessoms is Black. Cannon’s father, Austin Hinnant, said he had been disturbed by these posts.“This is no racial issue,” Austin Hinnant told The Wilson Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-700k-raised-for-slain-boy-s-funeral-in-north-carolina/story-DSwgDcGRHnhXpGF6cCJeTJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Britain encourages at-risk groups to sign up for Covid-19 vaccine trials||Britain on Monday urged elderly people and volunteers from Black and Asian minority groups to sign up to a Covid-19 vaccine trial registry to boost efforts to find a working vaccine against the disease that offers protection against higher risk groups.No Covid-19 vaccine candidate has yet been proven effective against the disease, but around 20 are in clinical trials.Over 100,000 people have volunteered to take part in vaccine trials, Britain’s business ministry said, but more volunteers are needed to make sure candidate shots work for everyone.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Protecting those at risk is the only way we will end this pandemic,” said Kate Bingham, chair of the UK Vaccines Taskforce.“Getting 100,000 volunteers on board is a great start but we need many more people from many different backgrounds that we can call on for future studies if we are to find a vaccine quickly to protect those who need it.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The government said it was particularly keen for over 65s, frontline health and care workers and people from Black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds to sign up.A study last week showed that minority ethnic groups were two to three times more likely to have had Covid-19 compared to white people in England. Disproportionate numbers of people from minority groups have also died from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-encourages-at-risk-groups-to-sign-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials/story-Lp6blu34OrMPj6pPSyyvRJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Protesters chanting ‘step down!’ pack Belarus capital, Russia says military help available||Belarusians chanting “Step down!” filled the centre of the capital Minsk on Sunday in the biggest protest so far against what they said was the fraudulent re-election a week ago of longtime president Alexander Lukashenko.Russia said it would offer Lukashenko military help if necessary, but there was no visible police presence at the protest, which attracted around 200,000 people, a Reuters reporter estimated. At least two protesters have died and thousands have been detained in a crackdown since the vote.The atmosphere at the rallies, which wrapped up late into the evening, was celebratory on the whole, with people carrying the red and white flags used in Belarus after the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union before Lukashenko restored the Soviet version four years later.“We all want Lukashenko to step down,” said a 31-year-old worker who gave his name as Alexei. “For now we are asking, but we will get sick of asking.”Opponents of Lukashenko, in power for 26 years, say the vote was rigged to disguise the fact that he has lost public support. He denies losing, citing official results that gave him just over 80% of the vote.The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin had told Lukashenko Moscow was ready to assist Belarus in accordance with a collective military pact if necessary and that external pressure was being applied to the country. It did not say where from.Russia is watching closely as Belarus hosts pipelines that carry Russian energy exports to the West and is viewed by Moscow as a buffer zone against NATO. Lukashenko and Putin have spoken twice this weekend.Shortly before the opposition protest, there was tight security as Lukashenko’s supporters gathered in central Minsk for the first time since the election to watch him give a fiery speech.Lukashenko, who has alleged a foreign-backed plot to topple him, said NATO tanks and planes had been deployed 15 minutes from the Belarusian border. NATO said it was closely monitoring the situation in Belarus, but that there was no military build-up at the country’s western border.“NATO troops are at our gates. Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and our native Ukraine are ordering us to hold new elections,” Lukashenko said, adding that Belarus would “die as a state” if new polls were held. “I have never betrayed you and will never do so.”The Belarusian army will hold drills in the west of the country from Aug. 17-20, Russia’s RIA news agency reported.‘JOIN US’Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Lukashenko’s opposition rival in the contested election, fled to neighbouring Lithuania on Tuesday. She had called for the “March of Freedom” through Minsk and in other towns and cities on Sunday in support of an election recount and is forming a national council to facilitate a power transfer.Maria Kolesnikova, an opposition politician who has allied with Tsikhanouskaya, referred to Lukashenko as “the former president”, said he should quit, and appealed to state officials to abandon him.“This is your final chance to overcome your fear,” she said. “We were all scared too. Join us and we will support you.” Thousands of people took part in anti-Lukashenko protests in other towns and cities. Crowds also gathered in Prague and Warsaw.The Belarus Interior Ministry said there were no arrests at the rallies, although local media reported a few people had been detained.State employees, including some police officers and state TV staff, have come out in support of the protests and some of the country’s biggest state-run plants, the backbone of Lukashenko’s Soviet-style economic model, have been hit by protests and walkouts.Around 5,000 people attended an earlier pro-Lukashenko protest, a Reuters reporter estimated. The Belarusian Interior Ministry put the number at 65,000. ‘MOTHERLAND IN DANGER’“The motherland is in danger!” one speaker told the crowd, who chanted: “We are united, indivisible!”“I’m for Lukashenko,” said Alla Georgievna, 68. “I don’t understand why everyone has risen up against him. We get our pensions and salaries on time thanks to him.” The first leader of independent Belarus who helped oversee the Soviet breakup told Reuters Lukashenko, a one-time manager of a Soviet-era collective farm, had been badly shaken but could still hang onto power with Kremlin backing.Stanislav Shushkevich, 85, an old opponent of Lukashenko, dismissed the idea of Russia sending in troops to prop Lukashenko up, saying he had a large, obedient army and well paid loyalists around him.The Czech prime minister urged his EU counterparts to help, recalling the crushing of Czech protests by a military invasion led by Moscow in 1968 as well as the peaceful overthrow of communism in 1989.“Belarus must not experience what we had in 1968,” Andrej Babis tweeted. “(The) EU must be active, support Belarusians (and) not to be afraid to stage a similar velvet revolution model (as in) 1989.”The EU is gearing up to impose new sanctions on Belarus in response to the crackdown. (Reporting by Andrei Makhovsky in Minsk; additional reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin and Anastasia Teterevleva in Moscow and Robert Muller in Prague; Writing by Andrew Osborn; Editing by Frances Kerry, Philippa Fletcher and Alison Williams)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protesters-chanting-step-down-pack-belarus-capital-russia-says-military-help-available/story-P70CUWLwbB5i9WcEQJGFjP.html
17-08-2020||World||Biden, Harris offer condolence to President Trump after his brother’s death||Democratic Party’s presidential candidate Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris offered condolences on Sunday to Donald Trump after the President’s younger brother died.Robert Trump, 71, died Saturday at a New York hospital, Donald Trump announced in a statement.Former vice president Biden and his wife, Indian-American Senator Harris and her husband condoled the death of the US president’s brother in separate statements.“Mr. President, Jill and I are sad to learn of your younger brother Robert’s passing,” Biden said on Twitter.”I know the tremendous pain of losing a loved one — and I know how important family is in moments like these. I hope you know that our prayers are with you all,” he said.“Doug and I join the Biden family in sending our deepest condolences and prayers to the entire Trump family during this difficult time,” Harris tweeted.”Losing a loved one is never easy but know that we are thinking of you,” she wrote.Biden and Harris will challenge Trump and Mike Pence from the Republican Party in the November 3 US presidenial election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-harris-offer-condolence-to-president-trump-after-his-brother-s-death/story-lZZRuzTB8nP6PfA3gkEw1O.html
17-08-2020||World||11 killed in Somalia hotel attack claimed by Al-Shabaab||Ten civilians and one police officer were killed in a gun and bomb attack by Al-Shabaab fighters on an upscale beachfront hotel in Somalia’s capital on Sunday, an official told AFP.Security forces took four hours to regain control of the Elite Hotel in the Lido beach area of Mogadishu after five assailants stormed it early Sunday evening, said information ministry spokesman Ismael Mukhtaar Omar.“Ten people were dead and five militants were also killed, plus one Somalia special police officer,” Omar told AFP. It was not clear how Somali security forces managed to end the siege on the hotel and kill the assailants, who at one point were said to have taken hostages. Earlier on Sunday, while the siege was still ongoing, a security source told AFP on condition of anonymity that one of the assailants had died in the car bomb explosion that kicked off the attack and two others had died in a shootout.Ambulance workers at the scene reported that at least 28 people were wounded. There is chaosWitnesses said the attack began with a heavy explosion and people ran from the area as gunfire could be heard from the hotel, which is frequented by government officials. “The blast was very heavy and I could see smoke in the area. There is chaos and people are fleeing from nearby buildings,” said witness Ali Sayid Adan. The dead included government official Abdirasak Abdi, who worked at the information ministry, his colleague Hussein Ali said. Al-Shabaab said they carried out the attack, according to a statement translated by the SITE Intelligence Group. The statement claimed its fighters “took control over the hotel” in the “martyrdom-seeking operation”.Hotels targeted Somalia plunged into chaos after the 1991 overthrow of then-President Siad Barre’s military regime, leading to years of clan warfare followed by the rise of Al-Shabaab which once controlled large parts of the country and Mogadishu. Al-Shabaab was driven out of the capital in 2011, but its militants continue to wage war against the government, carrying out regular attacks. Last week four Shabaab fighters held in Mogadishu’s central prison were killed in an intense shootout with security forces after they somehow managed to get their hands on weapons within the facility. The group has targeted hotels multiple times over the years, including in February 2019 when it killed at least 20 people in a car bomb and gun attack on a hotel in Mogadishu that lasted for nearly 24 hours. A month before that, Al-Shabaab killed 21 people in a siege on an upscale hotel in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, an assault that highlighted its ability to expand its network beyond Somalia’s borders. Its last major attack in Mogadishu was in December 2019, when it slaughtered 81 people by detonating a vehicle packed with explosives. It is difficult to say whether the relative lull this year reflected improved capacity on the part of Somali security forces or a change in strategy by Al-Shabaab, said Omar Mahmood, Somalia senior analyst for International Crisis Group. For the past year Somali forces have been engaged in an offensive in the nearby Lower Shabelle region designed to stymie efforts by Al-Shabaab to move weapons into the capital, Mahmood noted. But there has been “an uptick in activity” in Mogadishu since late June including suicide attacks targeting government and military facilities, he said. The claim of responsibility distributed Sunday stressed that the Elite Hotel “is inhabited by a large number of government officials”. “This is kind of getting back to the attacks they used to do,” Mahmood said. “Al-Shabaab sees these hotels as an extension of the government more or less, so they are targeted in that way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/11-killed-in-somali-hotel-attack-claimed-by-al-shabaab/story-52T6VkhxS9HsXfCsl55VkK.html
17-08-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi calls House back to address postal service crisis||Members of the House will return to Washington this week, earlier than scheduled, to work on urgent legislation aimed at shoring up the US Postal Service ahead of November’s elections.Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced the move in a “Dear Colleague” letter on Sunday evening. Ahead of lawmakers’ return, Pelosi called on Democrats to appear at post offices in their districts on Tuesday in a show of support.“In a time of a pandemic, the Postal Service is Election Central. Americans should not have to choose between their health and their vote,” Pelosi said. Trump’s appointee to run the Postal Service has enacted “sweeping new operational changes that degrade postal service,” she said.Also read: Postal service warns states of delays to mail-in ballots for US election 2020Alarm bells went off in recent days after the Postal Service warned 46 states last week that it may not be able to deliver their ballots on time for the November election. President Donald Trump has said repeatedly, without evidence, that voting by mail is subject to widespread fraud.A vote on the measure described by Pelosi, the “Delivering forAmerica Act,” is likely to take place on Saturday, said a senior Democratic aide. The bill “prohibits the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or level of service it had in place on January 1, 2020,” Pelosi said in the letter.The move cames amid a nationwide uproar over funding cuts and operational changes to the Postal Service that Democrats say threaten to impede voting in November’s election and also slowing down critical mail services across the country.Pelosi, in her letter, said that “1.2 billion prescriptions weredelivered through the Postal Services, including almost 100% from the VA to veterans.” Many seniors also get their medication through the mail.Attorneys generalDemocrats are also pressing for the Senate to return early from a recess scheduled to last into September, while state officials -- who actually run the elections -- are looking to take action of their own.The Washington Post reported Sunday that attorneys general from at least six states are discussing potential lawsuits against the administration over cuts to mail service, which have become front page news around the country.Also read: Trump proposes to hold G-7 summit post US presidential electionsRepresentative Carolyn Maloney, chair of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, earlier invited Postmaster General Louis DeJoy to testify at an “urgent” hearing on Aug. 24 about the changes he’s made to postal services, months before what’s expected to be a surge in voting by mail.DeJoy, a controversial Trump appointee and large Republican donor who’s run the Postal Service since May, also faces an Aug. 21 deadline to produce a variety of documents and information relating to reforms he’s ordered.“Over the past several weeks, there have been startling new revelations about the scope and gravity of operational changes you are implementing at hundreds of postal facilities without consulting adequately with Congress, the Postal Regulatory Commission, or the Board of Governors,” Maloney wrote to DeJoy.Coronavirus anxietyThe number of Americans voting by mail is expected to jump this year because the coronavirus pandemic is still raging in many states.Recent media reports have pointed to the removal of mail sorting machines in various cities, as well as taking mailboxes off the streets. Post office operating hours have been reduced and overtime work cut. The agency’s inspector general is investigating those moves.CNN reported Thursday that postal management had taken out four sorting machines in Kansas City, two in Springfield, Missouri, and one in Wichita, Kansas, according to union officials in the region.Postal Service Warns Most States of Mail-In Ballot DelaysFormer President Barack Obama said Friday that Trump was “actively kneecap the Postal Service” to suppress the vote. Jeh Johnson, Obama’s Homeland Security secretary, said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that given the pandemic and the confusion over mail-in ballots, “the message to the American public has to be, ‘Plan your vote.’”“Think early about how you’re going to vote. As soon as you get a ballot, return it in the mail,” Johnson said.Also on “Meet the Press,” Senator Bernie Sanders said Congress must “absolutely” return to Washington to deal with the Postal Service situation. Trump’s move to undermine mail deliveries is part of a broader goal of voter suppression, he said.The Senate isn’t scheduled to return until September. Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said at a press briefing in New York that Majority Leader Mitch McConnell must return the chamber to regular sessions. Schumer also said he plans legislation to reverse some of the recent Postal Service changes, including cutbacks to a ban on overtime.Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, the top Democrat on the Homeland Security panel, called for a hearing on Aug. 21 or as soon as possible.“The president has explicitly stated his intention to manipulate the Postal Service to deny eligible voters access to the ballot in pursuit of his own re-election,” Peters and other top Democrats said in a statement on Sunday.White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows termed it “NONSENSE” that Trump is attempting to undercut the Postal Service.“I oversaw USPS in Congress on the Oversight Committee. It was a mismanaged wreck during the Obama administration—they’ve lost billions for a decade had issues long before this President,” Meadows said Sunday on Twitter.Earlier, on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Meadows said no more mail sorting machines would be disabled before Election Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-calls-house-back-to-address-postal-service-crisis/story-VjO5JWUYQ8L9O5ylknPJVL.html
17-08-2020||World||Coronavirus death toll in US hits 170,000 ahead of fall flu season||The United States surpassed 170,000 coronavirus deaths on Sunday, according to a Reuters tally, as health officials express concerns over Covid-19 complicating the fall flu season. Deaths rose by 483 on Sunday, with Florida, Texas and Louisiana, leading the rise in fatalities.The United States has at least 5.4 million confirmed cases in total of the novel coronavirus, the highest in the world and likely an undercount as the country still has not ramped up testing to the recommended levels. Cases are falling in most states except for Hawaii, South Dakota and Illinois.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePublic health officials and authorities are concerned about a possible fall resurgence in cases amid the start of the flu season, which will likely exacerbate efforts to treat the coronavirus.Centers for Disease Control Director Robert Redfield warned the United States may be in for its “worst fall” if the public does not follow health guidelines in an interview with Web MD. Months into the pandemic, the US economic recovery from the recession triggered by the outbreak is still staggered, with some hot spots slowing their reopenings and others shutting down businesses.The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is anticipating an uptick in Covid-19 cases in the coming months, resulting in around 300,000 total deaths by December, and a nearly 75% increase in hospitalizations. Worldwide there are at least 21.5 million coronavirus cases and over 765,000 confirmed deaths. The United States remains the global epicenter of the virus, with around a quarter of the cases and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-death-toll-in-us-hits-170-000-ahead-of-fall-flu-season/story-BD5A1HF7ujxjHX6dYqPcfJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Fully online Democratic National Convention today||US Democrats are kicking off an unprecedented political experiment on Monday, an all-virtual national convention that nominates Joe Biden as their White House candidate to battle Donald Trump in the heat of a deadly pandemic.With his vice presidential pick Kamala Harris, the first woman of colour on a major US presidential ticket, Biden is campaigning to unify a nation ravaged by political and racial turmoil, voter suppression concerns and profound anxiety over the devastating coronavirus crisis.The running mates will deliver their message under unique circumstances: a four-day Democratic National Convention conducted entirely online.Wednesday evening will spotlight Harris, a 55-year-old US senator who is the daughter of Indian and Jamaican immigrants. Biden has promoted her story as the American Dream. The four-day affair culminates on Thursday night with Biden being nominated by state delegates casting their votes online.Trump’s re-election campaign will sink up to $10 million into a digital ad campaign during the Democratic convention. It will include the campaign taking over the banner of YouTube for 96 hours starting on Tuesday.Newsweek magazine has apologised for an op-ed that questioned Harris’ US citizenship and her eligibility to be Biden’s running mate, a false and racist conspiracy theory which Trump has not dismissed.“This op-ed is being used by some as a tool to perpetuate racism and xenophobia. We apologise,” read Newsweek’s editor’s note on Friday.“We entirely failed to anticipate the ways in which the essay would be interpreted, distorted and weaponised,” read the apology, signed by Josh Hammer, opinion editor, and Nancy Cooper, global editor in chief. But they ended the note by saying that the op-ed would remain on the site, with their note attached.The op-ed was written by John Eastman, a conservative attorney who argues that the US Constitution doesn’t grant birthright citizenship.Meanwhile, President Trump said he may ask for the resignation of every member of his cabinet if he’s re-elected.“I wouldn’t say I’m thrilled with everybody, frankly,” he said, when asked about the prospect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fully-online-democratic-national-convention-today/story-Fc70oacwM3xazS9WFZi0nK.html
17-08-2020||World||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi likely to lose post||Islamabad is abuzz with rumours that Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi may be replaced with the human rights minister Shireen Mazari as the government tries to mend damaged relations with Saudi Arabia over the former’s remarks.Qureshi had accused the Organisation of Islamic Conference of dilly-dallying on the Kashmir issue in remarks that were seen by Riyadh as an attack on its leadership of the organisation.“I am once again respectfully telling OIC that a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers is our expectation. If you cannot convene it, then I’ll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir and support the oppressed Kashmiris,” Qureshi had said on a local news channel.On Sunday, Pakistani army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa, accompanied by the head of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Lt Gen Faiz left for Riyadh to meet with the Saudi leadership in an attempt to mend damaged ties.Human rights minister Shireen Mazari publicly criticised the country’s foreign affairs ministry, saying it had let down both the Kashmiris and prime minister Khan.Her statement is being seen as a first step to replace Qureshi in a bid to pacify the Saudis.The statement by Mazari suggests that the Imran Khan government is publicly distancing itself from the actions and statements of foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi.Earlier on Saturday, Sheikh Rasheed, a senior member of the Imran Khan cabinet, claimed in a televised statement that relations with Saudi Arabia were already on the mend and that the army chief would be visiting the Kingdom on Sunday to iron out outstanding minor differences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-foreign-minister-shah-mehmood-qureshi-likely-to-lose-post/story-tGIzn2GCOEdBL0v492etAK.html
17-08-2020||World||New Zealand to delay election by four weeks amid Covid-19 surge: PM||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday announced a delay in the general election by four weeks amid a surge in coronavirus cases.The election was scheduled to take place on September 19.Ardern, who is seeking re-election, has announced that now election would be held on October 17.Announcing the decision, Ardern said the re-emergence of Covid-19 in the community was a cause for concern during the election period.While the Electoral Commission said voting could safely happen under alert level 2, Ardern said she also had to factor in participation of voters, fairness and certainty.New Zealand’s government on Friday extended a lockdown of its largest city Auckland for another 12 days which is witnessing the rise in coronavirus cases. On Sunday, 12 new cases were reported in the community, taking the caseload of active infection cases to 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-to-delay-election-by-four-weeks-amid-covid-19-surge-pm/story-nx5ugjj3kCtNvz5enCSzcO.html
17-08-2020||World||Russia’s new Sputnik launch raises risks in dash for Covid-19 vaccine||Russia’s decision to approve a coronavirus shot before crucial tests have shown it’s safe and effective raises worries that politics will trump public health in the quest for a vaccine.The country’s plan to start mass inoculations as soon as October could put pressure on other governments to rush ahead of regulators and skip key steps, putting people who get the jabs at risk. Any major setback in Russia could damage confidence in vaccines.The stakes are high in the bid to end a crisis that’s killed more than 750,000 people worldwide. The Trump administration is pushing ahead with Operation Warp Speed, an unprecedented U.S. effort to accelerate Covid vaccine development and manufacturing, and a massive mobilization is underway in China to get immunizations across the line. President Vladimir Putin’s Aug. 11 announcement on Russia’s shot adds a new twist.Any move to roll out the vaccine based on limited evidence that it works could have harmful consequences, said Paul Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center and an infectious disease specialist at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.“That could cause other leaders to say: ‘Look, they’re doing it, and that’s good enough. And if that’s good enough for them, we don’t want to lose out. We want to protect our populations too,’” he said.Also Watch l Russia approves Covid-19 vaccine ‘Sputnik V’: Why’s the world sceptical? History offers lessons on the importance of a rigorous approach to vaccine development, insulated from politics. Misperceptions about the safety of well established immunizations are already widespread; actual stumbles that have occurred in the field -- although rare -- only add to fears, and show how a botched Covid shot could further distort and inflame public opinion.Accelerated PlansRussian officials have dismissed concerns about safety and the pace at which the country is moving. Western jealousy, they say, is fueling criticism of the vaccine, dubbed Sputnik V in a nod to the Soviet Union’s launch of the world’s first satellite sent into space in 1957. Putin said one of his daughters has already been given the shot.Authorities said they plan to start inoculating medical workers and other risk groups by the end of the month, introducing it to volunteers who will be closely monitored, and they add that other countries are moving swiftly too. Russia last month began clinical trials for a second vaccine, developed by the Vector laboratory in Novosibirsk.Meanwhile, developers including Britain’s AstraZeneca Plc -- the University of Oxford’s partner -- and U.S. biotech company Moderna Inc. are still in final-stage trials involving tens of thousands of people. Although President Donald Trump has said a vaccine may be ready by election day on Nov. 3, Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease expert, said it may take until well into 2021 for shots to reach much of the public.Politicians aren’t just seeking a vaccine to escape the pandemic. Some could use Covid-19 shots to try to burnish their leadership credentials and bury criticism of past performance.For Prime Minister Boris Johnson, it’s a chance to show that a Brexit-unchained U.K. can independently develop vaccines faster than the European Union. A Chinese vaccine might help Xi Jinping erase the memory of the virus’s origin. Trump needs a surprise to turn the polls as the U.S. leads the world in deaths. And Putin has an opportunity to beat the West and gain a strategic advantage. His performance ratings have slumped as Russia’s Covid case tally has risen to the fourth-highest globally.“He needs a big win,” said Stephen Morrison, director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ Global Health Policy Center. “His economy is flat on its back with Covid and the collapse on the oil markets.”China’s ShotFor those reasons, Putin may not be swayed by concerns about any potential adverse impact from the vaccine. China has already begun using its shot in the military, and those people are unlikely to be able to give informed, voluntary consent, according to Lawrence Gostin, a Georgetown University professor of global health law.That may embolden other political leaders to take similar steps to bypass regulators like the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Trump is already in some ways behind in a race where the U.S.’s two major geopolitical rivals have used their authoritarian might to sprint ahead. FDA officials have emphasized that they will clear a Covid vaccine only after careful analysis, basing decisions on “good science and data.”“I think Trump will try to influence the FDA and it will bend but won’t break,” Gostin said. “I have confidence in the FDA, but I’m very worried. I have no doubt that we could go the path of China or Russia if we didn’t have strong institutional guardrails.”Even if he sought to move unilaterally on vaccine authorization, Trump may have boxed himself in with Warp Speed, Morrison said. The government has committed billions of dollars to companies to develop vaccines, and they’re unlikely to cooperate with a plan to distribute unproven products without testing that shows their safety, he said.“It’s going to be much more difficult for Trump to pull off a stunt like this than Putin,” Morrison said.Production DealsThe Russian candidate is being developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute, the Defense Ministry and the sovereign Russian Direct Investment Fund, who say the vaccine is now undergoing the last phase of trials. The plan is to conduct those studies in countries including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The World Health Organization lists the project as still in the earliest stage.Mass production is lined up in a number of nations, with at least 20 interested in obtaining supplies, the fund said. Russia’s vaccine could help the global economy recover, according to Kirill Dmitriev, its chief executive officer.“The countries which quickly gain access to a safe vaccine will make it through the crisis successfully, fearlessly, and with minimal losses,” he said.Still, a lack of data and a widening gap between science and politics have set off alarm bells. As the virus spreads, there’s a risk countries reliant on bigger economies for supplies could end up accepting a product that hasn’t proved itself, said Offit, the University of Pennsylvania expert. Another concern is the impact to the global effort to fight a range of diseases if a fast-moving Russian vaccine runs into problems.Skeptics would inevitably point to that and other cases from the past.In 2016, the Philippines started a major drive to vaccinate children against dengue. But it was suspended after the shot, Dengvaxia, was linked to an increased risk of severe disease in some who hadn’t previously been exposed to the mosquito-borne virus.Swine FluAfter a 1976 outbreak of swine flu in the U.S. stoked fears of a global crisis, then-President Gerald Ford announced a plan to vaccinate everyone in the country. Soon more than 40 million Americans had received shots. But it never turned into a pandemic, and some of those who had been vaccinated developed Guillain-Barre syndrome, which can cause temporary paralysis.Any missteps with a Covid inoculation developed too quickly could impact trust in a safer product that comes later, according to Heidi Larson, director of the Vaccine Confidence Project and a professor at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.“We have one chance to make a first impression,” she said. “If Russia’s short-cuts in the rush for a vaccine lead to an unnecessary adverse event, it may erode already fragile confidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-new-sputnik-launch-raises-risks-in-dash-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-MjYTfh9fwqa2ML44pmhsTJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Amazon probed by German antitrust body over prices: Report||Germany’s antitrust regulator is looking into whether Amazon.com Inc. is abusing its online market dominance to exert pricing pressure on sellers, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported, citing the body’s president.The Federal Cartel Office is “investigating whether and how Amazon influences retailers’ pricing” on its marketplace, Andreas Mundt told FAZ in an interview.His office was reacting to complaints that the US tech giant blocked individual sellers because they allegedly charged excessive prices during the first months of the coronavirus crisis. Mundt said the regulator is evaluating Amazon’s response to its questions.While vendors set their own product prices, Amazon has policies in place to “help ensure selling partners are pricing their products competitively,” the company said Sunday in an emailed statement. “Our systems are designed to take action against price gouging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-probed-by-german-antitrust-body-over-prices-report/story-XBtkV9nWWpGml3L0ToJ90O.html
17-08-2020||India||Bangalore riots: Karnataka to approach HC for help on recovery of cost from rioters||The Karnataka government on Monday said that it has decided to approach the state high court for appointing a Claim Commissioner for the purposes of assessment of damages caused to private and public property during last week’ s riots in the city, and also recover the cost from the culprits. On August 11 and August 12, in the riots following a social media post by a relative of a Congress legislator, three people were killed and more than a hundreds were injured in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits. At a meeting conducted by chief minister B S Yediyurappa with the home minister Basvaraj Bommai and senior police officials, it was decided that a stringent action will be taken against the culprits for violence by invoking of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The chief minister confirmed the developments in a series of tweets.“We will approach Hon’ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as per Hon’ble Supreme Court order,” Yediyurappa tweeted. Briefing media after the meeting home minister Bommai said that a team of three special public prosecutors would be appointed for perusing the case. “The Special Investigation Team (SIT) that has already been formed will also invoke the Goonda Act in cases wherever the provisions so attract,” he added. Bommai also said the police were investigating whether the rioters had an association with any extremist or terrorist organizations.Director general of police (DGP), Praveen Sood, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Amar Kumar Pandey and chief secretary T M Vijaya Bhasker, as well as other senior officials, were also present in the meeting on Monday.Bangalore Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant extended Sec 144 in the DJ Hall and KG Halli police station limits till 6 am of August 21. Police have detained nearly 370 people for the riots. Apart from examining CCTV footage from several places, police are also examining call records. Till now DJ Halli police have registered 49 first information reports (FIRs) against the numerous accused while KG Halli police have registered 19 FIRs.Meanwhile, Firdous Pasha who was the first to register a complaint against Naveen, the nephew of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy for an alleged blasphemous post, has registered a case against the rioters saying that his Honda Activa scooter was burnt by them. Naveen who was arrested for the alleged derogatory post was produced via video conference in the 11th ACMM (Addtional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate) court and has been remanded to 14-day judicial custody.Separately, Murthy met the CM on Monday. Speaking to reporters after meeting the CM, he said that Yediyurappa had promised him to look into his demands for a CBI probe and had assured him of full security to him and his family. Police on Monday also arrested President of Tipu Sultan Alfath trust, which claims to be an NGO working for the welfare of the poor and downtrodden amongst minorities. K Wajid Pasha in connection with the riots. Wajid, who claims to be a Janta Dal (Secular) worker, was also one of the masterminds of the riots, said people familiar with the matter requesting anonymity. Police have also arrested one more key person Samiuddin who was allegedly involved in the Bangalore riots. According to Bangalore Addtitional Commissioner of Police Sandip Patil the accused Samiuddin was associated with the killers of an RSS worker called Rudresh who was hacked to death in October 2016 and also had links with Al Hind which has been labelled as a terror group.“We are continuing to investigate and there might be more arrests as we unearth new evidence,” a senior police officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangalore-riots-karnataka-to-approach-hc-for-help-on-recovery-of-cost-from-rioters/story-t0rrYkPv4Oyulrg6FHAWLK.html
17-08-2020||India||83 days later, Baghjan blowout finally capped||GUWAHATI: Engineers capped a blaze at a natural gas field in Assam’s Baghjan on Monday, 83 days after the blowout sparked an inferno that killed two, displaced hundreds of people and devastated the fragile local ecosystem. Oil India Limited (OIL) said in a statement that efforts were underway to douse the fire at the well. “The well capping operation was initiated on Monday morning and the capping blow out preventer (BOP) stack was successfully placed over the well head. The 16 studs have also been tightened,” OIL said in the statement. The BOP is a specialized valve or a similar device, used to seal control and monitor oil and natural gas wells to prevent blow outs, the uncontrolled release of gas or oil from a well. They are usually installed in stacks of other valves. “The preparations for killing operation are on. The BOP and the lines connected to it are being kept cool through continuous spraying of water,” the OIL statement added. On May 27, the well in Tinsukia district suffered a blow out during work to locate a new reservoir. As engineers scrambled to plug the leak, the well caught fire on June 9, killing two firefighters. It has been blazing since. Installation of the BOP stack was the penultimate task needed to complete the entire operation. Once the BOP is installed, the process of ‘killing the well’ and dousing the fire starts, said officials. That was to be done by injecting a ‘kill fluid’, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from the well back to the reservoir. Since the well at Baghjan is nearly 3.5 km deep, the killing operation which will douse the fire is expected to take around 24-36 hours. Monday’s attempt was the third one after OIL personnel and foreign experts failed twice earlier. On July 31, experts were attempting to place the BOP stack, weighing nearly three tonnes, on the well head when the Athey Wagon, a type of hydraulic lift used to fight oil-field fires consisting of a track –mounted boom with a hook in one end, toppled. Another attempt failed on August 10 after one of the two bull lines connected to the Athey Wagon which was lifting the BOP stack came out from the socket due to impact of excessive heat. OIL initially said the well would be plugged in a month. The deadline was later extended to July 7. But delays due to floods, technical glitches and burn injuries to three foreign experts while attempting to douse the flames triggered several delays. The well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, and experts fear extensive environmental damage. Several studies by different agencies are underway to measure the extent of damage. In June, National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered formation of an expert committee to probe the blow out and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife and environment because of it. The environmental and health impact of the fire will be long term, according to a report by Wildlife Institute of India submitted to the Union environment ministry in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83-days-later-baghjan-blowout-finally-capped/story-zh8YJ21EVDKA1yGVSr7lcL.html
17-08-2020||India||CBI books Punjab-based firm for cheating banks of ₹1,530cr||New Delhi:The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a Ludhiana based company , SEL Textiles Ltd, for cheating a consortium of 10 banks led by Central Bank of India of Rs 1,530 crore between 2009 and 2013 and using a Canada-based company, Aarti Impex, named in the Panama Papers leaks, for diversion of funds, officials familiar with development said Monday. According to the Panama Papers, Aarti Impex Inc is an offshore entity in Canada linked to Sandeep Gupta. It has branch offices in Bolivia and Columbia and represent textile spinners from India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Turkey, and China . It was among those individuals and entities who allegedly paid the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca to set up offshore entities in tax havens around the world. The Panama Papers were a massive leak of financial files -- over 11 million documents -- released in April 2016, from the database of Mossack Fonseca. In its FIR registered against SEL Textiles Ltd based in Ludhiana, the agency has named its promoters, Ram Saran Saluja, Neeraj Saluja, Dhiraj Saluja and unknown persons for diverting banks’ funds using several companies in India and abroad. Aarti Impex is not named as an accused in the CBI FIR, which has been reviewed by HT, but it is listed as one of the exporters to SEL Textiles which was used for diverting the money by latter to siphon the funds out of India. CBI’s position is that there were no genuine business transactions between both companies. “The amount received by SEL from the above company (Aarti Impex) kept on increasing since 2010,” states the CBI FIR quoting the bank’s complaint. “The credit period has shown continuous increase since 2010 giving signals of possible risks to realisation. Upon searching the company on internet, there was a link to Panama Paper leaks, wherein, the director is stated to be Sandeep Gupta, and company is registered in Panama Islands.” An email sent to Aarti Impex by HT remained unanswered till the filing of this report. The Panama Papers claims the company was dissolved sometime in 2017. Apart from Aarti Impex, SEL was using several other Dubai- based companies for diversion of banks’ money. In all, there has been a diversion of over Rs 852 crore from SEL to various companies, according to the CBI FIR. A CBI officer, who didn’t wish to be named, said that Dhiraj Saluja is said to be out of India and a look out circular (LoC) will be issued against him. Other than Central Bank, which has an exposure of Rs 371 crore to SEL; nine banks which have been cheated are : Allahabad Bank (Rs 429 crore), Punjab National Bank (Rs 176 crore), Indian Overseas Bank (Rs 120 crore), Bank of Maharashtra (Rs 92 crore), Punjab & Sind Bank (Rs 52 crore), Corporation Bank (Rs 115 crore), Union Bank of India (Rs 46 crore), UCO Bank (Rs 101 crore) and United Bank of India (Rs 24 crore). The banks have alleged that the company diverted funds not only for acquiring unproductive assets, but also for creating an additional chain of intermediary for capital goods purchases through capital advances and investments which are beyond its capacity, according to the CBI FIR. CBI has been asked to investigate the case, which has inter-state and international ramifications, the officer added. Niraj Saluja was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-punjab-based-firm-for-cheating-banks-of-1-530cr/story-zb35mmqjSP7fqDgfeUZCxM.html
17-08-2020||India||SC judgment today on plea seeking to transfer funds from PM Cares to NDRF||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Tuesday in a plea asking that all contributions made to PM Cares fund till date be transferred to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), a statutory fund created under section 46 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005 (DM Act).The verdict, which will be pronounced by a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, will also decide whether the PM Cares Fund violates the legal provisions contained in the DM Act.The petitioner NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) claimed that PM Cares Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the DM Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM-CARES Fund. All the contribution being made by individuals and institutions in relation to COVID-19 crisis are being credited into the PM CARES Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act,” the petitioner submitted.The central government said in its affidavit on July 8 that the PM Cares is a fund established to carry out relief work and there are several such funds established on similar lines in the past.“Mere existence of a statutory fund (NDRF) would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM Cares Fund which provides for voluntary donations,” the affidavit said.During the hearing before the apex court, the central government through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, defended the PM Cares fund, saying that it was not intended to circumvent the NDRF as alleged by the petitioners. “Whatever amount that has to go to NDRF under the law will go (to NDRF). PM Cares is a public charitable trust. If private individuals want to donate, they can do so. There are several public charitable trusts getting donations,” Mehta argued.The bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, reserved its judgment in the case on July 27. Another petition against PM Cares Fund filed by Rajasthan government in June, is also pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judgment-today-on-plea-seeking-to-transfer-funds-from-pm-cares-to-ndrf/story-XfoU8y1ek8ZyAmUpUxYteM.html
17-08-2020||India||Asthana to take chargeof BSF||New Delhi: The Centre on Monday appointed Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rakesh Asthana as the new director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), according to an official order. The 1984 batch IPS officer, currently heading the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) with additional charge of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), is set to assume full-time charge of the BSF, deployed along the 2,280-km-long border with Pakistan. S S Deswal, director general of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and a batchmate of Asthana, has been holding additional charge of the BSF since March. Recent military tensions along the Line of Actual Control with China and “mischievous activities” by Pakistan prompted the government to appoint a full-time BSF chief, said an official familiar with knowledge of the matter, requesting anonymity. India accuses Pakistan of attacking Indian border posts and settlements unprovoked and of trying to infiltrate members of terror groups into its territory.Asthana will continue to hold additional charge of the NCB. Asthana, a former special director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and his then boss, CBI director Alok Verma, were embroiled in a bitter internecine fight in 2018 during which they levelled corruption allegations against each other. Asthana was exonerated of the charges by a court on March 7 this year. Verma was removed from his post on January 10, 2019 by a high-powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Appointed director general, fire service, civil defence and home guards, Verma quit the police service The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet also said 1986 batch IPS officer V S K Kaumudi, who is currently the director general of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, had been appointed special secretary (internal security) in the ministry of home affairs. Another 1986 batch IPS officer, Jawed Akhtar, was named director general, fire services, civil defence and home guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asthana-to-take-chargeof-bsf/story-t2ithkuq9vpKabzpyV81HK.html
17-08-2020||India||Money-laundering case filed against Chinese national||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case against Chinese national Luo Sang, who was living in India under the pseudonym Charlie Peng and is involved in alleged cross-border money laundering worth at least Rs 1,000 crore using shell companies and the hawala route (an informal and illegal way of transferring money across geographies) , officials familiar with the development said on Monday. The officials, who asked not to be identified. said that a case had been registered against Peng under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the Income Tax (I-T) department’s action and a Delhi Police probe. The agency will soon summon for questioning Peng and his associates including hawala dealers, chartered accountants and bank officials who are believed to have connived with him. Investigations by multiple agencies, including the I-T department, Delhi Police and central intelligence agencies, have so far revealed that Peng’s alleged money laundering activities are related to gathering information in India, one of the officials said.“We have information that Peng was sending packets carrying Rs 2 to 3 lakh to certain individuals in Tibetan settlements in Delhi including Majnu Ka Tilla. The packets were dropped off by his office boys. The accused were interacting on a Chinese app,” this person added. Investigations by the I-T department have revealed that certain Chinese companies under the scanner were issuing fake purchase orders for which bogus bills were raised by smaller Chinese companies having businesses in India. The I-T department acted against Peng (42) on August 11 and 12 on specific intelligence inputs; it was found that he was handling the finances for several companies and made several trips to various states across India in the past few years. He was even carrying an Aadhar card, a second officer said. Peng allegedly created a web of sham companies to launder money to and from China, according to the officials. He used import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items as his fronts to mislead Indian authorities, the second officer said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes, in a statement on August 11, said, without naming a company: “the subsidiary of Chinese company (linked to Peng) and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India.” It said the searches were launched based on “credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities.” “Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than ₹1,000 crore over the period,” the CBDT said. HT could not speak to Peng, who is under detention. It wasn’t immediately clear whether he has legal representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-filed-against-chinese-national/story-FeK8ms00lIDAaHhqEkwzkJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Ahead of assembly polls, nine SPs among 17 IPS transferred in Bihar||In a major reshuffle on Monday, the Bihar government transferred 17 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers ahead of the assembly elections due in October-November. According to the notification issued late Monday night, the police chiefs of Saran, Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Jamui, Aurangabad, Vaishali, Araria, Khagaria and Bagaha districts have been replaced. 1980 batch IPS officer and additional director general of BMP, R S Bhatti has been promoted as Director General of Bihar military police. R M Vizhi, who was waiting for posting after returning from central deputation, has been posted as ADG (training). Similarly M R Nayak who was waiting for posting was made new Rail IG of Bihar. Araria SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram was transferred to Saran while Saran SP Harkishore Rai was shifted to Bhojpur. He replaces Sushil Kumar who was transferred as BMP-3 commandant Bodhgaya. Pramod Kumar Mandal has been transferred to Jamui. He was earlier posted as commandant of BMP-3. Outgoing Jamui SP I H Mengnu was shifted to Bihar police academy Rajgir. Jehanabad SP Maneesh was transferred to Vaishali. He replaces Dr Gaurav Mangla who will be the SP of state crime record bureau. Khagaria SP Meenu Kumari is the new SP of Jehanabad. STF SP Sudhir Kumar Podika has been transferred to Aurangabad as SP replacing Deepak Barnwal who has been transferred to SP Special branch. 2015 batch IPS officer who earlier posted as ASP Sasaram, Hridaykant has been transferred to Araria as SP while 2016 batch IPS officer Amitesh Kumar, ASP (East) Muzaffarpur transferred to Khagaria as SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-nine-sps-among-17-ips-transferred-in-bihar/story-L6imAHJazlku9L5azueGeL.html
17-08-2020||India||Six Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally rises to 12,493||Uttarakhand on Monday reported 319 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally of virus cases in the state to 12,493. Out of 12,493, a total of 8,485 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 67.92 per cent. Maximum 109 fresh cases were reported from Haridwar district followed by Uttarkashi (77), Rudraprayag (41), US Nagar (38), Nainital (23), Tehri (15), Dehradun (10), Bageshwar (3), and one case each from Champawat, Chamoli and Pithoragarh districts, according to the health bulletin released by state. The death toll in state rose by six, after two Covid-19 positive patients died due to coronavirus related complications and other died due to co-morbidities. A total of 158 Covid-19 positive patients have succumbed to the virus infection in Uttarakhand till now, with 31 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Haridwar district has reported the maximum 3099 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Dehradun (2438), US Nagar (2282) and Nainital (1784). Also, 385 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Monday with a maximum of 131 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 28.95 days, while the infection rate is 5.05%. The state has so far tested over 2.65 lakh samples of which results of over 13,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 433 containment zones in eight districts including maximum 366 in Haridwar district. To effectively fight the pandemic, the state government has operationalised 17 dedicated COVID Hospitals and 381 COVID Care Centres (CCC) across the state. State government has also started home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-covid-19-positive-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-rises-to-12-493/story-h4Untk3xIX53eT1qFTYk1I.html
17-08-2020||India||Will work with India to enhance trust: China||Beijing China is ready to work with India to enhance mutual trust and properly manage differences, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, adding that the “right path” ahead for the two sides is to respect each other. The foreign ministry was reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day speech, wherein he talked of strengthening the Indian armed forces and said the country’s territorial integrity was supreme. Modi had referred to the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) without naming China and said that “whoever tried to threaten the sovereignty of our country right from the LOC {Line of Control with Pakistan} to the LAC, the army [and] our brave soldiers have given a befitting reply”. Noting that the whole country is devoted to protecting India’s sovereignty, Modi had said: “The world has seen what our brave soldiers can do in Ladakh, what the country can do to defend its resolve.” Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash and China has acknowledged it suffered casualties, but without specifying numbers. Asked to comment on Modi’s speech, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “We have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech. We are close neighbours, we are all emerging countries with over one billion people. “So the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world. The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao told a regular news briefing. He added, “So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the Chinese spokesperson’s remarks. Modi’s speech was also analysed by Chinese state-run media, which said it was important, in China’s context, to follow what he does next. “After the latest round of senior military-level talks between Beijing and New Delhi on August 8, India hasn’t shown any sign of changing its stance. At the same time, China has also held its ground,” Zhao Gancheng, a research fellow at Shanghai Institute for International Studies, told the tabloid Global Times. “As the two countries are still at a stalemate over key issues, Modi’s real intentions will likely be revealed in his next moves,” Zhao said. Referring to Modi’s speech, Zhao said it could be explained from two perspectives: “One is that Modi has become tougher and put on a combative look. The other explanation is that the Indian government thought it had done enough by demonstrating its attitude toward China. Therefore, what Modi said in his Independence Day speech is not very important – but what he will do next is.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-work-with-india-to-enhance-trust-china/story-3PWih20AnvHUNHhirJAJkJ.html
17-08-2020||India||India, Nepal agree to expedite bilateral projects in key meet||New Delhi India and Nepal on Monday agreed to speed up bilateral projects, including infrastructure schemes and cross-border rail links, as senior officials of the two sides held a meeting for the first time since a border row strained ties earlier this year. The meeting of the India-Nepal oversight mechanism was held via video conference two days after a phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Nepalese counterpart KP Sharma Oli, which people familiar with developments said had helped to clear the air between the two sides. This was the eighth meeting of the mechanism, set up in 2016 to monitor the progress of India-funded projects, and it carried out a comprehensive review of economic and development cooperation schemes since the last meeting in July 2019. “Both sides deliberated on the issues and agreed to expedite their implementations,” said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. A statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry added: “Both sides underlined the need for the expeditious implementation of the bilateral projects. In that connection, they agreed to undertake necessary measures to timely address problems and obstacles in the course of implementation.” The meeting in Kathmandu, co-chaired by Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, was attended by representatives of ministries and departments of the Nepal government and consultants and contractors engaged in implementing the projects. Kwatra and Bairagi noted the progress in development projects over the past year, including reconstruction of 46,301 earthquake-affected houses in Gorkha and Nuwakot districts, operationalisation of the Motihari-Amlekhgunj cross-border petroleum products pipeline, opening of an integrated check post at Biratnagar and high impact community development projects. India has committed to rebuild 50,000 houses damaged by the devastating earthquake of April 2015. The statement from the Nepalese side said the meeting discussed the status of several key projects such as the terai roads, cross-border railways, Arun-III hydropower project, Pancheshwar multi-purpose project, irrigation projects, power and transmission lines, construction of the Nepal Police Academy, Ramayana circuit, motorable bridges over Mahakali river, agriculture and cultural heritage. Nepal also appreciated the Covid-19-related assistance from India, including the supply of medicines and medical equipment. In May, Nepal objected to the opening of a new road by India to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet. Nepal responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the border row. Some experts have highlighted the need for India to improve ties with Nepal at a time when it is engaged in a border standoff with China. But former ambassador Neelam Deo, director of Mumbai-based foreign policy think tank Gateway House, said the India-Nepal relationship is important regardless of other factors. “It is as important as our relations with Bangladesh and Bhutan, even with all the difficulties. Its importance can’t be overstated. Whether things will now improve is contingent on Prime Minister Oli’s political fortunes. Obviously, there are people within the Nepal government who want a more balanced situation and who don’t want a break in ties with India, and they are pushing back,” Deo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-agree-to-expedite-bilateral-projects-in-key-meet/story-nD0Kd0p7vb9hUR3HFb5bJK.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Huge void’: President, PM Modi, musicians pay tributes to legendary vocalist Pandit Jasraj||Remembering Pandit Jasraj’s unparalleled contribution to classical Indian music, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lata Mangeshkar and others in the music industry condoled the death of the classical Indian vocalist at the age of 90. One of India’s greatest music legends, Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, US.The President said he was sad to hear about Pandit Jasraj’s passing away.“Spanning a distinguished career of over 8 decades, Pandit Jasraj, a Padma Vibhushan recipient, enthralled people with soulful renditions. Condolence to his family, friends & music connoisseurs,” the President said in a statement posted on his official Twitter handle.PM Modi said Pandit Jasraj’s death had created a huge void in the Indian cultural sphere.“The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti,” Modi tweeted Celebrating Jasraj’s storied legacy spanning almost eight decades, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu credited the music maestro for creating timeless masterpieces in Indian classical music. Melody queen Lata Mangeshkar, who was Pandit Jasraj’s favourite singer, said she was devastated by the death of the music legend. “I am devastated by the news of demise of great classical vocalist and worshiper of goddess Saraswati, Sangeet Marthand Pandit Jasraj ji. May his soul rest in peace,” Mangeshkar wrote on Twitter.Vocalist Madhup Mudgal called Pandit Jasraj the last of the five pillars of Indian classical music.“He was one of the greatest singers of our country. I always considered him one of the five pillars of Indian classical music - Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, Kumar Gandharva, Mallikarjun Mansur, Kishori Amonkar, and Pandit Jasraj. We have lost an irreplaceable artiste today,” Mudgal told PTI.Padma Shri awardee vocalist Ulhas Kashalkar remembered him as an artiste who made classical music popular among the youth. “He established his own gharana and made classical music popular among the new generation. He created the next generation of listener at a time when classical music was losing its touch. There rarely comes an artiste with such an influence on the public,” Kashalkar said.Sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan said Pandit Jasraj’s “passing away marks the end of an era in the world of music”.“I shared so many festivals with Jasraj bhai right from the sixties. He gave a different dimension to vocal music. His musical approach and genius endeared him to the planet. His legacy lives on timelessly. I will miss him immensely both musically and personally! May his soul rest in peace!,” Khan wrote in a Facebook post.From Indian popular and Bollywood music industry, veteran singer Asha Bhosle, composer AR Rahman, singer-composer Shankar Mahadevan, Sufi and Punjabi singer Daler Mehndi and Adnan Sami among others paid homage to Pandit Jasraj.Bhosle said in Pandit Jasraj’s death she has lost a big brother and she would always remember his “childlike demeanor”.“I have lost someone who was extremely fond of me, I have lost a big brother indeed! Sangeet ka sooraj doob gaya… I will always remember his childlike demeanor. May his soul rest in peace,” the singer said in a statement.Rahman said the singing legend’s death was a monumental loss for the music.“Just heard of the passing of the Legendary #PanditJasraj Ji. My condolence to music itself, and to every musician on the planet. A truly monumental loss. My heart goes out to my friends Jatin & Lalit Pandit, Shweta & Shraddha Pandit & of course @DurgaJasraj ji, and the family,” he posted on social media.Sami, who composed the song “Vaada tumse hai vaada” crooned by Jasraj for 2008 movie “1920”, said the veteran was full of love and his demise has left him “musically orphaned”. “I am devastated by the news. For me, he was like the light of music. Today there is a certain darkness that has come about in the world of music,” the singer-composer told PTI.“He encouraged me always and gave me a lot of confidence. I always felt I had his blessing on me. I feel musically orphaned by his demise. He has left a huge treasure of music for us all for which we will be forever grateful. His music will always be immortal,” he added.Veteran lyricist-writer Javed Akhtar said a “huge pillar of Hindustani sangeet has fallen today”.“My heart felt condolence to Pandit Jasraj ‘s family . I can see him standing on the stage with his arms raised as if he is blessing all of us and in his soft and silken voice for the last time he is saying,”Akhtar added.Composer Vishal Dadlani said, “#RIPPanditJasraj indian classical music has lost one of its shining stars”.Mahadevan said the news of Jasraj’s demise has left him “devasatated”.“Devastated after hearing the news that Sangeet marthand pandit Jasraj has moved on to the next dimension. A big void in the world of Indian Classical music. His music will live on in this planet,” he wrote.Mehndi said in Jasraj’s death India has lost another gem.“Hindustani music maestro- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri- Pt. Jasraj passed away in the US a short while ago. India has lost another gem, one of the rarest!” the singer posted on the microblogging site.Singer Kavita Seth said Jasraj’s music will “will remain and flourish in our hearts”.Sanjiv Goenka, chairman Saregama, said, “Pandit Jasraj was a legend and for our family like an elder. We and all of Saregama will miss him immensely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-void-president-pm-modi-musicians-pay-tributes-to-legendary-vocalist-pandit-jasraj/story-t6qrTzOtd7imp6f6sHRGhN.html
17-08-2020||India||Three hurt as man sets fire to a car after locking them in it in Andhra’s Vijayawada||Three people received burn injuries and one of them got serious burns, when a man set fire to a car after locking them inside in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada on Monday evening, the police said. The incident happened at Bharat Nagar, in the heart of the city on the national highway (NH 16) just adjacent to a five-star hotel. Two of the injured -- Gangadhar and his wife Nagamalli – managed to escape with partial burns, while another person Krishna Reddy sustained 60 per cent burns. All three of them were admitted to a private hospital. Vijayawada deputy commissioner of police V Harshavardhan Raju said the accused – Venugopal Reddy was absconding. Raju, who rushed to the spot, told reporters that a dispute over some property was believed to be the reason for Venugopal Reddy to resort to the crime. They had been into a property financing business since 2014 and were believed to be incurring losses of late. Preliminary inquiries by the police revealed Venugopal Reddy, a native of Tadepalli in Guntur district, had acquired a piece of land in Eluru of West Godavari district and called his three other business partners, Gangadhar, Nagamalli and Krishna Reddy, to discuss money matters. They met around 2 pm and went round several areas in Krishna and Guntur districts before finally arriving at Bharati Nagar. “After some heated discussion while sitting in the car, Venugopal Reddy got down, locked the doors with a remote and doused the car with petrol which he had carried in a bottle, presumably with a plan,” the DCP said. Gangadhar and Nagamalli, who were sitting in the backseat, jumped out of the car immediately even before fire engulfed the car. Krishna Reddy, however, struggled to come out of the burning car for some time. But he, too, managed to get out of the car and jumped into a canal to save himself. By the time a fire tender arrived, the car was completely burnt. “The three injured people are undergoing treatment in a hospital,” Harshavardhan Raju said, adding that a case of arson and attempt to murder had been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-hurt-as-man-sets-fire-to-a-car-after-locking-them-in-it-in-andhra-s-vijayawada/story-NTym9mIPpIWHdRBJk8ZQzK.html
17-08-2020||India||Pandit Jasraj was a ‘Yug Purush’ in Hindustani Classical Music: Maharashtra governor||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari condoled the demise of the doyen of Hindustani Classical music Padma Vibhushan Pandit Jasraj, who passed away in New Jersey, United States on Monday. Legendary classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj passed away at an age of 90 on Monday.“Pt Jasraj was a ‘Yug Purush’ in Hindustani Classical Music. While taking Hindustani classical music to dizzying heights, he made special efforts to bring it closer to the common man. He was very open to accepting new streams and innovative ideas in music,” Koshyari said in an official statement.Pt Jasraj taught several students, many of whom have become established artists themselves, he said.“Pt Jasraj’s music is divine and will remain eternal. With his demise, a melodious era has come to an end. I convey my heartfelt condolences to his numerous admirers and members of the bereaved family in this moment of grief,” Koshyari said.Pandit Jasraj whose career in music spanned over 80 years belonged to the Mewati Gharana. He is a recipient of several accolades including the prestigious Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandit-jasraj-was-a-yug-purush-in-hindustani-classical-music-maharashtra-governor/story-J2DY1LGZllYP7JoyOD5dBP.html
17-08-2020||India||Goa poll body postpones municipal elections by 3 months due to Covid-19 pandemic||Municipal elections in Goa, scheduled for October 18, have been postponed by three months in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the state election commission said on Monday.“The health and safety of the people - voters, election staff, security staff - is paramount for the commission and commission did not think it prudent to go ahead and fix this election on this date. Otherwise many of the people who are going to be around for election purposes are going to be exposing themselves to the threat of spread of coronavirus,” Goa State Election Commissioner R K Srivastava said. “We were hoping that if things improve we would hold the elections in time,” Srivastava added.“Everyday cases are being reported. The government is managing the cases but over the last month or so, we’ve not seen any respite. We thought that it is just not advisable to go ahead with the election because democracy is for the people, by the people and of the people and we don’t want people to be exposed to any risks and their life should not be compromised because of the election. So we thought it prudent to postpone the election by three months,” Srivastava added. The state election body will review the situation after three months and accordingly decide whether it is safe and conducive to hold elections later this year.The term of 11 municipal councils in Goa ends on November 4.These are the second elections to be postponed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic with the state zilla panchayat elections scheduled to be held on March 22 this year also being postponed at the last minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-postpones-municipal-elections-for-3-months-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-l2GWBU1yob9J7QnyleC7AI.html
17-08-2020||India||JP Nadda tears into Gandhi family, accuses them of diverting funds from PM’s relief fund||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Monday in a blistering attack against former Congress chief and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, accused his family of “diverting money from the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund into family trusts and taking money from the Chinese to hurt national interests”. “Your family’s dubious legacy includes appropriating a permanent position in PMNRF and then diverting money from PMNRF into your family trusts. You and your mother also took money from the Chinese to hurt our national interest. Can anyone stoop lower?” Nadda tweeted. His attack against the Gandhis came in response to a single tweet by Rahul Gandhi, where he quoted a newspaper report that said the Prime Minister’s Office had declined to share information to a RTI activist asking for the total number of RTI applications and appeals received and disposed of since April 2020, as well as the number of such applications and appeals related to PM-CARES and the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.Gandhi quoting the media report had tweeted: “PMCares for Right To Improbity.” Lashing out at the Congress MP, the BJP leader said the entire nation has full faith on the PM and his initiatives. “This faith was yet again visible with the massive support for PM CARES. Being the loser you are, you can only crib and spread fake news while the entire nation has joined hands in the fight against Covid-19,” he said. He also went on to add, “This happens when the ‘Prince of Incompetence’ shares articles without even reading them. The RTI was filed to know details of other RTIs and this is maliciously spun by you as an attack on transparency. Well, it’s natural given how your career is only based on spreading fake news.” The Congress and the BJP have sparred in the past over the PM-CARES Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-tears-into-gandhi-family-accuses-them-of-diverting-funds-from-pm-s-relief-fund/story-3MmNKN6Yjphrj1bY4xEZEN.html
17-08-2020||India||Nepotism, groupism don’t stand in front of talent, passion: Shashank Raai||Dreams are fulfilled driven by passion and aided by grit. Shashank Raai, 28 — creator, producer and director — knows that all too well.“I did not continue education after Class 12 and have not received any formal education in film-making either. Yet, I had dreamt of becoming a producer-director. I was fortunate that people saw that passion in me and supported me a lot. Whatever I learnt is hands-on during work,” said the creator and producer of ‘Raktanchal’ based on Eastern UP mafia.Wading into the nepotism and groupism debate, he said, “I hear a lot about this but honestly speaking, despite being an outsider, I got enormous support from everyone. I have learnt that if you have talent and passion, even big banners support you as they too want fresh ideas to flow in.”He has been part of TV shows ‘Qubool Hai’, ‘Dev’, ‘Surveen Guggal’, ‘Vishkanya’ and ‘Siya Ke Ram’. He directed Bhojpuri film ‘Sher Singh’ starring Pawan Singh and will be making his feature film debut next year. Giving an insight into his journey, he said, “I have grown up in Azamgarh. During my school days, I was into plays, singing and other cultural activities. After Class 12, I expressed a desire to go to Mumbai to get trained in film-making. My family was very supportive and allowed me to go, even though I was just 17.”He joined the sets of TV show ‘Pratigya’ as an intern and learnt everything hands-on. “Thereafter, I joined Sagar Arts and gradually became an executive producer. Then I came into direction and finally opened my production house.”‘Raktanchal’ that was shot extensively in and around Varanasi, became the game-changer for him. “I ideated and created the story which had screenplay and dialogues by Savesh Upadhayay who hails from Prayagraj. Since it was based on true incidents, the challenge was to blend fiction and facts. We shot it with Nikiten Dheer, Kranti Prakash Jha and others last December and January in the chill of winter.” The first season was directed by Ritam Srivastava, a Lucknowite.The creator has Season Two planned that they will start shooting in November this year. “We will begin the shoot this year end, again in Varanasi, in real locations, which has been our show’s USP. We are working on it in a big way as we want the second season to be bigger and better. Season Two is always tricky and challenging as it comes with high expectations when the first part is a success.” Next year he has a feature film project lined up. “I will be directing and producing a film, which will go on the floors in 2021. We have signed a big actor and will be announcing it next month. The film is also based on a true event, inspired by a gangster in Mumbai. We will shoot it in Mumbai and Europe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/nepotism-groupism-don-t-stand-in-front-of-talent-passion-shashank-raai/story-FIvQIYTMLJegxHIiCsIMKJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Hyderabad revenue intelligence sleuths bust Rs 97 crore worth narcotics racket||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) authorities in Hyderabad on Monday, claimed to have busted a multi-state drug cartel and seized narcotics worth Rs 47 crore, besides raw material worth another Rs 50 crore and arrested three people, including two from Mumbai. An official release from the DRI, Hyderabad zonal unit said the officers of DRI raided a factory on the outskirts of Hyderabad on August 15, following a tip off that Mephedrone, a banned psychotropic substance under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act), was being illegally manufactured there. The DRI authorities seized 142.6 kgs of Mephedrone worth Rs 28.52 crore and 31 kgs of Ephedrine, also a banned drug, worth Rs 3.1 crore. Besides, about 250 kg of raw material worth Rs 50 crore, procured for manufacture of Mephedrone, was seized from the factory premises. These drugs were meant for supply to various cities in India. Acting on information given by the accused, the DRI authorities intercepted one such consignment of Mephedrone being sent from Hyderabad to Mumbai, while it was being transported in a private passenger bus as cargo with nobody accompanying it. In a series of swift follow-up raids, the DRI authorities identified the recipients of the consignment in Mumbai and raided their premises including a drug manufacturing laboratory at a residence, resulting in recovery of Mephedrone and Ketamine ready to be distributed, in addition to samples of other psychotropic substances. It clearly indicated a sophisticated distribution network both within the country and abroad. “In a carefully coordinated operation spanning over three days across multiple locations in Hyderabad and Mumbai, the officers of DRI seized 210 kg of Mephedrone, 10 kg of Ketamine and 31 kg of Ephedrine –worth Rs 47 crore, besides raw material worth Rs 50 crore. Further, cash of Rs 45 lakh in Indian, US and Euro currency was seized,” the additional director general said. While the mastermind involved in illegally manufacturing the narcotics was arrested in Hyderabad, two others were held in Mumbai. “The syndicate has a well-established chain of supply both within and outside the country. The payment for the raw material and finished products took place through Hawala channels,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-revenue-intelligence-sleuths-bust-rs-97-crore-worth-narcotics-racket/story-9vKdRLpuyF292V6di9QHNJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Manipur orders probe, withdraws gallantry medal after students’ union flags corrupt cop||The Manipur police has constituted a three-member probe committee to find out how a sub-Inspector who was allegedly arrested for trafficking drugs worth more than Rs 3 crore in 2013, was recommended for the chief minister’s police medal for gallantry.LM Khaute, Director General of Police Manipur issued an order in this regard on Sunday asking the committee to submit its report “within one week without fail”.The probe was ordered after the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU) alleged in a statement that sub inspector Beishamayum Debson Singh of Imphal East district police (Commando unit) was arrested allegedly along with 11 other policemen for trafficking drugs worth more than Rs 3 crore on April 28, 2013.The AMSU had also demanded a high level enquiry into the antecedents of all the police personnel who were conferred gallantry awards this year.Thanking the AMSU for bringing it to the notice of the government, Rehanuddin Choudhury, joint secretary (home) said in a statement that the government has withdrawn and cancelled the award of the gallantry medal to sub inspector Debson besides “based on a preliminary enquiry” besides putting him under suspension for concealing the drug case pending against him.According to the statement, one inspector E Roshan Singh of Imphal East district police who was found responsible for lapses in the initial processing has also been placed under suspension.On the eve of the state’s Patriots’ Day celebration (August 13) to commemorate the 1891 Anglo-Manipuri war, the state home department named 13 police personnel for the chief minister’s police medal for gallantry and 7 other personnel for the chief minister’s police medal for outstanding devotion to duty. Sub inspector Debson was listed sixth among 13 police personnel for the gallantry medal award which also carries a one-time cash award.In a tweet on Monday, chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “I sincerely appreciate the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU)for pointing out a rotten apple among the gallantry award winners of Manipur police. Those guilty will be dealt with as they deserved. Please continue the good work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-orders-probe-withdraws-gallantry-medal-after-students-union-flags-corrupt-cop/story-LsrS8Q7f42nNS9o9Xh2kIP.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Irreparable loss to Indian music’: Kerala CM condoles death of Pandit Jasraj||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday condoled the demise of legendary classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, saying he was instrumental in spreading Hindustani music to various corners of the world.In a message, he said the death of Jasraj was an “irreparable loss” to Indian music.The Ninety-year old Indian classical music doyen died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irreparable-loss-to-indian-music-kerala-cm-condoles-death-of-pandit-jasraj/story-b3h3EnNv4a2SHbRLkPOYGN.html
17-08-2020||India||In first virtual meet after border row, India-Nepal decide to accelerate bilateral projects||India and Nepal on Monday agreed to speed up work on bilateral projects, including infrastructure schemes and cross-border rail links, as senior officials of the two sides held a meeting for the first time since a border row strained ties. The meeting of the India-Nepal oversight mechanism was held in Kathmandu via video conference two days after a phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Nepalese counterpart KP Sharma Oli, which people familiar with developments said had helped to clear the air between the two sides. This was the eighth meeting of the mechanism, set up in 2016 to monitor the progress of India-funded projects, and it carried out a comprehensive review of economic and development cooperation schemes since the last meeting in July 2019. “Both sides deliberated on the issues and agreed to expedite their implementations,” said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. A statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry added: “Both sides underlined the need for the expeditious implementation of the bilateral projects. In that connection, they agreed to undertake necessary measures to timely address problems and obstacles in the course of implementation.” The meeting, co-chaired by Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, was attended by representatives of ministries and departments of the Nepal government and consultants and contractors engaged in implementing the projects. Kwatra and Bairagi noted the progress in development projects over the past year, including reconstruction of 46,301 earthquake-affected houses in Gorkha and Nuwakot districts, operationalisation of the Motihari-Amlekhgunj cross-border petroleum products pipeline, opening of an integrated check post at Biratnagar and high impact community development projects. India has committed to rebuild 50,000 houses damaged by the devastating earthquake of April 2015. The statement from the Nepalese side said the meeting discussed the status of several key projects such as the terai roads, cross-border railways, Arun-III hydropower project, Pancheshwar multipurpose project, irrigation projects, power and transmission lines, construction of the Nepal Police Academy, Ramayana circuit, motorable bridges over Mahakali river, agriculture and cultural heritage. Nepal also appreciated the Covid-19-related assistance from India, including the supply of medicines and medical equipment. In May, Nepal objected to the opening of a new road by India to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet. Nepal responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the border row. Some experts have highlighted the need for India to improve ties with Nepal at a time when it is engaged in a border standoff with China. But former ambassador Neelam Deo, director of Mumbai-based foreign policy think tank Gateway House, said the India-Nepal relationship is important regardless of other factors. “It is as important as our relations with Bangladesh and Bhutan, even with all the difficulties. Its importance can’t be overstated. Whether things will now improve is contingent on Prime Minister Oli’s political fortunes. Obviously, there are people within the Nepal government who want a more balanced situation and who don’t want a break in ties with India, and they are pushing back,” Deo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-first-virtual-meet-after-border-row-india-nepal-decide-to-accelerate-bilateral-projects/story-rCgp5x0VyHJD6BU8Xyd5aK.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 positive cases in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram jail rise to 477||The number of active Covid-19 prisoners in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram central jail rose to 477 on Monday with 114 more inmates testing positive for the coronavirus disease, said jail authorities. With the rise in cases, a special medical team has been deployed in the prison to tackle the situation, they added.There are more than 1,000 prisoners in the jail and with almost half of them reporting positive, hectic efforts are on to contain its further spread, jail superintendent P Nirmalanandan said.“We have segregated the infected and a special team is monitoring their condition. Majority of them are not showing any symptoms at all,” he said.Another worrying point for the state is that a large number of policemen and health workers - the frontline warriors of the pandemic - are getting infected.In Thiruvananthapuram district alone, 21 police personnel were tested positive on Monday taking the total number of infected officials to 342 across the state. As many as 31 health workers also tested positive. Meanwhile, Kerala recorded the highest single day count of 1,725 new cases, taking the total number of infected to 46,069 including the recovered cases at 30,009 and 15,890 active cases. With 13 deaths, the toll has gone up to 170.In view of the rising number of cases, the state has tweaked its health guidelines again, said health minister KK Shailaja.Now, patients with serious breathing problems and other ailments will be admitted to the hospitals and rest will be quarantined in their homes and their health position will be monitored regularly, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-cases-in-kerala-s-thiruvananthapuram-jail-rise-to-477/story-rNO9RKguvhCoRvQ5sbStRJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Contempt action sought against Swara Bhasker for Ayodhya judgment remarks||A petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Monday seeking initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the top court and its judgment in the Ayodhya dispute.The plea, filed by Usha Shetty from Karnataka, was placed before the Attorney General of India, KK Venugopal, for his consent to list the matter before the court. As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of Attorney General is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual.On February 1, the actor had attended a panel discussion organised by NGO Mumbai Collective on the topic ‘Artists against Communalism’. During the discussion, Bhasker, as alleged by the petitioner, said: “We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states in a judgment that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.”The November 9 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya dispute, which was delivered by a bench headed by former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, had awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site to Ram Lalla Virajman, the child deity. The bench had also ordered that 5 acres of land at an alternative site should be granted to Muslims for construction of a new mosque.The apex court had, interestingly, acknowledged the existence of a valid mosque at the disputed site and had expressly stated that the acts of Hindus in placing idols inside the mosque in 1949 and destruction of the mosque in 1992 were illegal.Shetty submitted that the statement by Bhasker is derogatory and intended to scandalise the Supreme Court. It is not merely a cheap stunt for publicity but a deliberate attempt to incite masses to “resist and revolt against the apex court”, she added.“The statement intends to incite a feeling of no confidence amongst the public with respect to the proceedings of the Supreme Court. It amounts to criminal contempt,” the petition said.HT did dial the actor for a comment, but she was unreachable.The Supreme Court had recently initiated contempt of court proceedings against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his tweets against the court and the Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. The court had, on August 14, convicted Bhushan for the same and will hold a separate hearing on August 20 to decide the punishment to be given to him.What is noteworthy is that the petition against Bhushan was filed by one of Shetty’s lawyers, Mehek Maheshwari. Maheshwari had not obtained Attorney General’s consent in that case but the court nevertheless took up the matter suo motu based on Maheshwari’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-action-sought-against-swara-bhasker-for-ayodhya-judgment-remarks/story-945W1vgEczzoPGRQoIxjoK.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengal CID warns of phishing attacks through fake oximeter apps||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal police has warned that downloading fake oximeter apps on mobile phones could lead to phishing attacks and theft of personal data. “We have not received any specific complaint. But we have received alerts from other security agencies that such apps are circulating in the virtual world. Hence the warning,” said SN Gupta, additional director general of CID. An oximeter is used to measure the oxygen level in blood. Current guidelines say that Covid-19 patients have to be admitted to hospitals if their oxygen saturation drops to 90% or below (normal is 95 to 100%). Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms or with critical comorbidities are advised to get admitted in hospitals. Patients with mild symptoms are treated at home. CID officials, however, said that fake oximeter apps have been developed to cheat people with the promise of measuring their oxygen level in their blood. The apps need to be downloaded. “Some apps have fingerprint scanning option. One the user scans his fingerprint miscreants may get access to fingerprint-protected data on the users’ mobile and on various online payment apps used by the victim,” said a senior CID official. Sleuths have warned that messages containing one-time-password (OTP) are also not safe from these apps. “Miscreants can get access to the users’ personal data, including pictures, saved on mobiles,” said a senior official. The CID warning was issued on the agency’s social networking account on Sunday urging citizens to “think wisely before downloading such apps.” “We have not received such complaints. But such things cannot be ruled out even though copying a fingerprint is hard,” said a senior official of the Kolkata Police’s detective department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cid-warns-of-phishing-attacks-through-fake-oximeter-apps/story-VbGbttfwn7rUofIut5kLNN.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengaluru riots: Karnataka to approach HC to recover damages from rioters||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to approach the state high court for appointing a commissioner for the purpose of assessment of damages caused to private and public property as well as to recover the same from the culprits. In the riots following a social media post by a relative of a Congress MLA, three people were killed and more than a hundred injured in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits on August 11 and 12.At a meeting conducted by CM BS Yediyurappa in which home minister Basvaraj Bommai, DGP Praveen Sood, ADGP (Law and Order) Amar Kumar Pandey and Chief Secretary T M Vijaya Bhasker, as well as other senior officials, were present it was decided to take stringent action against the culprits of DJ Halli and KG Halli violence by invoking the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).Briefing the media after the meeting, home minister Bommai also said that a team of three special public prosecutors would be appointed for the case. “The Special Investigation Team (SIT) that has already been formed will also invoke the Goonda Act in cases wherever the provisions so attract,” he added. Bommai also said the police were investigating whether the rioters had any association with any extremist or terrorist organizations.The police have detained till date nearly 370 people for the Bengaluru riots. Apart from examining CCTV footage from several places, the police are also examining call records. Till now, DJ Halli police have registered 49 FIRs against the numerous accused while KG Halli police have registered 19 FIRs.In an interesting twist, Firdous Pasha who was the first to register a complaint against Naveen, the nephew of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy for an alleged blasphemous post, has registered a case against the rioters saying that his Honda Activa scooter was burnt by them. Pasha in a complaint to DJ Halli police station has claimed that he had come on his scooter to lodge a complaint and had parked it outside the police station. The scooter was one of the 66 privately owned vehicles that were burnt during the riots.The police on Monday also arrested K Wajid Pasha, president of the Tipu Sultan Alfath trust. Sources in Bengaluru police who did not want to be named said Wajid, who claims to be a JDS worker was also one of the masterminds of the riots. Police sources also told HT, that Naveen who has been accused of posting the derogatory social media post during interrogation has said that he was only responding to a post insulting Hindu gods.“We are continuing to investigate the matter and there might be more arrests as we unearth new evidence,” the senior police officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-riots-karnataka-to-approach-hc-to-recover-damages-from-rioters/story-NK83Ucmv6A7c8B1Pex8ExK.html
17-08-2020||India||2 women sentenced to death by Bihar court for murder of 4-year-old boy||A sessions court in Bihar’s Gopalganj awarded death penalty to a woman and her daughter-in-law for indulging in black magic that resuklted in the death of a four-year-old boy. This is the fourth capital punishment awarded by the Gopalganj court in the last five years. Durgawati Devi, 60, and her daughter-in-law Sankesha Devi, 40, were held guilty on July 5. “Additional district and session judge Lavkush Kumar awarded capital punishment to Durgawati and Sankesha, holding that this was among the rarest of the rare cases and the accused deserved maximum punishment for the inhuman and heinous crime,” Gopalganj government counsel Jairam Prasad said. Nine witnesses, including the doctor who conducted the autopsy of the victim, were examined by the court during the trial. According to the prosecution, the incident happened on the evening of September 5, 2017.The victim, identified as Dev Kumar, who was playing outside his house, went missing under mysterious circumstances. His mutilated body was found in front of the house of the suspected accused at Chhitauna village, the next day. Both the accused were arrested.Accused Sankesha was involved in ‘Black Magic’ and had taken the boy to her house on the pretext of giving him a chocolate, said the prosecution. There, she along with her mother-in-law, slit the boy’s throat with a knife, said the prosecution. The victim’s body had several injury marks. It is also said that during the interrogation, the duo confessed to their involvement in the murder of the child. After Sankesha’s statement, the police also recovered the knife used in crime.A murder case was lodged on the basis of the statement of victim’s father Binod Shah against the two women. Defence lawyer Dhananjay Choubey said that her client would challenge the order in the Patna high court. The victim’s father said that he had finally got justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-women-sentenced-to-death-by-bihar-court-for-murder-of-4-year-old-boy/story-V8Z4newJKymcIiNkYA8GzI.html
17-08-2020||India||AIIMS doctors to monitor Union Minister Shripad Naik’s Covid treatment in Goa||A team of specialist doctors from Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences will fly down to Goa on Tuesday to monitor the health of Union minister of state for AYUSH (Independent Charge) Shripad Naik who is under treatment for Covid-19.The minister has been administered plasma therapy and has been hooked up to High Flow Nasal Oxygen (HFNO) for maintaining his oxygen saturation level, a statement issued by the Government of Goa on Monday, said.“A team of specialists from AIIMS, Delhi is arriving in Goa tomorrow, which consists of HoD, Anaesthesiology and HoD, Pulmonary Medicine,” the statement said. Naik who tested positive on August 12 along with his wife, said he was isolating himself at home. However, the next day he was admitted to a private hospital in the state but his condition is said to be stable. “The first dose of convalescent plasma has also been administered to him today under the supervision of the Transfusion Medicine Specialist who recently joined Goa from AIIMS, New Delhi and he is responding well to the plasma therapy,” the statement read Naik has been encouraging the use of alternative treatments and traditional immunity boosters to keep the coronavirus at bay and had even claimed that it was Ayurveda that had cured UK’s Prince Charles of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-doctors-to-fly-down-to-monitor-union-minister-shripad-naik-s-covid-treatment/story-ZTJZ2Nksa3DcVsP00yP9UL.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 lakh-mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra goes past 6-lakh mark with 8k plus casesMaharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 6-lakh mark on Monday with the addition of 8,493 fresh cases, the state health department said. It now stands 6,04,358. The state has added one lakh cases since August 8 when the tally crossed the 5-lakh mark. Read MoreMusic legend Pandit Jasraj passes away at 90Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj passed away at the age of 90 on Monday. He died of cardiac arrest at his house in New Jersey state of US. Read MorePandit Jasraj: Early life, awards and other achievements of the Padma Vibhushan awardeeWith a career spanning over 80 years, Pandit Jasraj was a recipient of various prestigious awards and honours including Padma Shri (1975), Padma Bhushan (1990) and Padma Vibhushan (2000). Read MoreRakesh Asthana appointed DG of Border Security ForceThe Centre on Monday appointed Gujarat cadre IPS officer - Rakesh Asthana as the new director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), according to an official order. Read MoreThe importance of Kamala Harris | OpinionKamala Devi Harris, a Black-identifying woman of Indian heritage, has been picked as the vice-presidential candidate for the Democratic Party. African-Americans form only 12% and Indian-Americans under one per cent of the electorate. Historically, three women have appeared on the presidential ticket before Harris. All of them have lost. So, then, why did Joe Biden pick Harris as his running mate in what many are calling the most crucial election in American history? Read this opinion piece by Amit AhujaChetan Chauhan cremated with state honoursFormer India cricketer and Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan, who died of Covid-19 related complications, was on Monday cremated with state honours in Garhmukteshwar, Hapur. Read MoreiQoo 5, iQoo 5 Pro launched: Check price, specs The iQoo 5 series smartphones are the successors to the iQoo 3 series smartphones that were launched last year and they come loaded with high-end specifications including the Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 processor and a 120Hz display. Read MoreNetizens ponder if they’d wear this transparent mask or notMasks have become an everyday essential protective item for people around the world. An initiative titled CLIU is designing a special type of mask which has a transparent covering around the mouth area. This unique design has got netizens torn, wondering if they would be willing to try this novel design or not. Read MoreWhen Pandit Jasraj almost fainted on being presented 5,000 gold coinsMusic maestro Pandit Jasraj, who died at the age of 90, on Monday, once revealed in an interview how he almost fainted on receiving a prize of 5,000 gold coins from the king of Nepal. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-lakh-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zpuL7eUenFwct4ggcZw90J.html
17-08-2020||India||IPS officer Rakesh Asthana is next BSF chief, VSK Kaumudi moves as MHA special secretary||Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana has been appointed as the chief of the Border Security Force (BSF) and V S K Kaumudi will be Special Secretary (Internal Security) in the Home Ministry, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday.Asthana is at present working as the Director General of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) here.He has been appointed the Director General (DG) of Border Security Force from the date of joining the post and up to July 31, 2021, i.e. date of his superannuation, the order said.Asthana, a 1984 batch IPS officer, is also holding additional charge of DG, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Kaumudi, a 1986 batch IPS officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre, is presently working as DG, Bureau of Police research and Development (BPR&D).He has been appointed Special Secretary (Internal Security), Ministry of Home Affairs up to November 30, 2022 i.e. date of his superannuation, the order said.His batchmate from Uttar Pradesh cadre, Md Jawed Akhtar has been appointed the DG, Fire Services, Civil Defence & Home Guard.Akhtar will hold the charge of the post for a period upto July 31, 2021 i.e. date of his superannuation, it added.He is presently working as Special DG, Central Reserve Police Force||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-rakesh-asthana-appointed-bsf-chief-kaumudi-to-join-mha/story-VDa1yBXrtBCD3TNhMRPB6N.html
17-08-2020||India||Rakesh Asthana appointed DG of Border Security Force||The Centre on Monday appointed Gujarat cadre IPS officer - Rakesh Asthana as the new director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), according to an official order. The 1984 batch IPS officer, currently heading the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) with additional charge of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), will assume full time charge of the border guarding force deployed at the approximately 2,280 km long border with Pakistan. Currently, DG Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal, a batchmate of Asthana, was holding the additional charge of BSF since March this year. However, the government felt that keeping in view developments at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or de-facto border with China and Pakistan’s mischievous activities, there was a need to appoint a full time chief in BSF, said a government official. Asthana, known for his acumen in investigations and strong leadership skills, will hold the post of DG BSF till July 31, 2021, time of his retirement. As a young SP in the CBI in 1997, he had arrested RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav in the fodder scam. He has investigated several high profile cases including the VVIP chopper scam and bank fraud by Vijay Mallya. He will also continue to hold the additional charge of NCB. Asthana - a former Special Director of CBI and his then boss Alok Verma were embroiled in a bitter fight in 2018 during which both levelled corruption allegations against each other. Verma, then CBI Director, had even filed a case naming Asthana in October 2018 but the Gujarat cadre IPS officer was exonerated of all charges by a court on March 7 this year. In fact, after the allegations came out in October 2018, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) conducted an enquiry against Verma and found him guilty of irregularities and impropriety. Verma was removed from the coveted post of CBI Director on January 10, 2019 by a high powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) order issued on Monday also stated that 1986 batch IPS officer - V S K Kaumudi, who is currently the director general of BPRD (Bureau of police research and development) has been appointed as special secretary (internal security) or SS(IS) in the ministry of home affairs. Another 1986 batch IPS officer - Jawed Akhtar has been appointed as DG Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-asthana-appointed-dg-of-border-security-force/story-5bjMQ5Ac70biSk1VeA9PGK.html
17-08-2020||India||With Godavari in spate 200 villages in Andhra Pradesh reel in flood||Around 170 villages in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh were inundated in flood water of Godavari river, following discharge of nearly 20 lakh cusecs of water from Dowleshwaram barrage at Rajahmundry on Monday. The Godavari river has been in spate for the last two days amid heavy rain that battered the districts of Andhra and Telangana.According to an official bulletin, a third level warning was sounded at Bhadrachalam in Telangana with water level in Godavari river rising up to 61.20 feet by 3 pm on Monday and has been steadily increasing with every passing hour. All the seven revenue blocks including Kunavaram, Bhadrachalam (rural), V R Puram, Chintoor, Kukunoor, Velerupadu and Burgampahad which were delinked from Telangana and merged with AP in 2014 were inundated in the backwaters of Polavaram project in West Godavari district. According to West Godavari district collector R Muthala Raju, the Polavaram village was partly submerged in flood waters due to breach of river bank and sand bags were placed to prevent further flooding of the village. “In all 30 villages in seven revenue blocks were affected. Drinking water is being provided to the affected people and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are evacuating old people and pregnant women to safe places,” he said. At Dowleshwaram barrage in East Godavari district, irrigation authorities discharged 19.06 lakh cusecs of water by 3 pm, which was the highest in the last seven years. At Rajahmundry, river ghats and sand ramps were completely inundated along with dredging machines and boats. At a review meeting conducted by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy said 161 villages in 13 blocks were affected in the entire district apart from 12 more villages in Amalapuram area. In all, 63 relief camps have been were set up so far. “Medical camps are also being set up and nutritious food is being provided and with the possibility of communication system getting affected we are keeping satellite phones ready. We have 14 mechanized boats for ferrying essential goods. The crop loss has to be assessed after the floods water recedes,” he said. A 53-year old man Mulakala Durga Rao of Ankampalem village of Jeelugumilli block in West Godavari district was washed away in the flood of Errakaluva stream as he tried to cross it on his motorbike. Meanwhile, in Telangana, too, heavy rains and floods wreaked havoc in Warangal (urban), Warangal (rural), Karimnagar, Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Peddapalli, Jayashankar Bhoopalpalli, Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts, submerging several low-lying areas. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the relief operations being undertaken in the flood hit areas, the CMO said in a statement. He instructed officials to take immediate measures in shifting the people in the tribal areas of Eturu Nagaram and Mangapeta blocks to safer areas. He also asked the authorities to see that there was no heavy waterlogging in the temple town of Bhadrachalam in the wake of the forecast of more heavy rains in the next three to four days. He asked the authorities to set up control rooms in every district affected by floods and continue rescue operations round-the-clock. State IT minister K T Rama Rao said 45 relief camps had been set up in all the flood-hit and rain-battered areas for the affected people. In Warangal town alone, as many as 4,750 people had been shifted to relief camps. Disaster Relief Force teams comprising 339 personnel from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation had been rushed to Warangal to rescue people stranded in floods, he said. The Krishna river is also spate due to heavy rain and discharges from the dams in the upstream areas. Following heavy inflows into Tungabhadra river from the Tungabhadra dam in Hospet and Krishna river in Almatti and Narayanpur in Karnataka, the Krishna river has been swelling constantly. An official bulletin said Srisailam reservoir on Krishna river has been receiving an inflow of 1.57 lakh cusecs due to release of water from upstream dams and more than 58,000 cusecs of water is being let off from the dam to Nagarjunasgar. At Prakasam barrage in Vijayawada, the authorities lifted all the 70 gates discharging 1.28 lakh cusecs of water, resulting in inundation of several villages downstream in Krishna district, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-godavari-in-spate-200-villages-in-andhra-pradesh-reel-in-flood/story-Jzl5iEGbWhDcUUgyOcCXHI.html
17-08-2020||India||India seeks investments from UAE in infrastructure, defence||India on Monday sought investments from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in key sectors such as infrastructure, highways, ports, airports, renewable energy and defence as the two sides discussed a joint strategy to offset the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The matters came up during a virtual meeting of the India-UAE joint commission on trade, economic and technical cooperation, which was co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan. “The Indian side invited further investments from [the] UAE in key sectors of the Indian economy such as infrastructure including logistics, food parks, highways, ports, airports, renewable energy and defence,” said a statement from the external affairs ministry. The two sides assessed their cooperation over the past few months in the fight against Covid-19 and “discussed a joint strategy to offset the economic and social impact of the pandemic on both countries”, the statement added. “The UAE side conveyed appreciation for the significant contributions made by the Indian expatriate community and expressed its willingness to further strengthen links in energy and food security,” it said. Bilateral trade during 2019-20 was worth almost $60 billion, making the UAE India’s third largest trading partner after China and the US. The UAE is the second largest export destination for India, after the US, with exports worth more than $30 billion during 2018-19. India was the UAE’s second largest trading partner in 2018. Besides close security and defence ties between the two sides, the UAE is also home to more than three million Indians. The joint commission’s meeting was preceded by a virtual senior officials meeting on 13 August between Sanjay Bhattacharyya, secretary (consular, passport and visa and overseas Indian affairs), in the external affairs ministry, and Abdul Nasser Al Shaali, the UAE’s assistant minister of economic and trade affairs. Virtual meetings of five sub-committees on high-level exchanges, economic, trade and investment cooperation, consular and community affairs cooperation, defence and security cooperation, and education, culture and youth cooperation were held during August 10-11. “​Wide-ranging discussions were held in a friendly, frank and constructive atmosphere, reflecting the strong bilateral ties between the two strategic partners,” the statement said. Both sides agreed to strengthen cooperation in ongoing areas and to explore cooperation in newer areas reflecting the changing times. ​Both sides also discussed regional issues related to their neighbourhood and cooperation at the UN and other multilateral forums. They also agreed to hold the next session of the joint commission in Abu Dhabi in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-investments-from-uae-in-infrastructure-defence/story-TO8ZnsD1VGQAlNVob6b9oN.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra goes past 6-lakh mark with 8k plus cases||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 6-lakh mark on Monday with the addition of 8,493 fresh cases, the state health department said.Maharashtra’s tally now stands 6,04,358. The state has added one lakh cases since August 8 when the tally crossed the 5-lakh mark.Out of the 8,493 new cases of Covdi-19, 753 were from Mumbai where the tally has gone up to 1,29,479.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Monday’s number of new cases is one of few instances this month when the count has stayed in four figures. On most days it has been above 11,000 cases.The death toll in the pandemic in the state climbed to 20,265 with 228 casualties on Monday. Forty of the casualties were in Mumbai where the death toll mounted to 7,173.A total of 11,391 people were released from hospitals on Monday taking the number of recoveries in Maharashtra to 4,28,514.A total of 32,06,248 people have been tested for Covid-19 so far in Maharashtra, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tally-in-maharashtra-goes-past-6-lakh-mark-with-8k-plus-cases/story-tJJqw57a7SCMQVdYnFU7DM.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Markets re-open, public transport resumes in Kashmir||Markets re-opened and public transport resumed in Srinagar and other Kashmir district headquarters on Monday, a day after some prominent religious places including shrines opened in the Valley as restrictions imposed to control the surging Covid-19 cases were revoked. Shops, business establishments and markets opened after weeks of restrictions while buses and mini-buses also resumed their services nearly after five months. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had re-imposed lockdown restrictions in Srinagar from July 13 after a brief period of unlock, and then in the rest of the valley from July 27 as Covid-19 cases had shown an increase. After a State Executive Committee order on August 4, officials permitted reopening of 50 percent shops in all markets and resumption of public transport operations with a boarding of 50 percent passengers in minibuses and up to a maximum of four passengers in 10-seater maxi-cabs and two passengers in taxicabs and auto-rickshaws.“Public transport was the worst affected in Kashmir, first when restrictions were imposed following August 5 decisions last year and then from March this year when lockdown was imposed. We are literally resuming our work after a year,” said Bilal Ahmad Dar, a mini-bus driver of Nowpora in Old City.Unlike the normal times when buses on Kashmir roads used to be jam-packed, very few people used public transport on Monday and most of them were seen wearing masks.In the business hub of Lal Chowk in the city centre, many markets opened keeping in view the official directions of resuming business with 50 percent shops.“Markets with two parallel lines of shops opened only half while the rush of people was also not there. More than 90 percent of people were wearing masks,” said Sakib Ahmad, a resident of Lal Chowk.Business people say that these are hard times for everybody.“Markets opened today and the public transport was also there but there was no business. People have no money to spend except those working in the government. There is no tourism. The only way things can improve is when the government pushes money into the market in terms of development, infrastructure and other things,” said Yasin Khan, chairman of Kashmir Economic Alliance and president of Kashmir Traders and Manufacturers Association.However doctors are concerned about the surge in Covid-19 cases after the opening of markets.“Request to shopkeepers: They shall not allow any customer without mask and shall not sell any commodity to a person without mask. Request to customers: They shall not buy/ purchase from a seller who’s not wearing mask, “ wrote Dr Saleem Khan, nodal officer Covid for government medical college Srinagar, on Twitter. Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded six deaths and 422 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 28,892. The total death toll in the UT has risen to 548—507 fatalities in Kashmir and 41 in Jammu division till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-markets-re-open-public-transport-resumes-in-kashmir/story-P7ctxy9SJ6EOYCop5a4VaP.html
17-08-2020||India||Kidnapped and sold for marriage, 16-yr-old girl in MP rescued after 4 months||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly abducted from Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh in March was rescued four months later from a village 310 km away in Sagar district of Bundelkhand region, police said Monday.Her mother had earlier alleged that the police did not act on her original complaint and that it was only because of the efforts of two social activists that her daughter could be traced. The police of Sagar and Mandla in a joint operation Sunday evening rescued her from one Bahadur Yadav’s house in Dhwara village of Sagar district, said Deepak Shukla, superintendent of police, Mandla. Police also denied the charges of inaction on its part. An FIR was registered against one Anita Yadav, a resident of Dhwara village at Bichhia police station in Mandla under section 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the girl was rescued. The decision to add the names of Bahadur Yadav and other members of his family in the FIR as accused and additional IPC sections would be taken after recording the girl’s statement, said the SP. The girl’s mother said, “I lodged a complaint with Bichhia police four months back and told the police that Anita Yadav abducted my daughter but police didn’t act.” “I waited for 20 days but nothing happened. Police personnel used to tell me to wait till this lockdown got over. Somebody shared my ordeal with Vivek Pawar and Prashant Dubey, two social activists and they started the search. I am grateful to them. I am fortunate to have my daughter back and alive. Otherwise a few girls who went missing from our village and nearby villages were never traced, she added. Prashant Dubey said they did not have any clue except the name of Anita. They eventually found out that she was from Dhwara village in Sagar district. In the last week of April, Dubey and Pawar asked some local youth to conduct a survey related to Covid-19 in the village and find out secretly if any new girl came to anybody’s house. But that exercise drew a blank until recently.“We had lost all hopes when one of the youths who had conducted the survey came to know from a villager that in April one Bahadur Yadav had solemnized the marriage of his son Halle with a girl and didn’t inform anybody about it. A local youth helped us keep an eye on the house and found out the girl was present in that house and that she was in very poor condition and moved outside under the strict vigil of the family,” Dubey said.Dubey alleged that the girl was sold for Rs 25,000 by Anita Yadav, a resident of Sagar, to Bahadur Yadav whose 19-year-old son Halle Yadav married her.He said after the girl’s identity was established, they informed inspector general of police (crime against women) Deepika Suri and Mandla SP Deepak Shukla.SP Deepak Shukla said, “After the social activists informed us a special team was formed and sent to Sagar to rescue the girl. The girl was rescued safely but members of the family escaped from the house. The woman Anita Yadav is also absconding. We are trying to nab the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnapped-and-sold-for-marriage-16-yr-old-girl-in-mp-rescued-after-4-months/story-1wdfiw2zbZLUsdCpSBbkCM.html
17-08-2020||India||83 days after it started, OIL caps Assam gas well blow out in third attempt||The blowout --- an uncontrolled release of gas or oil -- at an Oil India Limited (OIL) natural gas well in Upper Assam’s Baghjan was capped on Monday after 83 days. Efforts are in progress to douse the fire, which had broken out on June 9, at the well. The natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district had a blowout during a workover or maintenance operation to locate a new reservoir on May 27. While efforts were underway to plug the blowout, the well caught fire on June 9, which claimed two firefighters’ lives. The blaze is yet to be brought under control.“The well-capping operation was initiated on Monday morning and the capping blowout preventer (BOP) stack was successfully placed over the wellhead. The 16 studs have also been tightened,” OIL said in a statement. The BOP is a specialised valve or a similar device, which is used to seal control and monitor oil and natural gas wells to prevent blowouts. Usually, they are installed in stacks of other valves. “The preparations for killing operation are on. The BOP and the lines connected to it are being kept cool through continuous spraying of water,” the statement added. Installation of the BOP stack was the penultimate task needed to complete the operation. Once the BOP is installed, the process of “killing the well” and dousing the fire starts. The mechanism requires injecting a “kill fluid”, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from it back to the reservoir. The well at Baghjan is around 3.5 kilometres deep and the killing operation that will douse the fire is expected to take up to 36 hours. Monday’s attempt at placing the BOP on the wellhead was the third try after OIL personnel and foreign experts engaged for the job had failed twice earlier. On July 31, experts were attempting to place the BOP stack, weighing nearly 3 tonnes, on the wellhead, when the Athey Wagon, a type of hydraulic lift used to fight oil-field fires consisting of a track-mounted boom with a hook in one end, fell down. Another attempt to cap the blowout failed on August 10 after one of the two bull lines connected to the Athey Wagon, which was lifting the BOP stack, came out from the socket due to the impact of excessive heat. Initially, OIL authorities had said that the well would be plugged in a month, but later the deadline was extended to July 7. However, several delays occurred due to annual flood woes, technical glitches and three foreign experts also sustained burn injuries while attempting to douse the flames. Fears abounded regarding environmental damage due to the blowout and the blaze to the surroundings of the gas well, which is located adjacent to Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland. Several studies by different agencies are in progress to measure the extent of the damage. In June, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) authorities had ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human lives, wildlife, and the environment because of industrial disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83-days-after-it-started-oil-caps-assam-gas-well-blow-out-in-third-attempt/story-nc4s8v0xyWggqsc9QqsybO.html
17-08-2020||India||Congress ‘a death chamber of dissent and internal democracy’: Union minister Puri hits out at Rahul Gandhi||BJP leader and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Monday, saying the Congress leader should look at his party’s history before speaking on democratic values as it has been “a death chamber of dissent, right to expression and internal democracy”. The “headless party” is in the midst of a “civil war” and anyone who dissents is shown the door, Puri alleged. His fierce attack on Gandhi in a series of tweets comes in the middle of an intense war of words between the Congress and the BJP over the Facebook row. Following a report in the Wall Street Journal that Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to some BJP politicians, the Congress demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the charges, saying they threaten the foundation of Indian democracy and need to be investigated. Gandhi has accused the BJP and the RSS of spreading “fake news” using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate, triggering a sharp counter-attack from Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who reminded the opposition party of the Cambridge Analytica issue. In his all-out attack, Puri said there is something “surreal” about the “now on now off” leader of a political party which has not been able to muster 100 seats in the last two general elections put together, deciding to sermonise on democratic values and norms. “Irony just died laughing. Before issuing statements on freedom of expression, democratic values and ethos of secular coexistence, a little looking back at last 70 yrs would’ve helped Rahul Gandhi. His party has been a death chamber of dissent, right to expression and internal democracy,” he added. The latest example, he said, is suspended Congress member Sanjay Jha’s claim that around 100 Congress leaders, “distressed” at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, asking for change in political leadership and transparent Congress Working Committee elections. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, however, rejected Jha’s claim, saying this is a non-existent letter and such misinformation is aimed at diverting attention from “Facebook-BJP links”. In his attack on Gandhi, Puri said he should look at the record of the government led by his party during the Emergency years of 1975-77 when every democratic institution was “declared defunct and one leader’s voice was regarded as law” before sermonising. He also cited his books to say that he had been writing about the “existential crisis” the opposition party has come to face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-a-death-chamber-of-dissent-and-internal-democracy-union-minister-puri-hits-out-at-rahul-gandhi/story-p5EBP1WKrMqh24yx03WO1H.html
17-08-2020||India||PM Modi condoles demise of Pandit Jasraj, says it leaves a deep void in Indian cultural sphere||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of musical legend Pandit Jasraj on Monday, who passed away at his house in New Jersey, United States. “The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted.  The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/6bIgIoTOYBPandit Jasraj died at the age of 90. His career spanned over 80 years, and he was a recipient of various honours, including the Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan.He is survived by daughter Durga Jasraj and son Shaarang Dev Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demise-of-pandit-jasraj-leaves-deep-void-in-indian-cultural-sphere-says-pm-modi/story-932LomKFgoUXCN3fAGDemM.html
17-08-2020||India||Music legend Pandit Jasraj passes away at 90||Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj passed away at the age of 90 on Monday. He died of cardiac arrest at his house in New Jersey state of US.He had turned 90 in January this year. One of India’s greatest music legend, Jasraj, who belonged to the Mewati Gharana, was in the US when the country went into lockdown due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“With profound grief we inform that Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj ji breathed his last this morning at 5.15 EST due to a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, USA,” his family said in a statement.With musical career spanning over 80 years, Pandit Jasraj was awarded with honours such as Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. “We pray that his soul rests in eternal musical peace. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers,” the statement, issued on behalf of the family and students of the Mewati Gharana, further read.Expressing his condolences on the demise of the legendary singer, PM Narendra Modi tweeted, “Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists.” The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/6bIgIoTOYBThe music legend is survived by daughter Durga Jasraj and son Shaarang Dev Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/music-legend-pandit-jasraj-passes-away-at-the-age-of-90/story-5KjCV2P2Ff0KQIYEW4MUWP.html
17-08-2020||India||Congress steps up attack on Facebook; accuses it of ‘inaction’ on hate content||Facebook’s “inaction” against hate content “destabilises” democracy in India, the Congress alleged on Monday, sharpening its criticism of the global social media giant after a US media report claimed that it refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians. In its reaction to the swirling controversy fuelled by the report in the Wall Street Journal, Facebook said the company’s social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence, adding these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. However, Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets globally, acknowledged that “there is more to do”. In the report published on Friday, the US newspaper cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that one of its senior India policy executives intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly made communally charged posts. The Congress on Monday reiterated its demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the charges mentioned in the report. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said India is one of the most thriving democracies in the world and anybody or any platform that undermines it by “indulging in hate mongering must not be spared”. “With all responsibility, I will say that Facebook’s inaction destabilises our democracy. More often than not Facebook takes no action and even worse allows objectionable content to continue despite being brought to notice,” she alleged. Shrinate also claimed that Facebook has different rules for different countries and “that is not acceptable”. “The rules for India are dramatically different and are bent as per their convenience. In Singapore while deposing before policy makers, Facebook said they were a social media platform and can’t take down content unless it was brought to notice. “Ironically in India, despite external complaints and red flags being raised by their own trust and safety teams, hate content has been allowed to wilfully continue,” Shrinate alleged. She said the social media company has removed pages and issued press releases across the world including the US and Turkey, citing “coordinated inauthentic behaviour”, but wondered why it has never done something similar in connection with rumour mongering and hate speeches in India. “There is enough and more objectionable content that exist on its platform. Some of which incites violence, some of which is abusive against women, some of which targets particular communities and groups,” she claimed. Responding to the media report and the subsequent controversy, a Facebook spokesperson said, “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation.” “While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy,” the spokesperson said. Shrinate also criticised the government saying instead of responding to the media report in the Wall Street Journal, it is targeting the Congress party. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had hit out at the Congress over the issue on Sunday and reminded the opposition party of the Cambridge Analytica issue. Prasad’s reference to Cambridge Analytica was about the allegations the Congress faced in 2018 that the UK-based firm offered the party data mining of Facebook posts to influencing voters in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Congress had rejected the charges. Apart from Facebook, the rumour mongering, disinformation and hate speech that go unchecked on WhatsApp are even more damaging, Shrinate said. “We also expect Facebook global to look into discrepancies that exist in its India operations and we hope Facebook will take immediate remedial measures,” she said. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, has said the panel would like to hear from Facebook about the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-steps-up-attack-on-facebook-accuses-it-of-inaction-on-hate-content/story-dRf9ggerUcyhujmlBdjYhI.html
17-08-2020||India||Delhi Assembly panel to summon Facebook officials over hate content||Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee will send summons to Facebook officials including its India executive Ankhi Das following complaints of not acting against hateful content.“Summons set to be sent for the appearance of the concerned officials of Facebook including Ankhi Das. The Committee will convene its meeting this week to initiate the proceedings,” the committee said according to ANI.“The committee has received multiple complaints addressed to its chairman Raghav Chadha against the officials of Facebook for their alleged deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content in India,” it said.Meanwhile, Facebook’s Director, Public Policy, India, South and Central Asia, Ankhi Das has filed a complaint with Delhi Police, alleging that she has been receiving “violent threats to her life”, officials said on Monday.In her complaint on Sunday, Das alleged that several people were issuing “threats, making sexually coloured remarks and defaming her” through online posts.Over the weekend, Facebook has come under attack from the BJP and the Congress. While BJP accused the social media platform of censoring nationalist voices, opposition Congress cited a Wall Street Journal report that alleged that Facebook’s content policies favour the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-assembly-panel-to-summon-facebook-officials-over-hate-content/story-FqefqTE7ipqm571tz6X5uL.html
17-08-2020||India||ED files case against Chinese national for money laundering via shell companies||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case against Chinese national Luo Sang, who was living in India using a pseudonym Charlie Peng and is involved in alleged cross-border money laundering worth more than Rs 1,000 crore using shell companies and hawala, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. Officials said the case has been registered against Peng under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the Income Tax department’s action and a Delhi Police probe after the prime facie offence was established. The agency will soon summon Peng and his associates for questioning, including hawala dealers, chartered accountants and bank officials who connived with him. The investigations by multiple agencies – including the I-T department, Delhi Police and central intelligence agencies, have so far revealed that Peng’s alleged money laundering activities are linked to gathering information in India, an official who didn’t wish to be named said. “We have information that Peng was sending packets carrying Rs 2 to 3 lakh to certain individuals in Tibetan settlements in Delhi including Majnu Ka Tilla. The packets were dropped off by the office boys of Peng. The accused persons involved were interacting on a Chinese app,” the officer said. Investigations by Income Tax department has revealed that certain Chinese companies under scanner were issuing fake purchase orders for which bogus bills were raised by smaller Chinese companies having business in India. The I-T department had acted against Peng (42) on August 11 and 12 on specific intelligence inputs during which it was found that he was handling finances several companies and made several trips to various states across India in the last few years. He was even carrying an Aadhar card, the second officer said. Peng had allegedly created a web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China in the past two-three years. He used import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items as his front to mislead Indian authorities, the second officer said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes in its statement on August 11 said, without naming a company, – “the subsidiary of Chinese company (linked to Peng) and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India.” It said the searches were launched based on “credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities.” “Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period,” the CBDT had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-case-against-chinese-national-for-money-laundering-via-shell-companies/story-rpgf3jVbJRsp7PtDIPLpRK.html
17-08-2020||India||Maoist posters resurface in Bengal’s Jangalmahal after almost a decade||Hand-written posters allegedly signed by Maoists have been recovered from the Jangalmahal area – once a Maoist stronghold – after almost a decade in West Bengal. The pamphlets urged people to observe the Independence Day as Kala Divas.On Sunday, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had hinted that Maoists could be regrouping in the state. “The dangerous head of Maoism is getting visible with support of state actors,” Dhankhar had said at a function organised at the Raj Bhawan to mark the second death anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. The police have started a probe into the incident, however no one has been detained or arrested yet. “Around 10–12 posters were recovered from two to three adjacent villages of Bhulabheda in Jhagram. We have started a probe. No one has been detained so far,” said Amitkumar Bharat Rathod, superintendent of police of Jhargram. West Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram comprise the Jangalmahal - where the CPI (Maoist) had virtually set up a ‘liberated zone’ between 2009 and 2011.The area witnessed a bloody battle between the insurgents, security forces and the armed militia of CPI(M). More than 350 civilians and more than 50 security personnel were killed by Maoists.In retaliation, security forces killed around 80 Maoist leaders and activists. The Maoists were virtually wiped out from the state after the Mamata Banerjee-administration came to power in 2011.“Maoists no longer have any armed squad active in the state. Several Maoists had surrendered after the killing of dreaded Maoist leader Mallojula Koteswar Rao alias Kishanji in 2011. Such posters were found in West Midnapore last year as well. We are investigating,” said a senior official of the state police. Recently, in a major development, the Trinamool Congress had inducted Chhatradhar Mahato, who was the convener of the Maoist-backed Peoples Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), and had been in prison for the last 10 years, was inducted into the party’s state committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleged-maoist-posters-resurface-in-bengal-s-jangalmahal/story-LwbBCpzcT5bf6xUT333esO.html
17-08-2020||India||Gold case accused Swapna travelled thrice with suspended IAS officer to Gulf nations during 2017-18: ED||Suspended IAS officerM Sivasankar travelled thrice to the Gulf countries with Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, during 2017 and 2018, the Enforcement Directorate probing the money trails of the racket informed a court here on Monday. The submissions were made before the special court for PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) cases, as the ED filed a petition for judicial remand of Suresh, Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair at the end of their custody with the agency. The three were in ED custody since August 5. Referring to the questioning of Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the ED said it was revealed that in April, 2017 Suresh had travelled to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with him. Again,in April 2018 the woman had travelled to Oman and met Sivasankar who was on a visit there then and they returned together to India from the Gulf nation, it said. “It is further revealed that during October 2018 A-2 (Suresh) and Sivasankar travelled together to UAE and returned together and this particular trip was coupled with the visit of the Chief Minister of Kerala to UAE for seeking assistance of Indians there for flood relief in Kerala”, the ED submitted. The court remanded the accused to judicial custody till August 26. The ED also said Suresh kept the proceeds of the crime in a bank locker jointly operated with a third person as per the instruction of Sivasankar. Also opposing the bail plea of the accused, the ED said an in-depth investigation into these aspects was to be conducted. The bail application in the ED case is likely to come up for hearing on Tuesday. Last week, the NIA special court and the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, here have dismissed the bail plea of the three. The agency had questioned Sivasankar on Saturday for the second time. It had earlier filed a written submission in the court that the officer, suspended after his links to Suresh surfaced, was fully aware that the integrity of the woman was dubious. The agency which recorded the formal arrest of the three accused on July 22 while they were in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), had on Friday informed the court that Suresh has claimed that she had “considerable influence” in the Chief Minister’s Office. Sivasankar had also been interrogated earlier by the NIA and the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate probing separate cases related to the gold smuggling using diplomatic channels of UAE consulate through international airport in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-case-accused-swapna-travelled-thrice-with-suspended-ias-officer-to-gulf-nations-during-2017-18-ed/story-J3vbHlzs5qvxiNYLtI3hTK.html
17-08-2020||India||Cong seeks DNA test of Uttarkhand BJP MLA accused of rape and fathering a child||Accused of rape and fathering a child, Mahesh Singh Negi, a BJP MLA in Uttarakhand has charged the opposition Congress with maligning his image by “using the woman” while the Congress has demanded that he should prove his innocence by undergoing a DNA test.Negi represents the Dwarahat constituency of Almora district. On Sunday, the woman who is married lodged a complaint with the Dehradun police accusing Negi of raping her several times and fathering her child. She also sought police protection for herself and her family members from Negi. She was earlier booked for extortion and blackmail after Negi’s wife Rita Negi lodged a complaint accusing her of trying to extort Rs 5 crore from him by threatening to frame him in a false case. Negi who refuted all the allegations of the woman, alleged on Monday that Congress is conspiring to malign his image and harm him politically.id, “All the allegations levelled against me by the woman are false. She has been already booked by police for trying to extort a huge sum of money from me. To save herself from that, she has now lodged a concocted complaint against me.” “It’s all a conspiracy by the Congress to malign my image and harm my political career. They are using the woman against me for that which is shameful. A thorough investigation in the extortion case will reveal everything,” the MLA said.He, however, did not answer when asked if he would undergo a DNA test to debunk the woman’s claim of paternity and disconnected the phone citing his wife’s ill health. The Congress insists it has nothing to do with the incident and said the woman has herself come forward and levelled the accusations against Negi and the onus is on him to clear the air. “Congress has no connection with the matter whatsoever. The woman has accused a ruling party’s lawmaker which is a very serious issue. There should be a thorough probe on her complaint and MLA Negi should undergo a DNA test to prove that the child is not his,” said party state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana. Meanwhile, the BJP state leadership in a calibrated response said the party would “wait for the investigation to finish on both the complaints before any action”.Devendra Bhasin, vice-president of the state unit of the BJP said, “Both the sides have levelled allegations against each other and lodged their complaints on the same. We will wait for the investigative agencies to finish their probe on the two before taking any action at party level against Negi. As of now we haven’t taken any action because it’s his personal matter,” said Bhasin. “Having said that, the BJP will always keep its principles intact. If Negi is found guilty, party will take appropriate action.”The case has a similarity with that involving Uttarakhand’s former chief minister ND Tiwari in which a man named Rohit Shekhar had claimed to be his son. After initial denials, Tiwari accepted him as his son in 2013 after a DNA match. In another case involving a politician, the then Congress l Cabinet minister and now BJP leader and Cabinet minister, Harak Singh Rawat was booked in a molestation case on the complaint of a woman in Delhi. However, the woman later withdrew her complaint. MM Semwal, political expert and professor of political science at Garhwal Central University, Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal, said, “The recent incident involving the BJP MLA is not a good thing for Uttarakhand politics. It will only symbolise the degradation of ethics in the state’s politics.” “People nowadays are already terming politics as a very dirty affair and on top of that incidents like these will only bring more disrepute. A thorough investigation should be carried out and stern action should be taken against anyone found guilty to avoid its repetition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-dna-test-of-uttarkhand-bjp-mla-accused-of-rape-and-fathering-a-child/story-hmHOrQ1batFzaZ4FT63i2I.html
17-08-2020||India||Three security force personnel killed in terror attack in Baramulla||Two troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a Special Police Officer (SPO) of Jammu & Kashmir Police (J&K Police) were killed in a militant attack in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday. Later two militants, who were involved in the terror strikes, were also killed in an encounter with the security forces. Police said a group of militants targeted the security forces’ joint patrol party at Watergam Kreeri, where three personnel were wounded and succumbed to their injuries at a hospital. The operation to track the militants was launched soon after the attack on the patrol party by a joint team of J&K Police, Indian Army and CRPF personnel. Vijay Kumar, inspector-general of police (IGP), Kashmir, J&K Police, said three militants, who were hiding in an apple orchard, came out and started firing indiscriminately on the joint patrol party on Monday morning. “In the firing, two CRPF jawans, and an SPO of J&K Police were killed. Soon, the forces launched an operation against the militants.” Kumar said there is a likelihood that the militants were affiliated to outlawed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “The militants seem to have changed their strategy. Now, they are targeting patrol parties in remote areas in the Kashmir Valley.” “However, two attackers were chased and killed in an encounter,” he added. Sources said that the militants had also decamped with the security forces’ weapons that were recovered from their possession following the encounter. This is the second attack on security forces in the Kashmir Valley since last Friday, when two policemen were killed and another was injured at Nowgam in Srinagar. Police suspected the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) militants behind Friday’s attack. A closed-circuit TV (CCTV) footage, which has since gone viral on social media, showed two militants armed with Avtomat Kalashnikova (AK)-47 rifles running after the attack. Last week, militants had also targeted an army patrol in neighbouring Hygam, where a jawan had sustained injuries. Officials said there has been a spike in militant activities in north Kashmir and security forces are on high alert. Prominent panchayat members and political leaders from north Kashmir have been shifted to the popular tourist resort town of Gulmarg following inputs that they could be targeted, especially those affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is seen to be inimical to the secessionist forces in the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-security-force-personnel-killed-in-terror-attack-in-baramulla/story-fCLzE5CMKICuNuWCoFToPJ.html
17-08-2020||India||At India-Japan Summit next month, Modi and Abe to sign off on key military pact||The India-Japan summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is scheduled for early next month, people familiar with the development said. The two leaders are also expected to sign off on a key military logistic pact, Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreement (ACSA), and discuss the possibility of some Japanese manufacturing units shifting to India.According to South Block officials, the two countries were earlier looking at the possibility of holding the meeting in October. It has since then been advanced tentatively to 10 September. The summit, initially proposed to be held in Guwahati on December 15-17 2019, was postponed due to protests against the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Assam.The summit comes against the backdrop of aggressive moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in India’s East Ladakh sector and Japan’s Senkaku Islands, respectively. Diplomats said the two leaders will not only discuss the Chinese aggression in Ladakh and the South China Sea but also cement the concept of Quad, the quadrilateral coalition of four countries - India, Japan, Australia and the US.The four Quad countries have increasingly, focussed on countering Beijing’s wolf-warrior diplomacy and keeping the sea lanes of communication open for freedom of navigation.The ACSA, which is key to India and Japan extending support and logistics to each other’s military, is expected to be initialled by the two leaders. New Delhi already has a similar agreement with other two Quad members, Australia and the US.India’s formal decision to invite Australia to the Malabar naval exercises later this year is expected soon but officials have made it clear that it is a formality. Australia’s inclusion to the military drills that has in the past included the other three Quad members - India, Japan and the United States - would be the first time that the grouping will be engaged at a military level.Officials said PM Modi and PM Abe will discuss at length the Indo-Pacific region and the challenges it faces from the Middle Kingdom.According to senior government officials, the two leaders will further cement economic cooperation with India opening doors to Japanese manufacturing activity and perhaps, involve Tokyo in ramping up port infrastructure in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.While India has linked peace and tranquillity on its border with China to the bilateral ties, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is also under pressure from his own Cabinet members to adopt a tough line with China.The Beijing expansionist approach is not limited to Ladakh but has created security concerns with Japan over ownership of Senkaku Islands as China claims the same as Diaoyu Islands with any eye towards extending its exclusive economic zone and strengthening the hold beyond the South China Sea. The Japanese people are not only in favour of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to Tokyo being cancelled but also want the Abe government to be more critical of Beijing on the new Hong Kong security law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-india-japan-summit-next-month-modi-and-abe-to-sign-off-on-key-military-pact/story-9VXsAWZCVzrAKtOtf8pKMM.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengal to observe Sept 1 as Police Day to laud force’s contribution: Mamata Banerjee||The West Bengal government will observe September 1 as Police Day in recognition of the work done by the men in uniform, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday.“They are doing exemplary work. They are risking their lives while tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and handling law and order problems at the same time. Many policemen have been infected by the virus. But they have not budged. We want to honour them,” Banerjee said at a press conference at the state secretariat. She also announced several new projects for the Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police. These include setting up of 20 new barracks and scope for more promotion for women in the force.“Our policemen work selflessly and yet they are often maligned for no reason and even attacked by mobs. Look at policemen in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. Our policemen are far superior,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-observe-sept-1-as-police-day-to-laud-force-s-contribution-mamata-banerjee/story-nt37knYGYgE33nwH8XBsJJ.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In poll-bound Bihar, changed equations to create ample room for party hopping and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In poll-bound Bihar, changed equations to create ample room for party hoppingBihar, which is slated to go to polls in October-November, is gearing for the upcoming assembly election on schedule, despite the dual challenges of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the annual flood fury.Read more. ‘Important to respect, support each other’: China reacts to PM Modi’s Independence Day speechChina is ready to work with India to enhance mutual trust and properly manage differences, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, adding that the “right path” ahead for the two countries is to respect each other.Read more. ‘Special misinformation group’: Congress slams Sanjay Jha’s claim of rumblings within partyThe Congress on Monday refuted a claim made by its suspended leader Sanjay Jha that 100 members of the party had written to president Sonia Gandhi, seeking a change in leadership and transparency in the working committee’s elections.Read more. 2 terrorists involved in attack on security forces killed in J-K’s BaramullaAt least two terrorists were gunned down by security forces in an ongoing gun battle on Monday after they attacked and killed two troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a special police officer (SPO) of Jammu and Kashmir police earlier in the day in the Union territory’s Baramulla district.Read more. Girl, 17, gang-raped, burnt with cigarettes in UP’s Gorakhpur; 2 arrestedA 17-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district on the Friday. Her body was singed with cigarette butts by the two men who raped her, said the girl’s mother.Read more. Suresh Raina sings Yeh Shaam Mastani in this old video tweeted by BCCI. WatchA heartening throwback video of cricketer Suresh Raina singing a song is collecting a ton of reactions from fans on Twitter. Raina announced his retirement from international cricket through a social media post on the same day MS Dhoni, former captain of the Indian cricket team, shared a post announcing his retirement.Read more. Watch: IAF chopper rescues man stuck in heavy flow of water at Chhattisgarh’s damIndian Air Force carried out a rescue operation at Khutaghat Dam in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur. A man was stuck in a heavy flow of water at the Khutaghat Dam. The man was seen holding on to a tree to save himself. IAF chopper Mi-17 airlifted him safely in the early hours of August 17. Read more. Suresh Raina reveals why he and MS Dhoni decided to announce retirement on August 15Suresh Raina has revealed he was aware of the fact that MS Dhoni, his long-time friend and India teammate, would announce his retirement upon landing in Chennai. Raina and Dhoni, along with Piyush Chawla, Deepak Chahar and Karn Sharma landed in Chennai on August 14, and a day later, the former India captain informed the world of his retirement through a post on Instagram.Read more. Renault Duster 1.3 turbo petrol launched, becomes most powerful SUV in segmentRenault Duster with a new 1.3-litre turbo petrol engine was officially launched on Monday and now claims to be the most powerful SUV in its segment.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s WhatsApp chats with friend revealed: ‘Working on myself spiritually and trying to grow’Sushant Singh Rajput’s old friend Kushal Zaveri had a chat with the late actor on June 1, two weeks before he was found dead at his Mumbai home. The Republic TV has made public his chat with Kushal who directed Pavitra Rishta and also lived with Sushant for some time.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-poll-bound-bihar-changed-equations-to-create-ample-room-for-party-hopping-and-all-the-latest-news/story-bhyUphxb3rHzEfOWvB25qJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Three siblings drown to death in Rajasthan’s Barmer district||Three siblings, including two brothers and a sister, drowned to death on Monday morning in Rajasthan’s Barmer district. The incident took place at Prahladpura village in Barmer district, said Vikram Sandhu, station house officer (SHO), Sheo police station. The deceased have been identified as Ranaram (15) and Jasaram (13) and their eldest sister Guddi (18), who died while trying to save her brothers. The brothers had gone to take a bath at a pond, but unfortunately, both of them slipped and drowned to death along with their eldest sister, Sandhu said. Police have handed over the bodies to their family members for the last rites following the post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-siblings-drown-to-death-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-district/story-PY27TADYN6EwP6obmD0WmO.html
17-08-2020||India||Goa tourism stakeholders urge govt to allow charters to fly tourists to India||Tourism stakeholders in Goa want the Centre to announce its policy for the arrival of foreign charters as part of the roadmap to revive tourism in the state. The sector which has come to a standstill on account of the global Covid-19 pandemic and has failed to pick up despite the state being open for tourists from within the country, believes that there are hopes of revival later this year, if the right decisions are made now. “We need the government to announce its policy on charter flights that it will allow charters to fly in from countries like Russia and UK so that we can at least begin marketing,” Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa has said.“In the absence of that we cannot entertain inquiries or indicate that we will be open later this year unless there is clarity from the government,” he added. Goa’s tourism season that largely coincides with European winter begins in October but picks up in November, December and January when it is at its peak before tapering off by the month of April. Hotels and tour operators begin marketing campaigns and begin receiving inquiries and even bookings during the months beginning August for trips later in the year, which this year hasn’t even begun. International travel has been suspended with uncertainty over when it will resume, but stakeholders are hopeful that if not scheduled flights charter flights in which only those who have passed the valid safety cheques or have been given a ‘Covid-19 passport’ or have been vaccinated will be allowed to travel. The launch of a vaccine in Russia has offered some home that those who could get vaccinated may choose to travel, but it is yet unclear whether India will recognize the vaccine.“We cannot wait until the last minute to decide,” Shah said. Ernest Dias, a tour operator, said that until the number of cases begins to stabilize will be a prerequisite for people to travel. “Our (India’s) numbers are still very high and we are not sure whether people will want to come or if their governments will allow them to travel. It’s too early to say anything for sure,” he said. Goa has opened for tourism with strict protocols in place for those wishing to visit the state for a holiday, but operators say the numbers are only about 5-7% of normal levels and haven’t really grown since the sector opened up back in July. Tourists arriving by charter flights make up the bulk of the foreign arrivals, who are the more sought after tourists as they, on average, stay longer and spend more during their stay. “Tourists are worried about quarantine protocols which are in place and under which they have to remain quarantined till their test results come which could be 72 hours and then undergo quarantine back in their home state upon return, which is not very enjoyable. Unless there is a uniform policy across the country, which will happen only once the numbers start decreasing, the situation will not change,” Shah said. “Goa is not a large state where people from within the state will substantially and sustainably contribute to tourism,” he added. Operators are hopeful that the government will announce consistent policies over the next 2-3 weeks, which they say will help the industry restart by December. The tourism industry that has been hardest hit by the lockdown, and which comprises between 9-11% of Goa’s Gross Domestic Product. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa has estimated that Goa will have lost upwards of Rs 1,000 crore into the state economy on account of the shut down. With numbers still too small to be sustainable, only a few hotels have reopened with even those permitted to do so, yet to reopen. “The direct and indirect economic impact of the tourism industry in India is estimated at 10% of the GDP and 40% in Goa including multiplier effects,” the TTAG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-tourism-stakeholders-urge-govt-to-allow-charters-to-fly-tourists-to-india/story-b1K3NWKjZDALnRQHRwF2ZN.html
17-08-2020||India||Locals oppose wall around Tagore’s Visva Bharati university ground, demolish gates||A large crowd of local people headed by some Trinammol Congress (TMC) leaders, demolished two gates of the campus of Visva Bharati, in Bolpur in Bengal’s Birbhum district, on Monday morning and vandalised construction material stocked by the authorities to build a wall around the ground where an annual fair is held. Held around Christmas, the fair, popularly known as Poush Mela, draws thousands of people and even foreign tourists. The Visva Bharati is Bengal’s only central university A TMC lawmaker said local people will never allow the university founded by Rabindranath Tagore which is largely an open air institution to be “caged behind walls”.The local people and traders, for whom the fair is a major source of income are opposed to the wall and have been staging demonstrations since Saturday. However, Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor, did not budge from his decision to build the wall to stop entry of outsiders. Last year, Chakrabarty removed some temporary shops that continued to do business even after the fair was over. He also deployed private security agencies to guard the campus. On Monday, a large crowd went to the fairground and vandalized a temporary office set up for the construction and destroyed two gates and construction material such as bricks and cement, using a small earth moving vehicle. Naresh Bauri, a resident of Bolpur and TMC lawmaker from the district’s Dubrajpur constituency, headed the agitators on Monday. “I was not there as a TMC leader but as a local resident. How can Tagore’s university, which was supposed to be a part of nature, be caged behind walls. Local people will never tolerate this,” said Bauri. The vice-chancellor did not make any comment on the incident till 3. 30 pm. Anirban Sarkar, the only designated spokesperson of Visva Bharati did not take calls. Speaking on condition of anonymity, an officer at Shantiniketan police station said the situation became normal after 2 pm. A teacher from Visva Bharati told HT that Chakrabarty held a meeting with the departmental heads and principals of different institutes where he expressed his concern and talked of closing the campus temporarily to stop entry of outsiders. Susovan Banerjee, a member of the Visva Bharati executive committee told a local television channel that there is nothing wrong in the university trying to stop encroachment on its property. The Visva Bharti is a centrally-funded autonomous university with 10 sub- institutes. The institutes of higher education are renowned for excellence in their respective fields. Since Tagore wanted a campus where students would study in the midst of nature, many classes are held in the open. The Prime Minister is the chancellor of Visva Bharati. Expressing his concern, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar contacted chief minister Mamata Banerjee and sought intervention by the police. “Situation of law and order in Visva Bharati is alarming. Am trying to be in touch with CM to secure peace in temple of learning. As per VC violators of law have entered campus and destroyed property. CS, HS, DM and SP @MamataOfficial have not responded to call of Visva Bharati,” Dhankhar tweeted at 12.42 pm After talking to Banerjee over phone, he tweeted, “Just had word with Chief Minister over Visva Bharati worsening law and order scenario. She has assured that administration @MamataOfficial will take all steps to restore law and order. Am sure those enjoined with task will rise to the occasion.”Reacting to the governor’s intervention, education minister and TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee said, “The governor house has become the party office of the Bharatiya Janata Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-oppose-wall-around-tagore-s-visva-bharati-university-ground-demolish-gates/story-xGF7bl0RpvVFNivIQZXPjK.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Important to respect, support each other’: China reacts to PM Modi’s Independence Day speech, remarks on ties with India||China is ready to work with India to enhance mutual trust and properly manage differences, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, adding that the “right path” ahead for the two countries is to respect each other.The foreign ministry was reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day speech where he talked about strengthening the Indian armed forces and said the country’s territorial integrity is supreme.“From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces have responded in the language they understand,” Modi had said in his address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort.Modi also referred to the border clash in eastern Ladakh without naming China.“India’s integrity is supreme for us. What we can do, what our soldiers can do — everyone saw that in Ladakh,” Modi said, referring to the June 15 border clash in the Galwan Valley.Also read | A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explainedAt least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the clash and China has also acknowledged that it suffered casualties but without citing an accurate death toll. Asked to comment on Modi’s speech, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “We have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech. We are close neighbours, we are all emerging countries with over one billion people”.“So the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world. The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Monday.“So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step-up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties,” he said.Also read | ‘Make sure differences do not escalate into disputes’: China to India on border rowPrime Minister Modi’s speech was also analysed by the Chinese state media, which said it was important, in China’s context, to follow what he does next.“After the latest round of senior military-level talks between Beijing and New Delhi on August 8, India hasn’t shown any sign of changing its stance. At the same time, China has also held its ground. As the two countries are still at a stalemate over key issues, Modi’s real intentions will likely be revealed in his next moves,” Zhao Gancheng, a research fellow at the Shanghai Institute for International Studies told the tabloid, Global Times.Referring to Modi’s speech, Zhao said that it could be explained from two perspectives.“One is that Modi has become tougher and put on a combative look. The other explanation is that the Indian government thought it had done enough by demonstrating its attitude toward China. Therefore, what Modi said in his Independence Day speech is not very important - but what he will do next is.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-respect-support-each-other-china-reacts-to-pm-modi-s-independence-day-speech-remarks-on-ties-with-india/story-rPnBLJoHqq6gGP6d9k1U9N.html
17-08-2020||India||Ex-AP CM alleges phone tapping; urges PM to order inquiry||Alleging that the ruling YSR Congress in Andhra Pradesh was resorting to illegal tapping of phones to further its political gains, Telugu Desam party president N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting that the Centre order an inquiry by a competent body to check the illegal acts.He alleged that the YSRC was illegally tapping phones of opposition parties, advocates, media persons and social activists.“It appears that the ruling YSRC has now even targeted judiciary, the third pillar of the democracy, as it is facing hurdles from the judiciary,” the TDP president alleged in the letter, a copy of which was also marked to Union Communications and Law Minister Ravishankar Prasad.Alleging that some private persons were also illegally tapping phones using cutting-edge technology and tools, Chandrababu Naidu apprehended that if such illegal phone tapping went unchecked, it would “pose a serious threat to the integrity and security of the nation.”He said the tapping was being done using “illegal software and unlawfully.”“The people of AP are facing a grave threat under the rule of YSRCP.Ever since the YSRC came to power, there has been a systematic and concerted attack on the democratic institutions in the state. Initially, the process of governance was completely derailed by attacking the investors and policies of previous regimes.This was followed by attack on institutions like State Election Commission and Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC),” he said.Concomitantly, the YSRCP has been attacking and threatening leaders of opposition parties, advocates, media persons, and social activists among others through various deceitful means, he alleged.The Leader of Opposition claimed thestate government has not followed any due procedure of law in tapping the phones of people from various walks of life.“Thus, it directly stands against Articles 19 and 21 of fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution, wherein right to privacy is violated.Further, Section 5(2) of Indian Telegraph Act and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 are violated by this government as there is no reason to tap the phones of leaders of opposition parties, advocates, journalists and social activists,” he contended.“The ruling party in its over enthusiasm to retain power at any cost is dangerously threatening and attacking any person or institution raising their voice against the mal-functioning of the Government,” he said.Lawyers, journalists and social activists were not spared along with the leaders of the opposition parties, the former chief minister said.In the long run, such nefarious activities would result in breakdown of democratic values and freedom of speech leading to jungle raj, the TDP chief added.He appealed to the Prime Minister to initiate immediate and stern action to check any further unlawful activities (phone tapping) by the ruling party and private persons in AP.It would be appropriate to order an inquiry by a competent body of the Government of India to check the illegal acts of phone tapping, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-ap-cm-alleges-phone-tapping-urges-pm-to-order-inquiry/story-LfbL1i32JG5M6l3ev9IobI.html
17-08-2020||India||Supreme Court to consider larger questions in 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan, Tarun Tejpal||The Supreme Court Monday said it would consider certain larger questions in the 2009 contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal as the issue before it has wide ramifications.The top court said it would like to hear arguments from the lawyers as to what should be the process which should be followed in contempt cases where allegations are being levelled against judges.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said it would like to hear the counsels on whether such statements can be made and the procedure to be adopted for dealing with them.The apex court in November 2009, had issued a contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was the editor of the magazine.Bhushan told the court on Sunday that making corruption charges against the judges would not amount to contempt of court and mere utterance of corruption charge could not be contempt of court.The top court asked senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan -- appearing for Bhushan -- Shanti Bhushan and Kapil Sibal to address it on three issues -- whether such statements can be made, in what circumstances they can be made and what is the procedure to be adopted with respect to sitting and retired judges.The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, posted the matter for next hearing on August 24.At the outset, Dhavan said the court should consider certain questions and the matter should be heard by a larger bench.Dhavan also referred to the recent judgement in which Bhushan was held guilty of contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary and said the lawyer intends to file a review petition against the August 14 verdict.He told the court that it appears that August 14 judgment suffers from many imbalances as in some parts the verdict says that allegations against judges “per se” does not constitute contempt.Sibal, appearing for Tarun Tejpal, then said the matter should be given quietus (discharged).The bench said that even the court wants to give the case a quietus but it there are certain questions which need consideration.Dhavan said the questions posed by the court were very “meaningful” and suggested that the matter be examined by a constitution bench.Shanti Bhusan sought adjournment of the matter by two weeks when the physical hearing is likely to be resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-consider-larger-questions-in-2009-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-tarun-tejpal/story-fJfHQJ4025RjipjNKAANZP.html
17-08-2020||India||Kerala opposition leader moves HC, seeks stay on police plan to tap calls of Covid-19 patients||Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Monday moved the high court with a plea to restrain the police from collecting call detail records (CDR) of Covid-19 patients and those who are under quarantine. In his plea, Chennithala said the government’s move was unconstitutional and it will be an infringement on the right to privacy. He said in the name of controlling the Covid-19 pandemic, the government was trampling on the basic rights of people. He urged the court to restrain the police and service providers from doing this saying the government was planning to convert Kerala into a surveillance state. His plea is likely to come up before the court on Tuesday.Despite mounting protests, the government maintained it was for better tracking and surveillance of patients and had been experimented in many places earlier also. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said during pandemic situations such drastic steps would be needed but the police will ensure that these records are not misused by anyone. He also said it was part of a scientific method to contain the spread of the virus and it was done for the sake of public health and safety. Last week, Kerala director general of police Loknath Behra had issued a circular which said the ADGP Intelligence and ADGP headquarters will get in touch with all service providers to get CDRs of Covid-19 patients and persons under quarantine. Many legal experts and rights activists also slammed the move. Opposition BJP also slammed the move saying the state was moving towards a “police raj.” “It is a move aimed at troubling poor patients. The government is only concerned about its records, not the welfare of people. It is fudging data to maintain its so-called records,” BJP state president K Surendran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-opposition-leader-moves-hc-seeks-stay-on-police-plan-to-tap-calls-of-covid-19-patients/story-z5q709ifE63Pnjpmj8wgmL.html
17-08-2020||India||Girl, 17, gang-raped, burnt with cigarettes in UP’s Gorakhpur; 2 arrested||A 17-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district on the Friday. Her body was singed with cigarette butts by the two men who raped her, said the girl’s mother .On Sunday, the police arrested Arjun Nishad and his associate Mahesh Yadav alias Chottu, who are now being sent to jail. Shyam Deo Bind, deputy superintendent of police, Gola, said, the police have registered an FIR on the charge of kidnapping, rape against the duo under various sections of the IPC and has also charged them under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Native of a village located in the Barhalganj area of the district, the mother of the victim said, the girl worked at a brick kiln run by one Guddu Singh in Gola. The girl was staying in a rented house in Barhajpar village with her family members. “On Friday night my daughter went out of the house to fetch water from the hand pump. When she did not return, I searched with the assistance of the villagers but failed to locate her,” said the mother. “On Saturday morning, the villagers found my daughter lying in semi unconscious condition in a deserted house located behind a temple. She told me that while she was collecting water at the hand pump one Arjun Nishad and his associate, whio came on a motorcycle, kidnapped her. They took her to desolate spot and committed rape, when she resisted, the duo burned her body with cigarettes,” the mother added. The victim has now been shifted to a district hospital in Gorakhpur for treatment and medical examination. Her statement will be recorded by a magistrate, SP Bind said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-17-gang-raped-burnt-with-cigarettes-in-up-s-gorakhpur-2-arrested/story-HF3M4hLBnUp37PLkowB7LI.html
17-08-2020||India||CBI books Ludhiana firm linked to Canada-based company named in Panama Paper leaks||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a Ludhiana based company - SEL Textiles Ltd for cheating a consortium of 10 banks led by Central Bank of India of Rs 1,530 crore between 2009 and 2013 and using a Canada-based company - Aarti Impex - named in Panama Papers leaks for diversion of funds, officials familiar with development said Monday. The CBI has named the promoters of SEL Textiles - Ram Saran Saluja, Neeraj Saluja, Dhiraj Saluja for diverting the banks’ funds using several companies abroad. Aarti Impex is not named as accused in CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, but it is listed as one of the exporters to SEL Textiles which was used for diverting the money by latter to siphon the funds out of India and there were no genuine business transactions. The company was named in Panama Papers leaks among 500 Indians - individuals and entities - who paid the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca to set up offshore entities in tax havens around the world. Aarti Impex, an exporter of textile products, is a company based in Canada and has branch offices in Bolivia and Columbia and represent textile spinners from India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Turkey, China etc. “The amount received by SEL from the above company (Aarti Impex) kept on increasing since 2010,” states the CBI FIR quoting the bank’s complaint. “The credit period has shown continuous increase since 2010 giving signals of possible risks to realisation. Upon searching the company on internet, there was a link to Panama Paper leaks, wherein, the director is stated to be Sandeep Gupta, and company is registered in Panama Islands,” it adds. An email sent to Aarti Impex by HT remained unanswered till filing of this report. According to the CBI FIR several Dubai- based companies have also been used by SEL for diversion of banks’ money. According to CBI officials, Dhiraj Saluja is said to be out of India and a look out circular (LoC) will be issued against him. Apart from Central Bank, which has an exposure of Rs 371 crore on SEL Textiles; other banks which have been cheated include - Allahabad Bank (Rs 429 crore), Punjab National Bank (Rs 176 crore), Indian Overseas Bank (Rs 120 crore), Bank of Maharashtra (Rs 92 crore), Punjab & Sind Bank (Rs 52 crore), Corporation Bank (Rs 115 crore), Union Bank of India (Rs 46 crore), UCO Bank (Rs 101 crore) and United Bank of India (Rs 24 crore). It is alleged that the company diverted funds for acquiring unproductive assets, creating additional chain of intermediary for capital goods purchases through capital advances and investments which are considered beyond the capacity of the company to support looking to its own weak financials, according to CBI FIR. The bank said in its complaint that Dhiraj Saluja is abroad as he used to handle overseas business of SEL, while asking CBI to investigate as the case has inter-state and international ramifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-ludhiana-based-sel-textiles-for-allegedly-cheating-banks-of-rs-1-530-cr/story-9M9P10Q6zbVoune3JEx4lJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengaluru violence: ‘Will recover cost of damages from culprits’, tweets CM Yediyurappa||The Karnataka government has decided to recover the cost of damages to public property during violence in Bengaluru from the protesters.“Our Govt has decided to assess the damages caused to public & private property in the violent incidents in KG Halli & DG Halli & recover the costs from the culprits. We will approach Hon’ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as per Hon’ble Supreme Court order,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced in a series of tweets on Monday. Our Govt has decided to assess the damages caused to public & private property in the violent incidents in KG Halli & DG Halli & recover the costs from the culprits. We will approach Hon'ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as per Hon'ble Supreme Court order (1/3)He further said that stringent action has been initiated against the culprits of violence. The state government has booked them under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).“A Special Investigation Team has already been formed to conduct a detailed investigation in the matter and a team of three special prosecutors will be appointed for speedy trial of the cases. SIT will consider invoking Goonda Act if warranted,” Yediyurappa said.Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the state government will hold discussion with representatives of the social media companies to regulate it.“As far as social media is concerned, we are looking into the present law. We’re going to have a discussion with technical chiefs of all social media companies shortly. We wish to have some regulation which will be applicable to social media,” Bommai said.At least three people were killed and 60 police personnel injured after violence broke out in the eastern part of Bengaluru last week over a social media message, which was allegedly posted by a relative of a Congress legislator.The police arrested 340 people for arson, stone-pelting and assault on cops, officials said. Congress’ member of legislative assembly (MLA) Srinivas Murthy’s nephew was also arrested for sharing the “derogatory” post on Facebook.Murthy’s house was attacked by people for the alleged controversial Facebook post regarding a religious figure by his nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-violence-will-recover-cost-of-damages-from-culprits-tweets-cm-yediyurappa/story-FemAJ0KehUilfnswWt4aYN.html
17-08-2020||India||Out to celebrate Independence Day, four youth die as car falls in gorge in Darjeeling||Four youths died in West Bengal’s Darjeeling district on Saturday night, when their car skidded off a mountain road and fell into a gorge around a thousand feet below. Raj Singh, the fifth passenger of the vehicle, could not be traced until Monday afternoon. The police personnel, who recovered the bodies, said the youths lived in Siliguri and had gone to Kurseong about 40 kilometres away from north Bengal’s biggest town to celebrate the 74th Independence Day on August 15. Three of them were college students. The deceased have been identified as Bikram Das, Subrata Das, Rishabh Das and Abhranil Kundu. A missing diary was lodged by Rishabh’s father Shekar Das at Siliguri police station on Sunday. Manoranjan Das, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kurseong, said, “Two bodies were recovered on Sunday night and two more on Monday morning.” The youths hailed from Siliguri’s Rathkhola and NTS More neighbourhoods. They were returning to Siliguri on Saturday night, when the accident took place downhill on Rohini Road near Kargil Dara. ASP Das said, “Four bodies were found around 300 feet below the road. We are looking for the fifth youth.” Police said some of the youths had last spoken with their family members after 11 pm on Saturday. Initially, the youths drove down to Lataguri in the Dooars on Saturday, and later went uphill to Kurseong, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-out-to-celebrate-independence-day-four-youth-die-as-car-falls-in-gorge/story-joZblre62YH7RA88CT6JMI.html
17-08-2020||India||Record 57,584 Covid-19 patients recover in one day: Health Ministry||The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India went past 19 lakh on Monday with a record 57,584 patients recovering within a span of 24 hours, pushing the recovery rate to over 72 per cent, according to the Union Health ministry data.India’s Covid-19 recoveries have reached closer to 2 million (19,19,842), while the actual caseload of the country stands at 6,76,900 on date and currently comprises only 25.57 per cent of the total positive cases.This difference between the recovered and the active cases continues to expand and now stands at 12,42,942. The recovery rate is 72.51 per cent at present.This is the result of successful and coordinated implementation of an effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of the critical patients, the ministry said in a statement. India has followed a standard of care protocol for the differentiated categorisation of Covid-19 patients - mild, moderate and severe as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), it said.The effective clinical management strategies have yielded positive results, the ministry said.India has been marching firmly on the road to enhanced recoveries every day, it asserted.The early identification of cases has helped to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases thereby leading to timely and effective management of cases, the ministry said.The Case Fatality Rate has further slumped to 1.92 per cent.India’s Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday with a single-day spike of 57,981 infections, while the death toll crossed the 50,000 mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has also crossed the three crore-mark in India, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-57-584-covid-19-patients-recover-in-one-day-health-ministry/story-hqVkNTkZPvMSolzLKd8QlM.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Special misinformation group’: Congress slams Sanjay Jha’s claim of rumblings within party||The Congress on Monday refuted a claim made by its suspended leader Sanjay Jha that 100 members of the party had written to president Sonia Gandhi, seeking a change in leadership and transparency in the working committee’s elections.Randeep Singh Surjewala, Congress’ spokesperson, called it the BJP’s ploy to divert attention from the issue of the ruling party’s links with Facebook.“Special Misinformation Group on Media-TV Debate Guidance” in its what’sapp of today directed to run the story of a non existant letter of Congress leaders to divert attention from Facebook-BJP links. Of course, BJP stooges have started acting upon it,” Surjewala tweeted.Jha had claimed earlier in the day that about 100 leaders of the party, including members of Parliament, had written to Gandhi.“It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP’s), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC. Watch this space,” Jha had tweeted.Jha was suspended for “anti-party activities and breach of discipline” last month after he backed former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot during the political turmoil in the state. And before that, he was sacked as the Congress’ spokesperson after he criticised the party leadership in an article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-misinformation-group-congress-slams-sanjay-jha-s-claim-of-rumblings-within-party/story-BfnIV1t8wfspT8U94Uu85I.html
17-08-2020||India||Life doesn’t serve choices and success on platter, says Ayush Anand||Actor Ayush Anand feels that one has to learn it the hard way to achieve success in life, “Yes of course because life doesn’t serve choices and success on platter. One has to start from scratch to reach a certain position. It’s never an easy way out, as the world out there is truly competitive and difficult. I had a dream of becoming an actor but gave it away for a job at a call centre as I thought that was an easy way out. But my father’s last conversation with me, before his sudden demise, made me rethink on my career choice.” Talking about how acting happened he remembers, “I was about to leave for work and was tying my shoe laces that my father said, ‘Why don’t you go ahead and pursue career in acting that was your dream…right!’ I was quick to revert and said ‘yes…I will see in sometime’. I left for work and same night I got a call from my younger brother that my father passed away while sleeping. His words stuck with me and soon I enrolled into Barry John Acting Studio, taking my first step.” It has been five years since Ayush came to Mumbai and has worked for shows like ‘Perfect Pati,’ ‘Ishqbaaaz,’ ‘Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh, Piya ji’, ‘Jodha Akbar,’ ‘Balika Vadhu’ and more.“My journey was never that easy. For the first six months in Mumbai I had just no work. My first assignment finally reached me after much waiting. I got a call from a production house, saying, ‘We have role for you, you will be playing cousin to the lead. And you will get Rs 3,000 per day.’ I was elated as I was getting money and a role. When I reached on the sets, I saw a vanity van with a ‘cousin’ tag. I was like wow so that’s the vanity allotted to me and as I sat there waiting another guy came in and I simply asked him, ‘What you are playing in the show?’ he said, ‘cousin’ and then there were a few more — all playing cousins. I was zapped but completed the assignment and left. Somewhere in my head I knew I can’t be bystander all my life,” shared Ayush over the phone.The turning point in his career was the show ‘Ishqbaaz’ followed by his titular soap ‘Perfect Pati’ where yesteryear’s iconic actor Jaya Prada played his mother. “Thankfully I didn’t have to wait long as these shows did give me the recognition I always wanted. Also working with Jayaji was overwhelming as well as a learning experience. It was then I felt that I was on the right track to success.”Currently playing Trilok, a negative lead in the ongoing show, ‘Tujhse Hai Raabta,’ Ayush soon wishes to be on silver screen and fulfill his father’s dream to the fullest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/life-doesn-t-serve-choices-and-success-on-platter-says-ayush-anand/story-Qn1VpXmkK1aS8RtHjvDv1N.html
17-08-2020||India||Moderate risk of flash floods in next 24 hours over Central India, warns IMD||The Central Water Commission issued a flood forecast on Monday, for some areas of north Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh and a few adjoining areas of Rajasthan and south Gujarat sub-division for the next 24 hours. The Commission cited the India Meteorological Department’s flash flood guidance as the reason for the warning.“There is moderate risk of flash floods for the next 24 hours over some areas of north Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas of Rajasthan and south Gujarat sub-division,” the Central Water Commission statement said in its official flood forecast.The IMD has also predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rainfall likely over east Rajasthan over the next two days on Tuesday and Wednesday and over Uttarakhand tomorrow. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is also likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa, the IMD said.In Chhattisgarh, parts of Sukma district have been inundated and normal life has been disrupted after very heavy rainfall in the state. The water level in rivers and drains has started rising in the region. Earlier on Sunday, the IMD had predicted rainfall over most of Central India for the next five days. “Fairly widespread rain likely over south Rajasthan, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan and Goa; over Chhattisgarh and over Odisha and Telangana and over Saurashtra and Kutch on August 18 and 19,” the weather forecasting agency had said. Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain are also likely over isolated areas in national capital Delhi, and adjoining areas of Sonipat, Panipat, Jind, Bhiwani, Hissar, Karnal, Rohtak, Baraut, Modinagar, Khatauli and Aurangabad over the next two hours, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-risk-of-flash-floods-in-next-24-hours-over-central-india-warns-imd/story-3NvXjdeAfNQk4i0yHdbfJI.html
17-08-2020||India||CB-CID office shut for fumigation as 2 contract Covid-19||The office of CB-CID, where three accused in the case relating to the death of Sri Lankan don Angoda Lokka were interrogated, was closed on Monday as two police personnel tested Covid-19 positive. One Special Sub-inspector in the CB-CID team tested positive on Saturday last necessitating other team members to take a test and the results today showed a woman inspector and a head constable-cum-driver having got the infection. Both have been admitted to an ESI hospital. In view of this, the CB-CID office has been temporarily closed for fumigation, sources said. Steps are being taken to protect other police officials camping here as part of the probe into the gangster’s death, they said. Lokka died of cardia arrest here on July 3 and the body, after postmortem, was taken to Madurai and cremated the next day. The CB-CID arrested a Sri Lankan woman Amani Thanji, a lawyer Sivakami Sundari and Dyaneshwran for allegedly forging the documents to get the don an Aadhaar card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cb-cid-office-shut-for-fumigation-as-2-contract-covid-19/story-31tKE2s3JWBM61d0ltpV1J.html
17-08-2020||India||Post-COVID clinic to help analyse patients reporting fresh symptoms||The Delhi-government run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital will soon start a post-COVID clinic to analyse patients seeing a re-emergence of coronavirus symptoms after recovering from the infection.According to Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the hospital, they have received calls from patients who had recovered from coronavirus but have reported symptoms again.“We have received calls from patients who have said that their saturation levels have gone down or they are experiencing breathlessness. At the clinic, we will be carrying out CT scan of the lungs and other tests to see whether the healing process is different in different patients, the symptoms and why is it re-emerging,” he told PTI.The senior doctor said that the clinic is likely to start this week. Earlier this month, the hospital had seen two instances of patients who have had a relapse almost one-and-a-half months after they were cured of the infection.“There were two patients who came to the hospital with COVID-like symptoms and they tested positive. They were not tested after they were discharged the first time. Both of them had moderate symptoms in both the instances,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-covid-clinic-to-help-analyse-patients-reporting-fresh-symptoms/story-39pkx9qic5dGs3WZLDKY0H.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown extended in Bihar till September 6||The Bihar government has once again decided to extend the lockdown till September 6, owing to the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. The state’s home department issued an order in this regard on Monday. The lockdown was imposed from July 16 to July 31 and later extended till August 16. The orders issued on July 30 for the containment of Covid-19 would be prevalent across the state. No public transport would be allowed to ply in areas falling under lockdown norms, but there would be no bar on construction activities besides transportation of goods, state officials said. Air and rail travel have been allowed to continue and offices, banks, and other offices would function with minimal staff strength, they added. It is expected that an order for some more relaxation in the lockdown norms would be issued on Monday. At present night curfew has been imposed in the state.Bihar has seen a massive surge in Covid-19 cases as the state’s tally have crossed the one lakh mark. Till Sunday, the cumulative Covid-19 cases were 104,093 and 537 people have died due to the disease till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-in-bihar-till-september-6-as-covid-18-cases-spike/story-lxlFSqApFQljRkGW1aMdJO.html
17-08-2020||India||Andaman & Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rises to 2,399||The number of Covid-19 cases in Andaman and Nicobar Island rose to 2,399, with 93 more people testing positive for coronavirus, an official said on Monday.All the new cases were detected during contact tracing, he said.Of the total 2,399 Covid-19 cases, active are 1,145 as 1,226 people have recovered from the disease and 28 have died, the official said.Ninety-eight more people recovered from Covid-19 in the Union territory in the last 24-hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,226, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andaman-nicobar-islands-covid-19-tally-rises-to-2-399/story-R8aqGXzp9iJkIL5G4qW4nO.html
17-08-2020||India||Six persons at Sharad Pawar’s Mumbai residence test Covid-19 positive||Mumbai: Six personnel, who is deployed as part of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s security detail, has tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive. However, Pawar himself has tested Covid-19 negative in the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test that was conducted at Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told media persons in Ahmednagar on Monday morning. The test reports of all the members and staff at Silver Oak, Pawar’s south Mumbai residence, and the rest of the security personnel, except for the six, have come Covid-19 negative. The veteran leader has decided not to meet the public for the next four days, as a precautionary measure. Tope said he would request the NCP chief to put off his visits for the next few days. “Pawar saheb is taking all the necessary precautions. There is no reason to worry,” he said. The security personnel, who is assigned to maintain social distancing norms between the public and the NCP leader, is likely to have come in contact with a person, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, Tope added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-persons-at-sharad-pawar-s-mumbai-residence-test-covid-19-positive/story-lLynB1IcCj74ZRpcGa5g3K.html
17-08-2020||India||Jungle raj of caste-based violence, rape at peak in UP: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday turned his attention towards Uttar Pradesh as he criticised the killing of a village head in the state’s Azamgarh district last week.Satyamev Jayate aka Pappu Ram, was shot dead by three motorcycle-borne men last Friday in Bansgaon. Police in the state have invoked the National Security Act against four people in connection with the village head’s killing, which had also triggered a mob violence.“Jungle raj of caste-based violence and rape is at its peak in UP. Now another terrible incident - sarpanch Satyamev, being a Dalit, said no and he was killed because of that. Condolences to Satyamev Ji’s family members,” Gandhi tweeted in HindiThe former Congress president also cited a media report on the murder of the village head.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Gandhi’s sister and Congress general secretary, also hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the issue of security of women.“Bulandshahr, Hapur, Lakhimpur Kheri and now Gorakhpur. Such repeated incidents have proven that the Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in providing security to women,”she said in a Facebook post in Hindi, referring to reports of crimes against women in these areas.She said there is no fear of law in the minds of criminals in Uttar Pradesh and as a result, gruesome incidents of crime are taking place against women. She alleged that the police and administration are neither able to provide security nor take appropriate action.“The Uttar Pradesh government should review the law-and-order system and take every step to ensure the safety of women,” she said.The Congress has been alleging that the law-and-order situation is deteriorating in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP rule, a charge denied by the state dispensation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jungle-raj-of-caste-based-violence-rape-at-peak-in-up-rahul-gandhi/story-3c8uZk1IEK9WKXyHr374QO.html
17-08-2020||India||Facebook official approaches police with complaint about harassment and threats||A Facebook official has approached Delhi Police to file a complaint against people on social media who allegedly threatened and abused her following a report in The Wall Street Journal that the social media platform was favouring the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), police said. The complaint was sent to the cyber cell unit of South Delhi district police, but is being investigated by Delhi Police’s specialised Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) team. A senior police officer said the content of the complaint, sent by email, is being examined and a first information report (FIR) is yet to be registered. Also read | ‘We enforce policies without regard to anyone’s political affiliation’: FacebookIn her complaint, the Facebook official said the threats began on Friday when the WSJ report appeared. The alleged harassment included death threats on Twitter, threats on Facebook and circulation of her photographs on social media with defamatory comments. In her email, the Facebook official attached links to two alleged threats on Twitter, two on Facebook, screenshots of other forms of harassment and the link to the WSJ article that she alleged was being published in a “mischaracterised and distorted manner” by publications in India. Also read | Political slugfest over Facebook intensifiesShe complained that she “being subjected to name-calling, cyber bullying and eve-teasing online”. She demanded an FIR against suspects under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertaining to sexually coloured remarks, vulgar gestures through words, and criminal intimidation. HT’s phone calls and text messages to the Facebook official went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-official-approaches-police-with-complaint-about-harassment-and-threats/story-pZodAhIqHRQ4zztz4GOV5H.html
17-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh BJP leader lists ‘flaws’ in functioning of state unit, says hard work not rewarded||Raising questions over the “organizational capabilities” of Chhattisgarh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), senior party leader and spokesperson Sachchidanand Upasane said that priority has been given to “Parikrama” (circle around) over “Parishram” (hard work) which was reason behind the decline of party in state.In a video released on Sunday, Upasane raised questions and claimed that the party is not giving preference to ground-level workers in the state; he said that these workers are not involved in decision-making process.“I have raised question to the state leadership and I am sure that they will address my concerns,” Upasane told Hindustan Times.The BJP, which ruled Chhattisgarh for three consecutive terms from 2003 to 2018, has 14 MLAs while the ruling Congress has 69 lawmakers in the 90-member state assembly.Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC-J), and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have four and two lawmakers, respectively. The Marwahi assembly seat has been lying vacant since the death of Ajit Jogi, former chief minister and a lawmaker of JCC(J).“For 15 years when we were in power, we developed certain demerits and flaws... people of this state know that what as a party we were in past and what we are now... People keep a close eye on every party and hence party should understand the people’s voice. When this is ignored the party has to suffer not an individual,” said Upasane in his video.He further said, “The office-bearers of the state unit of BJP should think how and why we have reached this stage? We should think over present condition and more and more people should participate in the decision-making process of the party.”“The party workers who are working on ground for years should be given priority. Parikrama should not be considered over Parsihram and whenever it happen the decline starts,” Upasane added.Reacting to the video, state BJP president Vishnu Deo Sai said that these are Upasane’s personal views.“It is his (Upasane’s) personal opinion. This is not correct that ground workers or leaders are not given preference. In all the decision-making process senior leaders along with all party cadres are consulted,” Sai told HT. On the other hand, other senior leaders of BJP in the state also think that this is the correct time to think over the questions which Upasane has raised.“He (Upasane) is a senior leader and hard worker for the party. His observation should not be ignored. We will definitely work on the present condition of party in the state and move forward...Iit is a phase but it is not stable. Secondly, everyone in the party should think over the present condition of party and why we have reached to this stage,” a senior party leader and former minister in BJP government said, preferring anonymity. Another leader of BJP said it’s a fact that people are now given importance instead of organisation.“The party is not able to appoint district presidents in 11 districts till now and this is because only a bunch of leaders are taking part in the decision-making process. There are fractions in the party. Some people are taking all decision without taking in considering the organisation and ground workers,” said one of the leaders on condition of anonymity.Political commentators believe that there is big gap in the stature of BJP leaders and its cadres. “Till the party came to power in 2003, there wasn’t a big gap in the stature of its leaders and cadres. This increased significantly in 15 years of Raman Singh’s rule. Most of those who reached the top remained there all through. The buffer zone between the less accessible top leadership and the others bred a coterie and a group of go-betweens. The pinch was ignored because power provided a cushion then. Now with situation changed after 2018, the present rumblings are a protest against the order that emerged and consolidated itself in those 15 years in power,” said Parivesh Mishra, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-bjp-leader-lists-flaws-in-functioning-of-state-unit-says-hard-work-not-rewarded/story-5wWFrpbQqEUuMUqm6yG2sJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Fire breaks out at a shop on Mohammad Ali Road in south Mumbai||A fire broke out at 11:06 am on Monday at a shop on Mohammad Ali road in Bhendi Bazaar in south Mumbai. Mumbai Fire Brigade authorities said nobody has been injured in the blaze, whose cause is yet to be ascertained. The Brihanmumbai Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department officials said four fine engines, an equal number of water tankers, an ambulance, and a breathing apparatus van have been pressed into service to douse the fire. The area, where the fire broke out, is a densely-populated and congested part of south Mumbai.The area is known for its narrow lanes, buildings located cheek-by-jowl, causing difficulties for fire brigade personnel to access the shop that is affected by the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-shop-on-mohammad-ali-road-in-south-mumbai/story-9FpPzCVI9QwQruumvnwCTJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 claimed lives of 2 people in every 3 minutes in last 24 hours in India||The coronavirus disease claimed the lives of two people every third minute in the last 24 hours, according to analysis of Union health ministry’s data by Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.According to health ministry, 941 people died due to the disease in the country in the last 24 hours (between Sunday and Monday). Meanwhile, the infection tally crossed 2.6 million after 57,981 new cases were added in the same period.The number of fatalities crossed the 50,000-mark on Monday, according to the health ministry data.The recoveries surged to 19,19,842, pushing the recovery rate to 72.51 per cent, the update at 8 am showed. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.92 per cent.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the three-crore mark in India.The ICMR said that a total of 3,00,41,400 samples have been tested up to August 16 with 7,31,697 samples being tested on Sunday.Having started with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and then expanding to 100 laboratories around the beginning of the lockdown, the ICMR on June 23 validated the 1,000th testing lab.Total labs in the country testing for Covid-19 now stand at 1,470 - out of this, 969 are government labs and 501 private, according to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.The number of new cases are constantly increasing across the world. South Korea reported 197 newly confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Monday, the fourth straight day of triple-digit daily increases, as health workers scramble to slow transmissions in the greater capital area where churches have emerged as major sources of infections.Australia’s hard-hit Victoria state on Monday recorded its deadliest day of the pandemic with 25 coronavirus fatalities. The death toll surpasses the previous 24-hour record of 21 set on Wednesday last week.New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, meanwhile, chose to delay national elections by four weeks as the country deals with a new coronavirus outbreak in its largest city, Auckland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-claimed-lives-of-2-people-in-every-3-minutes-in-last-24-hours-in-india/story-HLSQq26dtLlkdihPCkBJCO.html
17-08-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu accuses Jagan Reddy of tapping phones; petitions PM Modi||Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday demanded that the Centre order a high-level inquiry into the alleged telephone tapping by the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state.In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the former chief minister alleged that the YSR Congress government in the state had been indulging in tapping phones of the opposition leaders, advocates, journalists and social activists. He accused Jagan of perpetrating a “jungle raj” on all sections of people in the state.Requesting that the PM order a comprehensive inquiry by a competent authority into the alleged telephone tapping by the Jagan government, Naidu said the Centre should take stringent action in this regard.The TDP chief said that the ruling party in Andhra and some private individuals were using sophisticated technology and illegal software to tap the phones belonging to the opposition leaders, advocates, journalists and social activists. “This is in violation of the Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India that protect the fundamental rights of citizens. The ruling YSRCP is using illegal tactics to safeguard its power by intimidating and blackmailing the opponents and dissenting voices. These illegal activities are posing a serious threat to the right to privacy in the State,” he said.“It appears that the ruling YSRCP has now even targeted the judiciary, the third pillar of the democracy, as it is facing hurdles from the judiciary,” Naidu said.He brought to the notice of the PM that even private individuals were using cutting edge technology and equipment to unlawfully tap the phones. “If these nefarious activities were not put to an end, they would emerge as a bigger threat to national security and sovereignty of the country as a whole,” he said.Stating that the YSRCP was already misusing its power to destroy institutions, the TDP chief deplored that systematic efforts were being made to deny fundamental rights and perpetrate oppression. As a result, the overall administration came off track in the state due to ongoing attacks on investments and pro-people policies.Interestingly, ruling YSR Congress Party rebel lawmaker from Narasapuram parliamentary constituency, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who has raised a banner of revolt against the state government, made a similar complaint to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Sunday.He requested that the Centre order a probe into the telephone tapping by the Jagan government. He alleged that the state intelligence department was tapping his two numbers.Meanwhile, a senior advocate Sravan Kumar filed a lunch motion petition before Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday seeking a comprehensive inquiry into the alleged telephone tapping of political rivals by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. He presented certain evidence before the court, which agreed to take up the hearing on the petition on Tuesday.YSRCP leaders could not be immediately reached for a comment on Naidu’s petition to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-accuses-jagan-reddy-of-tapping-phones-petitions-pm-modi/story-tIxJQyYKV3iweJARbGwjZJ.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Four people at NCP chief’s residence contract Covid-19, Pawar tests negative and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Four people at NCP chief’s residence contract Covid-19, Pawar tests negativeFour people at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s South Mumbai residence have tested positive for Covid-19, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday. Read more‘We enforce policies without regard to anyone’s political affiliation’: FacebookAmid political slugfest involving social media giant Facebook, a company spokesperson has said that the platform “prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence. Read moreShareChat in talks with Google over a potential investmentGoogle is in talks with Bengaluru-based social media company, ShareChat over a potential investment. Read moreTata Motors debunks reports which claim it plans to sell stake in JLRTata Motors early Monday issued a statement debunking reports that stated it plans to sell its stake in Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), underlining that it remains a crucial part of the wider Tata Group. Read more‘I once told Sachin Tendulkar the same’: Inzamam-ul-Haq feels MS Dhoni should have announced retirement at the groundAs a captain, MS Dhoni had numerous accomplishments to his name across all formats. Not only did he lead Indian team to three ICC titles, he also took Indian team to no. 1 Test ranking in 2009 as captain. Read moreIndia to hold key Covid vaccine meet today, likely to discuss pricing & procurementHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Read moreIronman Milind Soman shares tips for keeping fit and feeling youngMilind Soman is more super man than super model, the fitness freak has been a trailblazer from his early modelling days, and continues to break barriers and inspire everyone. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-four-people-at-ncp-chief-s-residence-contract-covid-19-pawar-tests-negative-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZI2RGdjDAQcxllTVDPqCkK.html
17-08-2020||India||Farmers should start plantations on their land, says Javadekar||New Delhi: Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday called on farmers in all states to grow trees on their land which can be sold when they are ready. Javadekar was addressing a virtual meeting with forest ministers of all states and union territories.“Farmers shouldn’t fear that their land will become forest land. The land will remain theirs. They can sell the trees when needed and transport them,” Javadekar said. With the Compensatory Afforestation Fund available with states, water and fodder augmentation projects will have to be taken up in one forest in each state, he said. Afforestation of river banks and flood plains of all major rivers will also be taken up, nurseries will be developed in 2,000 schools across the country, and urban forestry projects will be taken up with private participation.“Eighty percent of the compensatory afforestation funds are to be utilised only for afforestation and rest of the 20% can be utilised for capacity and infrastructure development like buildings or vehicles,” he said. Javadekar asked all states to come up with an outline for Project Dolphin (which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day) within a fortnight. The project will involve long-term conservation of Gangetic dolphins and dolphins along the coasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-should-start-plantations-on-their-land-says-javadekar/story-LA3L2flBuXO0f5H0LXiNjO.html
17-08-2020||India||Four people at NCP chief’s residence contract Covid-19, Pawar tests negative||Four people at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s South Mumbai residence have tested positive for Covid-19, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday. Tope added that Pawar has tested negative for the infection. “Two people, including a cook, and two security guards at Pawar’s ‘Silver Oak’ residence here have tested positive for coronavirus,” the minister said.According to Tope, Pawar was taken to Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital here on Sunday for the test. “He is safe and sound...but will ask him not to go on state tour for next some days,” the minister added.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges over 2.64 million, recoveries cross 1.9 millionThe country’s power corridors have not been spared by the virus as several ministers and politicians in recent months announced having contracted the infection. Union home minister Amit Shah, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain were some other senior leaders who recently tested positive for Covid-19. On Friday, Shah tweeted that he has tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19) infection and will follow home isolation on the advice of doctors.“Today my corona test report has come negative. I thank God and express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who blessed me and my family by wishing for my speedy recovery. I will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors,” his tweet read. The home minister had tested positive for the disease earlier this month.CM Chouhan recovered after spending over 10 days in hospital. He contracted the infection last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-people-at-ncp-chief-s-residence-contract-covid-19-pawar-tests-negative/story-zwz2eEcb4bICAMfCiS4eOK.html
17-08-2020||India||100 Congress leaders wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking leadership change, claims ex-leader Sanjay Jha||Sacked Congress leader Sanjay Jha said on Monday several lawmakers of the party have approached Sonia Gandhi with a request to bring in a change in the leadership and demanded transparent polls within the organisation.“It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP’s) , distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC. Watch this space,” Jha tweeted.The letter, mentioned by Jha, comes days after the Congress party tided over a month-long political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by a rebellion by Sachin Pilot. The 42-year-old Pilot and 18 rebel legislators had protested chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s style of functioning and alleged that Pilot was sidelined in the state government.On July 14, Pilot was sacked from the posts of the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president after his revolt. Also Watch l ‘Congress without Gandhis will be unprecedented, but it will work’: Sanjay Jha The Congress government won a floor test in the House, bolstered by the return of Pilot and his supporters to the party fold after a tumultuous month.Jha was suspended for anti-party activities and breach of discipline in July after he backed Sachin Pilot, who was sacked as the deputy chief minister and removed as the Congress’ Rajasthan unit chief. The move came after Sanjay Jha put out a series of tweets in support of Pilot.Before this, Jha was also sacked as the party spokesperson after he criticised the party leadership in an article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-100-congress-leaders-wrote-to-sonia-gandhi-asking-for-change-in-political-leadership-transparent-elections-in-cwc-tweets-sanjay-jha/story-HkoI7eh9cq5zHWXxgZQE3N.html
17-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be critical, on ventilator support: Army hospital||The condition of Pranab Mukherjee continues to be critical and the former president is being closely monitored, news agency ANI reported on Monday citing the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.The hospital in the Delhi Cantonment area also said the vital and clinical parameters of Mukherjee, who is on ventilatory support, are stable.The 84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital last Monday and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).His son, Abhijit Mukherjee, said on Sunday that he had visited the hospital on Saturday and his father “is much better and stable than the preceding days”.“With God’s grace and all your good wishes, he is much better and stable than the preceeding days! All his vital parameters are stable and he is responding to treatment. We firmly believe that He will be back among us soon. Thank You,” he tweeted.“With all your prayers and good wishes, I firmly believe that he will be back among us soon and in good health,” he tweeted.The hospital has said in a statement on Sunday that there is no change in the condition of Mukherjee. “His vital and clinical parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilator support. The health condition of the former president who also has multiple old co-morbidities is being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” it said.Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, had tweeted an emotional post on Saturday, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-critical-on-ventilator-support-army-hospital/story-PzSWTCC83Fn9zrzB1U0S7K.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Not expelled, going to resign’, says JD(U) leader Shyam Rajak; confirms he is going back to RJD||Janata Dal (United) leader Shyam Rajak, who was sacked as industries minister in Bihar and removed from the party, on Monday said that he has not been expelled.“I have not been expelled, I am going to give my resignation to the Speaker. I cannot stay where social justice is being stripped,” Rajak told reporters.“Around 99% of people in Janata Dal (United) party are upset from Bihar CM Nitish Kumar but are unable to form a decision. I don’t know about others but I am joining Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD),” he further said.The action against Rajak was taken by chief minister Nitish Kumar for his “anti-party activities” - reports had surfaced that he was going to move back to the RJD.“Shyam Rajak’s recent actions were nothing less than an act of indiscipline. He was involved in anti-party activities. So the party decided to take this action against him. Nobody is above the party. I welcome the party’s decision of expelling him,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan had said on Sunday.People aware of the development said that the dismissal of Rajak from the state cabinet and expulsion from the JD(U) was done more as a face saving exercise by Kumar, knowing full well that Rajak could have earned some political points by resigning from ministership.Rajak had been unhappy with the JD(U) leadership, said people aware of development, for not being given much prominence as a minister.He had switched to the JD(U) in 2009 after leaving the RJD and had won from the Phulwari seat as a JD(U) nominee in the 2010 election.Elections in Bihar are due in October-November and the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29. The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-expelled-going-to-resign-jd-u-leader-shyam-rajak-confirms-he-is-going-back-to-rjd/story-TFePLtKb5hZXfvVlpd0XDJ.html
17-08-2020||India||PM Modi should’ve spoken about unemployment, economy in I-Day speech: Shiv Sena||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have spoken about employment generation and measures to revive the economy in his address to the nation on the Independence Day, said Shiv Sena on Monday.The Sena mouthpiece, Saamna, said that in his nearly 90 minutes speech the Prime Minister spoke about the Corona vaccine trials in India, the country’s defence ability, National Digital Health Mission, among other things, but questioned whether the “Atmanirbhar” Bharat scheme which is being hyped would be able to tide over the economic crisis caused by the Coronavirus pandemic?Also read | No one can challenge India’s sovereignty, says PM Modi on I-Day“Till now around 14 crore people in the country have lost their jobs. In future, this number is going to increase. People have to get out of their homes, but what will they do once they are getting out? Jobs, businesses and employment has been destroyed. It would have been better if the Prime Minister would have spoken about these,” the editorial in Saamna read.Also read | From the ramparts of Red Fort, PM Modi says ‘India will realise its dream’: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speechSena further said that although our country’s “Army and Air Force are there to safeguard country’s borders and keep enemies at bay, but how will we fight the devil of hunger and joblessness which is running amok in the country?”It also put out a jibe at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s speech on Independence Day.“Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had stated during the flag hoisting on Independence Day that India has the ability to speed up the global economy. Leave alone the world Sir, speed up the country’s economy. Independence Day comes and goes, the Red Fort is the same, the problems and woes are still the same,” it read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-ve-spoken-about-unemployment-economy-in-i-day-speech-shiv-sena/story-35PnTbUh2UaK4MCFwxhspK.html
17-08-2020||India||2 terrorists involved in attack on security forces killed in J-K’s Baramulla||At least two terrorists were gunned down by security forces in an ongoing gun battle on Monday after they attacked and killed two troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a special police officer (SPO) of Jammu and Kashmir police earlier in the day in the Union territory’s Baramulla district.The encounter started after security forces chased the terrorists following their attack on a joint patrol party of CRPF and the police at Kreeri area of Baramulla district earlier in the day.“One more terrorist killed (total 2). Operation going on. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Zone police tweeted.Police officials said security forces had cordoned off the area immediately after the attack and chased the terrorists. A contact was established with them and during the exchange of fire, the terrorists were killed, they said.Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police (IGP) Kashmir, said three terrorists suspected to be belonging to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) carried out the attack.“According to eyewitnesses, there were three militants who came from the nearby dense orchards and started firing indiscriminately on the ‘naka’ in which our three jawans – two from CRPF and one J-K Police – were martyred. It seems the LeT has carried out the attack. We will give them a befitting reply soon,” Kumar told reporters at the site of the attack.“We have cordoned off the area and searches are on. We are hopeful that we will neutralise them soon,” Kumar added.When asked whether terrorists have changed their strategy and were attacking security forces and then fleeing the spot, Kumar said it was a matter of concern, but the forces will soon find a solution to the problem.“The number of forces on a ‘naka’ point is less and is normally in a remote area where they (militants) conceal themselves by coming along with civilians and then fire on the forces. We have faced losses and they have managed to flee a few times, but, we will soon find a response to this tactic and end this problem,” he said.This is the second attack on security forces in Kashmir in the last three days. On August 14, two policemen were killed and another injured in Nowgam area of Srinagar in a similar attack.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spo-killed-2-crpf-troopers-injured-in-terrorist-attack-in-j-k-s-baramulla/story-lyIK4rZuZqAseIUztpwGkN.html
17-08-2020||India||‘We enforce policies without regard to anyone’s political affiliation’: Facebook||Amid political slugfest involving social media giant Facebook, a company spokesperson has said that the platform “prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence. “We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position/party affiliation,” the spokesperson added as reported by news agency ANI. The official also said that the company is making progress on enforcing and conducting regular audits of its processes to ensure fairness and accuracy.  Also read: Political slugfest over Facebook intensifiesWe prohibit hate speech&content that incites violence&we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position/party affiliation. We're making progress on enforcement&conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness&accuracy: Facebook spokesperson pic.twitter.com/8zHJhZuXXJThis comes a day after Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi alleged that the BJP and its ideological parent the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) control Facebook and WhatsApp in India. In a tweet, Gandhi said, “They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook”. His tweet also contained snippets of media reports. Senior Congress leader and MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted out saying, “The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from @Facebook about these reports & what they propose to do about hate-speech in India”.Congress leaders Ajay Maken, Praveen Chakravarty and Rohan Gupta, demanded the creation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to look into the matter. Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us? https://t.co/NloUF2WZVYThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has categorically denied the allegations.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad slammed Gandhi and replied to his tweet saying, “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-enforce-policies-globally-without-regard-to-anyone-s-political-position-or-affiliation-facebook-clarifies/story-n2Vo21FD7Mh81o7QPZCv8O.html
17-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges over 2.64 million, recoveries cross 1.9 million||India recorded 57,981 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 941 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing its tally to over 2.64 million, data from the Union health ministry showed on Monday.There are 676,900 active Covid-19 cases and 50,921 people have succumbed to the viral disease across the country, the health ministry’s data showed at 8am. The country’s death toll stands at 50,921.At 1.93%, India had one of the lowest mortality globally as of Sunday, according to the government. The United States crossed 50,000 deaths in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days. India took 156 days to reach the figure, it said.The recovery rate went up to 72.51% as 1,919,842 patients, 57,584 in the last 24 hours, have been cured so far.“Successful implementation of TESTING aggressively, TRACKING comprehensively & TREATING efficiently through a plethora of measures have contributed to the existing high level of recoveries as well,” the health ministry said in a release on Sunday.India is moving towards completing 30 million tests with 2,93,09,703 samples tested as of Sunday. “This has been made possible by a rapidly growing national network of diagnostic labs which comprises 969 labs in the government sector and 500 private labs, adding up to 1469,” the ministry added.Sero surveys conducted in select districts by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments have detected high antibody positivity rates among the population in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi and low rates in primarily rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.State government officials have said that in Mumbai, the positivity rate was 57% in three slums; it was 0.7% in six districts of Bihar and 0.5% in three districts of Chhattisgarh, according to .These surveys detect how many people have developed immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies to the coronavirus disease and to gauge the extent of infection through random sampling. And, the high positivity rates signal a lower risk of reinfection, and conversely, they should worry the states in the hinterland where cases are beginning to spike.There are 21.6 million people who have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, and 774,296 have died across the globe, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. The US with 5,403,213 cases and Brazil with 3,340,197 have more Covid-19 cases than India, the Baltimore-based university’s tracker showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-over-2-64-million-recoveries-cross-1-9-million/story-7b7unGSakxWl7iexuhCOcO.html
17-08-2020||India||Gaganyaan: Unmanned space mission planned for Dec 2020 likely to be delayed||Hit by disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic, the launch of India’s unmanned space mission under the first leg of Gaganyaan, planned for December 2020, is likely to be delayed, sources said.It was part of the two unmanned missions to be undertaken by the Indian Space Research Organisation ahead of the planned launch of India’s maiden human spaceflight under ‘Gaganyaan’ in December 2021. The likely delay in the first unmanned mission was recently conveyed to the Space Commission, the apex policy making body on space related issues. The Space Commission is headed by ISRO Chairman and Department of Space Secretary K Sivan. Two years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the human space mission in his Independence Day address. The Gaganyaan mission aims to send a three-member crew to space for a period of five to seven days by 2022 when India completes 75 years of Independence. The ISRO had started planning for the mission accordingly. The first unmanned mission was planned in December 2020, the second unmanned mission in June 2021. The final and the main component, the manned mission of Gaganyaan, was scheduled six months later in December 2021, much before the 2022 deadline. ISRO had earlier indicated that there would be a delay in several missions as the space body’s work has been hit by disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic. Among the major projects that have been affected are Chandrayaan-3 and Gaganyaan. Chandrayaan-3, the third mission to Moon, was scheduled later this year. The sources said that efforts are on to stick to the deadline of 2022 for launching the human space mission. “We will not be able to meet deadline for the December 2020 launch of the unmanned mission. The coronavirus pandemic has led to several disruptions. This was also recently conveyed to the Space Commission,” a source said.The sources added that staff members from ISRO’s different centres were infected. Only essential and process related work is on. Also, the related industry has been affected. Even the training of four astronauts in Russia was hit due to the pandemic. However, the training has now resumed.  “Even if we are not able to launch the manned mission by December 2021, we have eight months to cover up for the time we have lost,” the source said. The spacecraft will be placed in a low earth orbit of 300-400 kilometres. The total programme cost is expected to be less than Rs 10,000 crores. In June, Jitendra Singh, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, had said even though because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the training of four Indian astronauts in Russia had to be halted, yet the opinion of Chairman ISRO and the scientific team is that there is a “cushion” period kept both in the training programme and launch deadline.The training of astronauts has now been resumed and the launch is scheduled to take place as planned, before the 75th anniversary of India’s independence in 2022, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-unmanned-space-mission-planned-for-dec-2020-likely-to-be-delayed/story-RKd3cflEHJaRe04qRWelGK.html
17-08-2020||India||India, Nepal to hold high-level meeting today amid border row||India and Nepal will hold talks on Monday under their “oversight mechanism” to review development projects funded by New Delhi in the Himalayan nation. This will be the first high-level contact between the two sides since ties were hit by a border row.The joint oversight mechanism was launched in 2016 and reviews progress in bilateral projects.The meeting between Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, who jointly chair the mechanism, is being seen by some quarters in Kathmandu as a positive development after the border row took relations to a new low.“The mechanism will only focus on the implementation of India-funded projects in Nepal. However, it could help break the logjam in relations,” said a person aware of the developments.During its seventh meeting in July last year, the mechanism reviewed the implementation of projects such cross-border rail links, petroleum pipelines, roads, bridges, integrated border check posts, energy, irrigation, and post-earthquake reconstruction.The border row erupted late last year after Nepal objected to the inclusion of Kalapani region, which is claimed by Kathmandu, in a new map of the union territory of Ladakh that was issued by India. The row was exacerbated in May, when India opened a new road to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet, as this area too is claimed by Nepal.In June, Nepal’s Parliament approved the new political map of the country that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, which are all controlled by India, as the part of the Himalayan nation.India had termed as untenable the “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims by the neighbouring country. The foreign ministry further said that Nepal’s action violates an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks.In recent weeks, the two countries have also engaged in a war of words over the origins of historic figures such as Lord Ram and Gautam Buddha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-nepal-to-hold-high-level-meeting-on-monday-amid-border-row/story-dQvY6MlsNyB4FnTzdIUp1H.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly prayers, devotees barred due to Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly prayers, devotees barred due to Covid-19The famous Lord Ayyappa temple in Kerala’s Sabarimala is holding the five-day monthly pooja (prayers) from Monday. The temple had reopened on Sunday, on the eve of the pooja in the Malayalam month of Chingam. According to Covid-19 protocol, the bar on the entry of devotees will continue. The temple will close on August 21 evening after monthly puja. Read more.Political slugfest over Facebook intensifiesThe opposition is up in arms over allegations that Facebook, the social media company, has been lenient while censoring content that amounts to hate-speech by members of the ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) surfaced on Saturday. Read more.Parliament Annexe building fire brought under control: ReportA fire, which broke out on the sixth floor of the Parliament Annexe Building in New Delhi on Monday morning, has been brought under control, according to news agency ANI. Read more.Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19The Union health ministry has identified lowering of Covid-19 infection rates among healthcare workers as one of the key focus areas in high disease burden states for a more effective response to the pandemic, officials aware of the matter said. Read more.MS Dhoni: The man who turned dreams into realityAhead of the India-West Indies encounter at last year’s World Cup, MS Dhoni was undergoing his routine nets session at the Old Trafford in Manchester. Over the years, Dhoni has had a fixed pattern – usually stepping into the nets late and facing the spinners first. Slowly, he brings out the big shots, readying himself to face the pacers, and if need be, take some throwdowns. Read more.Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta reveals over 1 million joined prayer meet, Ankita Lokhande says ‘prayers can change anything’Shweta Singh Kirti, the sister of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has thanked fans and well-wishers around the globe for joining the prayer meet for him. She said that more than a million people joined the 24-hour spiritual meet and prayed for him. Read more.Watch | MS Dhoni farewell match: Ex-IPL chief on whether BCCI would agree to demandsClamour for a farewell match for ex-India captain MS Dhoni grows as MS Dhoni announced retirement from international cricket on August 15. Dhoni made the announcement with terse message & an emotional flashback video. Subsequently, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren sought a farewell match. Watch here.Anand Mahindra tweets video link of ‘unreleased verses’ of Teri Mitti song, says ’beautiful’Teri Mitti, a song from the film Kesari featuring Akshay Kumar and Parineeti Chopra, has won over many since the film’s release in 2019. Now, Manoj Muntashir, who wrote the song, has shared another version of the song with some unreleased verses. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sabarimala-temple-reopens-for-monthly-prayers-devotees-barred-due-to-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FxhNfV09tbJ4abv8Rf3ANJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Light to moderate rain over parts of UP, Delhi, Haryana: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed early on Monday morning that thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi.Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Agra, Barsana, Garhmukteswar, Hastinapur, Khatoli, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Bijnor, Chandpur during next two hours, the IMD said.The weather department also said that thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas at isolated places of Delhi, Gurugram, Manesar, Bijnor, Chandpur during next two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-to-moderate-rain-over-parts-of-up-delhi-haryana-imd/story-RcCDjFAsYL8dOlCGliRchI.html
17-08-2020||India||Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly prayers, devotees barred due to Covid-19||The famous Lord Ayyappa temple in Kerala’s Sabarimala is holding the five-day monthly pooja (prayers) from Monday. The temple had reopened on Sunday, on the eve of the pooja in the Malayalam month of Chingam.According to Covid-19 protocol, the bar on the entry of devotees will continue. The temple will close on August 21 evening after monthly puja.The Travancore Dewasom Board (TDB), which runs 1000-odd temples in south Kerala, had decided to open all shrines under its control from August 17, Malayalam New Year Day, except Sabarimala.The TDB felt that if Sabarimala temple is opened there will be a steady stream of devotees from neighboring states and it will affect the measures to control Covid-19 so it deferred its decision on the hill temple. Earlier it planned ‘darshan’ for devotees who made online booking after furnishing Covid-free certificates but excess inquiries forced the TDB to defer that service too.Though the central government had eased restrictions on religious places in May in many temples, churches and mosques deferred opening in view of big spurt in virus cases in June first week. Some churches and mosques were opened on special occasions but temples remained closed.Watch: Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly pooja, devotees barred The TDB, in a release, had said that the temple will again open for Onam poojas from August 29 to September 2.The board’s president N Vasu had earlier said that the annual festival pilgrimage season for Sabarimala starts from November 16.“This is an event which has been going on for decades. The government, as well as the Travancore Devaswam board, is eager to see that the event takes place this year also but with limitations and restrictions,” he had said.The TDB has already asked the devotees to carry Covid-19 negative certificates for darshan during the over two month-long pilgrim season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-reopens-for-monthly-prayers-devotees-barred-due-to-covid-19/story-zDt9wn6yIfBzUPxkQ5YFvJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Kerala: 5-day monthly puja to begin at Sabarimala temple today||The puja at the Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala will start on Monday morning after the shrine reopened on Sunday for five-day monthly prayers in the Malayalam month Chingam.According to the Covid-19 protocol, the bar on the entry of devotees will continue.The temple will close on August 21 evening after monthly puja.Earlier, Travancore Devaswam president N Vasu said the annual festival pilgrimage season for Sabarimala starts from November 16.“This is an event which has been going on for decades. The government, as well as the Travancore Devaswam board, is eager to see that the event takes place this year also but with limitations and restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-5-day-monthly-puja-to-begin-at-sabarimala-temple-today/story-LnFLkPP6DozXDoHC8YFXFJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Parliament Annexe building fire brought under control: Report||A fire, which broke out at the Parliament Annexe Building in New Delhi on Monday morning, has been brought under control, according to reports.Seven fire tenders were rushed to the building in central Delhi after the fire was reported, news agency ANI said. Delhi Fire Service official said the fire broke out on the sixth floor of the building, according to the agency.A call was received at 7.30am, according to PTI, and it is suspected the fire started following a short-circuit. No casualties have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-on-6th-floor-of-parliament-annexe-building-5-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-reports-ani/story-xNIZqweQvZINevV0HUMSqJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Facebook post linking Barcelona’s loss to Covid-19 triggers hilarious memes in soccer crazy Kerala district||Kozhikode district collector Sreeram Sambasiva Rao’s Facebook post warning people to follow Covid-19 protocol in letter and spirit otherwise it will be a big defeat like Spanish football club Barcelona FC hasn’t gone well with crazy football fans of the north Kerala district.The German club Bayern Munich on Friday crushed Barcelona 8-2 to enter the semi-final of the UEFA championship league. Many Barca fans, especially that of Lionel Messi, retorted fiercely to the post but a majority defended it and the collector is having the last laugh as the message has gone well with the masses.The Malayalam post with a photo of the crucial match says: “Prathirotham paliyal, 8inte pani kittum (if you won’t take enough precautions or defence, you will have to face consequences).”Soon netizens took to social media with hilarious comments and memes taking anecdotes from movies. “If you want to take a driving licence you have to drive “H” and 8 ” (drive the vehicle in H and 8 shape),” said a meme opposing the collector’s post. But another meme showed Malayalam comedian Salim Kumar shedding tears and taking a dig at the Barcelona club captained by Messi.At least 14,000 people shared the post within a few hours. Rao later said: “No ill-will against anyone. We want to convey a message and at least 70 per cent of them supported the post. It was only a social message posted in good spirit.”Kozhikode’s football craze is well known. During the Soccer World Cup many fans will wear the jersey of their favourite players and some will be known after them till the tournament is over. And they love to name their new-born after their favourite players. There is a former corporation councillor Brasilia and there are enough Ronaldos and Mohamad Salahs here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-post-linking-barcelona-s-loss-to-covid-19-triggers-hilarious-memes-in-soccer-crazy-kerala-district/story-xubR6Cjk47cxzSHdcQDvQI.html
17-08-2020||India||Make Madurai second capital of Tamil Nadu: Minister RB Udhaya Kumar||Tamil Nadu Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management RB Udhaya Kumar on Sunday said that he has requested Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy to make Madurai as the second capital of the state.“We have requested the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu to make Madurai the second capital of the state,” he said.“This will provide opportunities for economic growth, industrial development, employment growth. If Madurai is declared as the second capital, the southern districts will grow,” he added.Meanwhile, Udhaya Kumar hailed former India cricketer MS Dhoni’s achievements on the field and his impact beyond it after the latter announced his retirement from international cricket on Saturday.“MS Dhoni is a youth’s superstar. Young people affectionately call Dhoni as “Thala”. Dhoni’s retirement is the biggest loss for cricket fans. All of his accomplishments will be remembered though. His achievements will set a precedent for the younger generation to come,” he said.Expressing concern over youngsters getting consumed by playing too much Pubg, the Tamil Nadu minister said that he has requested the central government to ban it.“Lot of young people are immersed in Pubg game. We have thus brought to the notice of the central government that it should be banned. I hope the central government will take appropriate action in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-madurai-second-capital-of-tamil-nadu-minister-rb-udhaya-kumar/story-1oh0zdGhFbWPCIWytI4xLN.html
17-08-2020||India||19-year-old girl dies in wall collapse as heavy rains lash Odisha||A 19-year-old girl died and four of her family members were injured after the wall of their house collapsed following incessant rainfall in Bolangir district. Kendrapada, Malkangiri, Dhenkanal and other districts too flood grappled with floods due to an active southwest monsoon.Officials said that Deepanjali Baralendia, a 19-year-old girl of Ghunaghutipali village under Patnagarh block of Bolangir district, was sleeping with her parents and two brothers when the mud wall of their house gave in. Deepanjali, her parents and siblings were injured in the incident; she later succumbed to her injuries while being taken to hospital.Patnagarh tehsildar Puspanjali Panda said the district saw 78.3 mm in the last 24 hours.Heavy rainfall in southern Odisha district of Malkangiri inundated several low-level bridges connecting various block headquarters. Reports of house damage came from Chitrakonda and Kalimela blocks of the district. Heavy rainfall created a flood-like situation in Dhenkanal district with a herd of over 50 cows stranded in a patch of grazing land near Brahmani river. Several parts of Kendrapada district have become waterlogged after incessant rains.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) sounded warning of heavy rainfall in over 10 districts of Odisha in the next 24 hours. The districts are Malkangiri, Koraput, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Bolangir, Bargarh, Mayurbhanj, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-year-old-girl-dies-in-wall-collapse-as-heavy-rains-lash-odisha/story-XxhGFcD70hCCbcN5l7FnhI.html
17-08-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 death toll rises to 16, tally now at 4,569||Manipur recorded three more deaths “due to COVID-19 and other co-morbid health conditions” on Sunday, taking the state’s toll to 16, officials said. The first death relating to the coronavirus disease was reported in Manipur on July 29 and the first case on March 24.“Today, three males aged 73 yrs (Imphal West district), 44 yrs (BSF personnel) and 94 yrs (Thoubal district) expired at JNIMS and RIMS respectively due to COVID 19 and other co-morbid health conditions,” Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, the additional director and spokesperson of the health department in Imphal said in a press release on Sunday evening.“In the past 24 hours, 68 (42 male, 26 female) persons from the general population and 111 from the central armed police force (CAPF) were confirmed as new COVID 19 positive cases,” he said.The Covid-19 cases are from Viral Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences and other testing centres, it said. They are from Thoubal, Imphal West, Imphal East, Bishnupur, Noney, Kangpokpi and Senapati districts, it added.It also said that eight of them are returnees from other states and the rest 60 are locals without any significant travel history, adding that they are being shifted to the Covid care facilities. “All necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place,” it said.In the past 24 hours, 194 people were discharged from CAPF, RIMS and seven Covid care centres including a district hospital, it said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 cases is 4,569, including 1,192 CAPF personnel, while the cumulative number of discharged cases is 2,632, it stated.The number of active cases is 1,921 including 944 CAPF personnel. The recovery rate is 57.60%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-16-tally-now-at-4-569/story-5eRHd8AbxNkHO2tqSMFojM.html
17-08-2020||India||Odisha woman booked on charges of beating 15-month-old son, mother-in-law as video goes viral||Police in Odisha’s Puri district have booked a woman on charges of beating her 15-month-old son and mother-in-law after CCTV footage of the thrashings went viral on social media.Akhileswar Singh, Puri’s superintendent of police, said they have lodged a case against Rojalin Nayak after the CCTV footage of her beating her son as well as her mother-in-law was submitted by her husband before the police. “The CCTV footage is of last month in which the woman is seen kicking the child. She has also thrashed her mother-in-law. We would arrest her,” Singh said. The Puri Child Welfare Committee has also taken cognisance of the case.The video clip, posted on social media by the woman’s husband Chakradhar Nayak, showed Rojalin kicking her son after tying up his hands and legs. Nayak, who runs a small shop in Bhubaneswar, had installed CCTV cameras in his house following complaints that his wife used to beat up his old parents.“My wife used to harass my old parents. She used to thrash my son too. Finding no other way I installed CCTV cameras in my house,” said Nayak, who alleged that police initially did not take action on his complaint.However, the woman has alleged that her husband is neither taking care of her nor providing her food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-booked-on-charges-of-beating-15-month-old-son-mother-in-law-as-video-goes-viral/story-B84KAe8cloMI0iXOAuJ9gP.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Victorious’ Kamala Harris poster springs up in Tamil Nadu, niece shares photo||Meena Harris, the niece of Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris, on Sunday (local time) shared a photo of a poster that has come up in Tamil Nadu featuring the California senator calling her “victorious”. Taking to Twitter, Meena, a 35-year-old lawyer based in California, said that the photo of the poster was sent to her from Tamil Nadu. The poster has photos of Harris with a text in the Tamilian script--”PV Gopalan’s granddaughter is victorious”. The poster cropped up days after Kamala was picked by Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, as his running mate in the US election. Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, California Senator Harris, if elected, would be the first woman vice president ever for the country.  I was sent this from Tamil Nadu where our Indian family is from. It says "PV Gopalan’s granddaughter is victorious." I knew my great grandfather from our family trips to Chennai when I was young—he was a big figure for my grandma and I know they’re together somewhere smiling now. pic.twitter.com/WuZiKimmqj“I was sent this from Tamil Nadu where our Indian family is from. It says ‘PV Gopalan’s granddaughter is victorious.’ I knew my great grandfather from our family trips to Chennai when I was young--he was a big figure for my grandma and I know they’re together somewhere smiling now,” Meena tweeted. Kamala’s mother, Shyamala Gopalan, was born in Chennai before she moved to the US for further study. Shyamala became a leading cancer researcher and activist.Shyamala was the daughter of PV Gopalan, a high-ranking civil servant.Speaking during an event on Saturday, Kamala recalled her ‘long walks’ with her grandfather during her childhood visits to India.The California senator remembered how she and her grandfather would go on long walks in what was then called Madaras where the latter would tell Harris about “heroes” who were involved in the freedom struggle in India. She said that the lessons from her grandfather P V Gopalan, are a big reason “why I am where I am today”.“In Madras, I would go on long walks with my grandfather, who at that point was retired, and we take morning walks where I pulled his hand and he would tell me about the heroes who are responsible for the birth of the world’s biggest democracy, and he would explain that ‘tt’s on us to pick up where they left off’. Those lessons are a big reason why I am where I am today,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victorious-kamala-harris-poster-springs-up-in-tamil-nadu-says-her-niece/story-rN4rYcCqa0gRqUjmrUVwcP.html
17-08-2020||India||Gujarat: 5 killed, 4 injured in a road accident on Ahmedabad-Vadodara NH-8||Five persons were killed and four critically injured when two cars collided on National Highway-8 at Nadiad in the Kheda district of Gujarat on Sunday night.Two cars collided on the Ahmedabad-Vadodara National Highway-8 killing five on the spot. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Nadiad, the police said.“Five people have died, four others are seriously injured. The injured have been rushed to a hospital,” says Dixit Patel, Nadiad Fire Superintendent.As soon as the accident was reported, a fire brigade team, three ambulances and the Kheda police reached the site. All the deceased were from Ahmedabad.The police are now investigating the exact cause of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-5-killed-4-injured-in-a-road-accident-on-ahmedabad-vadodara-nh-8/story-BOHPdq7e0TtT23P9ZwxfMO.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Nothing disturbing in the clauses of draft EIA 2020’, says RP Gupta||The environment ministry has been swamped by nearly 200,000 objections to and comments on the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of 2020, but doesn’t intend to hold further discussion on the concerns raised in the feedback it received.RP Gupta, secretary in the environment ministry, told Jayashree Nandi in an interview that the priority for the ministry is both EIA notification and a notification on monitoring and compliance of projects with environmental clearance conditions, which is being drafted.Here is the full interview:Q: How will you read so many comments on draft EIA 2020 and how will responses be incorporated in the final draft?RP Gupta: We have formed a committee to sort out all the mails. They are sorting issues not looking at each mail. Almost 95% of the 17 to 18 lakh emails we have got are repetitive mails.Q: Is it true that the person heading your committee already heads a committee that deals with project violations (post-facto clearances) in your ministry?RP Gupta: We will be dealing with all the issues raised. I am not sure who is heading it. Let the committee perform its duties first.Q: Why do you think there was such a massive public and political outcry against draft EIA 2020? What is so disturbing or contentious about the clauses?RP Gupta: I don’t think there is anything disturbing in the clauses. You are right about political issues. Maybe it has nothing to do with an environmental agenda but more to do with political agenda.Q: Why does the environment ministry see draft EIA 2020 as an important regulation?RP Gupta: We must see it in an overall context rather than looking at it in isolation. We are a country that takes a lot of time in issuing environmental clearances. We have very poor enforcement and monitoring of projects. No amount of scrutiny can substitute for the monitoring. You can scrutinise a project for five to six years and delay it but if you don’t monitor it, then it will remain environmentally unfriendly. We need to switch this equation. We should be quick in giving clearances. There should be very strict and regular monitoring and we should come down heavily on non-compliance. This notification is only the first part. We are developing a monitoring mechanism which will be the second part.Taking more time increases a project’s time and cost, and we force the industry to construct without obtaining clearances. To discourage violations, the best way is to ensure fast-tracking of clearances.Q: But the draft is talking about regularising these violations.RP Gupta: Post-facto scenario happens when someone has started a project without taking prior approval which is the norm. So if an industry is in violation, what is the punishment? Will it have to be closed down and cannot be apprised? There is nothing in law which says you will not appraise it on merit. After appraisal, if you find a project cannot be approved then you close it down. If it can be done, the approval will be effective from the date it was given. For the past period which is a violation, a penalty has to be imposed as per law.Q: Why have you exempted so many projects from public hearing in the draft?RP Gupta: It’s been 14 years since EIA was introduced (in 2006). We have to use experience gathered to further rationalise the clearance process. Every project doesn’t need to come for public hearing for environmental clearance. A small project or industry need not come unless they are very polluting. These projects will still have to meet the laid down norms for air and water pollution. Let’s focus on bigger projects now.Q: Will there be any space for discussion on draft EIA 2020?RP Gupta: Concerns will be considered on merit. There is no requirement for discussion. That will open another Pandora’s Box. Then nothing will happen in future. Everything can be stifled.Q: When can we expect a notification on monitoring of projects?RP Gupta: Soon. Statutory clauses are being worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-disturbing-in-the-clauses-of-draft-eia-2020-says-rp-gupta/story-FclDTDbTKIeIMB73tAD10H.html
17-08-2020||India||Two die after clash at panchayat meet in UP||A father-son duo was killed in Shekhupur village under Raniganj police station of Pratapgarh district when two groups clashed during a panchayat meeting to sort out a property related dispute on Sunday morning, police said.Heavy force has been deployed and three policemen, including a sub-inspector, have been suspended for negligence in taking timely action to avert the clash, police officials said.According to superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh, a panchayat meeting was called to settle a land dispute between Dayashankar Mishra (60) and Chintamani Mishra.During the meeting, a violent clash took place between the two sides in which Dayashankar, his son Anand Mishra (28) and Chintamani sustained severe injuries, Singh said. They were rushed to the district hospital, where Dayashankar and Anand were declared dead, while Chintamani was referred to a medi- cal facility in Prayagraj, Singh said.The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, the officer added.Sub-inspector Rajesh Rai and constable Rama Yadav have been suspended for laxity in duty and one suspect, identified as Rajesh Mishra, arrested for the violence, police said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-die-after-clash-at-panchayat-meet-in-up/story-V89h1Qi0PygV8QVhaT7JVP.html
17-08-2020||India||PM Modi, President Kovind pay tributes to Atal Bihari Vajpayee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate an expressway built in Madhya Pradesh after late former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) organized a special event in his honour and top leaders paid tributes to the memory of Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tribute to Vajpayee . They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at Sadaiv Atal, the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital.President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated a portrait of Vajpayee at the ICCR and described him as a “widely accepted” leader. Vajpayee served as the ex-officio president of the ICCR from March 1977 to August 1979 when he was the foreign minister.Modi said India will always remember Vajpayee’s contributions to the nation. “Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation’s progress,” Modi tweeted.Home minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw “good governance” being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee, who was the first non-Congress politician to serve a full term as prime minister.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that the proposed 300-km long expressway, named Chambal Progress Way, would be named after Vajpayee. Chouhan, after paying tributes to Vajpayee on his second death anniversary at the state BJP headquarters, also announced that a statue of the former PM would be installed in Bhopal.The six-lane Chambal Progress Way, which is proposed to be developed at a cost of about Rs 6,000 crore, will connect the boundaries of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh through Sheopur, Morena and Bhind districts of Madhya Pradesh.Chouhan also said the state government will observe December 25 as Sushasan Diwas (good governance day) every year to mark Vajpayee’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-prez-pay-tributes-to-vajpayee/story-HP2h0bIQJ8eS9j8p8GNFDJ.html
17-08-2020||India||High exposure to Covid-19 in urban areas, find sero surveys||Sero surveys conducted by the states to determine the extent of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have detected high antibody positivity rates among the population in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi and low rates in primarily rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The findings are good news for the cities because the high positivity rates signal a lower risk of reinfection, and conversely, they should worry the states in the hinterland where cases are beginning to spike. In Mumbai, the positivity rate was 57% in three slums; it was 0.7% in six districts of Bihar and 0.5% in three districts of Chhattisgarh, according to state government officials.Also read: Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19Sero surveys are being conducted in select districts by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments to detect how many people have developed immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies to the coronavirus disease and to gauge the extent of infection through random sampling.Experts said a low sample size could be a reason for under and overestimation of the prevalence of antibodies. Higher antibody positivity rates indicate a lower possibility of reinfection. Lower rates shows that the possibility of Covid-19 spread is still high. Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayDelhi and Mumbai, the two major cities to have completed the sero surveys, have shown different results. While in Mumbai, 57% of the persons surveyed in three slums showed IgG antibodies, in Delhi it was 23.48%. To be sure, the Delhi survey was more comprehensive. “This is suggestive of infection during mid-June, and since then, we have seen a decent increase in the number of cases. That means more people are exposed to the virus, and the disease prevalence could be higher,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department of Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Delhi has conducted a second survey the results of which are expected in the coming week. On July 28, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), along with the government think tank NITI Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), published the results of the survey conducted in three wards—M-West (Tilaknagar and Chembur), F-North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R-North (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar) -- of Mumbai.Of the total sample size of 6,936 persons, 4,232 were tested in the slums and 2,702 in non-slum residential areas. While in the slums, 57% of the individuals surveyed had once been infected with Covid-19, the proportion was only 16% in non-slum residential areas, the findings showed. Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha “The prevalence of the virus in slums is high due to the densely populated areas. In non-slums, there is better social distancing and maintenance of hygiene which helped to stop the spread of the virus to a larger number of people,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.In Chhattisgarh, the survey was conducted in Bijapur, Kabirdham and Surguja districts in July with a sample size of about 400 people in each district. The results showed that the antibody positivity rate was 0.5%, which a health department official said could be because of a large number of false negatives. “The reliability of the test is said to be about 60%, meaning there is a high chance of false negativity in 40% cases. So unless mass testing is done in a very short time, we are not giving priority to this test,” said a Chhattisgarh health official, requesting anonymity.In Odisha, the sero survey conducted in the Covid hotspot district of Ganjam found that 31% of 2,830 people tested had developed antibodies and in Bhubaneswar, it was 1.4% of the 951 tested. Puri had zero positivity. The survey was conducted in July in four districts. “It’s a good sign as 31% people in Ganjam did not show symptoms and have recovered. In case of Bhubaneswar, the numbers would be higher if the Sero survey is done by the end of this month as the cases are shooting up in Bhubaneswar now,” said Dr TM Mohapatra, a microbiologist and former advisor to ICMR. Not a happy situation The Kerala health department started a sero survey with the help of the ICMR in three districts, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad, from the last week of May, but the results have not been declared as the findings are not as encouraging as Delhi’s, said a state health official.In Telangana, where the sero survey was conducted by the central government’s National Institute of Nutrition on May 30 and 31 with sample sizes of 600 in each of three districts (Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda), state health minister Eatala Rajender claimed the survey showed no community transmission. Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said the sero-prevalence survey showed four positive cases out of 1,200 samples in rural areas and 15 positive cases out of 500 samples in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, indicating that there was no community transmission.Jharkhand’s sero surveym conducted in 10 high Covid-19 districts in June, showed an antibody positivity rate of 0.63%. The sample size in each district was a little over 400, which included health workers. Planning health interventions In other states such as Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, sero surveys are under way in select districts and the results are expected by the end of August.In Pune, a Covid hotspot in Maharashtra, the first sero survey on 1,550 people was conducted by Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The results of the survey are expected this week. Two other sero surveys by the government-run Sassoon Hospital and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) are expected to start soon. Results of the ICMR sero survey of a few districts in West Bengal and Assam conducted in May are yet to be announced. Some states such as Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim have not conducted any sero surveys.After completing a pilot sero survey around mid-May, to check the level of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus,ICMR on May 31 sent an advisory to all states to perform periodical sero surveys.ICMR’s sero survey results have shown a disease prevalence rate of 0.73% across India, but that was in May. India ended that month with 190,000 cases; it currently has over 2.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-exposure-to-covid-19-in-urban-areas-find-sero-surveys/story-sRzruWmP3qUZNz1BXnOC3I.html
17-08-2020||India||Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19||The Union health ministry has identified lowering of Covid-19 infection rates among healthcare workers as one of the key focus areas in high disease burden states for a more effective response to the pandemic, officials aware of the matter said. Many districts are reporting 7-12% infection positivity among healthcare workers in about 10 worst affected states compared to the national average of 5.5-6%, according to the ministry data.“There are many reasons for higher positivity among healthcare workers in some of these states such as not following infection control practices properly, not donning or doffing the personal protective (PPE) gear properly, or not even disposing of PPE gear as per the prescribed norms. We have directed the states to identify the issues and address them properly,” said a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified.Also read: India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine plan“In some districts, the issue being pointed out is that infection is being brought into hospitals from outside. A healthcare worker perhaps contracts the infection from where she resides, and for such cases, the states have been directed to identify those areas and strengthen containment measures in those areas to control the spread of infection.”Officials said low lab utilization, lower testing per million compared to the state or national average, delay test results, and delayed referrals that put patient lives at risk are other areas that need focus in these high disease burden districts.The official cited above said many of these districts have a relatively higher case fatality of elderly people and those with comorbidities. “Delayed referrals were leading to deaths within the first three days. Our ultimate aim is to bring down the number of deaths. The ministry is holding video conferences with states, and two in the series have already been conducted....”Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayUnlike the regular practice of engaging with top most people at the state level, the ministry has also involved heads of the affected districts (magistrates), and municipal commissioners in case of cities for Covid-19 management. “We are involving principals of medical colleges in these areas as they also play a crucial role in managing the situation on the ground,” said the official.Officials said the states have also been asked to monitor asymptomatic cases under home isolation. They have also been asked to ensure timely assessment and advance preparedness for intensive care unit beds, oxygen supply based on the prevailing caseload, and estimates.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Some of the worst-affected districts the Centre is monitoring include Kamrup Metro (Assam), Patna (Bihar) Ranchi (Jharkhand), Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Ganjam (Odisha), Lucknow ( Uttar Pradesh), 24 Paraganas North, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Maldah (West Bengal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-focus-on-protecting-health-care-staff-from-covid-19/story-UpDwxioBvNlc3xwvJH58IO.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India’s cumulative coronavirus disease cases crossed the 2.5 million mark on Friday, and the death toll from the viral pandemic crossed 50,000 on Saturday. The number of daily deaths is nearing 1,000. India is adding the most cases a day in the world, but the US and Brazil, #2 and #3 in terms of daily new cases respectively, see more deaths (roughly 50-100 more a day) on average. Even if India’s cases and deaths grow at the same pace, the country will cross the 3 million-case mark early next week, perhaps even by Sunday; and the 100,000-deaths mark by late September or early October. India’s low case fatality rate relative to other countries, just around 2%, is a definite cause for cheer, but the loss of 50,000 lives is still worrying.The Covid-19 pandemic is now in evidence across India — the peninsula, the hinterland, and the eastern parts of the country have all become hot spots for the disease that was once restricted to a few states, and a few urban clusters within those states. Even as progressive fatality rates come down — doctors in India, just like their peers everywhere, have become better at saving lives — and most infections remain mild (even asymptomatic), it is clear that the caseload across India will continue to rise. Also read: Russia’s new Sputnik launch raises risks in dash for Covid-19 vaccineIndia, much like the US and Brazil, has not been able to break the chain of infection. A 68-day lockdown may have helped flatten the peak and delay it (India is still to see its) even as the health care system readied itself for the onslaught, but it has not broken the chain. India, the US and Brazil are uniquely similar because of their vast geographical size and population (India has the highest population by a bit and the US, the largest area, again by a bit). And this writer believes the three countries have not been able to control the number of cases partly (and it is a large part) because of how their people have reacted to masks. Let there be no doubt — masks work. And let there be no doubt — research has shown that wearing masks does not reduce oxygen intake or affect breathing capability, even during exercise. These aren’t my opinions — they are facts backed by science.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Yet, the US has a troubled relationship with masks, which have been weaponised by politicians in that country. They are still not mandatory in all parts of the country, and many people believe they have a right to not wear masks. The Trump administration, and the US President himself, have both not emphasised the need for masks adequately (and Trump is seen without one almost as often as he is seen with one).Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro, one of the few global leaders to be infected with the virus, has not been a vociferous supporter of masks either, and the relative disregard for rules in that country hasn’t helped. India is different. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been punctilious about wearing a mask. This writer had an opportunity to observe him from close quarters at an event in Rashtrapati Bhavan on Saturday and his mask etiquette and discipline is exemplary. He was wearing the right kind of mask and wearing it the way it is meant to be.Also read: India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine planUnfortunately, this hasn’t trickled down. There are many people walking around (or cycling around) without masks (with masks under their chins) in every Indian city. They couldn’t care less, or believe WhatsApp forwards about the dangers of wearing masks when exercising or about the superfluity of wearing masks in the great outdoors. There is almost no enforcement — the police clearly have better things to do than enforcing mask discipline. There is no point in trying to educate them because, one, it is a lost cause, and two, it defeats the whole purpose of reducing exposure to them and their exhalations (Survival rule 1 of the pandemic: never argue with a man, or a woman, who isn’t wearing a mask).This is unfortunate, because if everyone wore the right masks the right way, and all the time they are outside their homes, then the number of infections will start declining in a month — community transmission or no community transmission.Yet, we’d rather rest our hopes on a vaccine that has not been developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-QxIK2oF102c7y4ZXMXimVO.html
17-08-2020||India||Issues facing online education||The Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted the education sector globally. Classes have been suspended to enforce social distancing and educational institutions, from schools to universities, have shifted to online methods of teaching and evaluation. As the number of cases continues to rise, there is no certainty about when normalcy will be restored. This has encouraged some sort of a permanent tilt, if not a complete shift, to online education. The new National Education Policy (NEP) approved last month also talks about being ready for digital and online education, although it adds a rider that the digital divide must be eliminated to fully benefit from such methods.An HT analysis based on unit-level data from a 2017-18 National Statistical Office (NSO) survey has highlighted caution against a sudden push towards online education in India. Any such policy will run the risk of excluding a significant section of students. A number of students, who, in theory, have access to online teaching will have to depend on inconvenient methods such as using mobile phones instead of computers.Also read: Students climb trees, hills to attend online classes in Odisha, says ministerA wholesale shift to online education is not just dependent on access to devices and the internet. It is also about nuances. For instance, shifting to online methods can be far more difficult in humanities than engineering, or in government institutions than in private ones.Three-fourths of students in India did not have access to the internet at home, according to a 2017-18 all-India NSO survey. The share of those who did not have computers, including devices such as palm-tops and tablets, was much greater--89%. Access to these facilities was higher among students at higher levels of education. But even at the highest levels, a large share of students did not have access to these facilities. As expected, access to the internet and computers is directly related to household incomes.   To be sure, internet access must have increased since the 2017-18. According to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), the number of internet subscribers increased from 446 million to 719 million between 2017 and 2019. The bulk of this growth has come from wireless connections (272 million out of 273 million). While mobiles can be useful in listening to online lectures, they are not the ideal medium when it comes to writing exams or even assignments.Lack of access to the internet and devices has also created a gap in digital literacy. As many as 76% of students in India in the 5-35 age group did not know how to use a computer. The share of those who did not know how to use the internet was 74.5%. Once again, this gap rises with a fall in income levels. 55% of students among the top 20% of households by monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) knew how to use a computer and internet while these proportions were only 9% and 10% among the bottom 20%.  Given the interrelationship between class background and choice of courses, professional courses are better suited for a shift to online methods. 54% of humanities students (at the graduate level or higher, including diplomas) did not have access to the internet and 81% did not have access to computers. Also read: Over 58,000 secondary school students in Prayagraj lack gadgets for online studiesThese shares were just 30% and 44% for engineering. At the same level of enrolment, the share of students in private unaided and aided institutions with computer at home (36% and 30% respectively) was higher than in government institutions (25%).To be sure, even these numbers are likely to overestimate the number of students who may benefit from online education. This is because having a computer or internet facility at home is not a guarantee of uninterrupted access to it. In May, an HT report highlighted how most Delhi University (DU) students lacked resources to take online exams. It showed how two siblings, whose father is a daily wager, were worried about their final-year exams as the keypad of the phone they shared was not working and the internet was slow. The NSO survey will show their household as having access to the internet, although this access was hardly helpful for them.For such families, a sudden shift to online education can also strain their spending capacity. Rough estimates suggest pursuing online education can be very costly for the poorest households. For example,they show that playing a 480p video (or a video with a resolution of 854x480 pixels) on YouTube can consume about 264 MB of data per hour. Five hour online lectures for five days a week on the platform would then mean consuming 26.4 GB data a month. According to TRAI, the average revenue realisation per subscriber per GB for wireless data in the December quarter was Rs 8.45. This translates to a monthly cost of Rs 204.9 at July 2017-June 2018 prices when the education survey was conducted. This cost is almost a quarter of the bottom 20% of households’ average MPCE according to the survey, Rs 900, and only 4.4% of the top 20% of households’ MPCE, Rs 4641.NEP emphasises on preventing drop-outs.If India has to focus on online learning, it would do well to ensure students have access to devices and internet connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issues-facing-online-education/story-SaG9rbmlRjRnALWqPspjII.html
17-08-2020||India||UV disinfection, tech overhaul in Parliament plan||Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air-conditioning system to kill or inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for showing live proceedings, and special communication cables linking both Houses — Parliament officials are leaving nothing to chance when the monsoon session gets underway amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Ministers, former prime ministers and floor leaders of political parties will get preference in the main chamber, and many party MPs — even from the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — will be seated in the galleries, according to a plan prepared by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, detailed in an official note. The same plan is likely to be used by the Lok Sabha too. It is for the first time in the history of Parliament since 1952 that both chambers as well as the galleries of both Houses will be used to seat members. House authorities are pressing for a staggered shift of two Houses—with Lok Sabha starting in the morning and the Rajya Sabha in the afternoon as it will help in keeping the session short and MPs from outside Delhi will get to spend as little time in the Capital as possible. But some ministries prefer alternate days as it would be easier for them to cater to the demand of two Houses. India’s top legislative authorities, Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, are keeping a close watch on the status of the pandemic in the Capital and elsewhere to finalise the dates for the session. Under the Indian Constitution, the duration between the end of one session and the start of the next cannot exceed six months. So, Parliament has a window till September 23 to start the monsoon session, after the budget session ended on March 23, two days before a 68-day national lockdown kicked in, Hindustan Times reported on August 4.To be sure, the 100-year-old building is no stranger to facelifts and modifications.But the pandemic has prompted the authorities to make unprecedented changes to a well-established system; the aim is to ensure the safety of members of Parliament by ensuring adherence to physical distancing and other norms in the post-Covid-19 era.Such precautions come against the backdrop of the fact that the elderly are thought to be more vulnerable to the coronavirus disease. The average age of MPs in the Rajya Sabha is 63.39. The average age of Lok Sabha MPs is 54, but half of them are at least 56 years old .As the proceedings of each House will be spread across the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and their galleries, there will be four large and six small display screens in the chamber and galleries of the Upper House, “audio consoles in the galleries, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation, special cables connecting the two Houses for transmission of audio-visual signals, polycarbonate sheet separating the Official Gallery from the chamber of the House”, according to the official note cited above. Naidu has decided that in the Rajya Sabha chamber, seats will be earmarked for the Prime Minister, leader of the House,leader of the Opposition and floor leaders of other parties.Former Prime Ministers and former Leaders of the House DrManmohan Singh and HDDeve Gowda, Ramvilas Paswan and Ramdas Athawale, being ministers and Rajya Sabha MPs — will also have earmarked seats in the chamber of the House. Other ministers will be seated in the seats meant for the ruling party.The remaining lawmakers will be seated in the Lok Sabha, divided into two blocks — the ruling NDA and other parties. A similar practice will be followed by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, who will also use the Central Hall to accommodate excess members. The seating arrangements will be in strict compliance with social distancing norms. “Special cables are being laid connecting the two Houses of Parliament for transmitting audio-visual signals of the proceedings both ways without any time lag to enable real time participation of members seated in the two Houses,” said the official note. Polycarbonate sheets—widely used in government offices now—will separate the official gallery from the Rajya Sabha chamber as both are in close proximity. A maximum of 15 officials and as many journalists will be allowed in the respective galleries. In the Lok Sabha press gallery, 20 journalists will be allowed. While Rajya Sabha TV and Lok Sabha TV will telecast live proceedings through their existing arrangements, Naidu and Birla have instructed the secretariat to minimise the physical handling of various papers.All the special arrangements for the monsoon session are expected to be completed in the next three weeks. The monsoon session of Parliament, which usually starts in July, is likely to begin in the second week of September.“It will be a short session...the session will see the three ordinances replaced by bills for passage and a discussion on the Covid situation. If the government agrees, a debate on India-China relations can also take place,” said a senior functionary of Parliament, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uv-disinfection-tech-overhaul-in-parliament-plan/story-1uiGMRKhqfNctnMr5iBZlO.html
17-08-2020||India||India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine plan||Covid-19 vaccines being developed by UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca and United States’s Moderna-NIAID are the top candidates India is looking at for possible acquisition discussions, senior government officials aware of the country’s vaccine strategy said, adding that a group of experts spearheading the process will hold a crucial meeting on Monday with the heads of pharma firms involved in the development of some of the candidates. The government will also closely track the progress of candidates being tested by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the AZD1222 vaccine, which has till now been tested in the most number of people among the close to 200 options across the world. Also read: Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19According to one of the officials, India is at present waiting for trial data for the Russian candidate, which last week became the first coronavirus vaccine to be approved in the world. “For now, we are looking at the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is in co-production with Serum Institute of India for the Indian market, and the Moderna vaccine, which has also entered phase 3 trails,” this person said, asking not to be identified. Nine other vaccine development programmes — including ones in Germany and Israel — are also being looked at, this person added. These were part of discussions that were held at top government levels. Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayAccording to a second official, who too asked not to be named, the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration will hold its second meeting on Monday and discuss with granular details of procurement processes and pricing with the heads of several pharma firms, including SII, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila .Headed by Niti Aayog’s VK Paul and co-chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the panel will meet at around 3.30pm, according to the health ministry’s meeting notice that was seen by HT. Adar C Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, Krishna Ella, MD of Bharat Biotech, and Pankaj R Patel, chairman of Zydus Cadila, have been invited for the meeting.  The members of the panel include department of biotechnology secretary, Renu Swarup, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Balram Bhargava and department of pharmaceuticals secretary, PD Vaghela.Also read: High exposure to Covid-19 in urban areas, find sero surveysAt present, there are 29 vaccines in clinical trials – a multi-step process to establish safety and efficacy of a shot. There are 138 more that are in pre-clinical phases, which includes development and animal trials. The Covid-19 pandemic has infected 21.7 million people around the world in less than nine months since it first began spreading. At least 770,000 people have died.The once-in-a-century outbreak has triggered a dash for vaccines, with the first of options expected by early or mid next year. The process usually takes 10-12 years. According to the first official cited above, the government is closely following data emerging from these candidates. The Russian vaccine, Sputnik V, is in its second phase of trials but little is known about how it performed in the first phase, although Russian President Vladimir Putin said it was safe while announcing it had been approved. Also read: Russia’s new Sputnik launch raises risks in dash for Covid-19 vaccineAccording to an expert associated with trials of the Bharat Biotech vaccine candidate Covaxin, there is steady progress in all 12 sites where shots are being given to people. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, this week also started about six healthy volunteers on 2nd dose of the vaccine candidate.“There is no fixed time line as not all volunteers are given a shot in a single go. The doses are given in batches; once all the doses are administered then only we will be able to run blood tests and analyse the changes. The data analysis will take at least 2-3 weeks and I would say anything concrete can’t be said before a month about the safety of the vaccine candidate. However, there was no immediate adverse reaction observed,” said this person, asking not to be named. Pharma major Zydus Cadila has also started phase 2 clinical trials to establish efficacy of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate, ZyCov-D. The phase 2 trial began on August 6. Results from the phase 1 trials are not in the public domain yet. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The first official also said that states have been told that vaccine will not be available in the next few months and they should focus on 3Ts—test, trace and treat – to rein in the outbreak and mitigate its spread. “There is no alternative to ramping up testing—as we have done in Delhi—quickly tracking people who have come in contact with the Covid positive patients and ensuring proper treatment for those who have tested positive,” this person said. In his meeting on August 11 with 10 states that account for more than 80% of India’s active Covid cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked them to follow the National Capital Region (NCR) model and increase daily testing rates. Delhi has tested 68,532 per million of its population thus far, the highest proportion in the country. India has tested 21,989 per million. Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, said: “A vaccine will be needed to check the disease spread but we don’t know when an effective vaccine be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eyes-global-front-runners-in-vaccine-plan/story-U32PbpPPItEu9wOaY6au7I.html
17-08-2020||India||4G back in 2 Jammu and Kashmir districts on a trial basis till Sept 8||The government restored high-speed mobile internet services in two districts of Jammu and Kashmir on a trial basis on Sunday, a little over a year after the facility was snapped ahead of the revocation of the region’s special status and its bifurcation.An official order said 4G mobile data services on postpaid numbers will be restored in Jammu’s Udhampur and Kashmir’s Ganderbal districts. The order will remain in effect until September 8, unless modified earlier. “The high speed mobile data services in the districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur shall be restored forthwith, on trial basis, while in rest of the districts , the internet speed shall continue to be restricted to 2G only,” said an order signed by principal secretary home, Shaleen Kabra. For now, 4G data services will be available on prepaid SIM cards only after official verification. The order came days after the central government told the Supreme Court that restrictions on high-speed mobile internet services will be relaxed in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions of the Union Territory after August 15 on a trial basis.The decision was based on recommendations made by the special committee constituted as per the top court’s May 11 directions. The committee recommended that the areas, where high-speed services are allowed, should have low intensity of terrorist activities. The relaxation will be reviewed periodically, by state authorities every seven days and by central authorities after two months but complete relaxation of restrictions in the entire Union Territory will not be possible due to security concerns, the Centre told the apex court. The SC was hearing a petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation.Sunday’s order said the two districts were identified on the basis of inputs from law enforcement agencies in context of the parameters laid down by the special committee.“ We are eagerly waiting for 4G… people are happy. Our children, our youngsters have suffered a lot educationally in absence of high-speed internet in the past one year, “ said Majid Wani, a resident of Ganderbal.Mobile phone, landline and internet services were snapped in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir hours before the Centre nullified Article 370, which accorded the region special status, and divided it into two union territories — Jammu & Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.Over the past year, communication lines were gradually restored. Landlines were back between August and September 2019 and postpaid mobile services restarted on October 14, 2019. Short messaging service (SMS) on all mobile phones in Kashmir, and broadband internet services in government-run hospitals were restored on January 1, 2020. The 2G mobile internet services were restored across the Valley on January 25, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-back-in-2-j-k-districts-on-a-trial-basis-till-sept-8/story-XBBhYWp2vpfw25kVXcZUiI.html
17-08-2020||India||The making, unmaking and remaking of Mehar Chand Market||As Ashok Sakhuja, 65, walked the desolate corridors of the once-bustling Mehar Chand Market in Lodhi Colony, he explains to the curious shopkeepers the provisions of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) redevelopment plan for the market. A day before, on Tuesday, the SDMC had approved a long-pending plan to redevelop Mehar Chand Market as a modern three-storey pedestrian-only shopping plaza, with a uniform look for all shops. The existing shops will be demolished and reconstructed by the traders in accordance with the sanctioned building plan. Sakhuja, the president of the market association, tells shopkeepers to get ready to raze and rebuild their shops. “Our market has had many ups and downs. This time, we are determined to ensure that MCM joins the league of CP, HKV, Khan, ” says Sakhuja, turning his attention to us. By Khan, he means Khan Market, by HKV he means Hauz Khas Village—and by MCM he means his own Mehar Chand Market. “By 2014, we were almost there; in fact, we were the hottest design destination in the town. THT Gifting by JJ Valaya, Pia Pauro , Masaba Gupta, O Layla, they were all here and then they all left,” says Sakhuja, whose father was among the refugees from Pakistan who were allotted a Khoka (a wooden makeshift shop) in the market post-Partition. The story of the making and unmaking and the possibility of remaking of the Mehar Chand Market has been full of turns, both fortuitous and fateful. It goes back to 1948, when about 240 makeshift shops were allotted to refugees from Pakistan, on the fringes of the Lutyens’ Delhi. In 1963, the government built 152 concrete shops, and what was initially known as the refugee market was remanded Mehar Chand Market after Mehr Chand Khanna, the then Union minister for rehabilitation. Those days, shopkeepers paid about Rs 18 a month as licence fee to the government. In the mid-1960s, while most people continued with their old business in the newly built market — grocery stores, cycle repair shops, tent rentals — Gurucharan Singh, one of the allottees, set up a tailoring shop, calling it ‘Eight Wonder’. Initially, most of his customers were from nearby colonies wanting him to alter their old cloths—a job he did with great finesse. His tailoring enterprise soon began to attract customers from far and wide, and soon the other shop owners hired tailors – a lot of them were from Darjeeling– and started their own tailoring businesses. In the next few years, the market had over 60 shops with the ‘Wonder prefix’—First Wonder, Second Wonder, Third Wonder, and so on. The Mehar Chand Market became famous as the ‘Wonder Market.’ “Those were the days when readymade revolution had not taken off and it was common for children to wear their parents’ clothes; if they required alterations they would come to us. This was the only market in the city where tailors had the ability to turn the bell-bottom into a waist, and the waist into a bell-bottom,” says Nand Kishor, who runs 1st Wonder. Started in the 1960s, this is one of the four surviving tailors in the market. “Many people still come here for alterations; they want to wear their grandfather’s and father’s coats on certain occasions. ” In the 1970s, the old-timers say, the market also became popular for its Dhabas. “It was a food destination in central Delhi much before Pandara Road, attracting many young people looking for affordable meals,” says AK Jain, an architect and former commissioner (planning) at the Delhi Development Authority, and the author of many books on Delhi. “I think the market could never compete with its neighbours such as Khan Market because it catered only to those living in the government colonies, who did not have great purchasing power. What also did not help was that the market had only one entry point,” added Jain. But that changed in the 1980s, a period that marked the first major shift in the market’s fortunes. The Asian Games, the shop owners say, brought development to the area, with Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and many government offices, including CGO complex coming up in the vicinity. “The wide road, the footpath were all developed during this time. Many owners renovated their shops, dabhas were converted into proper restaurants, a few sports shops also came up. For the first time since its inception business got a boost in the market and our income increased significantly,” says Praveen Kumar, who runs a grocery shop in the market. “We got a new clientele, a lot of them young sportspersons and government officials from different parts of the city,” says Raman Juneja of Juneja’s Restaurant, one of the few surviving eateries in the market from the 1970s-80s. Over the next two decades, as the readymade clothes became popular, many tailoring shops shut down, giving way to shops selling sweets, mobile phones and accessories, garments and salons, etc. “The increasing income and the rise of readymade clothes business killed the alternation business,” says Vinod Arora, another surviving tailor in the market. “The closure of the tailoring shops meant the market lost its USP and was forgotten.” Then, in 2007, Café Coffe Day opened an outlet in the market, marking the beginning of its makeover. Over the next couple of years CMYK Book Store, Soma , Fab India, Kunafa came. By 2014, half of the market’s 152 shops were taken over by designer boutiques, fancy restaurants, trendy cafes, European-style brasseries jewellers, high -end salons, making it a hot destination for designer brands and products. Mehar Chand Market was now giving Khan Market, its vaunted neighbour, a run for its money, what with the fact that latter had ran out of space, and went out of reach for many because of the astronomical rents. “Back then everyday I would show a dozen people, mostly designers, shops available for rent in the market,” says Inderjeet Singh, 63, who runs a property business in the market. The owners were pleasantly surprised by the sudden interest in the market and the transformation it was undergoing. Many of them exited their decades-old- businesses and rented out their shops. The going rate for a 400 sq ft shop for sale was about Rs 12 crore in 2014, while the rent for a shop of the same size jumped from Rs 40,000 in 2010 to Rs 2.5 lakh per month by 2014. “ We moved there because the location was great and the rent was affordable. But soon the owners became greedy and began to raise the rent, wrongly believing that Mehar Chand market had become a Khan market. The fact is the footfall in the market never matched the hype, but owners did not understand this,” says Pramod Kapoor, founder Roli Books, who started CMYK bookstore in the market in 2010 and left in 2018. Agrees Nitin Mehta, head, retail and logistics, Playclan, a design store, one of the first to arrive in the market in 2009: “The market attracted a lot of NRIs and expats, who found the place quiet and quaint, without parking problems. But the footfall and sales were not enough to justify the high rents. This was our flagship store and we tried to make it viable, and stay put but eventually it did not work,” says Mehta, whose firm exited the market in May this year. “Our shop in Khan Market is three times smaller in size, but generates three times higher sales.” In 2018, about 135 basement and first floors shops were sealed by SDMC, on the directions of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, as only the ground floor was permitted in the market as per its original plan, but shopkeepers had built additional floors over the years. The sealing drive seemed to have sealed the fate of the market for good, with dozens of brands exiting it in the past two years, including bigger ones such as Fab India, which was spread over three floors and served as an anchor store. Today, about over 50 ground floor shops are permanently closed, with stickers ‘For Rent’ pasted on them, their colourfully painted fronts the only sign of the market’s glory days. “The sealing was a final blow. I admit that a lot of owners could have been more reasonable in their demands, and we as an association could have done more to promote the market,” says Sakhuja as he a makes a list of people he needs to visit and thank for paving way for the redevelopment of the market. “We have learnt our lessons. After the redevelopment, we will ensure that market is run like a well-managed mall. I can assure you that MCM’s story will have a happy ending.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-making-unmaking-and-remaking-of-mehar-chand-market/story-UtzP79ymcaSAnx4AAURPhO.html
17-08-2020||India||Antibodies can ward off second infection: Study||Three people who previously recovered from Covid-19 were protected during a major outbreak of the disease onboard a fishing vessel that left from Seattle, US, according to a new study that offers the first confirmation that having antibodies are enough to prevent a second infection. The findings were based on antibody (serological) as well as viral detection (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR) tests that were conducted before the vessel departed and upon its return. During its 18 days at sea, 104 of the 122 crew members contracted the virus from a single source. “This suggests that neutralising antibodies are a correlate of protection for Sars-CoV-2, with obvious caveat that more study is needed since the N (number of people with antibodies) was small,” Alexander Greninger, the assistant director of the University of Washington (UW) Medicine Clinical Virology Laboratory and one of the authors of the study, said in an email response to HT. The study was posted on Friday on the preprint server medRxiv and the researchers were from UW as well as Seattle’s Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center,The findings are significant since they are the closest confirmation yet that the world’s main strategy of using vaccines to trigger immune response could indeed work to stop the pandemic. This addresses a complicated question of whether antibodies are enough to prevent disease, and ensure symptoms are mild, or have no effect at all. Deriving such data is normally challenging since scientific ethics prohibit an intentional infection of a person with antibodies to check whether they are safe from the virus.“A total of 104 individuals had an RT-PCR positive viral test... yielding an attack rate on board of 85.2%. Only three crewmembers tested seropositive prior to departure in initial serological screening and also had neutralizing and spike-reactive antibodies in follow-up assays... None of these crewmembers showed evidence of bona fide viral infection or experienced any symptoms during the outbreak,” the researchers said in their paper. The analysis involved detailed follow-up tests for 50 days. The researchers also carried out a genomic analysis of 39 genomes from the outbreak and determined that the outbreak was caused by a single source. Since in all 18 people did not contract the virus, the authors acknowledge a faint chance that the three crew members with antibodies may not have had close contact. “There is always a possibility that they were not exposed but [that is] unlikely given the high attack rate,” said Greninger.The study also highlights how some antibody tests may be more reliable than others. In the initial serological sampling, six people appeared to have antibodies. This difference is a result of the human body mounting a varied counterattack against a virus, and detecting these is a complicated process. For instance, in this case, the pre-departure samples were tested using the Abbott Architect kit that looks for antibodies to a specific protein of the virus known as the Nucleocapsid (N). Once the researchers found out there was an outbreak on the vessel, they took leftover samples from the six people who had N protein antibodies and subjected them to more detailed antibody tests: particularly those that detected antibodies to a more intrinsic parts of the virus -- the spike protein. In this second round of testing, only three of the six had antibodies. “Therefore, we speculate that the [other] three individuals without neutralizing activity [in later tests] were false positives in the initial serological screening... However, they could have been in the early stages of active infection... Alternatively, they could have experienced a mild or asymptomatic infection,” the authors wrote. This, the researchers said, makes it crucial to select the right kind of antibody test for serological analysis. “The key is neutralizing antibodies, which anti-RBD binding antibodies are a pretty good surrogate of. We also used blocking of binding assay for ACE2. So, yes, lots of tests here,” Greninger said.RBD, or receptor binding domain, refers to the ‘spike’ protein the virus uses to infect a cell. In all, there are close to 200 vaccines under development across the world. Of these, 29 are in clinical trial phases where they are being given to health volunteers to check for any adverse reaction and whether they are unsafe. “Vaccines currently in development against SARS-CoV-2 have been shown to elicit levels of neutralizing antibodies comparable to those observed in naturally infected persons. However, the protective nature of both vaccine- and infection-elicited neutralizing antibodies in humans remains unproven, with animal models being used to make inferences about protection,” the authors write in the study. “Human challenge trials, which could provide rapid information about the protection conferred by neutralizing antibodies are controversial due to the severity and unknown long-term impacts of Sars-CoV-2 infection and concerns over ethical administration of such trials,” they note. They add that this can be overcome by retrospective analyses of outbreak events, particularly those on confined shipping vessels. “The high population density and large degree of contact between people on ships contributes to a high attack rate,” they said, adding: “In some cases nearly all passengers will have 69 been exposed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-can-ward-off-second-infection-study/story-w5WpRcFoMPJqiyjG6xXvRO.html
17-08-2020||India||People recovered from Covid-19 protected from virus, finds study||Three people who previously recovered from Covid-19 were protected during a major outbreak of the disease onboard a fishing vessel that left from Seattle, US, according to a new study that offers the first confirmation that having antibodies are enough to prevent a second infection. The findings were based on antibody (serological) as well as viral detection (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR) tests that were conducted before the vessel departed and upon its return. During its 18 days at sea, 104 of the 122 crew members contracted the virus from a single source. “This suggests that neutralising antibodies are a correlate of protection for Sars-CoV-2, with obvious caveat that more study is needed since the N (number of people with antibodies) was small,” Alexander Greninger, the assistant director of the University of Washington (UW) Medicine Clinical Virology Laboratory and one of the authors of the study, said in an email response to HT. Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayThe study was posted on Friday on the preprint server medRxiv and the researchers were from UW as well as Seattle’s Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center,The findings are significant since they are the closest confirmation yet that the world’s main strategy of using vaccines to trigger immune response could indeed work to stop the pandemic. This addresses a complicated question of whether antibodies are enough to prevent disease, and ensure symptoms are mild, or have no effect at all. Deriving such data is normally challenging since scientific ethics prohibit an intentional infection of a person with antibodies to check whether they are safe from the virus.Also read: India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine plan“A total of 104 individuals had an RT-PCR positive viral test... yielding an attack rate on board of 85.2%. Only three crewmembers tested seropositive prior to departure in initial serological screening and also had neutralizing and spike-reactive antibodies in follow-up assays... None of these crewmembers showed evidence of bona fide viral infection or experienced any symptoms during the outbreak,” the researchers said in their paper.  The analysis involved detailed follow-up tests for 50 days. The researchers also carried out a genomic analysis of 39 genomes from the outbreak and determined that the outbreak was caused by a single source. Since in all 18 people did not contract the virus, the authors acknowledge a faint chance that the three crew members with antibodies may not have had close contact. “There is always a possibility that they were not exposed but [that is] unlikely given the high attack rate,” said Greninger.The study also highlights how some antibody tests may be more reliable than others. In the initial serological sampling, six people appeared to have antibodies. This difference is a result of the human body mounting a varied counterattack against a virus, and detecting these is a complicated process. For instance, in this case, the pre-departure samples were tested using the Abbott Architect kit that looks for antibodies to a specific protein of the virus known as the Nucleocapsid (N). Once the researchers found out there was an outbreak on the vessel, they took leftover samples from the six people who had N protein antibodies and subjected them to more detailed antibody tests: particularly those that detected antibodies to a more intrinsic parts of the virus -- the spike protein. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In this second round of testing, only three of the six had antibodies. “Therefore, we speculate that the [other] three individuals without neutralizing activity [in later tests] were false positives in the initial serological screening... However, they could have been in the early stages of active infection... Alternatively, they could have experienced a mild or asymptomatic infection,” the authors wrote. This, the researchers said, makes it crucial to select the right kind of antibody test for serological analysis. “The key is neutralizing antibodies, which anti-RBD binding antibodies are a pretty good surrogate of. We also used blocking of binding assay for ACE2. So, yes, lots of tests here,” Greninger said.RBD, or receptor binding domain, refers to the ‘spike’ protein the virus uses to infect a cell. In all, there are close to 200 vaccines under development across the world. Of these, 29 are in clinical trial phases where they are being given to health volunteers to check for any adverse reaction and whether they are unsafe. “Vaccines currently in development against SARS-CoV-2 have been shown to elicit levels of neutralizing antibodies comparable to those observed in naturally infected persons. However, the protective nature of both vaccine- and infection-elicited neutralizing antibodies in humans remains unproven, with animal models being used to make inferences about protection,” the authors write in the study. “Human challenge trials, which could provide rapid information about the protection conferred by neutralizing antibodies are controversial due to the severity and unknown long-term impacts of Sars-CoV-2 infection and concerns over ethical administration of such trials,” they note. They add that this can be overcome by retrospective analyses of outbreak events, particularly those on confined shipping vessels. “The high population density and large degree of contact between people on ships contributes to a high attack rate,” they said, adding: “In some cases nearly all passengers will have 69 been exposed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-can-ward-off-second-infection-study/story-asD2et2w9KexkjZxpH1sYM.html
17-08-2020||India||Over 350 inmates of jail in Kerala capital infected with Covid-19||As many as 363 inmates of the Thiruvananthapuram central jail have tested positive for the coronavirus disease, jail superintendent P Nirmalanandan said. About 250 other inmates are scheduled to undergo tests, the official said. Covid-19 tests were conducted at the jail after a 71-year-old prisoner died of the infection on Saturday. “Most of the infected are asymptomatic. We have isolated them and those who have serious symptoms are shifted to Covid hospitals,” Nirmalanandan said, adding that many under-trials and those who are about to complete their terms were freed to decongest the prison. The state on Sunday reported 10 deaths and 1,530 fresh infections. Of these, 53 are health workers, office of health minister KK Shailaja said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The CM, meanwhile, has lauded the efforts of the health officials and others on the Covid-19 frontline. “We are into 200-day of Covid crisis. Looking back, we can say with pride that this has not been just a period of despair & loss. This has been a time of courage, compassion, resilience and survival,” he tweeted on Sunday. Kerala was the first to report a virus case in January last, a China-returned medical student from Thrissur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-350-inmates-of-jail-in-kerala-capital-infected/story-Qt6FiiOXXRtGgpu79W3wfK.html
17-08-2020||India||Bihar recruits 4,997 nurses but staff shortages remain||The Bihar health department late Sunday evening issued orders posting 4,997 nurses to health facilities, a day after chief minister Nitish Kumar announced that his government will recruit around 4,000 doctors and 5,000 nurses this month to tide over an existing shortage of medical staff in the state health sector amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The nurses have been given seven days to join their place of posting. We got the recommendation for appointment of nurses from the Bihar Technical Services Commission late on August 13 and issued their posting orders tonight,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. Also read: Bihar’s Covid-19 caseload rises to 1.04 lakh; death toll mounts to 537The department will also move to fill 575 posts of assistant professors in medical colleges through the Bihar Public Service Commission. The government managed to appoint only 2,775 members of the medical faculty against 3,350 vacancies in the last one year.In addition, 1,750 laboratory technicians, pharmacists and sanitary inspectors will also be recruited in September, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.Bihar has so far reported 104,093 Covid-19 cases, with 537 deaths — the highest single-day death being 22 on Sunday. It has successfully scaled up its testing to 1,679,462 till Saturday. As of August 14, Bihar was testing 12,625 per million.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage These appointments will still be inadequate given the vacancies existing against already sanctioned posts.“There is a shortage of 2,000-odd members of the medical faculty as there are only 1,950 against 4,000 sanctioned posts in the rank of assistant professor and above in state-run medical colleges. Appointing 575 assistant professors will not be enough,” said a senior doctor, requesting anonymity.“In state health services, there will still remain a shortage of around 4,600 doctors in the rank of senior medical officer to director-in-chief, even as vacancies at the general duty medical officer (GDMO) level will be filled up after recruitment of 4,000 doctors in the basic grade. The vacancy from first promotion level (senior medical officer) onward will, however, remain because the state government has not promoted any doctor in the last 24 years,” said Dr Ranjeet Kumar, general secretary of the Bihar Health Services Association.The situation in the case of nurses is no different.The Bihar government could appoint only 4,997 nurses against 9,130 posts of GNM (general nursing midwife) staff grade ‘A’ it had advertised. Although 11,825 applied for the post, the fact that basic nursing diploma course (GNM) was mandatory eliminated those with higher nursing degree (B.Sc and above).“Nurses have not been appointed after 2015-16, when around 7,800 nurses were recruited in two batches. We are now left with less than 8,500 nurses against a sanctioned strength of 20,000 (approx.),” said Pramila Kumari, general secretary of the Bihar Grade A Nurses Association, also a member of the Bihar Nursing Registration Council.At the pharmacist level, too, the recruitment would be insufficient.“We have close to 2,000 vacancies against which the government will initiate recruitment on 1,050 posts,” said Rajeev Kumar Sinha, general secretary of the All India Pharmacist Association, Bihar.“In our case also, the government has made it mandatory that those who do not possess basic diploma in pharmacy, irrespective of having directly attained a higher degree like B.Pharma, cannot apply. As a result, appointment of 1,311 pharmacists on contract is held up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-recruits-4-997-nurses-but-staff-shortages-remain/story-31Td0jy32bDff7UgWloUtJ.html
17-08-2020||India||RJD, Congress finalise seat-sharing deal for Bihar polls, Manjhi’s HAM not happy||Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is expected to contest 152 seats and the Congress 91 seats when elections to the 243-member state assembly take place, according to the seat-sharing formula being worked out by the so-called Grand Alliance (GA), leaders of the two parties said.The RJD, from its quota, would allot some to the smaller parties in the alliance, the Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni and the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, a senior leader of the alliance said, requesting anonymity. The Congress would have to accommodate the rest of the allies such as the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Communist Party of India (CPI) from its quota of 91 seats. “Seat arrangement talks are in final stages and a formal announcement would be made in August last week when we will get a fair idea whether elections in Bihar would be held or not. There is no point in announcing a seat deal so early,” the senior alliance leader cited above said, referring to the uncertainty caused by the Covid-19 pandemic In the 2015 assembly elections, when the Janata Dal (United) was part of the alliance, the JD (U) contested 110 seats, the same as RJD. The Congress contested about 40 seats. RLSP and HAM were part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which lost the polls. In the alliance, the RJD emerged as the largest party with 81 seats, JD (U) got 70 and the Congress 27, enabling the coalition to come to power. As JD (U)’s Nitish Kumar was the face of the alliance, he became chief minister; on July 26, 2017, Kumar left the alliance to form a government with the BJP. In the new format, the RJD is expected to leave 30 from its quota for VIP. The RJD is also keen that CPI-ML Liberation should be a part of the alliance, and would offer some seats to the party from its quota. “We will submit our list of seats to RJD by next week. We are keen on an alliance...but it should be on respectable terms,” said Kunal,state secretary of the CPI-ML Liberation, who uses only his first name. The Congress is expected to contest 42 seats and offer the remaining 49 to RLSP, HAM and CPI, party leaders said. State president of the RJD Jagdanand Singh refused to comment on the seat-sharing formula, insisting that the RJD, being the biggest partner in the opposition alliance, was preparing to contest all 243 seats.“The seat sharing will be done at the right time. We as a senior partner have the responsibility to help our allies in seats they would contest and we are doing that,” he said. Bihar Congress spokesperson Harku Jha said the seat-sharing talks were “progressing positively”. RLSP’s senior leader Rajesh Yadav said the seat-sharing arrangements would be formalized soon. Among the alliance partners, only HAM appears to be unhappy. HAM national spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “The RJD’s arrogant attitude towards smaller allies will prove costly for the alliance. There has been no headway in seat talks and our party chief will take a call on our future course of action by August 22.” HAM has been threatening to leave the alliance since June and join the NDA. BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar said, “The Grand Alliance is a grand opportunistic alliance devoid of any ideology and model of governance. The seat sharing in the GA is on theoretical terms. It will be seen whether the alliance sticks {together} or not.” JD(U) spokesperson and state minister Neeraj Kumar said the seat-sharing talks were being led by second-rung leaders in the alliance. “The RJD-led coalition is remote controlled from Ranchi by jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad and allies have to meet him there with the court’s permission for final talks. Only then would the picture be clear,” he said. Lalu Prasad has been convicted in four cases related to the so-called fodder scam and is serving 14 years of imprisonment. D M Diwakar, a social scientist and former director of the AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies in Patna, said the RJD has an upper hand in seat-sharing talks as it seeks to reap the gains from its aggressive posturing on the rising cases of the coronavirus disease in Bihar and the hardships faced by migrant workers who returned home during the lockdown.“It is evident the allies are aware of the changing ground realities and are now more receptive toward RJD, which has a leadership role in seat-sharing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-cong-finalise-seat-sharing-deal-manjhi-s-ham-not-happy/story-frO6cHWG4M4N1RupprX3WP.html
17-08-2020||India||Normal life hit in Andhra, Telangana||Heavy rains continued to lash parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for the second consecutive day on Sunday, disrupting normal life as many villages that were cut off from the mainland due to overflowing streams and rivulets, while several localities in the urban areas witnessed heavy water logging. In Telangana, as many as six districts -- Warangal, Siddipet, Adilabad, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Mulug were affected, while in five districts Andhra Pradesh -- East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool districts were badly-hit. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin on Sunday afternoon, the heavy rains were the result of a low-pressure area over north coastal Odisha and adjoining areas of northwest Bay of Bengal and Gangetic West Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 9.5 km above mean sea level. “It is very likely to move west-north westwards and weaken gradually during next 48 hours. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around August 19,” the bulletin said. In Telangana’s Warangal town, several colonies were submerged due to heavy rains since Friday night. The district received heavy rainfall ranging from 10 cm to 27 cm during this period, the weather agency bulletin stated.Following an SOS message from the Warangal (urban) administration, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation sent three disaster response force teams to Warangal on Sunday along with boats and other equipment to rescue people caught in the flood water and shift them to safer areas. “We shall take part in the rescue operations along with Warangal (Urban) district machinery,” Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management director Viswajit Kampani said. An official release from the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s office said the government had established two control rooms in Hyderabad to monitor the situation and also pressed two helicopters including a defence chopper into service for rescue and relief operations. The Godavari river has been in full spate inundating several villages all along its course. At the temple town of Bhadrachalam in Telangana, the authorities issued a second level warning as the water level in the river reached 52.50 feet at 1 pm on Sunday. “The water level continues to raise,” the official bulletin said. The CMO said due to the continuous rains, several streams and rivulets were in full spate across the state. In several districts, breaches to bunds of many water bodies were reported. Drainage canals were overflowing and water-logging continued on the roads in urban areas at many places, the bulletin added. “Under the current conditions, there is a severe threat of inundation due to overflowing tanks and streams especially in the erstwhile districts of Warangal and Karimnagar where very heavy rains were reported,”the bulletin added.In Hyderabad too, the GHMC authorities have advised people to vacate dilapidated residential buildings considering the heavy rains. Meanwhile, the water level in Godavari at Kunavaram and Polavaram in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district has also been rising alarmingly. At Dowleshwaram in East Godavari, the authorities opened the gates of the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage and let off 14.63 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs) of water into the sea, as a result of which several island villages in Konaseema area have been submerged in waters. The state government kept its state and national disaster response force teams on high alert. “We are keenly monitoring the situation in 27 flood-prone blocks in East Godavari district,” an official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-life-hit-in-andhra-telangana/story-kJHzAYRLhQGwoAZdKtH6aJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Housing ministry ranked best in ensuring direct benefit transfers||The ministry of housing and urban affairs has been ranked as the best overall performing government department in ensuring Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) to beneficiaries. The rankings were released on Sunday by the DBT Mission, which comes under the Cabinet Secretariat, for the April 2019-March 2020 period. The Direct Benefit Transfer scheme ensures funds are deposited directly into the accounts of the stakeholders.It has awarded an overall score of 87.03 per cent to the housing ministry, followed by 83.56% to ministry of petroleum and natural gas and 83.25% to the department of youth affairs. Others departments that have excelled include food and public distribution  (79.98%), pharmaceuticals (79.43%) and higher education (74.70%).“We are very happy to see this ranking. Three of our flagship programmes including PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana), NULM (National Urban Livelihoods Mission) and Swach Bharat have well developed systems where the delivery is direct and money goes into the Aadhaar account of the beneficiary. We have been monitoring it constantly and it has a very high delivery rate,” urban housing minister Hardeep Puri saidIn the end-to-end digitisation category, the department of youth affairs pipped the housing ministry to the top spot. The ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship has been ranked the best in the use of Aadhaar and mobile  phones in ensuring the DBT. The housing ministry finished second in this category as well, while the department of public enterprises took the third spot. In the portal and reporting compliance category, the ministry of petroleum and natural gas took the top spot with a perfect 100% score. Four other ministries — department of health and family welfare, ministry of statistics and programme implementation, department of youth affairs and the department of fertilisers — also scored a 100% in the category.In the portal referring to ‘reporting of estimated savings’, the department of fertilizers scored 100%, followed by the department of food and public distribution, ministry of petroleum and natural gas, ministry of culture and rural development, did exceptionally well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/housing-ministry-ranked-best-in-ensuring-direct-benefit-transfers/story-Jq3EaKA88rwmUvfbUoq43K.html
17-08-2020||India||Sudeeksha case: 2 held, cops say accident due to ‘speeding’||The police on Sunday arrested two suspects in connection with the death of a 19-year-old woman, who was studying in the US, in a road accident near Aurangabad town of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district last week .Deepak Solanki, 28, a construction contractor and a resident of Gulaothi town, was allegedly riding a motorcycle and his mason, 50-year-old Raju of Bulandshahr dehat, was riding pillion when the accident took place on Chirora Road in Aurangabad on August 10.They were arrested soon after relatives of Sudeeksha Bhati identified them. Although the family had earlier claimed that motorcyclists had harassed Sudeeksha and that led to the accident, a probe by a four-member special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Bulandshahr police found that the cause of the accident was speeding.Sudeeksha was pursuing an undergraduate course in entrepreneurship from Babson College, Massachusetts, on a ₹3.80 crore scholarship. Her death had sparked a storm in Uttar Pradesh with political parties questioning the law and order situation in the state.Police said that two days after the accident, the suspects had modified the motorcycle when they learnt that the police was on the lookout for a Royal Enfield bike. On Sunday, the police recovered their motorcycle.Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bulandshahr, said at a press conference on Sunday that the police had scanned CCTV footage and established that the accident took place at 8.44 am.“Police scanned 12 CCTV cameras and found Sudeeksha and her cousin travelling on a motorcycle at 8:25 am. The same camera captured Solanki on an Enfield at 8.17 am on the same route and picked up Raju from near Arif Hospital and later, Sudeeksha’s motorcycle crossed them,” he said.“The two motorcycles were moving in the same direction and covered 10.5 kilometres in nine minutes on a busy road which showed that both them were speeding,” he said.The accident took place when the Royal Enfield bike overtook he two-wheeler Sudeeksha and her cousin were riding.“Solanki said that a tempo traveller ahead of him had applied a sudden brake. forcing him to brake suddenly too causing the motorcycle on which Sudeeksha was to collide with them near Bhavsi bridge. Seeing the accident and the injured, Solanki said he fled the spot due to fear,” said the SSP.With news that police was looking for Royal Enfield motorcycles, he went on make changes to the vehicle . “On August 12, I went to a local mechanic and got the wheels, silencer, and number plate changed. I also laminated the motorcycle with white stickers to disguise the identity,” he allegedly told the police.Solanki was constructing a banquet hall near Khanpur road and he was on the way there when the accident took place, said police.The two suspects were produced before the magistrate and sent to jail, said the SHO.On Sudeeksha’s father Jitendra Bhati’s complaint, the police had registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence), among others.Jitendra Bhati said that he was satisfied with the police investigation. “My brother and his son identified the suspects. We demand the government to make an institution in Sudeeksha’s name so that local girls can get inspiration to study and do good in their lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudeeksha-case-2-held-cops-say-accident-due-to-speeding/story-z16gqcVY5eyOzsUa5F89zL.html
17-08-2020||India||India sends tech team to contain Mauritius oil spill||India has sent a technical response team and more than 30 tonnes of equipment to Mauritius to help in efforts to contain a massive oil spill from a Japanese bulk carrier, which broke apart on Saturday after leaking hundreds of tonnes of fuel. In response to a request from the government of Mauritius, the technical equipment and material was sent on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft to “supplement the country’s ongoing oil spill containment and salvage operations”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Sunday. A 10-member technical response team, consisting of Coast Guard personnel specially trained in oil spill containment measures, has been deployed to Mauritius to extend technical and operational assistance at the site, the statement added. The specialised equipment sent by India includes ocean and river booms, disc skimmers, heli-skimmers, power packs, blowers, salvage barge, oil absorbent graphene pads and other accessories. The equipment is specifically designed to contain oil slicks, skim oil from water, and assist in clean up and salvage operations. The Japanese-owned MV Wakashio ran aground on a coral reef at Pointe d’Esny on July 25 and began leaking hundreds of tonnes of oil into a pristine lagoon last week. It broke apart on Saturday after a crack inside the hull expanded, and the National Crisis Committee of Mauritius said in statement: “At around 4.30 pm, a major detachment of the vessel’s forward section was observed.” The ship’s operator, Mitsui OSK Lines, said vessel was carrying 3,800 tonnes of very low sulphur fuel oil and 200 tonnes of diesel oil. About 1,180 tonnes of oil had leaked from the fuel tank, and about 460 tonnes were manually recovered, the operator said. Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth has declared a state of environmental emergency. The Indian team will join a massive clean-up operation involving thousands of local volunteers. “India’s assistance is in line with its policy to extend humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to its neighbours in the Indian Ocean region, guided by the prime minister’s vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region),” the external affairs ministry said. The assistance reflects the close bonds of friendship between India and Mauritius and New Delhi’s abiding commitment to assist the people of Mauritius, it said. The assistance for the oil spill follows recent support provided by India to Mauritius in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including the supply of essential medicines, a consignment of Ayurvedic medicines and the deployment of a medical assistance team as part of Mission Sagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-tech-team-to-contain-mauritius-oil-spill/story-I9wFVzHt9b0HHegsopiJNJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Ajay Maken named Rajasthan general secretary incharge||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday named Ajay Maken as the party’s general secretary incharge of Rajasthan in place of Avinash Pande, who was appointed to the post over three years ago. Gandhi also named Maken, Ahmed Patel (Rajya Sabha member and Congress treasurer) and KC Venugopal as the three members of a panel the party has formed to look into issues raised by former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 rebel Congress lawmakers, whose rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot threatened the state government. The development came two days after the Congress government won a floor test in the House, bolstered by the return of Pilot and his supporters to the party fold after a tumultuous month. The Congress hopes the outcome will bring down the curtain on a month-long political crisis. In a statement, Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation, said Gandhi constituted the three-member panel to oversee and ensure the smooth resolution of recent issues in the state. On August 10, Pilot met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi in the midst of the crisis triggered by his rebellion. Their interaction appeared to have found a breakthrough. And later that night, the party announced the setting up of the panel to look into issues raised by the 42-year-old Pilot and the 18 rebel legislators, who protested Gehlot’s style of functioning and alleged that Pilot was sidelined in the state government. Before that, on July 14, Pilot was sacked from the posts of the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president after his revolt, which was in the offing for some time. Gehlot and Pilot have had differences on a number of issues since the formation of the Congress government in December 2018. Reacting to Sunday’s developments, Pilot said: “I am thankful to the Congress president and Rahul Gandhi for forming the committee, which will look into the issues we have raised.”Following the August 10 meeting, Pilot announced a truce and returned to Jaipur after a month. Gehlot, too, sent out a message to his loyalists that the two groups should work together to strengthen the party. They met at a Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting a day ahead of the floor test, shook hands and flashed victory signs. According to Congress leaders, the three-member committee will “hear all sides and also go into the details of the political turmoil” before submitting its report, including a solution to the issue, to the Congress high command.The committee will also discuss the possible changes in the organisation and in the government. Gehlot did not fill three positions in his cabinet that felt vacant after Pilot and two MLAs loyal to him were removed in mid-July. The post of the state Congress president was immediately filled though with the appointment of Govind Singh Dotasara, believed to be a Gehlot loyalist.A Congress leader, who did not want to be named, said removing Pande was one of the demands of the Pilot camp. Pande, who took charge on May 4, 2017, was considered close to the chief minister. Normally, a leader is in charge of a state for three years.Another senior Congress leader, who too spoke on the condition of anonymity, said : “While the removal of Pande could be seen as a setback to Gehlot, the appointment of Maken would not necessarily mean that Pilot would hold sway.” Pande’s replacement, 56-year-old Maken, is a seasoned politician. He resigned as the Delhi Congress president in January 2019 on health grounds. Maken, a two-time MP and a former Union minister, was appointed to the post in March 2015 after the party’s decimation in the assembly elections. Prior to that, he held the post of Congress general secretary incharge of the communications department. The Congress high command rushed Maken and the party’s media department head, Randeep Singh Surjewala, to Jaipur on July 12 to deal with the crisis. The two remained stationed in the state till August 14, the day Gehlot’s government won the vote of confidence.State Congress president Dotasara, who is considered close to Gehlot, said Pande worked in the state for more than three-and-a-half years and contributed to the Congress’s assembly election win. On Maken’s appointment, Dotasara said: “Rajasthan will benefit from his experience.”Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the Congress’s decision showed that the high command did not want any delay. “The (three-member) committee looks balanced...Pande’s removal was on the cards as his three years were over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maken-named-raj-gen-secy-incharge/story-tOeXwI84zDpeucQ4fGdRVO.html
17-08-2020||India||Political slugfest over Facebook intensifies||The opposition is up in arms over allegations that Facebook, the social media company, has been lenient while censoring content that amounts to hate-speech by members of the ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) surfaced on Saturday. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that the BJP and its ideological parent the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh control Facebook and WhatsApp in India. “They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” Gandhi tweeted. In a press conference, Congress leaders Ajay Maken, Praveen Chakravarty and Rohan Gupta, demanded the creation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to look into the issue. The Bharatiya Janata Party categorically denied the allegations, stating that Congress needs to look within. Information Technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit back at Gandhi saying that “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us.” His reference is to a 2018 controversy surrounding a massive Facebook data breach, with the UK firm Cambridge Analytica at the centre of it. It emerged that the Congress had been in talks with the company in late 2017 for a campaign related to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Congress claimed at the time that it did not sign a deal with the company. Prasad added that “access to information and freedom of expression has been democratised.”: BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya also added that the concept of “free speech can not be selectively applied”. “For the last couple of year, pages linked to the right-wing, to the BJP have faced unilateral action by Facebook. The social networking has also taken action against right-wing organisations such as OpInida, Rightlo and MyNation.” Malviya added that this shows that Facebook is not aligned to BJP. Moreover, he said, the above mentioned pages are yet to be reinstated or be provided with reasons for why they were taken down. “It is ludicrous to suggest that Facebook is amenable to the BJP and the wider conservative ecosystem. If anything, the reverse is true. In the run up to the 2019 general elections, Facebook unilaterally took down over 700 pages, most of them sympathetic to a nationalist narrative. This trend of targeting large pages and groups run by volunteers and special interest groups, with communities running in millions, hasn’t stopped since. No reasons are assigned and appeals aren’t entertained either.”He also added that “social media has democratised discourse and that is something they (the Congress) haven’t come to terms with. They often use friendly media to push inconsistent and incoherent narrative to remain relevant. But it is unlikely to yield any political dividend.” Gandhi was not the only one from the Opposition to raise the issue. “I spoke on this issue on the floor of #Parliamentin June 2019. Videois in the public domain. Your story has brought the focus back to the skeletons in the cupboard,” said TMC spokesperson Derek O’Brien on Twitter. In his speech, O’Brien had alleged a ‘sordid’ connection between the BJP and the senior management of the social networking site. O’Brien had referred to the senior management as “de facto campaigners for the BJP”. The leaders were all reacting to the Wall Street Journal article published late Friday night suggesting Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by members of ruling BJP. The Congress said it met and flagged similar concerns to a senior executive of the social media company who has been named in the story. WSJ cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh, who made communally charged posts targeting the Muslim community. Das, the report added, “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. Facebook denied the allegation and said it was still reviewing whether it had to act against Singh on Saturday. The social media publisher added it would inform Hindustan Times of fresh developments when they happened. Information and Technology panel chairperson Shashi Tharoor also said that the parliamentary body would like to hear from Facebook after reports emerged of an alleged collusion between the social media company’s India policy head and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. “The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from @Facebook about these reports & what they propose to do about hate-speech in India,” Tharoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-slugfest-over-fb-intensifies/story-rRug9IUHUpPoklKIEzvKCI.html
17-08-2020||India||868 people killed in floods in 11 states: Govt||A very active monsoon from August 11 to 14, which brought widespread rain to northwest and central India, has wiped out the rainfall deficit that prevailed at the end of July and taken overall precipitation so far in the four-month season to excess at 103% of the long-period average (LPA).Another low-pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on August 19, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which says it may trigger more heavy and widespread rains in the two regions.Heavy rain triggered floods in a number of regions including Bihar, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and parts of Meghalaya in July; Mumbai, Konkan and Karnataka in the first week of August; and flash floods in parts of Rajasthan on August 15.Spurts of exceptionally heavy rain have paralysed life like they did this month in Kerala’s Idukki, where a landslide killed at least 55 people. According to a flood situation report dated August 12 by the ministry of home affairs’ disaster management division, 868 people have lost their lives to floods in 11 states, compared with 908 deaths in the same period last year.“Yes, this year we have seen exceptional rains and several cases of extreme weather events. For example, one town in Jaipur district recorded 25 cm rain only in six hours. A lot of rain was recorded last week alone which helped northwest India largely cover its deficiency. Parts of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan have recorded extremely heavy rains in the past 24 hours,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre.  “August will see excess rains because another low-pressure area is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal around August 19 which will bring very heavy rains to northwest and central India in the coming days. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to also develop around August 23 but we are not yet certain about that one,” Jenamani added.Three low-pressure areas have already developed over the Bay of Bengal in August. These were the main rain producing systems during monsoon. No low-pressure area had formed in July and the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) had frequently oscillated towards the Himalayan foothills, bringing extremely heavy rains to northeastern states.“The northern Arabian Sea has been anomalously warm during the last several weeks....the sea surface temperatures have been consistently 2-3°C above normal over this region. It has created a mini warm pool over that region, providing additional heat source and moisture,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Our research shows that such high temperatures in the north Arabian Sea can lead to episodes of strong monsoon winds ensuing heavy rain spells across several parts of India,” Koll said.June had ended with surplus rains of 17.6% while July had closed with a deficit of 9.7%. But the low pressure areas developing in August have intensified rains in the core monsoon region—parts of central and east India. According to IMD’s Sunday bulletin, parts of Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Konkan and Goa recorded very heavy to extremely heavy rains on Saturday and Sunday morning. For example, Bhopalpatnam and Bhairamgarh 22 cm, recorded 32 cm and 22 cm of rain respectively; and Sama 27 cm and Bijapur 23 cm. All are located in Chhattisgarh, The monsoon trough is active and lies south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal.) Its western end is likely to move northwards during the next two days. A cyclonic circulation lies over south Punjab. Convergence of strong moist south-westerly winds from the Arabian sea over the plains of northwest India is likely to further strengthen from August 18 onwards. Because of these conditions, increased rainfall is likely over northwest India from August 18 with widespread and heavy rains over the region and Uttarakhand. Extremely heavy rain is likely over west Rajasthan and Uttarakhand on August 18 and over north Punjab on August 19.Extremely heavy rain is also likely over Telangana, Konkan, Goa, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh, and the ghat areas of madhya Maharashtra on Sunday and Monday. Due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area, heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal also on August 18 and 19, IMD’s Sunday bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/868-killed-in-floods-in-11-states-govt/story-vFPuyObuA8JsccQXR4toqJ.html
17-08-2020||India||For Rediff boss, early success meant ignoring sceptics, self-learning tools||Ajit Balakrishnan, the advertising and tech entrepreneur who set up India’s first web portal in 1995, still writes code (for fun and practice) every morning. “It comes intuitively to me,” he says. When he launched Rediff on the NeT, the internet was barely five months old in the country, and had a total of about 18,000 users. Balakrishnan, then 47, had spent the previous 22 years in advertising, having co-founded the successful ad agency Rediffusion in 1973. In 1987, he also helped set up PSI Data Systems, which manufactured some of the first computers made in India. Given his unique experience, he says, he could see a wonderful world was about to dawn. “I told my partners in the other two companies to take care of business, I was going after the internet,” Balakrishnan says. “At that time, some financial bigwigs would catch me at conferences and tell me, don’t make a fool of yourself with this ‘internet’ business.” For a year before the launch, Balakrishnan, now 72, worked alone out of a 600-sq-ft office at Fort, Mumbai. He tapped into the programming knowledge he had acquired two decades earlier, working on IBM mainframes as a student at the Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta (IIM-C). “No one in India knew HTML, so I learnt it myself,” he says. Rediff introduced Indians to the wonderful possibilities of the internet. It was the first Indian news portal; in subsequent years it introduced email and messenger services, a search engine, and e-commerce (it sold mainly electronics and computer peripherals). Apart from their news vertical, Rediff’s core business today is the enterprise email service called rediffMailPro, with 27,000 clients on the roster.“The key challenge then was that India had very few active internet users,” Balakrishnan says. “The second mega challenge was that the tech was fast evolving. Finding computer science students who knew state-of-the-art programming was hard. But we hired kids from IIT-B (Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay) and other top engineering colleges and trained them, and this was soon resolved.” In the first round, he hired five people, who’ve since gone on to found their own ventures. Three years in, with 30 employees, rediffMail was servicing half of India’s million users. The company would soon after get its first venture capitalist investors, and list on Nasdaq in 2000. Today, there are over half a billion internet users in India. If companies have managed to continue to function, do business, get their products out and keep supply chain intact through the lockdown, it is because of the wide-ranging internet tools that allow employees to perform most functions from home. But Balakrishnan has some misgivings about the directions in which things are headed. “There is a sort of ideology in the tech world called shareholder wealth maximisation, where everyone thinks the purpose of business is not to provide a service to the people, but to charge as much as possible,” he says. He is also concerned that Internet business models have become too dependent on advertising. He finds it heartening, he says, that advertising as a method of financing websites is disappearing, as the world moves towards subscription-based models. “And India needs at least one e-mail service that is Indian.” No prizes for guessing what he is pitching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-rediff-boss-early-success-meant-ignoring-sceptics-self-learning-tools/story-GKXgHtRAtKiaX1PedQUTxL.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Chennai widens home quarantine eligibility||P Rajan, a 26-year-old supervisor in a cargo company on furlough, begins his day attending a roll call at the corporation ward office at 7.30 am. He then goes around in his two-wheeler to the six streets assigned to him in ward no. 76 of Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, one of the most densely populated localities in Chennai which has reported more than 3,981 Covid-19 positive cases and 81 deaths, where he checks on 11 families under home quarantine. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe is among the 3,500 young volunteers, contracted since mid-June till September by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to monitor and support 18 different categories of people under home quarantine. Volunteers, who range from college students to office-goers are called FOCUS (Friend of Covid Person Under Surveillance). They form part of a strategy developed by the GCC that is pegged on home quarantining even those who are likely to be infected to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Chennai accounts for 66.5% of the total number of Tamil Nadu’s cases, and is among the top five cities in the country in terms of case-load.This comes at a time when the state placed Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet -- the worst affected districts -- under complete lockdown till June 30. Earlier this month, Chennai’s civic body developed 18 categories, comprising mixed groups of people, under their new uniform strategy called home quarantine and isolation monitoring system (HQIMS). These include those awaiting Covid-19 test results, positive patients undergoing home treatment, discharged patients, international and domestic passengers coming via flights, trains, road or sea, family and extended contacts, and people with influenza-like illness identified through the 500-odd fever clinics run by the corporation, among others. Most people in these categories are already mandated to be in 14-day isolation, but it has widened the net on who must undergo isolation.“Home quarantine is the crux in controlling an epidemic,” says Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology and one of the members of the state appointed medical panel to assist in the government’s Covid-19 management. “If people follow it properly and they are monitored and supported, it can be very effective in reducing transmission.” Currently 117,000 homes in Chennai are under HQIMS. The cyclical strategy of 14-days of home quarantine makes these numbers dynamic and at any point 250,000 houses out of 1.075 million houses in the city are expected to be under quarantine and volunteers will be scaled up proportionately. This new system was developed to keep up with the evolving situation of the pandemic. “In April, all positive patients were treated at the hospital. The concept of home quarantine for treatment progressed at a later stage,” says the corporation’s deputy commissioner for revenue and finance, Meghanathan Reddy who is overseeing this project.In the early days of the pandemic, larger geographical areas were designated as containment zones. This was later limited to rows of streets and then half a street. But the virus continued to spread internally when people interacted inside the quarantine zones or slipped outside. Also when lockdown restrictions eased, officials found it harder to control movement. So barricading specific homes became more effective. The only challenge was to ensure a family’s basic needs were met while they stayed inside which is now addressed through thousands of these volunteers. Several states have roped in citizens to help out with the health crisis brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, including Delhi.Rajan lives in ward 75 in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar and signed up to be a volunteer for the ward adjacent to his on June 15 (I’ve changed to 15). He delivers groceries, picks up prescriptions and arranges for the garbage disposal, by calling up the conservancy worker once the yellow bags (meant for disposal of Covid-19 waste) are full. But the bulk of his work involves pleading with families under quarantine and their neighbours to wear masks and maintain social distance during interactions. The volunteers also engage with other field workers of the corporation, such as the medical team that conducts fever camps every day, (and a team of surveyors) going door-to-door with thermal scanners.“I wanted to help in some way when I saw news reports of sufferings across the world and of our people walking back home to their native states,” Rajan said. “I just put myself in the position of these affected families. If my family had to be isolation, who will help us? That’s how I go about serving these families,” he said.His family was worried about the risk of infection. “My mother was the most worried, but they understood,” he said. The corporation has provided gloves and masks for the Focus volunteers, and he carries a sanitiser too. They carry ID cards issued by the corporation. “Every day we get data of 10,000-15,000 people who need to be home quarantined under various categories,” Reddy said. “We send that data to the various zones who forward it to the volunteers.” Each volunteer is assigned anywhere from five to 10 streets for the city’s 200 wards. They are paid Rs 500 a day. The volunteers  file details in a booklet which is collected by ward level officers and sent back to the HQIMS desk at the corporation headquarters. This system is only for those who can effectively isolate themselves at home. For those who don’t have facilities like separate bathrooms for instance, their contacts are taken to quarantine facilities, and those who test positive for the infection are either kept in hospitals, or healthcare centres and Covid care centres, depending on the severity of the symptoms.“Even if there is 70% accuracy, we are limiting lakhs of people from going out and transmitting the virus,” GCC commissioner G Prakash said about the HQIMS, adding, “Under these categories, we are able to isolate people who are positive, possibly positive and potential carriers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-widens-home-quarantine-eligibility/story-Wdbbv6uSo2HaKAALxaDWCM.html
17-08-2020||Today's||How will Joe Biden’s plan on climate crisis impact India?||Joe Biden has reworked his climate crisis plan, under pressure from younger activists and workers in the United States, to make it ambitious and more result-oriented. He acknowledges that the economy and environment are interconnected. According to the Washington Post, Biden’s new plan calls “for the elimination of carbon pollution from the electric sector by 2035, for the US to rejoin the international Paris climate accord and spend $2 trillion over four years to boost renewables and create incentives for more energy-efficient cars, homes and commercial buildings”.But, for India — and other developing countries — the question is about what America will do about its historic emissions. The climate crisis is largely because of the emissions from the wealthy nations over the years. Small Island Nations are extraordinarily vulnerable-some might even disappear. There’s also India-severely impacted, as freak climate events here have shown.Ideally, nations historically guilty of inflicting this on us and others should finance our efforts to adapt to and mitigate climate change — this is germane to the Equal but Differentiated Responsibilities. But Biden’s plans focus on the US. This is not fine for a country that calls itself a global leader. One hopes that Biden will detail this, although it is likely to be unpopular with Americans in the current economic scenario. A Presidential candidate is already a global face. Their plan must reflect how they intend to empower India and other countries to combat the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-will-joe-biden-s-plan-on-climate-crisis-impact-india/story-E9NyV9VLnIbHZyYJNfy03K.html
17-08-2020||Editorials||Hold Facebook accountable | HT Editorial||According to an investigative report in The Wall Street Journal, Facebook in India has been complicit in enabling hate speech. Despite employees of the company repeatedly flagging posts by a set of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and activists, which would fall within the social media publisher’s own definition of speech inciting violence and promoting enmity between communities, Facebook took no action. This was, according to the same news report, largely because the public policy head of the company argued that taking action would antagonise the government and the ruling party. By encouraging polarising and violent content, in an already fragile social context, Facebook choose political expediency and commercial gains at the cost of law and ethics.This newspaper has consistently argued that large digital media companies — particularly Facebook and WhatsApp (which is owned by Facebook) — not only threaten the current media ecosystem in India, but also pose a serious danger to Indian democracy. They provide a platform for fake news that has misled citizens and created information asymmetry; they turn a blind eye to hateful content, which has translated into violence, lynching and vigilantism; they create an uneven playing field which can affect democratic choices; they take money and promote targeted content which can skew voting behaviour and elections; and with their predatory commercial practices, they threaten other sources of genuine news and information. While some argue that these companies have deepened democracy and enabled more citizens to participate in everyday discourse, this does not hold true anymore, for Facebook’s practices have eroded the quality of democracy, not just in India, but elsewhere in the world too. And that is why the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, led by Shashi Tharoor, is right in taking up the issue and calling Facebook for an explanation. What is now needed is a clear regulatory and policy approach which treats Facebook as a media company. The current instance shows that it is not a neutral platform, as apologists claim, but a social media publisher which exercises editorial choices on content. And as a media company, Facebook must fulfill all the legal, regulatory, commercial, and ethical obligations that come with being a publisher. India has been increasingly alert to the dangers of Chinese technological companies for its national security. It is time to be alert to global digital behemoths which pose an equal danger to democracy, freedom and social peace — all under the guise of just being a platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/hold-facebook-accountable/story-zBSWVQadGljvtkBuPb6TsO.html
