22-08-2020||City||Six booked for sedition after Ambala IAF station receives suspicious letter||An FIR was lodged at Ambala on Saturday after the Indian Air Force (IAF) station here reportedly received a suspicious letter.Six persons were booked under Sections 121A (conspiracy to commit offences punishable for waging or attempting war against India) and 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code.“A letter was found at the Ambala air force station that said that a few men had been funded to blow some prominent places including Ambala, Delhi and a few others on some specified dates. We have initiated the investigation as Ambala is a sensitive zone. But there have been many such instances where such letters have surfaced,” deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ram Kumar told the reporters.Superintendent of police (SP, Ambala) Abhishek Jorwal later told the reporters that the letter was a hoax. “Two men are from Bilaspur in Yamunanagar and Jalandhar in Punjab. The Bilaspur man is a small shopkeeper and the other is a cook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-booked-for-sedition-after-ambala-iaf-station-receives-suspicious-letter/story-oLWLPYBDZaAAM7FugYUSpO.html
22-08-2020||City||Record surge in Chandigarh tricity as 355 more test Covid +ve||With 355 people testing positive for Covid-19, the tricity saw its steepest one-day spike in infections on Saturday. Three deaths were also reported during the day, taking the total fatalities to 91. Chandigarh, too, witnessed a record surge with 145 cases. Mohali reported 144 cases and two deaths while 66 cases surfaced in Panchkula besides a death.It was on August 20 that the tricity saw its previous biggest spike of 349 cases. The total number of cases stands at 6,873, with 3,010 (44%) still active. The Covid tally rose to 2,776 in Chandigarh, even as 45 people were discharged, taking the number of active cases to 1,270. The fresh cases have been reported from across the rural and urban pockets of the city. As many as 51 of these were diagnosed with rapid antigen tests.12 cops found infected in Mohali Twelve cops, including a deputy superintendent of police, Mataur station house officer, are among 144 people tested positive in Mohali on Saturday. The remaining 10 cops are posted at the Phase 1 police station.Meanwhile, a 70-year-old woman from Dera Bassi and an 80-year-old man from Bhabat in Zirakpur died, taking the toll to 48. “Both had multiple comorbidities,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The woman suffered from obesity and respiratory problem, and was undergoing treatment in Patiala. The man suffered from acute diabetes and hypertension, and died at the Command Hospital. Among the fresh cases, 53 are from Mohali, 35 from Kharar, 28 from Dera Bassi and nine each from Zirakpur and Dhakoli. Also, 56 people recovered on Saturday, taking the number of those discharged to 1,311. The district has reported 2,561 cases so far, of which 1,201 are active.2 Haryana CM residence staffers +veTwo employees of Haryana chief minister’s residence are among 66 persons who were found infected in Panchkula on Saturday. Also, a 61-year-old man from Verma Colony near Nanakpur died, becoming the district’s tenth fatality. He was unwell since August 19 and was undergoing treatment at the Panchkula civil hospital. The district has reported 1,536 cases, of which 539 are active, while 987 people have been cured.Among the fresh cases, as many as 11 surfaced in Sector 4, 10 in Pinjore, and eight in Old Panchkula. Civil surgeon Jasjit Kaur said: “Those who have tested positive are contacts of the existing patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/record-surge-in-chandigarh-tricity-as-355-more-test-covid-ve/story-1Ub621jwAs6x9JxQhj1lVN.html
22-08-2020||City||Clinical trial for Covid-19 vaccine will be complete within year: Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan||Ghaziabad: Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan, in Ghaziabad on Saturday, said it is expected that clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine will be completed within the year. The minister was in the district to inaugurate the new hospital at the eighth battalion campus of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).“There are a lot of efforts being taken up across the world for the vaccine. Across the world, there are about 26 vaccine candidates who have entered phases of clinical trials. There are 139 others who are working at different levels in pre-clinical trials. In India, there are about half a dozen candidates who have entered advanced stages and three of these have reached first, second and third phases of clinical trials,” the minister said. “On the basis of the evaluation of their progress, we are hopeful that the trials will be completed within this year and we will have results. Once an effective vaccine is available, we will get it manufactured in the country and make it available to the people,” he added. He said that the country is doing better in every parameter of per million tests and even per million deaths with respect to Covid.According to a statement by the ministry on Saturday, India’s daily tests scaled a new peak of 10,20,000 and the country also recorded the highest ever single day recoveries – 63,631 – in the last 24 hours. The statement further added that with the high number of Covid-19 patients recovering, the recovery rate has reached 74.69% and has also led to declining case fatality rate which reached a new low of about 1.87%.“Despite having a population of 135 crore, we have been able to protect our people in a better manner. We are making all efforts and plan to bring down the mortality rate to below 1%. The recovery rate, which once started at 9%, has now reached about 75%. We have created beds, infrastructure and issued guidelines on different aspects. All our departments are making coordinated efforts to fight coronavirus,” the minister added. According to the state control room records, the case fatality rate for the state of UP stood at 1.57% with 2,867 deaths out of total 1,82,456 cases reported till August 22. The discharge rate stood at about 71.95%. Earlier in the day, the minister inaugurated a new state of the art hospital which is the first hospital for the eighth battalion of the NDRF at their new campus near Govindpuram. According to officials, the hospital will cater to about 1,200 personnel of the NDRF and also their families. “The hospital has 20 beds along with OPD and IPD facilities and has potential to be expanded to 50 beds in future. The hospital also has an operation theatre, pathology laboratory, latest equipment besides oxygen supply available on all the beds. Presently we are operating this hospital at L1 category hospital,” said PK Srivastava, commandant of the eighth battalion. The 75 acre campus of the NDRF’s eighth battalion is a new one and was inaugurated in March 2019 by the then Union home minister Rajnath Singh. The NDRF battalions are equipped and trained to respond to natural as well as man-made disasters besides the personnel being trained to respond during chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) emergencies. The NDRF including the personnel of the eighth battalion have served during different situations like the ones in Japan in March 2011 and also during the earthquake in Nepal in April 2015. In India, the battalion served during floods in Chennai in December 2015 and also in Jammu and Kashmir in September 2014. The personnel also played a crucial relief and rescue role during the flash floods in Kedarnath in June 2013 besides attending to radiation emergency at Mayapuri scrap market in Delhi in April 2010. The NDRF was actively involved during the building collapse incidents at Akash Nagar in Ghaziabad and also at Shahberi in Greater Noida in July 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clinical-trial-for-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-complete-within-year-union-minister-dr-harsh-vardhan/story-ABBcUpwfyI8GbGGcGQmhYI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to monitor all wards to ensure adherence to Covid safety norms||Amid surging Covid-19 cases in the city, the municipal corporation (MC) has deployed Covid monitors at all 95 wards in Ludhiana to spread awareness and enforce safety norms including social distancing and washing hands regularly. As per orders issued by MC chief Pardeep Sabharwal, nine teams with 95 members (one for each ward), comprising superintendents, chief sanitary inspectors and sanitary inspectors have been formed and two joint commissioners - Kulpreet Singh and Swati Tiwana have been deputed as nodal officers to look into the working of the teams. Officials said the Covid monitors will conduct inspections from Monday onwards and residents will be asked to follow safety norms. However, team members are in a dilemma about how they enforce norms without any powers conferred to them.One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said no powers have been conferred to team members. Also, a few officials have been deputed in wards which fall under the different zones of MC.The team members have also sought clarification on their role from senior authorities but no information has been provided to them so far, an official said.Joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said, “The Covid monitors have been deployed to spread awareness among the residents who do not follow norms. Surprise field inspections will be conducted by them. The orders have been issued by the MC chief Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday evening and a detailed meeting regarding the role of covid monitors is expected to be held on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-monitor-all-wards-to-ensure-adherence-to-covid-safety-norms/story-egh0QiMSra8AEDXBKoMRVM.html
22-08-2020||City||Polio-affected Ludhiana woman kidnapped, gangraped by brother-in-law, his cousin||A 26-year-old woman, affected by polio, was allegedly kidnapped and raped by her brother-in-law and his cousin on Friday.The victim has been living separately from her husband for the past 11 months. The accused kidnapped her on the pretext of arranging a meeting with him for a patch-up. Police have launched a manhunt for her husband’s brother, a resident of Jeera Gate, Ferozepur; and his cousin, a resident of Peeran Shekhan, Ferozepur.Besides the duo, police are also looking for another brother of her husband, another cousin and an unidentified accomplice, who kidnapped the woman along with the main accused.The woman told the police that she got married to a Ferozepur man in 2017, but had moved to her parents’ house in Ludhiana around 11 months back due to strained marital relations. In Ludhiana, she got enrolled in an electrician’s course.She claimed that on Thursday evening, her husband’s two brothers, their two cousins and another man came to Ludhiana. The called her over the phone, claiming that they had come to pick her up to arrange a meeting with her husband. For this, they asked her to meet them at Gill Road.The woman alleged that the five men picked her up in a Maruti Suzuki Zen and took her to Sultanpur Lodhi. They drove to an isolated location, where one of her brothers-in-law and his cousin gangraped her, while the rest left. On Friday morning, the duo fled after dropping her at the Ludhiana bus stand.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer (SHO) at Division Number 6 police station, said on the woman’s complaint, they had lodged an FIR under Sections 376-D (gangrape) and 365 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.“The woman was taken to the civil hospital for medical examination. Further investigation is on to arrest the culprits,” he added.If proven guilty, Section 376D entails rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than 20 years, which may extend to life, and with fine. Kidnapping is punished with a jail term up to seven years with fine.SIMILAR SEXUAL ASSAULTS THIS YEARAUGUST 9: Payal police had booked two residents of Jallah village for gangraping a 14-year-old girl and blackmailing herJULY 19: Two days after gangraping a 14-year-old girl, three accused tried to kidnap her from her house in Mand Chaunta village. However, her parents reached the house in time and rescued herJUNE 14: Posing as a Good Samaritan, a man and his friend had gangraped a 14-year-old girl in a park on Chandigarh Road. According to victim, the man had provided her family ration in April during the lockdown and had become friendly with herFEBRUARY 22: A 31-year-old man and his friend were arrested for allegedly raping his wife’s minor sister at a vacant plot in Basant Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/polio-affected-ludhiana-woman-kidnapped-gangraped-by-brother-in-law-his-cousin/story-9ykKTRYnm73YgAwPMsLTyO.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Despite rising Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana, disinfection drives missing||While extensive sanitisation/disinfection drives were conducted in the city during March, April and May when number of Covid-19 cases were low in the city, sanitisation machines have gone missing from city roads at a time when Ludhiana has become the ‘Covid capital of Punjab’. Sanitisation drives in internal areas of the city with backpack machines have also been halted.Residents are demanding that the municipal corporation (MC) and district administration should start sanitising the city again as markets have reopened and are visited by large numbers of residents daily. Wherever possible, shopkeepers should be told to sanitise their respective establishments.Till mid May, nine jetting machines and fire tenders were deployed by the MC to sanitise city roads and internal areas. Also, backpack machines were provided to councillors for sanitising internal areas of their respective wards.Paramjeet Singh Sarna, general secretary, welfare council of Model Town extension block B, Bx and Cx, said,”Nothing is being done to sanitise the city even when large numbers of positive cases are being reported daily. The residents appreciated the MC’s efforts when it initiated sanitisation drives in the city in the initial months of lockdown, but nothing is being done when it is required the most. The state government and administration are claiming that the situation in Ludhiana is alarming, but necessary steps are not being taken.”Leader of opposition in general House of MC, SAD councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang, said, “No disinfectant is being provided by the MC, due to which sanitisation drives have been halted. Despite surging Covid-19 cases, the civic body is not paying heed to the problem.”Relatives of Covid patients also rued that their houses and areas are not being sanitised by the MC. A resident of Field Ganj, Jagmeet Singh, said, “My mother tested positive for the virus in the last week of July and was admitted to a hospital. Initially, no one came to sanitise our area or house. When we contacted the councillor, an MC employee came with a backpack machine, but he did not even enter the house and just sprayed the door instead.”A resident of Nehru Nagar, Balpreet Singh, said, “A few positive cases were reported from our locality last week, but, no one came to disinfectant the area and residents have been left to fend for themselves. The administration should take note of the problem as a large number of people throng market places nowadays and the civic body should take up regular sanitisation drives to control the alarming situation.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Sanitisation drives are still being conducted, especially in containment zones. On-call services are also being provided. Whenever the MC receives a call from the residents or councillors, teams are immediately rushed to sanitise the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-rising-covid-19-cases-disinfection-drives-missing/story-yIabTTa9QcjO9CSbGF84VP.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Show must go on, no more delay in holding JEE, NEET, say Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali aspirants||Chandigarh: With the government firm on holding the JEE and NEET in September, aspirants in Chandigarh and its adjoining towns of Panchkula and Mohali are eager to take the exams for admission to engineering and medical colleges without any further delay. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main is scheduled to be conducted from September 1 to 6, while the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) will be held on September 13. Earlier, JEE Main was scheduled to be conducted in April and NEET in May. Aspirants have been anxious over the delay in holding the entrance exams this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the National Testing Agency (NTA), more than eight lakh students have registered for JEE Main-2020. Experts say over 10,000 aspirants are expected to take the exam from the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. DELAY HAMPERS MOMENTUM Markandey Singh, a JEE aspirant from Mohali, says, “The entrance exam should not be delayed further because it hampers momentum. We have been eagerly preparing for these exams.” NEET mentor Kunal Singh says, “I think the show must go on. Many exams have been conducted throughout the country in the past two months. Delaying entrance exams will be counterproductive for students. Those who burnt the midnight oil for two long years are getting frustrated, de-motivated and lethargic with the delay.” Medical aspirants don’t want any further delay in conducting the exam. “The entrance exams are already behind schedule. Now we are ready and don’t want any further delay,” says Panchkula-based NEET aspirant Shruti Goel. FINANCIAL BURDEN, TOO The students say that the delay in holding entrance tests increases the financial burden on them as they go for online classes offered by private coaching institutes. “Every time there is a delay, we have to pay more for the online coaching classes,” says Mandeep Singh, a JEE aspirant. Sadanand Wani, who heads a private coaching institute in Chandigarh, says, “The students who have got a good percentile during the last JEE Main exam are choosing not to appear again but those who want to improve their score are anxious.” MASKS WILL BE PROVIDED AT EXAM CENTRES To check the spread of Covid-19, the National Testing Agency has directed the exam centres to follow the standard operating procedures, including leaving a two-desk gap in the seating arrangement. Candidates will be given a fresh three-ply mask before entering the exam centres and all door handles, staircase railings and lift buttons will be disinfected. Hand sanitisers will be available at the entry points for candidates and staffers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/show-must-go-on-no-more-delay-in-holding-jee-neet-say-chandigarh-panchkula-and-mohali-aspirants/story-InwvePhl0AzA4xEyGarWkL.html
22-08-2020||City||Man booked for raping minor daughter, murdering her newborn||A 42-year-old man was booked in Ghaziabad for allegedly raping his minor daughter and murdering her child who she had delivered on August 21.The 16-year-old victim and her mother stayed at a rented house under Kavi Nagar police station area. Police said that father did not stay at the same house but often visited them. The family is from Jharkhand and girl’s mother earns livelihood working as a domestic help. The police case was registered based on the complaint of a social activist named Vandana Chaudhary.“On Saturday morning, some people had gathered at the house of the woman. When I went to there I found that the baby girl born on Friday had died and that a minor had delivered her. When I asked her about the father of the child she pointed to her father. She told that he had been raping her,” said Chaudhary.She said that the girl was remained confined to her house during her pregnancy. The father of the minor is absconding.“The girl told that she is aged about 16 years and narrated her ordeal which she suffered at the hands of her father. The family initially did not want any police action in the case but later agreed. It is also suspicious that the new born child was healthy till Friday but she died under mysterious circumstance on Saturday. Based on this I gave a police complaint and cops arrived to take statements of the girl,” said Chaudhary. The Ghaziabad police registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections for murder, rape, and also levied provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act against the man. The police said that the father of the girl had been raping her for a year. “The girl is about 16 years and she narrated her ordeal to us. We have registered an FIR for murder (related to mysterious death of the newborn) and rape against her father. He is presently absconding. We came to know that he married one another woman and was staying with her elsewhere,” said Mohammad Aslam, the SHO of Kavi Nagar police station. “The girl will also be taken for her statements before a magistrate. We have deployed a team to the suspect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-raping-minor-daughter-murdering-her-newborn/story-lOE4p4fspqIs4TpeU02h0N.html
22-08-2020||City||Noida: Intense checking at borders leads to jam||Noida The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Saturday intensified checking at the Delhi borders after a high alert was sounded in the wake of the arrest of a suspected ISIS operative in Delhi. The police put up barricades at the main entry points that included Kalindi Kunj, DND Flyway and Mayur Vihar, which led to heavy traffic jam on the borders. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, said that the district police received information from its counterpart in Delhi that an ISIS suspect was arrested in Dhaula Kuan. “A high alert message was sounded and we deployed police personnel at the Noida-Delhi borders. The city police and traffic police conducted intense checking,” he said. The traffic along the borders was affected from 11am to 2pm on Saturday, the police said.The DCP said that some teams also conducted checking on internal roads. “Multiple teams from six police stations conducted checking at 28 points in Noida. In Noida area, we checked 665 vehicles and issued challans to 195 vehicles. The police also seized 13 vehicles during the enforcement,” he said. In the entire district, the police checked a total of 4,979 vehicles. Of which, 2,026 vehicles were fined and 26 seized. The police collected Rs 1.18 lakh as fine. The police also arrested three persons for violating Section 144 of the CrPC. Meanwhile, a number of commuters were stuck in traffic jam as the police had set up barriers and only one vehicle was allowed to navigate at a time. “I was going from Delhi to Noida via Kalindi Kunj at 12.20pm. The police had placed barriers due to which many vehicles got stuck in traffic jam. It took me half-an-hour to cross the border,” said Rakesh Kumar, a commuter. However, the traffic restrictions were eased in the afternoon, said the police. Delhi Police’s special cell recovered improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from the possession of the suspected ISIS terrorist who was arrested on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-intense-checking-at-borders-leads-to-jam/story-YjE2DvpKF1J2I3Kxg1qV1O.html
22-08-2020||Noida||Four of gang arrested for duping investors of nearly ₹50 crore through shell companies||The Noida police on Saturday arrested four persons of a gang for allegedly duping several investors to the tune of nearly ₹50 crore in the past six years by creating at least five shell companies. The police have also seized cash, luxury cars, gold, and other valuables with a total worth of ₹10 crore from the suspects.According to the police, the suspects’ gang had duped scores of people on the pretext of inviting investment for opening outlets of retail grocery stores, cafés, hair saloon chains among others. Several investors had made investments ranging from ₹10-30 lakh, said the police.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida Central, said the gang had floated several shell companies in the last six years. The suspects had put up online advertisements to create an impression virtually that the companies are genuine. These ads were instrumental in luring people for making investments with the shell companies for opening various outlets, said the police.The police said the first complaint in the matter was filed by one Krishna Yadav, a resident of Gurugram, on August 5, 2020 at the Phase 3 police station. In his complaint to the police, Yadav told the police that he had seen an advertisement online about a franchise scheme for a retail outlet. “I contacted the mobile number on the ad and a woman then connected me to other people who posed as company officials and over time convinced me for making an investment with them promising high returns. I was told to pay the money as part of the investment and arrange a space for the outlet, while they would develop the infrastructure and provide the goods. I deposited around ₹23.54 lakh online in the bank accounts of the suspects. However, after the transactions they switched off their phones and went incommunicado,” he said. Yadav said he then visited the company’s office in Noida Sector 63 and found that the company had shut its operations. He then filed an FIR against the gang.Based on Yadav’s complaint, the Noida police registered a case against seven suspects under sections 404 (misappropriation of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 467 (forgery) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and launched a probe. The police said that more people who had been duped by the gang approached them and informed police about the fraud. The Noida police said so far at least 38 investors from different parts of the country have contacted police about being duped by the gang. A total of eight FIRs against gang has been registered in Noida, the police said. The police suspect over the years investors have been duped of ₹50 crore by the gang.The police said on Friday they received information about the movement of some suspects in Noida Sector 63. A police team reached the spot and arrested four people, identified as Ankur Verma and Sunil Mistri— residents of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, Ravindra Kumar from Sahibabad, and Sunil Kumar from TP Nagar in Meerut. A suspect Rajesh Kumar, who had worked in some retail firms previously and had information about the franchise business, is on the run along with other suspects.The DCP said more people are suspected to be a part of the gang and an investigation is underway to nab them.After questioning the arrested suspects, the police team conducted searches at their residences and recovered 3.330 kg gold jewelry, 242 gram silver jewelry, ₹13.54 lakh in cash, ₹ 56 lakh in their bank accounts, five luxury cars, 63 laptops, 27 mobile phones, four LEDs, five printers, one swipe machine, two routers, two landline phones, 117 debit cards, 96 cheques books, 69 PAN cards, nine Aadhar Cards, 19 voter IDs, 17 driving licenses, 23 seals among other things. Ankur Aggarwal, additional DCP Noida Central, said the gang members had floated around more than five shell companies and advertised them through different mediums “They also set up an office in Noida Sector 63 in 2019 and duped scores of people. The suspects also put out ads for hiring staff and collected data, documents of the candidates who had applied for jobs with them. The gang used these documents for opening bank accounts and registering the shell companies,” he said.The suspects used the investors’ money to buy two flats in Indirapuram and Raj Nagar Extension, which would be attached as well, Aggarwal said. The gang members had registered their flats and some cars using documents to escape surveillance.“They had been duping scores of people since 2014. So far 38 investors from different parts of the country have contacted police about the fraud. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Chander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-of-gang-arrested-for-duping-investors-of-nearly-50-crore-through-shell-companies/story-MNmr7R2WApZbq1dRpT7JSP.html
22-08-2020||City||UP-Rera recommends dues to be paid by buyers and developers at MCLR||Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has proposed to the state government to order all development authorities and housing boards to charge a lower rate of interest, linked to the State Bank of India’s marginal cost of funds based lending rate (SBI’s MCLR), from home buyers, promoters, as well as group housing societies.If approved, the move could benefit many promoters throughout the state who are struggling to meet the costs of land and complete projects due to weak financial position and the down turn in the real estate sector. It could also benefit buyers who have demanded that the benefit given to the promoters by the Supreme Court be extended to them as well.Earlier, while deciding on specific cases, the Supreme Court (SC) had asked the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to reduce its interest rates on land costs from developers and linked it to the MCLR, which is also the rate at which the UP-Rera imposes penalties. MCLR is a method by which a bank determines the rate of its loans and is revised monthly. SBI’s MCLR is often considered the benchmark for all other banks in the country. The MCLR is currently 8% and UP-Rera follows a rate of 9.35%.UP-Rera secretary Abrar Ahmed said, “Several promoters had moved the court stating their projects were held up due to the dues with authorities. They claimed authorities were charging high interest of 12 percent to 18 percent for delayed payments. The SC in February and then in July had directed Noida and Greater Noida authorities to charge MCLR rate from January 1, 2010, and for period prior to 2010 authorities were directed to charge as per agreement. Further authorities were directed to prepare dues list of allottees and intimate them. Promoters will pay the 25 percent amount on getting the demand and rest amount will be paid in installments in one year.”The authority on July 30, he said, decided to pass on this benefit to all buyers including group housing and individuals and proposed the same to the state government.“The SC order was for only for promoters and that too for Noida and Greater Noida authorities. We propose that this be extended throughout the state,” said Ahmed. Rajive Kumar Chairman UPRERA said,”We have included all buyers either builders, group housing societies and individual buyers. Our aim is to provide relief to all buyers of all housing boards and development authorities in the state.”If, however, buyers defaulted as per MCLR rate too, then an authority can charge a higher rate mentioned in their agreements, added Ahmed.Ajay Chauhan Housing Commissioner UP Housing Development Board said, “Presently Rera guidelines on MCLR are advisory in nature. Once state government issues government order (GO) then it will become mandatory for all housing boards and development authorities. Presently we are charging 9%. In old dues cases we are charging rate as per allotment terms”Anil Kumar Singh, public relation officer, Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority said, “State government has issued guideline for penal interest to be charged from now onwards. It is MCLR plus 1 percent. For old dues once government gives approval to RERA’s recommendation we will charge as per direction.”Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) UP representative Sudhanshu Vadera said, “If RERA recommendations are implemented, it will be beneficial to promoters as they can restart the held up projects.”IC Jindal representative Flat Owners Association Ghaziabad said, “RERA’s recommendations are beneficial to group housing society allottees and individual allottees too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-recommends-dues-to-be-paid-by-buyers-and-developers-at-mclr/story-RqfYHwTs8Ywk0J93YuO4SM.html
22-08-2020||City||Amid pandemic, cycling is Noida’s new found passion||Noida Amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, city residents have realised the significance of keeping fit and healthy. Eventually, cycling has emerged as one of the most popular outdoor sport activities in the city with more people now seen pedalling on the roads to maintain their fitness in a new post-unlock trend. While some cycling groups of the city say that they have seen a rise in novice cyclists -- mostly individuals in the age group of 30 to 40 years -- many families are also becoming a part of the rising bicycling community. As a result, bike shops are unable to meet the current demand. “There are over 30% more cyclists on the roads compared to the normal days. More people are turning towards cycling and joining our group. Amid the pandemic, keeping oneself fit is a challenge, and cycling provides a good workout either in group or solo. One can explore new places of town, do birdwatching and photography. Best thing is that we can also maintain distance while cycling,” says Rajiva Singh, who found a group called Joggers and Walkers Club that goes on weekly cycling tours ranging from 20km to 60km. Singh, a resident of Noida Sector 46, further says that many people who want to do solo riding often call to enquire about which bicycle they should buy. “We mostly suggest basic mountain bikes (MTB) to new riders which have broad tyres, more stability and less speed. They can later upgrade to hybrid ones which are more professional and expensive. A typical MTB model costs around ₹15,000, while a hybrid one comes for anything between ₹20,000 and ₹30,000,” Singh added. While the cyclists could be seen using most of the roads during morning and evening hours, expressway towards Pari Chowk, Surajpur bird sanctuary, India Gate and Red Fort in Delhi are some of the chosen routes of the several cycling groups in the city. “Since July, we have added more than 200 new cyclists to our group, taking our overall strength to over 450. We have 10-year-olds as well as people in their 40s. However, the most of new cyclists are in the age group of 30 to 40 years, followed by 16 and 22 years,” said Tarun Wadhwa, founder of a cycling group called Dare to Gear that enrols cyclists from Noida and Ghaziabad. Wadhwa, a resident of Noida Sector 41, says that most of the novice riders are opting cycling as a safe way towards fitness amid Covid-19 pandemic. A professional cyclist himself, Wadhwa said that he had pedalled for 2,200km in a single trip from Noida to Kangra in Himachal Pradesh. Noida-based Shobhit Jolly Sethi, a new rider who started cycling in July, says the idea was impromptu, yet good for fitness. “The idea that I should get into cycling was impromptu, and I’m enjoying it. I had a history of obesity. I would play badminton, but due to the lockdown it stopped. Here cycling emerged as a great alternative as it requires more muscles. I remember going for a 100-kilometre ride but ended up doing 50 kilometres. I took this as a challenge and practised more to reach that goal,” said Sethi. Owners of cycle shops are reporting booming business. They claim that many customers are being turned down due to short supply of bikes.“We have twice the demand now than it was in normal days. And it’s not just a case of this city, but it applies to most parts of the country. Most of the customers are buying bicycles for fitness. The demand is very high and we don’t have enough stock. The maximum customers demand of typical gear bike ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹15,000,” said Rajesh Girdhar, owner of Rajesh Cycle and Cyclofit sport agency based in Noida. “There is an issue with the supply as many parts are not made in our country, and even China is catering to the huge demand from Europe. This is supposed to be one of the major reasons why the supply is low,” said Girdhar.Varun Wadhwa, another bicycle trader from Noida Sector 63, said that since April this year the sale has increased four to fivefold. “Since July, the demand has risen even further. We have bikes ranging from ₹15,000 to ₹1.5 lakh. Most of the customers prefer those between ₹20,000 and ₹50,000. The sale is skyrocketing but the supply is quite low,” said Varun, who owns a store named Track and Fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-pandemic-cycling-is-noida-s-new-found-passion/story-xKLUAQyH6iEwPIEYb7dqSI.html
22-08-2020||Noida||Resurfacing of Noida-Greater Noida Expressway likely to begin next month||The Noida authority plans to start resurfacing work on Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, which connects Delhi with the Yamuna Expressway, next month.Authority officials said four firms have been shortlisted for undertaking the resurfacing work on the 25-km long expressway and repair work is expected to start in September, after a delay of six months, once the authority selects one of the firms for the job.In October 2019, the authority had floated a tender to a hire private agency to resurface the stretch which connects Noida with Greater Noida. The process to hire a private firm was to be finished by March following which the work was supposed to start. However, the hiring process was disrupted in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.“A total of ten firms had submitted applications for the project and four of them have qualified for it. We now hope that the process to finalise one firm will be completed at the earliest so that the resurfacing work can start next month. We will resurface the expressway with a ‘hot-in-place’ technique that recycles already used material,” said Rajiv Tyagi, general manager, Noida authority.Around ₹69 crore would be spent on resurfacing the six-lane expressway using the ‘hot-in-place’ technology.The Noida authority has decided to resurface the e-way during the afternoon in a manner that does not disturb the flow of traffic. The authority will not resurface the road during peak hours in the mornings and evenings as it will lead to traffic congestion, said officials.Many commuters, residents had been complaining about the expressway’s condition and the inconvenience it causes them.“The Noida-Greater Noida Expressway is a crucial link not only between Noida and Greater Noida but also for those, who travel from Delhi towards Agra and other areas via the Yamuna Expressway. The Noida authority must repair the cracks and potholes promptly without wasting much time. The commuters have been facing issues for a long time,” said PS Jain, president, confederation of Delhi-NCR RWAs (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs.According to the Noida traffic police, over 1.5 lakh motorists use the Noida-Greater Noida expressway daily and on average, two to three fatal accidents (excluding minor ones that go unreported) occur monthly over it due to numerous reasons.The Noida authority had in January, 2019 hired Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) to survey the expressway to make it safe and smooth for motorists. CRRI in its report had said that resurfacing was crucial to offer a smooth flow of traffic on the busy expressway.“The authority has decided not to increase the level of this expressway. We will first remove the top layer of the road and mix the building material with bitumen to resurface it in order to keep the surface level the same,” said Tyagi.Resurfacing work on the expressway was last done in 2018 and is usually taken up every two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/resurfacing-of-noida-greater-noida-expressway-likely-to-begin-next-month/story-pQu7EWrexs8WrvK49jSavL.html
22-08-2020||Gurugram||Police bust casino operating from Faridabad home, six arrested||The police on Friday arrested six persons for running an illegal casino that allegedly operated from a house in Faridabad’s Sector 5.A total of ₹15,380 in cash and items used in roulette, baccarat, and other card games were seized, said police. Police said they raided the house based on a tip. Coins worth ₹48,500 and 104 playing cards were recovered from the arrested persons. Police identified the arrested persons as the house owner Rajesh Kumar, Gulshan Kumar, Divik alias Bittu, Karan Singh, Paras Kumar and Varun Singh. All are residents of Faridabad.Dharna Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), said that Rajesh Kumar was the main suspect. He allegedly used to invite people and organise the casino at his residence, selling counters valued between ₹2,000 to ₹20,000. During questioning, Kumar allegedly told the police that he used to sell coins during the day and people used to return at night to play. “Many people who could not make it to visit personally, used to play online,” said Yadav. Police said a case was registered under the Gambling Act at NIT police station on Friday night. Gambling is illegal in the state under the Public Gaming Act of 1867 and the casino had no licence, police said. Commissioner of police O P Singh said, “Kumar had bought the tables and other items from Uttar Pradesh. He himself was hedging bet. We have confiscated the tables and the set-up used by gamblers.” The neighbours of the area were unaware of the illegal activity being carried out and suspected that an office was operating there which is why people visited the house throughout the day, said police. “They thought people were playing cards or visiting for real estate deals. The house used to remain occupied till late at night, but the residents raised no objection as no one was bothering them and they never heard loud music or experienced no other nuisance,” said Singh.Singh said suspects were mostly into real estate and used to invest together in commercial and residential plots. “The suspects had visited Nepal and Goa several times to play at casinos. Kumar had placed poker in one of the rooms and had placed rollers bets and coins of ₹2000,” Singh said, adding that the suspect got an idea after he had read about casino running out of residential areas in the past. Police said there were no entry charge and nearly 20 people visited the house daily to gamble. The casino was allegedly operational round-the-clock. Police said makeshift casinos and high-stake card parties are often organised illegally around the festive season but Kumar had suffered huge losses during lockdown so he planned to start operations to cover his losses. “We have formed special teams to keep an eye on gambling and betting operations across the city. Strict action would be taken against people found involved in any illegal activity and will be under constant surveillance,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-bust-casino-operating-from-faridabad-home-six-arrested/story-MtOPzPkFuYR08qxGjD5yTP.html
22-08-2020||City||H-Rera to ensure flats are sold on the basis of carpet area||Gurugram With a number of people complaining that property developers were charging them for the “super area” and not the carpet area, the Haryana real estate regulatory authority said they will soon put a stop to this.Although “super area” has no exact definition, it is generally considered to include common areas such as gyms, swimming pools, stairs and other facilities. Carpet area is the inner area of a flat excluding the thickness of inner walls. KK Khandelwal, chairperson of H-Rera (Gurugram), said: “In a recent complaint, it was revealed that a developer who had permission to develop and sell 12 lakh square feet (sq ft) commercial space had sold 17 lakh sq ft in the same project. The excess space was sold in the name of super area. In another case, a buyer who had paid for a 1000 sq ft space actually got 350 sq ft less as rest of the money was adjusted for super area, which the developer did not define.” As per the H-Rera act, which came into force in 2017, developers are allowed to sell property on the basis of actual carpet area and they are not allowed to sell the super area, but because of vague definitions, they often get away with it. Khandelwal said that notices will soon be issued to all the developers to define their concept of super area. “We will study the submissions and ensure that there is no confusion on this issue,” he said. At the time of registration of projects, Khandelwal said the developers are now being asked to define their super area and actual charges asked from home buyers.“We will also ensure that developer is not allowed to sell area in excess of what has been allowed in the license. Also action is being taken against those who are advertising new projects without registering the same with the authority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/h-rera-to-ensure-flats-are-sold-on-the-basis-of-carpet-area/story-i8grDsAoKUic4CGTFSQKsK.html
22-08-2020||Gurugram||HSVP starts demolition of tilted buildings; locals complain of slow pace||Officials of Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Saturday commenced the demolition of buildings in sectors 27, 46 and 47 that had tilted precariously on Thursday, following a spell of heavy rainfall a day prior.In Sector 27 — where a four-storey building, along with the stilts on which it was built, tilted dangerously due to rains — a group of around 15 labourers was deployed to demolish the top floor, said Jaswant Kumar, HSVP official, who is in charge of the area. “The demolition process of the building has started and labourers are working on it. We are monitoring the process constantly. The owner will have to bear the cost of demolition,” said Kumar. Local residents meanwhile said that the demolition should be expedited to reduce the threat to the buildings in neighbourhood. “We have called in a crane, which has a boom of 60 feet. We have tied it to the safety jackets of the labourers so that in case the building collapses, there is no danger to the workers. The plan is to first demolish the top two storeys of the structure. Thereafter, a special crane would be brought in and efforts would be made to stabilise the remaining structure,” said Rajesh Khangwal, a local resident and a civil contractor, who, along with others, installed iron girders alongside the building to prevent it from sudden collapse. Meanwhile, in Sector 46, residents complained that the pace of demolition was slow and this was causing problem to neighbours who had to shift for security reasons. RK Yadav, president, Sector 46 RWA, said that 21 families had shifted due to the threat posed by the titled building. “The pace of demolition is slow and the authorities should expedite the process. Otherwise it would take a lot of time to remove these structures,” he said. Dharmvir Puniya, whose house is located just 30 feet from the tilted structure, said that poor storm water drainage and waterlogging had damaged the building. “The pace of demolition is slow. Only five to six per cent of the structure has been demolished so far. This is a four-storey building. At this speed, it will take a month to demolish it,” he added. In Sector 47, Mohd Ali, sub divisional engineer, HSVP, said that the work on demolition had started on Friday itself and they have managed to demolish the top of the tilted structure. “The labourers were able to demolish the top lintel and work is being carried out with adequate precautions. The threat to neighbouring structures has now been reduced, and the remaining demolition will be carried out in a couple of days,” he said. The structures in sectors 27, 46 and 47 had tilted dangerously after two days of heavy rains on Wednesday and Thursday in the city. Around 30 families from neighbouring structures have shifted to safer places because of these incidents, said locals. The HSVP has formed a committee to probe these incidents and recommend preventive action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-starts-demolition-of-tilted-buildings-locals-complain-of-slow-pace/story-IRT609JAYCLX7tVP5C7ZhI.html
22-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Covid-19 cases surge with average daily growth rate of 1.1%||Gurugram After recording a decline in Covid-19 cases in the first week of August, the district has started witnessing a rising trend since then. According to an analysis of district health bulletin, the average daily growth rate of positive cases in the first week was 0.58%, which had increased to 0.98% in the second week and further to 1.1% in the third week of this month. While Gurugram reported 468 cases from August 1-7, it witnessed 573 new cases from August 8-14, registering an increase of more than 20% on weekly basis. The cases rose further from August 15-21 when 648 positive cases were detected in the district, shows the data. Notably, Gurugram had reported 674 cases from July 25-31. In June, the district had about 1,000 average weekly cases. Going by the health bulletin, after July 29, the number of new cases reported every day was less than 100. However, in the last two days, 222 fresh Covid-19 cases have emerged, with 120 cases reported on Friday and 102 on Saturday. Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer, said that cases are increasing across the country and in Haryana too. “Citizens should be cautious as the country is in the unlock phase. Cases have surged in the district in the last one week. More than 100 new cases are being reported in a single day which we are trying to bring down. However, the doubling rate is now 89 days which was earlier 100 -104 days.” In the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in Gurugram and other districts, the state government on Friday had issued an order for offices, malls and markets to be shut on weekends except those dealing in essential goods. In Gurugram, the total count of infected persons has reached 10,858. Of these, 819 are active cases, while 9,908 have recovered and 131 succumbed to the illness. Out of the active cases, 707 are in home isolation. Overall in the state, the cases have surged past 52,000 with more than 580 deaths.Yadav said that people should get themselves tested in the nearby health facility if they have symptoms like dry cough, fever or throat pain. Till now, Gurugram has conducted 1,47,088 tests for coronavirus, pushing the tests per million population to 102,404. The district has conducted highest number of tests in Haryana. On Saturday, the district administration also issued a statement asking citizens to properly follow home isolation guideline of 17 days if tested positive, while their family members should go under quarantine for one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-covid-19-cases-surge-with-average-daily-growth-rate-of-1-1/story-MTRzxBT1B7CUl62YRXLsyO.html
22-08-2020||Gurugram||Two held in connection with Sector 9 shootings||htreporters@hindustantimes.com  The police on Saturday arrested two members of a gang who allegedly murdered three men on Thursday in two seemingly coordinated incidents in Sector 9 area over a 1,000square-yard plot dispute in Basai. The suspects have been identified as Narender Pal, 52, and Bala Devi, 54, both residents of Basai in Sector 9, said the police. The police have so far identified three suspects in the case and have found that they had links with their gang leaders, who are lodged in Rewari and Bhondsi jails. Four crime branch teams have been assigned to trace the remaining of the gang members and a reward of ₹3 lakh each have been declared by the Gurugram Police on Friday.As per the police, the shootings in Sector 9 on Thursday may have been related to an enmity regarding a feud over a plot in Basai between two local gangs from the area. Joni Kataria, who is currently lodged in jail in a murder case, had an ancestral plot in Basai, which was usurped by one Hari Om. This led to a feud between the two. Joni and his brother Moni joined gangster Ashok Rathi’s group and killed Hari Om’s brother about two years ago. In retaliation, Hari Om, who formed his own gang with 30 local youths, murdered Moni Kataria in Rewari. Meanwhile, Ashok Rathi was shot dead by three of his close aides at his residence in village Alipur, near Bhondsi in November last year. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they the arrested members of the gang are the mother and the uncle of one Amit Kale, a criminal associated with Hari Om’s gang. He is allegedly involved in a number of cases such as murder, attempt to murder, extortion and land grabbing, and is presently out of parole. “He came out of jail eight days ago and, since then, was looking for an opportunity to take revenge from Joni Kataria. He located his members, following which he planned the murder with Hari Om, who is still lodged in jail. Both were earlier arrested for criminal conspiracy,” Sangwan said, adding that both were sent to judicial custody on Saturday. The police have identified Amit Kale, Pavan Nehra and Hari Om as the three primary suspects for planning and executing the Sector 9 shootings.Sangwan said that Kale was out on parole when he planned the shootings with Hari Om. Nehra is allegedly a relative of Hari Om. The police have also announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to the arrest of Nehra and his aides. The police have deployed personnel in plain clothes at suspected locations to keep a watch on other gang members as Nehra and his aides are yet to be arrested. Sangwan said they are investigating if any other gang is involved in the murders and are scanning all the call details of the arrested suspects to track down other members of the gang, who are currently at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-in-connection-with-sector-9-shootings/story-E1E5IXnm3BASbl2dfI52TP.html
22-08-2020||City||Residents struggle to give Covid samples, say wait for results endless||Even as the health authorities promised a hassle-free sample collection, people getting their Covid-19 tests done in the district say it’s an unpleasant affair.There is only one sample collection centre for residents living in Moti Nagar, Chandigarh Road and adjoining areas. The samples are collected from noon to 1pm and 5pm to 6pm at the urban community centre located behind Vardhman Mill.Residents rued that the limited time allotted for sample collection was resulting in long queues of patients at the centre, while the test reports take three to four days to come. There are no clear instructions as to what the patient having flu-like symptoms is supposed to do in this duration, they claimed.Gurjeet Kaur, a Moti Nagar resident, said visiting the Covid-19 unit is no less than an ordeal.“I had fever and cough and decided to visit the government Covid unit to get the tests done. I reached there at 9am, only to be told to visit again at noon. I told them I was not feeling well and may not be able to visit again. On this, the person sitting there asked me to visit the civil hospital or get the test done from a private facility,” she added.Another resident from Sector 39, Chandigarh Road, said the time slot leads to rush at the Covid counter, increasing the risk of virus spread.“I don’t even know if I have the infection or not, but I cannot take the risk of standing amid a crowd of patients having symptoms. I fear ending up infected,” said a resident who preferred to return instead of giving his samples due to the long wait.Sukhpal Singh of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar blamed the testing system for causing confusion. He said there is a huge time gap between the time of collection of samples and arrival of results.“What is the point of getting the tests conducted if the reports will take four days to arrive? There is no clarity over what the patient should do during this period,” said Sukhpal.When asked about the anomaly, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We have received complaints about the limited time slot for sample collections at the Covid counter and we are in the process of fixing the issue.” Currently, samples are being collected at 10 government facilities across the district.GARBAGE DUMP ADDS TO WOESThe patients and their relative said that dumping of garbage alongside the government hospital is adding the problem. The dumping of garbage not only causes foul smell but also leads to the problem of flies and mosquitoes and other water-borne diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-struggle-to-give-covid-samples-say-wait-for-results-endless/story-GkT5ASemYHX5D0Qr1y1dNI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||More than 10,000 enroll for PU’s online digital marketing course||The enrollments to Panjab University’s online course on digital marketing have crossed the 10,000-mark for July to November 2020 semester.The course is available on MHRD’s SWAYAM (Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds) platform and there is no enrollment fee for this course. The online course is a teaching-learning pedagogy where learners will be exposed to various tools, platforms and techniques of digital marketing.Dr Tejinderpal Singh, associate professor from University Business School is offering this course for the second time on the SWAYAM platform and the curriculum is based on the industry practices and standards. He said, “Anyone who wants to hone digital marketing skills may join this course.” The course has 40 online modules spreading over three months and the final examination will be conducted by SWAYAM to certify successful learners. Last year, this course was ranked amongst top 15 online courses worldwide by the ClassCentral, a directory of online courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-than-10-000-enroll-for-pu-s-online-digital-marketing-course/story-GOG00d4FeiipgBmDaJNwNM.html
22-08-2020||City||Mohali: Self-reporting a must for primary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, Mohali district administration has made self-reporting mandatory for all primary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, failing to do so will amount to violation of the law and would attract criminal proceedings. “The non-compliance to National Directives and protocols, violations and negligence by the family members/co-inhabitants of the patient in home isolation can lead to further spread of the virus, which will jeopardize people’s health. So, the District Disaster Management Authority finds it imperative to take additional steps to thwart the spread of the virus,” said Girish Dayalan, district magistrate-cum-chairperson of DDMA. He said that self-reporting or intimation is now mandatory whereby all residents shall be obligated to immediately intimate the health authorities, by dialing 104 or contacting their nearest government hospital/local health authority (LHA) within 48 hours, in case they are aware of coming in contact with any positive patient. Besides, no Covid-19 positive patient who is under home isolation shall leave their residence (except for medical emergency) until the period of home isolation is over, the DC said.The family members/co-inhabitants including domestic help, where the positive patient has been home isolated shall strictly adhere to the health protocol. “Moreover, they shall self-quarantine themselves for a period of five days and monitor their health. If they develop flu-like symptoms, they shall get tested for Covid-19, and leave the house only after testing negative,” said Dayalan. “Any person violating these directions shall be criminally liable for proceedings under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and under Sections 269, 270 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 besides other provisions of the law,” he added.RWAs roped in to report home isolation violations The district administration had asked resident welfare associations (RWAs) and residents to report home isolation violations. It is incumbent that they inform the control room or the police station of the area if there is a breach in the norms by anyone. Though neighbours and RWAs may extend assistance for ensuring home delivery of supplies to persons undergoing home quarantine, taking all necessary precautions. “No visitors, guests shall be allowed to visit a house where a patient is under home isolation. Such visitors or guests shall be jointly and severally liable for criminal action,” said Dayalan. No movement from containment, micro-containment zones All residents in containment zones or micro-containment zones are prohibited from exiting the zone for any purpose or for allowing any person to enter the area. “The only exception is in case of emergency medical aid and provision of essential supplies and services,” he said. Further, given the government’s endeavour to conduct mandatory 100% testing in containment zones, no person shall resist or decline to give their sample to the health authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-self-reporting-a-must-for-primary-contacts-of-covid-19-positive-patients/story-aQcB64EQcmkk0uQ67m14LI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown, odd-even restrictions will kill businesses:Shopkeepers in Ludhiana||Markets in the city wore a deserted look on Saturday with the state government and district administration imposing weekend lockdown again from this week, opposed to only on Sunday. While all non-essential shops remained closed, a few shops selling essential goods were open at certain points, but witnessed low footfall. Only few residents were seen moving in the main markets of the city, including Ghumar Mandi, Chaura Bazar and Field ganj which normally witness heavy footfall on Saturday. Already reeling under losses due to low footfall and weekend lockdown restrictions, multiple traders associations and shopkeepers are raising a hue and cry over only 50% shops being allowed to open on weekdays on odd-even basis till 7pm. President of Model Town shopkeepers’ association, Amarjit Singh, said, “The government is not providing any relief to traders and imposing new restrictions everyday. How will shopkeepers earn profits to pay fixed expenses like salaries to employees, electricity bills and rent? The government is making residents afraid to visit marketplaces by saying the situation is alarming, due to which low footfall is being witnessed. If the present conditions continue, businesses will collapse, causing large-scale unemployment.” President of Chaura Bazar shopkeepers’ association, Parampal Singh Witty, and general secretary of the Punjab Cloth Merchants’ Association, Sonu Nilibar, said the decision will create confusion among shopkeepers as many establishments are being run without numbers marked outside.The questioned how the administration would to enforce the restrictions and said associations being told to implement the same would add to problems.“Many traders will be forced to shut down their shops due to lockdown restrictions. How will the government enforce weekend lockdown when private offices, restaurants and liquor vends are allowed to open? If the administration imposes stricter lockdown on weekends and does not allow any shop or restaurant to open, then there would be no need to shut 50% shops on weekday,” Witty said.Owner of Basant restaurants, Bhupinder Basant, said, “Restaurants have been allowed to open till 6.30pm, but low footfall was witnessed on Saturday, as fear has gripped residents. Many establishments are on the brink of closure and restrictions on carrying out business is adding to the woes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weekend-lockdown-odd-even-restrictions-in-ludhiana-will-kill-businesses-shopkeepers/story-KIaWp4LjnBtC8amiQw99OJ.html
22-08-2020||City||Four held for clash over petty dispute in Mohali||Two groups clashed over a petty issue in Mohali’s Kumbra village on Saturday. The incident took place when the groups got into an argument over a mobile dispute. Soon the issue escalated after which six persons attacked one Gurpreet Singh leaving him severely injured. Acting on the complaint of the victim, the police have arrested Gagan, Maninder, Surinder, and one more person who is yet to be identified. The accused were produced before a local court that remanded them in two-day police custody. Police said that all the accused are residents of the same village and used to do small roles in Punjabi songs. One of the members is also seen brandishing a pistol in the CCTV footage procured by the police. A case under Sections 323, 341, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC was registered at Phase 8 police station. On the basis of the footage, the police have also added sections of the Arms Act. Three held for attacking Pinjore manPanchkula: Three persons were arrested for assaulting a man in Pinjore. The accused have been identified as Harjit Singh alias Changa of Pinjore, Amit Kumar alias Mittu and Abhishek Kumar, both residents of Kalka. The accused were produced before a court that remanded them in two-day police custody. Police said that Subash Kumar, who runs a canteen in Pinjore in his complaint said that on August 9 at about 8.30 pm when he was returning home from work, a car hit his motorcycle from the rear after which the occupants of the car threatened to kill him. Around five more youths reached the spot and attacked Subash with sharp-edged weapons. A case was registered at Pinjore police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-for-clash-over-petty-dispute-in-mohali/story-eGUgc1AkDolcBtw8ueIslL.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Human who won a pitta’s trust||The Indian pitta or ‘Naurang’ is like a ghost fleeing through the tricity and steering well clear of humans. So named because the bird sports a rainbow of dazzling colours, the Naurang is a rarity within urban clusters though encountered frequently in the Shivalik foothills. Even there, the bird’s call is heard more than its resplendent robes revealed as it prefers deep concealment among leafy boughs like a beautiful singer whose lilting tunes waft from behind a palace of veils. Given such an entrenched instinct to shirk human presence, it was nothing less than a mystical tryst between man and bird at a Sector 4 bungalow in Chandigarh. A Naurang accepted the hand of trust and help extended by a chauffeur, who had himself never seen such a beautiful bird before.Joginder Singh was resting when his eye fell upon a ‘mosaic on wings’ sitting unusually on the verandah floor and looking down and out. Thinking that the bird would fly away, he extended his hand towards the feathered apparition. Instead of spurting away with an indignant squawk, the Naurang took the extended arm as a bridge of trust and clambered aboard. After that it perched on Singh’s shoulder and then quaintly and quite possessively on his head! The bird seemed disoriented but harboured no doubt about the human’s intentions. Joginder took the pitta into his quarters and gave it water but the bird refused the offered scraps of food. “Joginder left the bird outside and it flew to a small tree. After some time, Joginder saw the bird was still there and he extended his hand again. The bird responded by flying to his arm and comfortably perching on it! By now, the bird seemed to have regained energy and flew away to a high Neem tree after spending a little more time with Joginder. After that, it was not seen again. We did not know the bird’s identification but were left charmed by its colours and the trust it reposed in our household,” Joginder’s employer, former IAS officer Gurnihal S Pirzada, told this writer. A MONSOON MELODY The large, brooding gates of the Panjab University (PU) are closed. They bear a determined expression as frontline warriors ranged against Covid expansionism. But an exquisite photograph taken last week of wild Rain lilies from PU’s Dr PN Mehra Botanical Gardens lends a sneak peek into the vitality of Nature pulsating within the ghost town of higher academia.A resource person with the Punjab School Education Board, Sukhwant S Raj, had gone to drop his wife to a PU block and wandered into the gardens. Upon seeing lily blooms sprawled like guillotined heads of rebels, he thought these were fallen Amaltas till the maalis made him wiser. One of them remarked that these were ‘gha’ (wild grasses) and needed to be pruned every alternate day to keep them in strict check! Doubtless, the gardeners did not share a high opinion of these rows upon rows of mini-tulip-like blooms that would otherwise conjure a scene straight out of an Amitabh Bachchan movie shot in Holland, the memorable Silsila! Untended by gardeners, lily bubs lurk under the soil and gallantly face every woebegone winter and scorching summer to suddenly rise and stage a flash dance of the monsoons. At the gardens, they stretch right across its deserted expanse like queues of diyas at a memorial of silence. Diyas, whose oil is rain drops, the wick kindled by a flash of lightning. Botanists refer to this lily as Zephyranthes citrina Baker.Raj’s passion, wonder and joy at photographing these tiny marvels was of a child who had stumbled upon a proverbial Aladdin’s treasure cave. “The lilies were such a refreshing sight. They radiated positivity. I thought that if we start our mornings with such spectacular visions of Nature, we will be filled with happiness and a positive dispensation at the start of the day towards everyone,” Raj told this writer. Truly said, everything under the heavens seems in utter chaos but the lilies claim the situation is excellent! vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-human-who-won-a-pitta-s-trust/story-zzJZImmwLV9Z8WcUngqKnK.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh University mix-up prompts PU to add admission alert on its website||To avoid confusion among students seeking admission in Panjab University, the varsity has added an admission alert on its official website to differentiate it from Chandigarh University.The admission alert on PU’s website clarifies that it is a central and state governments funded university located in Chandigarh while Chandigarh University is a private varsity located 25 kilometers off at Gharuan village. The alert states, “No official of Panjab University or admission cell is calling any prospective candidate for seeking admission to PU or for submitting admission fee etc.”PU’s Dean University Instructions (DUI) Professor RK Singla said, “We were getting many queries from students. The feature has been added to bring clarity to students who are seeking admission in PU.”On August 17, Dr Parveen Goyal of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) had also written to the vice-chancellor to issue an alert on PU’s official website regarding admissions. He said, “Many faculty members have raised the issue regarding confusion among students between these two universities. Sometimes a candidate from a different state who wants to take admission in PU lands in Chandigarh University, that is why I have requested the varsity to take this initiative.”This move comes two years after the issue was raised during a meeting of the PU senate. In 2018, the varsity had also constituted a nine-member panel to look into the confusion among the students between PU and CU.Panjab University senator, Professor Rajat Sandhir said, “Chandigarh University is taking advantage of the brand Panjab University has built over the years. There are several instances where students had to take admission to CU because of the confusion with the name. There seems no logic in using Chandigarh prefix before the name except for taking advantage of the PU brand. PU had also set up a committee to address this issue.”Spokesperson of Chandigarh University Prabhdeep Singh said, “On every platform, we have clearly mentioned that we are a private University and are located in Mohali. Even the initials of Panjab University and Chandigarh University are not the same. We fail to understand how there is confusion in our names.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-university-mix-up-prompts-pu-to-add-admission-alert-on-its-website/story-obyT6qFlCAD2KD42ONGfhP.html
22-08-2020||City||Artisans’ businesses hit as Covid casts shadow on Ganesha idol sales in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA After months of sculpting and year-long wait for the festival, idol makers in the city witnessed poor sales on Ganesh Chaturthi as customers remained indoors due to Covid-19 pandemic.The artisans, who bank on these earnings to sustain a whole year, claimed that there were hardly any pre-bookings for Ganesha idols this year.Ludhiana has recently emerged as the Covid capital of Punjab with most number of infections and fatalities due to it.Naresh Kumar, who hails from Rajasthan and has been making Ganpati idols for the last 15 years, said his stall used to see a huge rush around the festival, but not this time. Stating that only a few customers turned up in the last two weeks, he said he sold just two small idols on Saturday (Ganesh Chaturthi).His stall is set up near Sherpur Chowk and is easily accessible to buyers, but due to the growing number of coronavirus cases, residents are reluctant to step out of their homes.“Last year, I sold 300 idols of all sizes, which can take up to two months to make. However, I was able to sell only 60 idols till Saturday. The pandemic has hit everyone financially and our business has been severely affected,” said Naresh, adding that he is worried about making ends meets as he is the sole bread-winner in his family.Naresh said he learnt the art of idol-making from his father, who has been making them for the last 50 years. “I was 15 when I started assisting my father in making idols and used to spend my entire day with him. Gradually, I learnt to do it on my own.”However, he is not the only artisan hit by the Covid-induced slump.Harsh Kubar said this festival is important for idol-makers as they make earnings to last a whole year, but this time they are deep into losses.“I have prepared 10 Ganpati idols ranging 5 to 10ft, but no piece has been sold. Only 1 to 2.5ft idols are getting a few takers. These are available at the cost of ₹400 to ₹5,000,” he said.He said customers preferred smaller clay idols as these can be easily immersed, even in a bucket of water at home. “Due to the pandemic and lockdown on weekends, outdoor immersion is difficult, so majority of customers purchased smaller idols which can be immersed at home,” he said.RESIDENTS PREFER ONLINE PURCHASESome residents also chose to explore the online buying options to avoid a run to the market.Ishita Sharma of Punjab Mata Nagar here said, “I was reluctant to step out of my house to purchase Ganesha idol as the number of coronavirus cases is growing. So, I purchased one online. There was a lot of choice and all sizes were available so I bought a small one. However, my best friend made an idol at home with clay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/artisans-businesses-hit-as-covid-casts-shadow-on-ganesha-idol-sales-in-ludhiana/story-7lI3xMufmejG7oiojXElWI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dronacharya Award for J&K coach Kuldeep Handoo||Kuldeep Handoo, a wushu coach for team India, was conferred with the prestigious Dronacharya Award on Saturday. He is the first person from the Union Territory to receive the award. He will receive the award from president Ram Nath Kovind on August 29 at Delhi. Handoo was an adolescent Kashmiri Pandit when fled from Kashmir with his family due to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism.A modern-day Eklavya himself, before getting tutored by taekwondo coach Vishal Sharma, he practised on an uneven ground near the boxing rink at the MA stadium with a handful of players, who liked the game. “Undoubtedly, it is a moment of pride for me, my family, my fraternity and for the whole of Jammu and Kashmir. Years of struggle and hard work has eventually paid off. I am the first coach from Jammu and Kashmir, who has been conferred this prestigious honour,” Handoo said. “Inspr Kuldeep Handoo awarded with #Dronacharya Award as National Chief coach for Wushu @HMOIndia, @manojsinha_”, wrote IGP Jammu Mukesh Singh on his Twitter handle. At present, Handoo, is working as an inspector in the Jammu and Kashmir Police. In 1995, he won the first gold in the sixth National Wushu Championship at Mizoram and never looked back. Handoo said the then chief minister Dr Farooq Abdullah was impressed by his skills and had him appointed in the Jammu and Kashmir Police in the sports quota. Handoo in his long drawn out career of over 25 years has won 11 gold medals in national championships and six international medals. “This is not the end. I aim to bring home a gold medal in the upcoming 2022 Asian Games,” he says, adding that prior to Asian Games, the Indian squad will take part in the World Championships scheduled to be held in 2021 in the US and Australia. “An inspiration and role model for youngsters, Handoo has come a long way and greatly deserved this award”, says sports analyst Sanjeev Sharma. Under Handoo, India won two gold medals in world championships and one in the world cup, 28 silver medals and 57 bronze medals in different championships. He has already been honoured with prestigious Sher-i-Kashmir Award and Parshuram Award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dronacharya-award-for-j-k-coach-kuldeep-handoo/story-6Y6mESn0WnjoqxPmQVUOPM.html
22-08-2020||City||Low footfall at Ludhiana bus stand as passengers fail to reach amid curfew||Though buses were allowed to run on Saturday, few passengers managed to avail the public transport due to the curfew imposed by Punjab government.Seeing the low footfall, bus operators at Ludhiana ISBT questioned the viability of plying buses when travellers were unable to reach the bus stand amid the restrictions.Many cops and traffic volunteers deployed at the bus stand to check violations, were seen sitting idle with no crowd to maintain.Barricades were installed to plug the alternate access inside the bus stand and two roadways employees were deputed near the entrance to record the temperature of passengers upon arrival.Expressing anguish over the hampered services, Punjab Roadways bus driver Ranjit Singh said his bus was parked for over an hour at the ISBT. “Only one passenger has arrived. As per the government protocol, we can ferry only 25 people. To top it all, passengers are not arriving due to the curfew. The trip from Ludhiana to Mohali will consume 40 litres of fuel. I do not know the logic behind plying the vehicle as it is completely unviable and will cause losses to the state exchequer,” he said.A group of conductors were anxiously urging passengers to board a bus for Ambala.“I have been in this profession for the past 20 years, but never have I seen such a situation. After the lockdown was lifted, passengers started availing the service, but in low numbers. It took us 15 to 20 minutes to get the adequate number of passengers as per government guidelines. But today, passengers have not arrived. It has been nearly half an hour and no one has come so far,” said the bus conductor.The few passengers who did make it were equally exasperated.Manpreet Kaur, who was travelling to Mohali, said air-conditioned buses are not plying due to the Covid-19 situation. “I have been sitting in the vehicle for nearly an hour amid hot and humid weather wait for the bus to finally start moving. I have been told that the bus will not ply till an adequate number of passengers do not arrive,” she rued.Deepak Kumar, who runs an eatery inside the bus stand, said the business has been reduced to 30 percent since the pandemic struck.“There are various contributing factors which have led to the downfall of business. As school, colleges and other educational institutions are shut, students are no longer travelling in buses. Moroever, bus service to rural areas has been stopped, resulting in low footfall. The curfew has further deepened the crises,” added Deepak.Meanwhile, Punjab state PunBus contract workers’ union vice-president Satnam Singh said the curfew led to a 70 percent dip in the number of passengers.“We urge the government to take strict action against the bus operators, especially sleeper buses from other states, who are running in the city. Not only are they causing a loss to the state exchequer by not submitting the bus stand fees, they are also violating the Covid guidelines, causing risk of infection,” he said.Passengers were also seen standing near the Jalandhar and Patiala counters, waiting for their buses to reach stipulated occupancy.A few passengers and staffers at bus stand were not wearing masks and sitting in close proximity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-footfall-at-ludhiana-bus-stand-as-passengers-fail-to-reach-amid-curfew/story-JSb1cUlDgZlmheWRxbI9GK.html
22-08-2020||City||10 booked for murder bid on neighbours in Ludhiana||The police here have booked 10 persons for allegedly attempting to murder their neighbours at Dairy Complex on Humbran road on Friday night over a verbal spat.The accused have injured five persons, including a woman, and also vandalised their belongings. As per the injured persons, who have been hospitalised, the accused were in inebriated condition at the time.The police have booked Angrej Singh of Dairy Complex, his son Paramjit Singh, Tajinder Singh, Tajinder’s son Manpreet Singh, their relatives Sant Ram and Balraj Singh. Four of the accused are yet to be identified.An FIR has been lodged following the statement of Navinder Singh (50) of Dairy Complex. He told the police that he was sitting outside his house with his friend Ranjit Singh. Meanwhile, Angrej, who was reportedly in inebriated condition, turned up there and started abusing him.Navinder said he requested Angrej to go home, however the latter took off only to return with his accomplices. They barged into Navinder’s house and attacked his nephew Gurwinder Singh and chopped off his ear. The accused also injured him, his niece Sarbjit Kaur and other family members, including Gursewak Singh and Gurwinder Singh, before fleeing, the complainant added.ASI Amrik Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under sections 307, 452, 323, 427, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. The police have launched a hunt for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-booked-for-murder-bid-on-neighbours-in-ludhiana/story-XHM2WEQYzpev6BYzHElLMJ.html
22-08-2020||City||Kidnapped new-born rescued in Jalandhar, 5 held||Jalandhar Two days after a new-born boy was kidnapped from the general ward of the civil hospital, police have rescued the infant, who was to be sold for Rs 4 lakh, and arrested five persons for the crime. Those arrested include a panchayat member, and a woman sanitation employee at the civil hospital. The accused are Gurpreet Singh Gopi, 22, panchayat member of Maheru village; Gurpreet Singh Peeta, 24; Ranjeet Singh Rana, 25; Davinder Kaur of Khurshaidpur Colony in Nakodar and Kiran, 28, of Lamba Pind. Kiran has been working as a sanitation employee at the civil hospital for seven years.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused were to sell the infant for about Rs 4 lakh and distribute the amount equally. As per preliminary interrogation, on August 20 about 12.40pm, the accused Gopi and Gurpreet reached the rear of the civil hospital in a Bolero (PB08-CG-2473) and were constantly in touch with the three remaining accused, Ranjeet, Davinder and Kiran over phone.Kiran kidnapped the boy from the ward and handed him to Gopi and Peeta, who carried the infant with them to the Gandra-Pandori road, where it was handed over to Davinder and Ranjeet. The ward has no CCTV. The infant’s family came to know about his kidnapping a few minutes later, and raised an alarm. Following this, a case under Section 363 (kidnapping) was registered against unidentified persons. A team led by assistant deputy commissioner of police-1 (ADCP-1) Vatsala Gupta, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Harsimrat Singh and CIA head Harwinder Singh was formed to crack the case. “The team conducted a detailed probe and arrested Gopi from his office. Others were nabbed from their houses. The new-born boy was safely recovered from the room where Rana and Davinder were staying,” Bhullar added. All accused would be taken in police custody to question them further on the involvement of more people in the racket and to establish where were they going to sell the infant. The new-born was handed back to the family in the civil hospital in the presence of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kidnapped-new-born-rescued-in-jalandhar-5-held/story-lIZii7YQHhyI0BmIGonphI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: To open or not to open schools? The dilemma of parents during a pandemic||It is unusual for my rurally posted veterinarian husband to call home at noon, which is peak patient time for him. Even before my hello he asked, “Did you pay the school fees? I just received a reminder from school.” As soon as he got my affirmative reply, he went back to his patients but left me with some lingering thoughts. When corona came knocking at our doors early this year, it was soon followed by “precautionary lockdowns”, a term alien to most of us until then. The lockdowns threw up challenges for which none had a Plan B. It brought with it a gamut of new experiences, namely health anxieties, job loss, work from home and for people with kids, home schooling. With the schools closed, classrooms became virtual and education altogether a new experience. It has been five months since online classes started for our six-year-old. We are satisfied if not elated about how things have been academically for him and us. The school is doing its job of delivering services and we are doing ours by modulating these services and paying for them. We have made peace with the fact that our Primarian may not go to school this year and have already decided to not send him even if schools open. We, a middle-class family in a tier two city of India, are blessed enough to have both financial and human resources to make this decision. But then again, we form only a quarter of the Indian population.A significant number of our fellow Indians do not have these blessings or means. The current pandemic has not been the same for everyone. Be it the story of a man from Delhi trying to reach his ailing son in Central India, another in Himachal Pradesh selling his cow to buy a phone for his children’s online classes, a girl from Kerala who committed suicide due to her financial inability to attend virtual classes or a woman from Karnataka selling her mangalsutra to buy a smart TV for children’s education; they all brought forward the social divide we live in. Some stories were told, others were not.After three unlocks, the government has on its plate the final unlock to unravel. For the past one week there has been a consistent debate on whether the schools and colleges should open with this final unlock. As the government deliberates over opening educational institutes with parents (mostly privileged ones like us) opposing it, one does not know what the final outcome will be.Financial, emotional challengesChildren in rural India predominantly and a significant number in urban India too, go to government run schools. With impediments in terms of quality, standard and delivery already existent in the government education set up, this closure has further troubled and distanced our disadvantaged segment. Education in pre pandemic times, then imparted free of cost, has a become a financial and emotional challenge for the incumbents. Impressions of the pandemic are felt deeply by parents who are struggling to pay for phones, internet and to help their children in academics due to absence of physical contact with teachers.When we as parents of private school going pupils protest the opening of schools, we are depicting a myopic view. We are focused inwardly and are not reflecting on the implications of this closure on a larger segment who are rapidly running out of options. The true impact may not be that much but the fear of missing out may have emotional repercussions on our less fortunate youngsters who are aching to back to learning. Minority should not influence decisionsEvery stakeholder should have a say in the decision, it should not be made or influenced by a minority. I wonder how many parents whose wards are enrolled in government run schools signed those online petitions which are contesting opening of schools. How many of those who objected to schools resuming were dependent on mid-day meals for nutrition. I wonder if they are even aware of people like us who are diligently working to make 2020 a zero year for their kids.The schools should open with parents given the option of sending or not sending their children there. The question should not be “to open or to close”, it should rather be, “to send or not to send”. Every child has a right to education, to a better future and to a better life irrespective of his or her social class.drpoonam.cu@gmail.com(The writer is academic associate, Indian School of Business, Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-to-open-or-not-to-open-schools-the-dilemma-of-parents-during-a-pandemic/story-hgmeMtSgJ4U9ajmZ9t5l1O.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC dismisses bail pleas of three Haryana men in Rs 1.5-crore highway robbery case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the bail pleas of three Haryana men accused of robbing Rs 1.5 crore from two Delhi men in September 2019 in Sonepat.The high court bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan observed that they have been booked on the disclosure statements by their own relatives, and the co-accused, who have been arrested in another FIR, have already got recovered the amount of Rs 1 crore and have specifically stated that huge amounts were handed over to the petitioners. Therefore their involvement cannot be ascertained without the custodial interrogation, the bench said dismissing the plea. The incident was reported on September 18, when two Delhi men, who worked at a Mumbai-based courier firm in Chandni Chowk, had come for a collection in Samalkha and were returning back in a taxi when they were stopped by Hyundai Verna car without a number plate. Men armed with two pistols and other weapons threatened the courier firm employees and snatched cash from them. The initial report was of snatching of Rs 11 lakh only. Police had arrested seven persons who had confessed to the crime and the three, Farman, Ravi and Pawan, had filed the pleas seeking anticipatory bail arguing that the FIR was registered after two days and complainant in the case was not the victim but the firm.The state police had argued that two cars and a motorcycle along with currency notes were recovered and even the weapons have been recovered. The persons arrested in the case are involved in a number of cases and there is evidence against these three too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-dismisses-bail-pleas-of-three-haryana-men-in-rs-1-5-crore-highway-robbery-case/story-Cy1qsR7IVWV4WfGYiaRxtI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 1,161 new cases, about 51% are from northern districts||Haryana reported 1,161 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, 51% of which came from seven northern districts of Yamunanagar (157), Karnal (91), Ambala (90), Panipat (78), Panchkula (66), Kaithal (65) and Kurukshetra (51). In contrast, the number of new infections being reported from the districts abutting the national capital has started coming down. Only about 30% new infections were reported from the five national capital region districts of Gurugram (102), Faridabad (97), Rewari (62), Sonepat (48) and Rohtak (39) on Saturday. The fresh infections pushed the cumulative tally to 53,290. Twelve virus-infected persons died of the respiratory illness on Saturday, taking the toll to 597. Among those who died, three persons were from Yamunanagar, two from Kurukshetra and one each from Sonepat, Rohtak, Panipat, Panchkula, Jhajjar, Sirsa and Jind. As per a medical bulletin, 600 infected persons recovered from the virus on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 44,o13. The number of active cases was 8,680. The recovery rate on Saturday was 82.59% and the fatality rate was 1.12 %. The bulletin said there were 217 critically ill patients, including 28 on ventilator support, at 14 government and private medical facilities across 10 districts. Among the other districts, Hisar reported 43 new infections followed by Sirsa (33), Fatehabad (32), Bhiwani (31), Mahendergarh (22), Jind (19),Palwal (18), Jhajjar (13) and Nuh (4).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-1-161-new-cases-about-51-are-from-northern-districts/story-iYaj8sC82rRNr6ZqWhB4uL.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Life before corona and after||“Virus” in common parlance has become a sinister word. In the last six months, the mere mention of the word sets off alarm bells in our heads. One becomes wary of people who say they have travelled recently, or that their relatives have attended a marriage. The novel coronavirus is so feared, that one is advised to avoid not just the house of a positive patient, but an entire neighbourhood just because a case was reported there a few days ago. In offices, the visitor’s chair and the table are sanitised after the visitor leaves. God forbid if someone coughs or sneezes, the whole office is on tenterhooks and the visitor is cursed. If it happens in an elevator, there is panic!The novel coronavirus has drastically changed our lives – the mask has become ubiquitous, files are handled only while wearing gloves, and pockets and purses always carry hand sanitisers. Social gatherings, batch parties, marriages and religious functions are frowned upon and invitations turned down outright. Just the previous Sunday, I was invited to the marriage of a close friend’s daughter. Even though I was lucky to have made it to the extremely short guest list, I had to refuse politely. Sensing my reluctance while talking on the phone, my friend tried to reassure me, saying that all the groom’s and bride’s relatives had been tested for the virus. But the thought of my patients’ safety took priority, and I had a hard time refusing the invite.Picnics, outings, sightseeing trips, tourism and travel for leisure all have become things of the past. There was a time when my entire family looked forward to our annual visit to Barog, a hill station near Chandigarh, and it was an occasion for three generations of our family to get together to enjoy a drink in the lap of nature. But coronavirus has stopped such outings. Visits to movie theatres and malls, too, are strictly prohibited, and even though some restaurants have opened their doors, people are reluctant to go there. The new “normal” involves staying at home and ordering food online, watching a movie on Netflix and other such platforms. The government advisory says shun everything non-essential, and the mighty WHO is quoted repeatedly. All this because of a “virus!” But it was not like this always.There was a time not too long ago when the word “virus” used to be just another innocuous word in the dictionary. At best, viral fever was a dubious diagnosis to seek medical leave or skip classes, while viral pharyngitis or viral gastroenteritis were still acceptable as valid excuses, even though they just meant sore throat or indigestion! Although viral conjunctivitis was always a ‘keep-away-from-me’ diagnosis in medical circles, only viral hepatitis or viral encephalitis were accorded the reverence of serious ailments.Viruses are very small infectious agents made up of a piece of genetic material, such as DNA or RNA, that is enclosed in a coat of protein. It was Martinus Beijerinck who named a non-filterable infectious agent afflicting tobacco plants as a “virus” towards the end of the eighteenth century. By the early 20th century, many new viruses had been discovered, with some of today’s commonly known viruses being hepatitis, dengue, chikungunya and polio.The novel corona “virus” is highly contagious and the best way to prevent getting infected is to use a mask, hand hygiene and social distancing. The world henceforth would probably be described as BC -- Before Corona -- or AC -- After Corona. I just wish AC comes soon!dr_kochhar@hotmail.com(The writer is a professor in the gastroenterology department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-life-before-corona-and-after/story-PBppiFowzuG3lc0t4VjCEM.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Water storage in four city dams goes up to 93.78%||Incessant rains in August in the catchment areas has helped increase the water levels at four city dams.The collective storage at the four dams in Khadakwasla, Panshet, Temghar and Warasgaon is 93.78 per cent, as of Saturday.Over the last 24 hours, since 8:30am on August 21 to 8:30am on August 22, Khadakwasla received 4mm rainfall, Panshet 45mm, Temghar 60mm and Warasgaon 36mm.From Khadakwasla, 844.20 cusecs water was released on Saturday while from Panshet which overflowed a few days back saw 7,376 cusecs water being released from the dam.“If rain increases in catchment areas, then more water will be released from the dams,” said officials from the state irrigation department.Kalmodi, Andra, Mulshi, Bhatghar, Vir and Nazare dams in Pune district are now at 100 per cent water storage capacity. On Saturday, 23,000 cusecs water was released from Vir while 11,500 cusecs water was released from Bhatghar.Till now, the irrigation department has not released water from Warasgaon dam, if it receives high spell rains then water will be released, informed an official.“Ghat areas will continue to receive heavy rain while moderate rainfall is expected in the city over the next few days. Intense spells of rain are also expected in the catchment areas,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune.“Rainfall activity in city/Pune district as well as state will reduce over the next 72 hours. On August 23, extreme north of Konkan and central Maharashtra ghats(including Pune district ghats) will get isolated heavy to very heavy rain then slowly in the next 48 hours (till August 25) rainfall activity will further reduce simultaneously,” he said. Till 5:30pm, Shivajinagar received 0mm rain while Lohegaon received 2mm rain. In the last 24 hours, Pashan received 4.2mm of rainfall.Mahabaleshwar received the highest rainfall of the day in central Maharashtra with 17mm and Satara, Sangli received 3mm rain respectively.The maximum temperature of the day was 28 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature of the day was 21.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/water-storage-in-four-city-dams-goes-up-to-93-78/story-EXpbknLYmUNNWQNcGdEyOM.html
22-08-2020||City||Parents of Sonepat couple suspected to be murdered booked||The parents of a Sonepat couple, suspected to be murdered, have been booked, police said on Saturday.The incident came to fore when the man’s mother visited the police station and accused the woman’s family of killing them. She told the police that her son had eloped with an eighteen-year-old woman of the same village on August 10. She said that the woman’s parents caught them from Jind’s Safidon a week ago and killed them. Assistant sub-inspector Puran Singh of Mohana police station said they have recovered the body of a woman from Jhajjar and a team has been sent for her identification.“We have started a search for the duo’s bodies. We have registered a case of murder against their parents and will be questioning them soon,” the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-of-sonepat-couple-suspected-to-be-murdered-booked/story-ILWDlET7EVG1QOCaICPvJI.html
22-08-2020||City||Haryana IG held for assaulting women in Pinjore||Haryana Police inspector general (IG) Hemant Kalson, 55, was arrested on Saturday for allegedly assaulting a mother-daughter and a couple after trespassing into their houses at Pinjore in Panchkula district. Two FIRs have been registered against Kalson on the complaint of Rattpur Colony residents. He is currently posted as the IG, Home Guards, in Panchkula. A 42-year-old woman in her complaint alleged that Kalson forcibly entered her house on Friday and started beating up her daughter. When she intervened, the accused allegedly misbehaved with her too. The woman said she also made a video of the incident. Acting on her complaint, a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the police officer. Another resident, Satender Singh, alleged that Kalson was in an inebriated state when he reached his house around 9:30pm, shoved his wife and hurled abuses at her. When he intervened, Kalson allegedly slapped and kicked him and even threatened to shoot him. On his complaint, a case under Sections 323 and 452 besides 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 510 (misconduct in public by a drunken person) of the IPC was registered. He has been sent to judicial custody in the case registered on the woman’s complaint while he was granted bail in the other case. In July this year, he was also booked for allegedly abusing a Pinjore woman. In April 2019, he was placed under suspension for firing in the air while being on election duty in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-ig-held-for-assaulting-women-in-pinjore/story-F6cDm14orcmUGexYQxD6eL.html
22-08-2020||City||Mountaineer Anita Kundu to get ‘Tenzing Norgay National Adventure award’||Indian Mountaineer Anita Kundu, a resident of Hisar, will get the ‘Tenzing Norgay National Adventure award’ on August 29. She is the first Indian woman to climb Mount Everest from both Indian and Chinese sides. Talking to Hindustan Times over the phone, Kundu, a sub-inspector in Haryana police, said President Ram Nath Kovid will be conferring the award to. “I owe my success to my mother and my uncle, who took care of me after the untimely demise of my father when I was 13. I want to thank BJP Rajya Sabha MP RK Sinha’s SIS company for helping me financially in achieving my goals,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mountaineer-anita-kundu-to-get-tenzing-norgay-national-adventure-award/story-IfUTQSwqTAbP6D4zGZx5kO.html
22-08-2020||City||Tax evasion racket accused sent to 5-day VB remand||Mohali A local court here on Saturday sent all six accused — four excise and taxation officers (ETOs), an excise inspector and an employee of a transporter — arrested by Punjab vigilance bureau for their role in multi-crore tax evasion racket, to five-day remand. Those arrested are: ETOs Japsimran Singh, Kali Charan, Varun Nagpal and Satpal Multani; excise inspector Ram Kumar; and Shiv Kumar, a munshi of a transport company. The vigilance bureau busted a statewide tax evasion racket, involving government officials and transporters, on Friday and arrested the accused from among around 12 it booked for causing losses to the tune of ₹100 crore to the state exchequer by letting go goods carriers without paying taxes. Pressing for remand, public prosecutor Varun Sharma submitted before the court that the vigilance bureau has recovered certain documents having details of money transactions, besides the recording of phone calls of the accused. “Private transporters were under surveillance since March 22 and vigilance bureau knew the names of the officials of state taxation department. Why no effort was made to check the alleged corruption. The vigilance bureau is relying on a conversation dated March 22 between two unknown people. At that time there was curfew across the country and transportation of goods was happening,” argued defence counsel Vishal Garg Narwana, while opposing the remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tax-evasion-racket-accused-sent-to-5-day-vb-remand/story-YtLBod0roRf1YVMSXMmzRL.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Pune police put in place code of conduct for Ganeshotsav||The Pune police have put in place code of conduct for 10-day Ganpati festival, which stated on Saturday. The guidelines have been issued for mandals as well as citizens to avoid crowding and curb the spread of Covid-19. As per the code of conduct, police have banned any procession while mandals have been barred from erecting mandaps and devotees have been allowed to take darshan online. “This year as code of conduct has come into place, there will be no procession or in-person darshan. To ensure that nobody violates the rules, we will deploy SRPF, BDDS, QRT. There won’t be any outside assistance from the state,” said joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve. The police have also urged the citizens of Pune to follow the home immersion norms this year, as against the public immersion in artificial ponds and Mula-Mutha rivers that unfolds on a massive scale annually. Pune has around 4,75,000 Ganpati idols installed across the city on an average, according to the police. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mayor has also appealed to citizens to avoid celebrations in the light of the Covid19 pandemic. The 10-day festival will end on August 31. As an annual practice on the last day, which attracts crowds of around 25,00,000 people, the city administration builds special immersion ponds at popular immersions spots. However, this year, the service will not be provided, according to the mayor. For the immersion day, 7,700 police officials will be on the streets, according to joint commissioner Shisve. While 7,000 will be staff members, 700 officers will also be on the streets to prevent crowding. Usually, most of the 9,000-strong police strength along with additional reinforcements, are deployed on the streets on immersion day to manage crowds. However, the deployment numbers have reduced due to the stress on home immersion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-put-in-place-code-of-conduct-for-ganeshotsav/story-Edc7YP1pyOR5grwYkaL8yI.html
22-08-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||How UT went the Haryana way on Covid curbs After threatening to act for more than a month, the UT administration finally did, albeit partially. The city has been seeing a surge in Covid cases since July. Even after Punjab announced lockdown measures on August 20, senior UT administration officials maintained there would be no weekend lockdown, and they would wait for Union home ministry’s directions. That was August 21 afternoon. By evening, neighbouring Haryana announced weekend restrictions Around 10pm, the administration decided on weekend curbs. “There was a lot of pressure to take some action as cases are on the rise but we wanted to avoid a lockdown. Finally, we took the Haryana route,” a senior UT official said. Weekend restrictions an absurd idea: Health experts Many in the UT health department see the weekend restrictions as a knee-jerk reaction to the rising Covid-19 cases. A senior health official said it seems every action or reaction is to show concern in the media. Only a sustained lockdown of at least two weeks can slow down the spread. Another official said there can be no absurd idea than announcing restrictions for two days. “It will result in anything except stopping the infection from spreading,” he said. When Parida took back birthday greetings UT adviser Manoj Parida likes to speak his mind on Twitter but the other day, he was caught on the wrong foot. Soon after he greeted a Twitter user on her birthday, the adviser was accosted by the Chandigarh resident who complained that she had not received any response to her complaints which was more important than birthday tweets. Beating a hasty retreat, the adviser commented that he had now ‘withdrawn’ his birthday wishes. Outgoing SSP goes gaga over City Beautiful “You can leave City Beautiful but it will always remain in your heart,” tweeted Chandigarh’s first woman senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Vijay Jagadale as she relinquished charge after completing her three-year tenure. In a series of tweets, Nilambari expressed gratitude to everyone from the UT administrator, adviser, DGP, Chandigarh Police officials to the aam janta of Chandigarh. With the wish to “serve you in future”, she was full of praise for the people of Chandigarh with whom she had worked closely during the Covid-19 pandemic. Her tweets left many surprised as she had not been that active on social media for most part of her tenure. At 100, it’s a life of no regrets for Lucy Chandigarh-based Lucy Mary McDermott turned 100 on August 20. “I have lived a life of no regrets,” says Lucy, sharing the secret of her longevity. While the rest of her family, which stays in Sector 48, was disappointed that her grand birthday celebrations had to be put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Lucy enjoyed her day, saying: “It’s just another pandemic. Life moves on.” An Anglo Indian, most of Lucy’s relatives stay abroad and she was particularly excited about meeting youngsters in the family. Born in 1920, Lucy has seen World War II, the communal riots of Kolkata in 1946, Independence in 1947 besides living through the influenza pandemic and plague epidemic of the last century. A resident’s thumbs up to Chandigarh administration Even as many highlight difficulties they have been facing in Covid times, Chandigarh resident Chandrika Budhiraja is all praise for the administration. She returned from New York in July-end and says it’s all thanks to the proactive efforts of UT officials. Unable to get much help from the Indian embassy in the US, she directly contacted Chandigarh administration when the then nodal officer for foreign returnees, deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Shashank Anand, guided her through the process. She was escorted from the Delhi airport to Hotel Shivalikview in Sector 17 where she was quarantined for a week. She complimented Jatinder Malik, the nodal officer in-charge at the hotel, for the maintenance, meals and facilities for all occupants. She decided to come forward as she felt people were criticising the administration too much when the officials were in fact doing a good job, especially for foreign returnees like her. Honour or an afterthought, ask miffed RWAs Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) are peeved with the manner in which Chandigarh administration chose to honour them a week after Independence Day. An RWA president narrated how they were called to the office of a UT administration official to collect their certificate on August 21. “We felt like it was an afterthought. They chose to do the honours almost a week after the function. We were just doing our job and we have told the administration that we will not be accepting any certificates from them now,” he said. Reverse learning, in online mode Online teaching in Covid times has made many a professor remember their early days at teaching. Keshav Malhotra, a professor at Panjab University, admits he often feels like his days as an assistant professor have returned. That’s because online teaching has made him work, and learn more. It involves experimenting with technology. He says he needs more time and effort to prepare for delivering lectures through the virtual mode. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh Salyal and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-V8nUrBkcv4Dd4RHZUWmRrN.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Fire brigade department requests PMC to close roads heading towards immersion ghats||Officials of the fire brigade department have requested the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and police officials to close the roads heading to immersion ghats amid the Covid-19 restrictions during the Ganpati festival.Prashant Ranpise, head, fire brigade department, said, “PMC has banned immersion of Ganesh idols at public places and mayor Murlidhar Mohol has appealed to residents to immerse the idols at homes or donate it to PMC. So, we have requested the authorities to close the roads heading towards various ghats where residents immerse the idols every year.”Ranpise said, “Every year, the fire brigade department before the Ganpati festival prepares the ghat section for the immersion process. This year due to the restrictions we have not appointed firemen to be deployed at the rivers and water bodies.”“The immersion of idols takes place on the second, third and fifth day as well, so we have requested PMC to close the roads,” he said.Mohol said, “Last year around five lakh idols were immersed in artificial water tanks during the Ganpati festival. So it would be difficult to maintain all the Covid-19 guidelines if there is a crowd at such places.”“We are appealing to the residents to immersion idols at homes. They can also donate the idols to PMC or immerse it in PMC water tanks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fire-brigade-department-requests-pmc-to-close-roads-heading-towards-immersion-ghats/story-Mbv2QVCazZY1Y9lyrkRrJI.html
22-08-2020||City||11 booked for opening fire at licensed liquor trader’s house in Rohtak village||Eleven persons were booked for allegedly opening fire at a licensed liquor trader’s house in Behlamba village in Rohtak’s Meham area on Saturday, police said.The accused have been identified as Subhash, Sanjay, Suresh, Sunil, Dinesh, Ramesh, Lila, Sonu, Vijay, Vicky and Vijay Kumar.In his complaint, the trader, Balraj alias Bald of Behlamba village, said he had got the tender to run a liquor vend at the village this year.“My brother Balwan had asked one of the accused, Vicky, who was smuggling liquor on his motorcycle on Saturday morning, to not sell liquor illegally in the village. After a verbal spat, the accused took out a sharp-edged weapon and attacked my brother and nephew.”He said that later, a group of 11 persons reached their house and started hurling abuses at them. Two men, Dinesh and Suresh, continuously fired shots at their house, the video of which is now being circulated on social media.The complainant further said that the accused have been smuggling liquor in the area for a long time and creating hurdles in his business.Assistant sub-inspector Joginder Singh of Meham police station said a case under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959, has been registered against the accused. All the accused are currently at large, the cop added.2 licensed liquor contractors killed in Sirsa last monthTwo liquor contractors were shot dead by four assailants outside a vend at Sirsa’s Chautala village, on Rajasthan border, last month. The accused, after arrest, confessed that the Lawrence Bishnoi gang was behind the murders.Vij had also raised the illegal liquor trade issue in 2015Illegal liquor trade is not new to Haryana. In November 2015, Haryana minister Anil Vij had left the meeting of the district grievances and public relations committee in Fatehabad after a spat with Sangeeta Kalia, the then Fatehabad superintendent of police, as she refused to follow his order to leave the venue following heated exchanges over the alleged illegal liquor trade in Fatehabad.Vij had justified his stand, saying that he was getting complaints of drug mafia and liquor mafia being active in the area, but the police had failed to put a check.However, the officer had refused to leave the meeting and even objected to the minister’s manner. Vij then left the meeting himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-booked-for-opening-fire-at-licensed-liquor-trader-s-house-in-rohtak-village/story-IZ9Dx4iHjNRbT1cDejGzyK.html
22-08-2020||Noida||240 people arrested in a month for defying Covid-19 curbs in GB Nagar||As many as 240 people have been arrested across Noida and Greater Noida in a month for allegedly flouting restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, police said on Saturday.Also, 388 vehicles have been impounded and challans issued to owners of 53,059 vehicles from July 22 till August 22, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people at a spot, is in force in the district, adjoining Delhi, while wearing of face cover/masks and social distancing norms are also mandatory outdoors due to Covid-19 outbreak.The district police said it registered 83 FIRs under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) during the month.“During the period, 83 FIRs were registered and 240 people arrested for violating curbs imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak. A total 1,72,188 vehicles were checked across 200 points in the district and challans issued to 53,059 while another 388 were impounded,” the police said.It also recovered Rs 56,37,400 in fines from owners of the erring vehicles during the period, according to the statement.Covid-19 has so far infected over 6,900 people in Gautam Buddh Nagar and claimed 43 lives. The number of active cases as on Saturday was 813 while the recovery rate reached almost 90 per cent, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/240-people-arrested-in-a-month-for-defying-covid-19-curbs-in-gb-nagar/story-eMnQoTvfz2dVtqzpPzMH3K.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Public-safety, a primary focus during 10-day festival||The 2020 Ganesh festival has gone to another level in terms of public safety, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Though there won’t be any grand celebrations by Ganpati mandals this year, the enthusiasm of Punekars to welcome Ganesha at home is high. On Friday, the city markets had a rush of people to buy decoration material, sweets and other things needed for the festival. Also, the Ganpati idol shops were busy in attending customers with proper social distancing. “I have come to Bohri Aali market to buy a decoration set for our household Ganpati celebration. We are not going to make it big this year, as we do every year but we also cannot stop our happiness to welcome Ganpati, it’s time to forget all worries now and we hope that with the arrival of Ganesha, the Covid-19 will also go soon,” said Sneha Jain, a local resident. Abhishek Khole, a local resident said, “We are blessed with a baby boy in the month of June this year and so Ganpati celebration this year is special for us. There are no big decoration plans as such, but to make it special we have come to the market to buy some good decorative material. It’s important to take all safety measures and keep social distancing even during the festive season.” There was moderate crowd seen on Friday across the city market areas like Bohri Aali, Raviwar peth market, Tulshibaug market, Laxmi road, Tilak road and other prominent places where people normally come for Ganpati festival shopping. At some of the famous shops there was a heavy rush and people were allowed to enter in queue inside the shop to maintain social distancing. One such shop owner in Bohri Aali market, Kailas Dave said, “From the past one week, the crowd went on increasing in the market and today a day prior to the festival there is a heavy rush. People are taking safety precautions but are coming to buy decoration material. We have also kept a sanitizer and are doing thermal checking of each customer before they enter the shop. People without a face mask are not allowed to enter the shop.” Similarly, crowd was seen at Ganpati idol shops across the city. This year, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not given permission to install temporary idol shops to erect pandals on road but still hundreds of idol businesses have sprung up in makeshift shops temporarily. Yogesh Jagdale one such Ganpati idol seller on Satara road said, “I have started the Ganpati idol shop in an open space of a building parking area. Every year, we used to have a pandal but this time as we didn’t get the permission we rented out this place for 15 days. And we are getting a good response, until now 70 per cent of our idols are booked and today is a crucial day for us. On the day before the festival maximum idols are sold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/public-safety-a-primary-focus-during-10-day-festival/story-6WXZYdsz9jD5PhHe698jRL.html
22-08-2020||Pune||On eve of Ganesh Chaturthi, social distancing, masks go for a toss in Pimpri market||The roadside vendors in Pimpri-Chinchwad were caught flouting social distancing rules and not wearing masks while selling decorative goods ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi. When an HT reporter visited the Pimpri market at 11.30am on Friday, 90 per cent of road side vendors were without masks on Karachi road. “Our health department has appointed teams which keeps watch on such people. The team is regularly conducting an inquiry, once they are caught, inquiries are done against them,” said Anna Bodade, assistant Pimpri -Chinchwad municipal commissioner. A vendor selling artificial flowers said, lack of communication is one of the reasons, the mask is a liability. “We cannot properly communicate with the buyers, have to repeat the sentences or shout if I continue wearing a mask while selling goods,” said Rajlaxmi Dunga who was selling artificial flowers with her family members. Shop owners in Pimpri market were wearing masks and following social distancing norms. “You will not see any shopkeepers on Karachi road without masks while doing business. It is just roadside vendors who come with their goods, sell it and go away,” said Milind Chawla, who runs a cloth shop in the market. Many vegetable vendors were also caught flouting rules of social distancing and not wearing masks. “Our teams also fine them when they are caught and every day we are getting such cases,” said Bodade. Few buyers objected while some continued without bothering about social distancing norms. “It has become a routine; these people do not listen. It is better we only take more precautions while purchasing goods from them,” said Manas Lad, who was buying artificial flowers in Pimpri. “If a vendor is not wearing a mask, I avoid buying vegetables from them,” said Jyoti Belsare, who was buying vegetables and fruits at the Pimpri Market on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-eve-of-ganesh-chaturthi-social-distancing-masks-go-for-a-toss-in-pimpri-market/story-8TDAuaEugOYgMxpRoVIEsO.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Pandemic-hit Pune set to welcome Ganesha with low-key celebrations||The 10-day Ganpati festival will start from Saturday in a completely changed format due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Pune police department has appealed to Ganpati mandals to celebrate the festival in a small way within the temple premises. Some of the prominent Ganpati mandals in the city have erected small pandals whereas some of the famous mandals which are known for their huge pandals and decoration sets have cancelled the celebrations this year. Shrikant Shete, president of the first manacha Kasba Ganpati mandal said, “This Ganpati festival has a history of more than 125 years and this is the first time when we all are going to celebrate it in a very small way. We are thankful to the PMC that they have allowed us to erect a small mandal and celebrate the festival in a very simple way this time. I appeal to all public please do not come for darshan of bappa instead they can do it online on social media platforms. We are going to take various health and medical checkup drives during the festival days. If the situation comes under control until September 20 then it would be a successful Ganpati festival.” Talking about the first day pooja and simple celebrations by the five manache Ganpati mandals, Rajabhau Tikar, president of second manacha Ganpati mandal said, “Due to Covid-19, there won’t be any grand celebrations, dhol tasha or music band processions to welcome Bappa on the first day. Normally, we used to invite an eminent personality from the society for the pranpratistha pooja on the first day of Ganpati, but this year it won’t be possible. So we have decided amongst ourselves that the Ganpati mandal representatives only go to each other’s mandal to do pooja. We all have decided the pooja timings and accordingly it will be done with a limited number of people.” Every year on the first day of Ganpati festival there are huge processions organised by these manache and prominent Ganpati mandals in the city. In this procession, there are dhol tasha groups, musical bands, performing artists of traditional games and DJ sound system. All this has been cancelled now due to the pandemic. Another prominent mandal, the Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal which erects a huge pandal every year which is a replica model of a temple in the country. Mahesh Suryavanshi, treasurer of Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal said, “This year we have cancelled all the celebration plans and are going to make it in a simple manner. There won’t be any decoration or replica of temple to avoid the crowd during the festival. Darshan won’t be allowed to public as we do not want to risk lives of people during these tough times.” BOX Pranpratistha pooja of five manache Ganpati Mandals 1. Manacha Pahila Shree Kasba Ganpati pooja to be done by Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman and Dagdusheth Ganpati Mandal festival president at 11.40 am 2. Manacha Dusra Ganpati Shree Tambadi Jogeshwari Ganpati pooja to be done by Anna Thorat president of Akhil Mandai Ganpati mandal at 11 am 3. Manacha Tisra Ganpati Shree Guruji Talim Ganpati pooja to be done by Puneet Balan, festival president of Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Ganpati mandal at 12.15 pm 4. Manacha Choutha Ganpati Shree Tulshibaug Ganpati pooja to be done by Dr Deepak Tilak president of Kesari Wada Ganpati mandal at 12.30 pm 5. Manacha Pachwa Ganpati Shree Kesari Wada Ganpati pooja to be done by Vivek Khatawkar president of Tulshibaug Ganpati Mandal at 10 am||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pandemic-hit-pune-set-to-welcome-ganesha-with-low-key-celebrations/story-MZAxxtSib8uvDFBPmjTgmJ.html
22-08-2020||City||BKU rally in K’shetra on Sept 10 to protest Centre’s farm ordinances||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders have decided to hold a state-level maharally at Kurukshetra on September 10 to register their protest against the three central ordinances that allow private players to purchase agriculture produce.The decision was taken unanimously at a state-level meeting held in Kurukshetra on Saturday.BKU’s Haryana unit president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that farmers associated with 17 farmer organisations in the state have decided to participate in the rally.During the meeting, Chaduni urged farmers to launch awareness campaigns to encourage more farmers to take part in the movement.“We need support from every village, block and district to pressure the government into withdrawing the ordinances,” he said.KNOW THE ORDINANCESThe Central government had brought the ‘The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, in June this year. While the government terms that the ordinances will create an environment where farmers and traders have free choice of sale and purchase, farmers allege that with these ordinances, the government was planning to discontinue the MSP regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-rally-in-k-shetra-on-sept-10-to-protest-centre-s-farm-ordinances/story-URAyaSAySmlsWyIHhGOZQK.html
22-08-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Assembly passes 27 key bills on Saturday||During a three-day session, the Yogi Adityanath-led government passed 27 bills in the state assembly including the Uttar Pradesh Security Force Bill and Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill, 2020.UP assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said, “This three-day session was fruitful. In the last three days, a total of 138 petitions were received on which action will be taken. Most importantly, a record 27 bills were passed.”These bills will now be sent to Governor Anandiben Patel for final approval.Earlier, the state government had implemented major ordinances after the outbreak of Covid-19 related to cuts in the salary of ministers, postponement of MLA funds, and legislators and preventing attacks on frontline workers.The ordinances brought by the state government were required to get the approval of the Assembly under constitutional obligation.Earlier in March, the governor had promulgated an ordinance for recovery of damages to public and private properties from rioters and protesters, and to provide the setting-up of tribunals to adjudicate claims for damages and recover them.According to the statement of object and reasons (SOR) of the ordinance, it aims at dealing with “all acts of violence at public places and to control its persistence and escalation, and to provide for the recovery of damage to public or private property during hartal, bundh, riots, public commotion or protests.”The UP Cabinet had approved the ordinance on March 13, a day after a vacation bench of the apex court, comprising justices UU Lalit and Aniruddha Bose, refused to stay the Allahabad High Court’s order for removal of the government’s anti-CAA stir, name-and-shame posters.While hearing an urgent plea by the state government seeking a stay of the high court order, the apex court had refused to grant relief to the government saying that there was no law to support its action.Earlier in June, the BJP government had approved the Cow-Slaughter Prevention (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The amendment called for stricter punishment for violators and permitted publication of pictures of the accused at prominent spots in the city.The cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister approved the amendment to Section 5A of the UP Cow Slaughter Prevention Act 1955. It penalises cow slaughter with jail terms ranging from a minimum of one year to a maximum of 10 years and imposes monetary fines between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-assembly-passes-27-key-bills-on-saturday/story-IHKAScqZUOhTJreqT6zNjL.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Water level rises in Yamuna river following rains over past several days||The water level of the Yamuna river in Delhi rose on Saturday following heavy rainfall in the region for the past several days.The national capital and the neighbouring cities received heavy rainfall over the past few days leading to waterlogging and traffic jams in several areas. The rains were accompanied by a cool breeze bringing down the temperature by several notches. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted a thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain in parts of Delhi during the next two hours.“Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and nearby isolated places of Delhi (Mahrauli, Seemapuri, Shahdara), Hindon AF, Bulandshahar, Hodal during next 2 hours,” tweeted the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-water-level-rises-in-yamuna-river-following-rains-over-past-several-days/story-0RKjGm49wLkzCfaAHnP2JN.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Police probing Chinese spy’s Himachal links||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government has stepped up the security of Dharamshala-based Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama after the recent arrest of Charlie Peng, a Chinese spy in Delhi. State director general of police Sanjay Kundu said on Saturday that the police are probing the Himachal links of Peng, 42, who is accused of a ₹1,000 crore hawala racket and allegedly bribing Tibetan monks living in Majnu-Ka-Tila, a Tibetan settlement in Delhi, to gather information on the Dalai Lama and his aides. “The police are probing the links of the recently arrested Chinese man in Delhi with Himachal. Though the Dalai Lama has avoided moving out of his residence amid the Covid-19 pandemic, we have put his security on high alert and all necessary measures have been taken,” the DGP said. The Dalai Lama, 85, has a three-tier security. ‘CONCERNING DEVELOPMENT’ Tibetan government-in-exile information secretary Tsewang Gyalpo Arya said that the arrest of the spy earlier this month was “a concerning development”. “China should concentrate on containing the Covid-19 virus that originated in Wuhan rather than sending spies or intruding borders. The only good thing is that the Government of India, the state government and Tibetan security are alert. We are in touch with security agencies in Dharamshala,” Arya said. Tibetan writer and activist Tenzin Tsundue said: “China seems to be provoking everybody in the world and I wouldn’t be surprised if they remembered us in this moment of frenzy. We have to be extra careful.” Stating that India has provided the best possible security to the Dalai Lama, Tsundue said, “Every Chinese national approaching the office of the Dalai Lama must be thoroughly checked without exception by Indian security. The intelligence agencies should share notes with their counterparts in Delhi, Kathmandu, Nepal border areas and Beijing for better coordination and analysis.” FORMER PLA MEN CAUGHT Though the Dalai Lama gave up his political role in 2011, Dharamshala continues to be the nerve centre of Tibetan activities, closely watched by the Chinese regime. In the past 16 years, eight Chinese travellers have been caught for suspicious activities. They were arrested for travelling without valid documents. Few were held based on information from Indian intelligence agencies and others on tip-offs from the central Tibetan administration’s security department. Most of those arrested, including Liu Xiadon, have been associated with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Xiadon was arrested in the second week of July at the inter-district barrier in the Rakkar area of Kangra. Police found Liu had undergone Chinese army training for three months in 1997 and served the PLA till 1999. Another Chinese national, who was in the PLA till 2000, was caught in McLeodganj in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-probing-chinese-spy-s-himachal-links/story-wbKI8B9ePCsS3zyHRwmkoK.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Pune to receive moderate rains for next two days: IMD||Pune will continue to receive moderate rainfall for the next two days as the city gears up to welcome Ganesha on Saturday, according to the weather department. The ghat areas in Pune district which are receiving heavy to very heavy rain in the last few days will continue to receive heavy rain over the weekend. “The city is expected to receive between 15.6mm-64.4mm moderate rainfall over the weekend while the ghat regions are expected to receive 115.6-204.4mm which is heavy rainfall,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department, Pune. In the last 24 hours, Shivajinagar received 14.6mm rainfall while Pashan and Lohegaon received 16.0mm and 11.4 mm respectively. “The condition is favourable for good rain and it will continue for the next 10 days in the city,” said Kashyapi. The maximum temperature of the day was 26.9 degree Celsius while minimum temperature was noted to be 22.3 degree Celsius. Among the ghat areas, Tamhini received 190mm rain, while Lonavala received 323mm rainfall. Weather forecast: August 22: Moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas) August 23: Moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas) August 24: Light to moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas) August 25: Light rain very likely August 26: Light rain very likely August 27: Light to moderate rain very likely||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/moderate-rain-to-welcome-ganesha/story-CmJ9rpi48gSdH24jMzZpYO.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrest accused in e-way rape case||A 30-year-old man was remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday after he was arrested from Jalgaon for sexually assaulting a woman along the Pune-Mumbai expressway on August 4. The man was identified as Karamvir Gulabram Jaiswar (30) residing in Bhiwandi in Thane. Jaiswar is a truck driver and a native of Kirakat region of Jaunpur district of Uttar Pradesh. The sexual assault case was registered on August 4 by a woman who was walking along the expressway when the man arrived in the truck he was driving at around 2:20pm. “The man has confessed to his crime and has been remanded by the court to police custody until August 25,” according to a statement issued by Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The investigation was carried out by a team led by police inspector (crime) Shahji Pawar of Talegaon Dabhade police station. The woman told the police that the man used a sickle to cut her clothes open before beating her up as she resisted his advances, according to her complaint. As per the police, the woman was dragged to a nearby field and raped in an unnatural manner. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 377 (unnatural offence), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous means or weapons), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station. The police scanned over 30 trucks that passed through the stretch of the expressway where the assault was committed. A driver matching the description provided by the woman was found through the truck owner. The driver was tracked to Jalgaon and arrested from there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pimpri-chinchwad-police-arrest-accused-in-e-way-rape-case/story-Qrcjnu2jiXHzo9JYIUCXHJ.html
22-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 toll nearing 1,000; tally at 68,566||Five more people died in Rajasthan due to coronavirus on Saturday, taking the death toll to 938, while 612 fresh cases pushed the tally in the state to 68,566, a health department official said.  Out of the fresh deaths, three were reported in Jaipur and one each in Kota and Tonk, he said.  Among new cases, 167 were reported in Jaipur, 140 in Jodhpur, 80 in Ajmer, 78 in Bharatpur, 45 in Nagaur, 26 in Banswara, 25 in Hanumangarh, 24 in Rajsamand, 18 in Jhunjhunu and nine in Barmer.  The state has 14,907 active cases and a total of 52,059 have been discharged after the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-toll-nearing-1-000-tally-at-68-566/story-6EkWFf4OTVch0QGpDcuFcM.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar puts transport projects on fast-track||Pune district guardian minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar has instructed the administration to speed up works on mega projects like the international airport at Purandar, the Pune-Nashik railway and metro. Pawar chaired a review meeting with officers from the Pune district. Pawar said, “Though the Covid-19 pandemic is ongoing, the state government is speeding up economic activity. The administration must ensure that Covid-19 does not affect development works in Pune district and the show must go on.” One of Pawar’s suggestions was to speed-up work of the international airport planned at Purandar and ensure that its work on the ground starts early. “A dedicated deputy collector level officer must be appointed for the Pune-Nashik railway project. Along with these two mega projects, officers from the metro must ensure to speed up the ongoing metro work in the city and do the planning accordingly.” Pawar said, due to Covid, the state’s economy has been disturbed but the state government is trying hard to boost the economy. “The administration must ensure to carry out the development works planned in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad city as well as district collector ensured that pending works would restart in rural area of the district,” he added. Pawar took a review of the Covid situation and instructed the administration to concentrate on bringing down the mortality rate. The Covid and non-Covid patients must get proper treatment at hospitals, he said. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, IAS officer S Chockalingam, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, police commissioner K Venkatesham, health director Archana Patil and many other officers were present for the meeting.Celebrate Ganesha festival at your homeAjit Pawar appealed to citizens to celebrate Ganesha festival at their homes due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He also instructed the administration and police to ensure people don’t come out in large numbers on roads during the festival. Pawar said, Pune has a long history of the Ganesha festival. It is one of the major attractions in India. However, this year is an exception due to the Covid pandemic and we must take necessary care. The festival must be low key. Ganesh Mandals in the city are cooperating with the government and following instructions given by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-puts-transport-projects-on-fast-track/story-awuM726UwA5cMURpsUXM5H.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Rapid antigen tests make up 20% of total tests conducted in Pune city since July||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has ramped up its testing drastically which has now taken the city to highest tests per million in the country in Pune city. A major boost to this was given as the civic body started buying rapid antigen testing kits since July.Out of the total tests conducted by the civic body, about 20 per cent of them were conducted through rapid antigen testing. As of August 17, out of the 3.64 lakh, Covid-19 tests conducted by the civic body about 75,000 are done using rapid antigen detection kits, according to Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner.With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pushing states and Union territories to test more people using rapid antigen testing since ‘Antigen tests is a promising tool for quick diagnosis of Covid-19’, the civic body is now looking to test more using rapid antigen testing.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal informed, “As of August 17 out of the 3.64 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted by the civic body about 75,000 have been done using rapid antigen detection kits.”The civic body recently passed an order to body one more lakh of antigen testing kits, given that the city is now one of the worst affected in the country.In a letter to all the states dated July 16, despite the ICMR’s letter to all states to provide real-time updates on the number of antigen tests conducted, Maharashtra government does not provide the bifurcation in the number of tests conducted. As per the state health department report, out of 34,92,966 laboratory samples, 6,57,450 have been tested positive (18.82 per cent) for Covid-19 until Friday.While real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is considered the gold standard for testing for its high level of testing, the ICMR is pushing for RAT as it provides quick results and helps isolate patients faster. Test results for RT-PCR may take up to 24-48 hours to reach till the hospital or the local civic body which further delays contact tracing.The ICMR guidelines for rapid antigen detection tests are to consider a Covid-19 positive as a positive and start treatment while for a Covid-19 negative through a rapid antigen test, in case of symptomatic the sample needs to be sent for RT-PCR testing while an asymptomatic Covid-19 negative through RAT is considered a Covid-19 negative.The ICMR also calls upon all the states to ensure that all the antigen testing points are appropriately linked with RT-PCR facility, where symptomatic negatives will be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rapid-antigen-tests-make-up-20-of-total-tests-conducted-in-pune-city-since-july/story-sVs01ROC90u8i102jrm94H.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Pune civic body puts Rs26 lakh tender for undertaking Covid-19 funerals on hold||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has put on hold the tender process for appointment of an agency for the burial of deceased infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, after agitation by local non-government organisations (NGOs).Three NGOs were helping conduct the funeral of deceased patients infected with the virus free of cost. Despite that PMC floated a tender for appointing an agency for the same work at the cost of Rs26 lakh.Muslim Mulnivasi Manch and Christian Charitable Trust, on Friday, held an agitation at PMC building and demanded to scrap the tender and stop the wastage of taxpayers’ money.Anjum Inamdar, founder, Muslim Mulnivasi Manch, said, “We are conducting the funerals of deceased patients infected with the virus from March. Due to pressure from Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) after a tweet by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, PMC stopped the work of one organisation. Even later, we along with some other organisations including Shiv Sena carried out the work.”“Despite that PMC has floated a tender for appointment of an agency for the same work which will be a waste of taxpayers’ money. So, we held an agitation,” Inamdar said.Ramchandra Hankare, head, health department, PMC, said, “Two NGOs are carrying out the funerals of the deceased infected with the virus only from those admitted at hospitals, but Covid deaths are reported from homes as well. There is no mechanism to carry out funerals in such cases.”“These organisations have now promised that they would also perform funerals of those who pass away at their homes. We have put the tender process on hold,” he said.Hankare said, “We appeal to more organisations to come forward and help us. If there will be a problem in the future, we will erect our machinery to perform final rites.”An officer from the health department said on anonymity, “PMC has a mechanism and its staff for performing funerals at Hindu cremations, but at burial grounds for Christians and Muslims, the PMC does not have staff. From the last five months, volunteers are carrying the burial of patients deceased due to Covid-19 infection.”Political leaders Ramesh Bagwe, Arvind Shinde, Iqbal Shaikh, Rafiq Shaikh, Rahul Khude and Vitthal Gaikwad also participated in the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-puts-rs26-lakh-tender-for-undertaking-covid-19-funerals-on-hold/story-6QcrxGywMvJSmj5m6fyfOJ.html
22-08-2020||Pune||Agency appointed to recruit staff for jumbo facility in Pune poaching doctors, nurses, allege private hospitals||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic if the private hospitals in the city were already facing a staff crunch, the upcoming jumbo facility has made things worse for some of them.The private hospitals from the city have alleged that the agency appointed to provide medical and paramedical staff for the jumbo facility is engaged in poaching their staff. The private agency engaged by the district administration, according to some doctors, is offering more salary and perks to join two jumbo facilities in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.With work for the jumbo facility at College of Engineering, Pune and Annasaheb Magar ground in Pimpri-Chinchwad is almost near completion. A Mumbai-based private agency Life Line has got the contract for providing medical and paramedical manpower for the jumbo facility located at College of Engineering, Pune.The city hospitals have previously complained that they are facing severe crunch of doctors and nurses as the public hospitals are offering higher remunerations even to fresh and inexperienced doctors who are hired on a contractual basis.Dr Ramesh Ranka, founder, Ranka Hospital, Maharshinagar, said, the private agency which has been given the work of recruiting medico manpower has contacted the doctors and para-medical staff.“They contacted my hospital staff and offered them more salaries and other perks. The agency has been sending messages on their mobiles. It is happening with other hospitals too. I have raised the complaint with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and various officers for same,” he said.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal assured of action if the agency is involved in recruiting local manpower.“We have strictly told the agency not recruit any doctor or paramedics staff from Pune district. If they are doing this then we will take action against them,” said Agarwal.According to Ranka half of staff from his hospital has already left the job due to pandemic fear and other reasons. “If the rest staff would also get disturbed it would be difficult to manage the hospitals,” he said.Sujit Patkar, Life Line agency, said, “We are not poaching doctors from private hospitals in the city, but if anyone voluntarily comes to us, we are recruiting them. We are working at the national level and hiring staff from different states.”Hindustan Times in its August 1 edition had carried a report about how government’s lucrative offers are leading to a shortage of staff in private hospitals. Dr Sunil Rao, group chief operating officer, Sahyadri hospitals had said that his hospital staff was leaving because of lucrative offers by state government hospitals not just in Pune but also in Thane.“Nurses are offered almost Rs 45,000 per month for a contractual period of 3 or 6 months which is almost double of what we pay, a round of Rs 20,000 to 25,000 per month. These sudden recruitments by the government are leading to a huge staff crunch in private sectors. Almost 50 of our nurses have left our hospitals in just two months to join government hospitals in Pune and Thane,” Rao had said.Another doctor who owns 25-bed hospital said on anonymity, “Offer had been given to nurses from his hospital and one nurse is planning to leave the job. Government is bringing all the restrictions on private hospitals but they should also take care of our problems. Running a hospital is not easy.”Congress leader Aba Bagul has written a letter to the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and demanded the inquiry in this matter.Bagul said, “If the private hospitals’ network would get disturbed, it would be difficult to manage the health system in the city. Even today 70 per cent Covid patients are in private hospitals. The administration is just concentrating on the jumbo facility but they should take care that the agencies of the jumbo facility should not disturb the private hospitals’ staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/agency-appointed-to-recruit-staff-for-jumbo-facility-in-pune-poaching-doctors-nurses-allege-private-hospitals/story-cdckF6Snxd4MfdbLUeY7DJ.html
22-08-2020||City||Karnal woman who accused school owner of rape held for extortion||Karnal Nearly one-and-a-half-months after a woman staffer at a private school accused the owner and a senior official of the revenue department of gangrape, police have arrested her and her husband for taking money to settle the case.“The woman and her husband have been arrested for taking Rs 7.25 lakh from outside the district court in Sector 12 on Friday and have been booked for extortion. An FIR will be registered under relevant sections,” said Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Surender Bhoria, adding that those she had accused had approached the police, claiming that she was demanding Rs 15 lakh to withdraw her complaint. The SP said police will also seek remand of the couple to recover Rs 6 lakh they had already taken.“I am being implicated in a false case and have never sought any money,” the woman has said.On July 7 this year, the woman had alleged that the school owner and the revenue official had raped her at the residence of the former, just a few months after being appointed assistant librarian at the school in 2018. She had applied for the post of a Hindi teacher. She has also accused the woman principal of the school of helping the accused by harassing and pressuring her.On her complaint, the school owner, the government official and the principal were booked under Sections 376D (gangrape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (act done by several persons in common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) the same day.Police said during investigation, it was found that the woman had filed the complaint two days after the school management accused her of extortion, as she was seeking a raise in her salary and other benefits from the school. The SP added that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was investigating the case as counter-complaints had been filed. He added that the school management had provided text messages and other evidence against the woman and the arrest will help solve the case. Vinay Bansal, advocate of the woman, has refuted the allegations and questioned the working of police. “The police were trying to implicate her to withdraw her gangrape complaint she has filed against school owner and government officer,” he claimed, adding that he was sure that the court will clear her of all the allegations. He added that there was no chemical coating on currency notes and police claims of arresting her red-handed were false. He also alleged that a number of other influential people from Karnal were involved in her arrest. A court sent the couple to judicial custody, even as the police pressed hard for their police custody.Karnal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajiv Kumar said a police team had arrested them in the presence of duty magistrate, while taking the money and they had been booked under Sections 384 (extortion), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-woman-who-accused-school-owner-of-rape-held-for-extortion/story-1QVaxG7LY423etVgVBGiLJ.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Struggling amid pandemic, Patiala’s craftswomen to go digital||Patiala’s craftswomen whose livelihood was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic will be able to sell their fares online after the Patiala administration launches a digital platform similar to Amazon and Flipkart to facilitate them.The project is the brainchild of Patiala additional deputy commissioner (development) Preeti Yadav. “The website, Aajeevikapatiala.com, will be launched within the week. We hope the government adopts it and implements it across the Punjab,” Yadav said.Women entrepreneurs can register themselves through a cluster level forum. At present, there are around 24,000 craftwomen in Patiala. Yadav said, “Since the Covid-19 outbreak, women entrepreneurs are hardly receiving any bulk orders. Now, they will be able to display and sell their products online.”Through the platform, the women will be able to sell handmade products in any part of the country. The products that will be sold online, include dupattas, sarees, suits, phulkari thread work, ties (phulkari), jute products, wallets, door mats, key chains, slings, vegetables bags, pencil boxes, tiffin covers, laptop bags, file folders, makeup pouches, bedsheets, woolen items, home decor, pickles, bio-pesticides, juttis and rakhis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/struggling-amid-pandemic-patiala-s-craftswomen-to-go-digital/story-sfLZDOChCIi9ld23JJ4hUI.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||50 kg tumour removed from woman’s abdomen in 3.5 hours at Delhi hospital||A 52-year-old woman from Delhi who had an unexplained rapid weight gain over the past few months was found to have a 50 kg ovarian tumour, which accounted for close to half her body weight of 106 kg.Post-surgery, the woman’s weight has dropped to 56 kg. She has recovered from the complicated surgery and is set to be discharged from hospital on August 22.The woman, who prefers to remain unnamed, had the tumour removed in a 3.5 hours surgery at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. The team of surgeons said it is the largest ovarian tumour ever to be operated in the world, with the largest tumour reported to date being a case from Coimbatore, where a woman was operated for a 34 kg tumour in her ovary in 2017. The Delhi patient began gaining weight rapidly over the past few months, which led to her experiencing breathlessness and acute pain in her lower abdomen, which led to difficulty in walking and sleeping. When the rapid weight gain didn’t stop and the associated complications increased, she consulted a neighbourhood physician, who referred her to Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. Diagnostic investigations revealed she had a large, progressively expanding tumour in her ovary, which was putting pressure on her intestine (intestinal adhesions), leading to acute stomach aches and inability to digest food. As a result, she had developed acute anaemia, with her haemoglobin count dropping to 6 gm/dl, against a normal of 12-15.5 gm/dl. “The size of the tumour and patient’s exceptionally low hemoglobin made extract a challenge, and she had to undergo 6 units of blood transfusion before, during and after the procedure. That apart, there was no space in the abdomen for insertion of equipment via laparoscopy or robot assisted methods, so we performed traditional surgery with a multidisciplinary team from the gastroenterology, gynaecology and anaesthesiology teams,” said lead surgeon Dr Arun Prasad, senior consultant, surgical gastroenterology and bariatric surgery. “The patient was admitted with complaints of stomachache, breathing stress and weight gain. She was advised immediate surgery as further growth would have put pressure on other organs, leading to possible organ failure. Fortunately, the tumour was benign and the patient had no co-morbidities, which enabled a faster recovery,” said Dr Abhishek Tiwari, consultant, surgical gastroenterology, who was part of the team that performed the surgery. Fear of getting infected is keeping patients away from hospitals, where they are increasingly seeking treatment in advance stages of disease, which require more complex surgeries. “Many procedures that can be done using minimally invasive techniques now need open surgery. The complications also led to longer hospital and ICU stay,” said Dr Vinod Bindal, vice chairman of minimally invasive surgery at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/50-kg-tumour-removed-from-woman-s-abdomen-in-3-5-hours-at-delhi-hospital/story-cxmghtOaZf8x0Ir2trgndP.html
22-08-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow admin to set up kiosks for distribution of Ivermectin tablets||Lucknow’s district administration will set up around 40 kiosks across the city to ensure free distribution of Ivermectin tablets among asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. A few of these kiosks will become operational from Monday, officials said. Ivermectin, a deworming drug, can be used as a supporting medicine for Covid-19 patients under home isolation and their contacts, according to doctors. Officials said the kiosks would come up at the airport, city bus stations, railway stations, etc. Additional district magistrate KP Singh said, “The use of the Ivermectin tablet has proved effective for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. It is also being widely prescribed by government doctors. Hence, the administration, in collaboration with the health department, is setting up kiosks across the city to ensure its free distribution.” Officials said the project would be implemented in phases. “Initially, all the entry and exit points of the city would be covered. It would largely include all four bus stations, railway stations, the airport and the highway entries and exits,” an official said. Experts would ensure distribution of tablets among the people at all these points, he said. The tablets would be given on the basis of the symptoms or if anyone has come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. On Wednesday, chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr RP Singh issued a circular, advising people to take Ivermectin tablet, as per their body weight and age, if they test positive and are under home isolation. Doctors said the medicine was found effective against the virus in a lab in-vitro study. “In Australia, researchers claimed the viral load went down 5,000 times in 48 hours with this medicine taken in combination. Also, a Bangladesh scientist claimed a similar effect. At present, research on this medicine is going on at 28 places,” said Dr Kauser Usman of King George’s Medical University. “It is not a treatment for Covid-19, but yes, as a supporting medicine, its role has been identified to boost immunity. It can be taken under a doctor’s guidance for a proper dosage,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-admin-to-set-up-kiosks-for-distribution-of-ivermectin-tablets/story-YNDN2GIdWHf7EsDgZQbmNL.html
22-08-2020||Bhopal||Heavy rainfall lashes parts of western Madhya Pradesh, low-lying areas flooded||Heavy rains inundated low-lying areas in several parts of Madhya Pradesh, especially those in the western parts of the state, affecting normal life, officials said on Saturday.Incessant rainfall in the western districts, including Bhopal, Indore and Sehore, since Friday has sent small rivers and nullahs into spate, they added.In the last 24 hours, Bhopal recorded 210 mm of rainfall, Indore received 263 mm and Sehore recorded 316 mm, which is the highest in Madhya Pradesh, an official from India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) Bhopal office told news agency PTI. Monsoon is likely to remain active over the course of the next two days in the western region, the official added.Also read: IMD issues red warning for parts of central, western IndiaIncidents of waterlogging were reported in several parts of Bhopal, particularly from low-lying areas, a fire department official said. Roads in some areas of the state capital were submerged following the downpour. Authorities said Shahpura Lake started overflowing following incessant rains.Meanwhile, sluice gates of Bhopal’s Upper Lake were opened on Saturday morning following a rise in water levels, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner KVS Choudary said. “Inflow from streams in the catchment areas is causing the water levels to rise in Upper Lake”, Choudhary said.Also read| Mumbai rains latest update: IMD issue orange alert as city celebrates Ganesh ChaturthiThe downstream of Bhadbhada Dam, which is at the southeast corner of the Upper Lake has been issued an alert, he added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/heavy-rainfall-lashes-parts-of-western-madhya-pradesh-low-lying-areas-flooded/story-G8nvv1QvNzq8aDEgz4V10N.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi reported 1,250 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours||A total of 1,250 new Covid-19 cases and 1,082 recoveries along with 13 fatalities due to Covid-19 have been reported in the last 24 hours, informed Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday.“1,250 new Covid-19 positive cases 1,082 recoveries and 13 deaths have been recorded in Delhi in the last 24 hours. There are presently 11,426 active cases in the national capital,” Jain told ANI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSpeaking on the deaths due to Covid-19 in the national capital, he said that the government is trying to reduce the death rate. “The aim was to ensure that there are no deaths due to Covid but we are trying to minimise the death rate. The average ambulance arrival time has also reduced to 18 per cent,” he said further.With regard to the opening of hotels in the national capital, he said that the hotels would be opened as per the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the centre. The health minister further said that weekly markets would resume function keeping social distancing.“The hotels in Delhi will open as per SOPs issued by the central government and weekly markets will begin functioning while maintaining social distancing,” Jain added.Jain further informed that banquet halls have been delinked with hospitals saying that “it is not required anymore” adding that close to 10,000 Covid-19 beds are empty across the national capital.“Banquet halls have also been delinked with hospitals as we don’t need extra beds now. We have around 10,000 empty Covid-19 beds in hospitals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reported-1-250-new-covid-19-cases-in-the-last-24-hours/story-FOGTKjONfPrzFMDyALKxZL.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||How Mumbai is worshipping Ganpati in the time of Covid||Mumbaiites have welcomed their favourite festival with many families making eco-friendly idols at home. They have also stuck to simple paper flower decorations instead of using fresh flowers.While some have made idols out of chocolates and other sweet dishes, others have used clay in order to celebrate the festival in the safest way.Sumeet Patil, a Dadar resident, created Ganpati idol from quilts. Patil, an art director by profession, said: “We usually forget about the unused stuff at home that can be utilized in a creative manner...I just took a month to convert my idea into reality.”Baker Neha Divekar, whose son was stuck in Paris due to the pandemic, decided to celebrate the festival for the first time by installing Ganpati idol at home after his return home in June. “I knew that I wanted to install the idol but at the same time I was sure that I was not going to leave home to buy an idol. This is why I decided to attend an online class to learn to make an eco-friendly Ganpati so that the idol can be immersed at home itself. No guests have been invited..,” she said. Pranali Sahasrabudhe, a professor and a Vile Parle-East resident, said, “I have been installing eco-friendly Ganpati at home for four years now, but this is the first time that I have not used any decoration material that needed to be bought. So much so that all my flowers are made from papers available at home so that I don’t have to enter a market place to buy them. Moreover, I have even asked my extended family to remain at home and have assured them to video call during the aarti.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-is-worshipping-ganpati-in-the-time-of-covid/story-0J6HpT3Yh8LvrAUJVJ5koK.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues guidelines for Ganesh Chaturthi: List of do’s and don’ts||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has urged people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi in a low-key manner and avoid crowding in view of the coronavirus epidemic in the country. Maharashtra has been the worst-hit among all states.He also urged the people from the Muslim community to observe Muharram, which falls in the month-end, in a simple manner and avoid gatherings, an official statement said. It had also said that maatam (mourning) processions should not be taken out keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak.The Maharashtra government has also issued guidelines regarding Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, saying that processions should not be taken out before installing and immersing idols.Here’s a list of guidelines to be followed for Ganeshotsav:•The heights of Lord Ganesh idols installed by sarvajanik (community) mandals and at household-level should be limited to 4 feet and 2 feet, respectively, this year.•All mandals (associations) need to set up mandaps (decorated temporary covered structures) in line with the policies formulated by municipal corporations or the local administration.•Ganesh Chaturthi is to be celebrated in a simple manner this year, so there should be no pomp in the decorations by sarvajanik mandals or individuals installing idols in homes.•The government said people should possibly worship idols made of metals, marbles or other elements instead of installing conventional ones this year.•If the idols installed are made of clay or are eco-friendly, then those should be immersed at home itself. Idols should be immersed at a nearby artificial pond if it is not possible to immerse them at homes, the statement said.•If possible, the send off of idols should be postponed until the time of immersions of idols installed during Maghi Ganeshotsav or during the month of Bhadrapad 2021, that is, next year.•Health-related advertisements should be displayed during the 10-day festival to help people keep themselves safe and avoid the infection. The government asked mandals to undertake health initiatives instead of organising cultural programmes.•Mandals should try to arrange for online darshan of Lord Ganesh’s idols. The government said mandaps be disinfected, thermal screening be arranged for and physical distancing related norms be strictly adhered to by devotees turning up at mandaps to seek darshan of Lord Ganesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-guidelines-for-ganesh-chaturthi-list-of-do-s-and-don-ts/story-Uh6J3BeMXPHdKVLCNS23rI.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police gears up for Ganesh Chaturthi; tightens security across city||The Mumbai Police has beefed up security to keep a hawk-eyed vigil in the city during the 10- day Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which began on Saturday amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The police force is on high alert with more than 5,000 CCTV cameras to ensure that no untoward incidents take place during the Ganeshotsav.As Moharram is also coinciding with Ganeshotsav, the Mumbai Police has accordingly made security arrangements and would deploy heavy security bandobast at communally sensitive pockets, the police said.Here’s a list of restrictive rules in place across Mumbai for Ganesh Chaturthi:•The police have roped in additional manpower from State Reserve Police Force, Rapid Action Force, Force One, Rapid Action Teams along with reserved police, according to a statement released by the police.•Assistance will be sought from homeguards and NGO social activists. 500 policemen will be deployed dedicated for Ganeshotsav across the city and 30 policemen at Lalbaug, the hub of Ganeshotsav in the city. 1,000 additional policemen will be deployed for Ganpati immersion, the police said.•The Mumbai Police intelligence cells in co-ordination with the Anti-Terrorism Squad will keep close watch on suspicious activities, an officer said.•The government has already requested sarwajanik Ganeshotsav Mandals to keep the ganesh idols height four feet and domestic Ganesha to be under two feet. Also, 167 artificial immersion sites have been set up to avoid congestion at the Chowpaties. The police have appealed to the citizens not to crowd on the roads and to observe social distancing.•Quick response teams, bomb disposal squads and anti- terrorism cells have been put on alert to prevent any untoward incident, police said.The police have urged citizens not to gather on roads during the festivities and pandals have been asked to cut down noise pollution, police said. Apart from the instructions to follow social distancing norms, people have also been asked to wear masks and sanitise pandals as a precautionary measure, police said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-gears-up-for-ganesh-chaturthi-tightens-security-across-city/story-khQm3hizyx3TGGmrfF0ZiK.html
22-08-2020||City||BSF shoots down five intruders on Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district||Tarn Taran: The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead five intruders trying to sneak into Indian territory from Pakistan near Dall village of Bhikhiwind sub division in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district on Saturday morning. A senior BSF official said that an AK assault rifle and a rucksack was recovered from one of the bodies. “The search operation is underway. It is yet to be ascertained if those shot down are Pakistanis. The motive of the accused will be clear once the operation ends.” Around 5am, BSF personnel noticed suspicious movement across the border fence in Pakistan near the Dall border out post (BoP). Sources said two men were seen trying to sneak into Indian territory. Despite being challenged, the duo kept moving ahead, prompting the BSF to open fire. After the firing, the officials said, a search was launched and five bodies were recovered. BSF officials said they were taking precautions during the search as the area could be mined. Last year, Punjab Police had busted a module smuggling sophisticated weapons and drugs from across the border by using drones. The police had claimed that the smugglers had cleared several sorties of drugs and weapons from across the border in Bhikhwind sub division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-shoots-down-five-intruders-on-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran-district/story-KQ2Y0mgO22WjCQjcmEYsbK.html
22-08-2020||Lifestyle||Allowing restaurants to serve liquor will help the grappling industry, but awaiting guidelines, say restaurateurs||Delhi, you finally have a reason to raise a toast. In the latest move to give a boost to the hospitality sector, restaurants and hotels may soon be allowed to serve liquor but bars will remain shut as per the direction given by the Delhi government. However, the rules and guidelines are still awaited. While some restaurateurs are delighted by the move and state that it will help the grappling restaurant industry to take the plunge and witness a growth in employment, they also feel that there is a lack of clarity over the step as official statements are anticipated.“It is a welcoming move however we are still awaiting the final go ahead in writing from the authorities. This will help the industry that has been very badly affected. Sales currently remain at a paltry 10-15 % of pre-Covid-19 levels. And by some numbers, only 18% of the restaurants have actually opened up. This move will enable more and more restaurants to take the plunge and open up, which will subsequently lead to a significant increase in employment,” says Zorawar Kalra, founder, Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd who also expects the dinner revenue to be greatly enhanced with the inclusion of liquor.Read: Delhi restaurants, hotels allowed to serve liquor; bars stay closedWith social distancing norms in place and patrons drinking at their table, it shouldn’t be a drawback opines Riyaaz Amlani, CEO and managing director, Impresario Handmade Restaurants, that has eateries such as Social and Smoke House Deli. He says, “As long as bars are not allowed to operate and people are drinking at the table while maintaining social distancing, we don’t see an issue in the government granting liquor permissions. It will give restaurants and bars some much-needed revenue in these trying times. Without alcohol and with limited operating hours, we are looking at generating only 30-35% of revenue vis-a-vis pre-Covid numbers. This will make running restaurants more expensive than remaining shut.”Vishal Anand, director, Moonshine Food Ventures (Farzi Cafe Aerocity & Saga) is too rejoicing the positive step, as he states, “This would certainly benefit the struggling restaurant industry which is one of the biggest employers. We eagerly await the final letter from the Excise Department as this would definitely improve our sales.” Read: Hotels to open in Delhi; weekly markets on a trial basis, but not gyms, yoga centresDinesh Arora of Unplugged Courtyard is elated by the move and hopes the decision gets will be finalised soon. He says, “We are waiting for the final approval and then we can kick-start our operations to serve alcohol to our patrons on the tables.”The news brings in a sense of relief for a few restaurants as payment of fees to serve liquor for the quarter was done earlier. “The step was much needed and we hope to see a definite increase in the revenue because even when people were visiting the restaurant for dine-in, our revenue was lacking and we had already paid the excise fees for the quarter. We are looking forward to reviving the space and serving customers,” says Radhika Khandelwal, chef owner at Fig&Maple and Ivy & Bean.Read: Celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay sets fans on frenzy with plans of opening restaurant in IndiaFor many, it is becoming tough to meet the salaries and pay exorbitant rentals during such times so an approval is really necessary to give a boost to the industry. Akshay Anand, vice president, Delhi Restaurant & Club Association and also the founder of Ophelia and Toy Room says, “When the approval is given, restaurants will allow to start serving on the table as the bar counter will still remain non-functional to avoid the crowd, and this is being practised in Assam, Rajasthan and Punjab. It will be progressive for our industry as when we took the properties, the rents were so high that we had always kept in mind that we will be serving alcohol.”However, Yangdup Lama, founder of Sidecar and Cocktails and Dreams, Speakeasy has a difference of opinion. He asserts, “The letter also states bars are not allowed but when you apply for a license in Delhi whether it is a restaurant or a bar, it says, ‘eating house’, so it’s conflicting as how do you define whether it is a restaurant and bar while the license, lease processes, requirements are same for both.” Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/the-move-to-allow-restaurants-to-serve-liquor-will-help-the-grappling-industry-but-guidelines-are-still-awaited-says-restaurateurs/story-QpTX51m7LMr7ztbAbRUcgL.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid impact: Five ways this year’s Ganpati festival is different||The annual Ganpati festival is here with entire Maharashtra geared up to celebrate it. However, the festival beginning Saturday will be celebrated differently in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Here are five ways the festival is different this year: No processions: The public processions held during the first and last days of the 11-day festival will be missed on the streets in cities such as Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The police have prohibited any processions, which are one of the highlights of the festival. No dhol-tasha performances: The processions are accompanied by dhol-tasha troupes, another integral part of the celebrations. The sound of hundreds of dhols mark the beginning and the end of festivities in Maharashtra. However, this year, the music is missing. Idols smaller in height: After the government capped the Ganpati idol height at four feet, most mandals in Mumbai and Pune decided to install smaller idols. Online darshan: To catch a glimpse of the well-known Ganapati idols like those in Lalbaugcha Raja and Dagdusheth Ganapati, devotees will have to go online instead of visiting in person. Every year, families and friends throng the pandals. Home delivery: The idols for home installation were home-delivered by sellers to avoid crowding at stalls. The goods required for pooja were also delivered at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-impact-five-ways-this-year-s-ganpati-festival-is-different/story-cZ6EntXl0ISQXpiGv86vOL.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||High tides of 4.67 metres expected in Mumbai today: BMC||High tides of 4.67 metres is expected in Mumbai at 2:14 pm on Saturday, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “High tides of 4.67 metres expected in Mumbai at 2:14 pm today. Across the city, generally cloudy sky expected with moderate rain; heavy rainfall at isolated places,” the BMC said.Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD) provided rainfall data for Mumbai and suburban areas.“AWS/ARG rainfall data (in mm) for Mumbai city and suburban (from 0830 hours IST of yesterday to 0830 hours IST of today): Bandra-70; Bhayander-82; Dahisar-103; Mira Road-78; Santacruz-59 and Thane-82. Rainfall (in mm) from IMD observatories: Santacruz-65 and Colaba-27,” the weather department tweeted. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/high-tides-of-4-67-metres-expected-in-mumbai-today-bmc/story-wVhPfaq3y8MJS1utwGQwbI.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Ganesh Chaturthi: Arti performed at Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai||‘Arti’ was performed at the Shri Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.The ten-day celebrations for the festival will begin from today.However, the festival this year will be celebrated in a much more restricted way due to Covid-19. According to new guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs on July 29, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will continue to remain prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ganesh-chaturthi-arti-performed-at-siddhivinayak-temple-in-mumbai/story-InaQwFrIjEeVH1m8UxigwN.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Social distancing, virtual darshan: Many changes in this year’s Ganpati festival||Ganesh Chaturti celebrations will witness many changes this year. While all major Ganpati mandals have opted for virtual darshan, most city-based housing societies have decided to keep the festivities alive by observing social distancing norms. Most smaller mandals and residential complexes have built artificial ponds within their society premises in order to ensure that people don’t crowd near larger water bodies for immersion (visarjan). Many societies have also decided to bring home a smaller and eco-friendly idol to make visarjan in artificial ponds easier. The annual Ganpati visarjan procession of DSK Madhukosh Society at Sakinaka, Andheri (E) will be a low-key affair. “We will observe all government rules and regulations of social distancing and only those with masks will be allowed to enter the mandal for Ganpati darshan --- that too one at a time,” said SD Kale, treasurer of the society. He added that several society members will act as volunteers. And on Sunday, the idol will be immersed in an artificial pond built within the society premises. “Society members who have brought small Ganpati idols at their respective residences will also use the same pool to immerse idols,” added Kale. Many Ganpati mandals in the city voluntarily decided to contain Ganesh festivities this year, keeping in mind the current Covid-19 situation in the city and state. At Vile Parle, members of over 30 Ganpati mandals got together couple of months ago and decided on a three-feet idol. They agreed on immersing all the idols in an artificial pond built around their area.“Since most people will avoid taking the visarjan procession all the way to Juhu Chowpatty this year, we have already built an artificial pond close to Vile Parle fire brigade station. Many local residential complexes have also told us that they will be using the same pond for visarjan of idols on Sunday,” said Pravin Shibe, member and advisor for Vikas Mitra Mandal, Vile Parle. Shibe added that most mandals around Parle exchanged the usual 15-16 feet Ganpati idols for smaller clay idols this year. “Times are such, health and safety of people is more important than celebrations so we have decided to keep festivities also at a smaller level this time round to avoid large gathering of people,” he said. Another housing society in Kandivali (W) has encouraged society members to opt for clay Ganpati idols that could be immersed in buckets at their houses. “We decided that instead of crowding people during visarjan, every member who brings a Ganpati idol home can immerse the same in a small bucket of water at home. This water can then be used at our society garden,” said Sheela Mantri, resident and general body head of Prakruti Apartments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-distancing-virtual-darshan-many-changes-in-this-year-s-ganpati-festival/story-WAbQ0yOdQjYNuH1PCvUQ1H.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||In Mumbai, housing societies take to artificial ponds for Ganesha visarjan||Ganesh Chaturti celebrations will witness many changes this year. While all major Ganpati mandals have opted for virtual darshan, most city-based housing societies have decided to keep the festivities alive by observing social distancing norms at all times.Most smaller mandals and residential complexes have built artificial ponds within their society premises in order to ensure that people don’t crowd near larger water bodies for immersion (visarjan). Many societies have also decided to bring home a smaller and eco-friendly idol to make visarjan in artificial ponds easier.The annual Ganpati visarjan procession of DSK Madhukosh Society at Sakinaka, Andheri (E) will witness low key celebrations.“We will observe all government rules and regulations of social distancing and only those with masks will be allowed to enter the mandal for Ganpati darshan, that too one at a time,” said SD Kale, treasurer of the society.He added that several society members will act as volunteers and on Sunday the idol will be immersed in an artificial pond built within the society premises. “Society members who have brought small Ganpati idols at their respective residences will also use the same pool to immerse idols,” added Kale.Many Ganpati mandals in the city voluntarily decided to contain Ganesha festivities this year keeping in mind the current Covid-19 situation in the city and state.At Vile Parle, members of over 30 Ganpati mandals got together a couple of months ago and decided on a three-feet idol and agreed on immersing all the idols in an artificial pond built around their area.“Since most people will avoid taking the visarjan procession all the way to Juhu Chowpatty this year, we have already built an artificial pond close to Vile Parle fire brigade station. Many local residential complexes have also told us that they will be using the same pond for visarjan of idols on Sunday,” said Pravin Shibe, member and advisor for Vikas Mitra Mandal, Vile Parle.Shibe added that most mandals around Parle exchanged the usual 15-16 feet Ganpati idols for smaller clay idols this year.“Times are such, health and safety of people is more important than celebrations so we have decided to keep festivities also at a smaller level this time round to avoid a large gathering of people,” he said.Another housing society in Kandivali (W) has encouraged society members to opt for clay Ganpati idols that could be immersed in buckets at their respective houses itself this year.“We decided that instead of crowding during visarjan, every member who brings a Ganpati idol home can immerse the same in a small bucket of water at home. This water can then be used at our society garden,” said Sheela Mantri, resident and general body head of Prakruti Apartments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-housing-societies-take-to-artificial-ponds-for-ganesha-visarjan/story-S4ubiLPtR0lQjvRH2RX4AO.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Ganesha mandals skirt their way around idol height cut, complaints follow||Some city-based mandals have reached out to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) alleging violation of the height restriction guideline by Sarvajanik mandals for Ganesha idols this year.On July 11, in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the home department of the Maharashtra government published a notification capping the height of Ganesh idols to four-feet for Sarvajanik idols - groups that install idols along roadside pandals and capped the height of household idols to two feet.The MPCB said the height restriction was just a guideline and not a law. “Some complaints have been received where mandals, requesting anonymity since they have followed the guidelines, have objected to height violations. This is a guideline in light of the pandemic to avoid large gatherings near mandals, and it is a request to mandals to follow it but not a mandate. However, from 2021, this will become a law and will be much stricter,” said Sanjay Bhuskute, public relations officer, MPCB.The Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), umbrella body of Ganesh mandals said idol makers had raised the height of associated materials such as thrones or other platforms (such as a horse, tiger etc.) on which the idol is mounted on while keeping the height of the idol around the suggested guideline, citing it is as a loophole in the restrictions. “One or two feet here or there is not an issue but the government guideline is specific to the idol and not associated structures. Despite this, we have still requested mandals to ensure any kind of crowds are avoided and focus on online darshan,” said Naresh Dahibhavkar, president, BSGSS.The umbrella body has appointed a task force of volunteers during the pandemic to ensure citizens do not face difficulties during the pandemic. The task force involves almost 500 volunteers spread across all 24 wards. BSGSS also provided 2,500 masks - 1,500 to the Mumbai police, 500 to the civic body and 500 more to its own volunteers to ensure proper personal protection over the next 11 days.“There are two issues we are facing at the moment. The first is there is no clear understanding for those residing in containment zones how their immersion procession will happen as they are allowed to bring the idol but not come out of the contained area. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is not complying with our requests,” said Dahibhavkar, adding that the second concern was regarding the accessibility to the recently increased 167 artificial immersion spots in the city. They were 32 up till last year. “Citizens have not been informed about the exact locations yet. We are hoping there will not be any confusion on the day of the immersion processions,” he said.A senior BMC official said all help would be provided to citizens. “We are discussing the process to deal with immersion at containment zones. Guidelines for this and location specific immersion sites will be released over the weekend,” the official said.Meanwhile, MPCB will be recording noise levels across 25 locations in Mumbai and 158 locations across 26 municipal corporations across the state over five immersion days. Bhuskute said from 2021 the ban on Plaster of Paris use, compulsory immersion at artificial ponds, height restrictions would be mandatory for idol makers and mandals. “They will be under scrutiny based on Central Pollution Control Board guidelines. However, it is not clear at the moment whether these guidelines will be under implementation during Maghi Ganesh Chaturthi which falls in February,” he said. Around 25 Ganesh mandals in the city, including the Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) community, have deferred this year’s celebrations to February 15, 2021 in light of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ganesha-mandals-skirt-their-way-around-idol-height-cut-complaints-follow/story-Ypj2M1aodRvjXAZS9QX7oL.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Suspected ISIS terrorist wanted to carry out ‘lone wolf’ attack in Delhi: Police||A suspected operative of the Islamic State, a “lone wolf who had planned an attack in the national capital” was arrested by Delhi Police after a shootout in Dhaula Kuan area late on Friday, officials said on Saturday.Nearly two dozen National Security Guard (NSG) officials along with bomb detection and defusal teams arrived near the Buddha Jayanti Park from where the suspected ISIS operative, who has been identified as Abdul Yusuf Khan, was caught. Delhi Police’s special cell recovered two improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from the possession of the man.“There was an exchange of fire after which he was arrested. He was a lone wolf who had planned an attack in the national capital. We have recovered a pistol and two IEDs from him,” Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said.The security personnel cordoned off the entire area as the NSG team defused the two IEDs recovered from the arrested ISIS operative. The team used a remote-controlled vehicle to lift and contain the IEDs in a specially designed vehicle where they were defused by bomb experts. The defusal operation last for nearly three hours, an official privy to the development said, requesting anonymity. #WATCH Delhi: National Security Guard (NSG) commandos deployed near Buddha Jayanti Park in Ridge Road area, from where one ISIS operative was arrested with Improvised Explosive Device, earlier today. pic.twitter.com/9n7KGfOXZCThe arrested ISIS operative has not been cooperating during the interrogation and is misleading them by changing his statements. Special cell officials said they are yet to establish the exact residential address of the person, as he has given them three addresses -- Balrampur and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and another in Uttarakhand. “We are verifying the addresses he has given,” DCP Kushwaha sais, adding that the pistol recovered from the arrested man is of .30 bore.Officials said they have learnt about an associate of the arrested man. The information is also being verified.A police team had received information about Khan’s movement in the ridge area between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh, following which it laid a trap. The suspected ISIS operative was on a motorcycle when he was intercepted by the police, ANI reported citing an official. Searches underway at several locations, ANI added.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh police sounded a statewide alert on Saturday after the arrest of the suspected ISIS operative in Delhi, Prashant Kumar, additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order), said. Kumar said all district police chiefs have been asked to intensify vigil and carry out extensive drives to check the movement of suspicious people.A senior police official of UP Anti Terror Squad (ATS) said a team has been sent to Delhi to collect inputs about plans of the arrested man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/isis-operative-arrested-with-ieds-after-an-encounter-in-delhi-reports-ani/story-QvKpRHIlCW5hWFSKLoZFJJ.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rains latest update: IMD issue orange alert as city celebrates Ganesh Chaturthi||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has upgraded its rain warnings and issued an orange alert for Mumbai and several other cities along the Konkan coast in central Maharashtra over the weekend.As the state gears up for the annual 10-day Ganesh Utsav, Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, Raigad, and Ratnagiri districts are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Saturday. While a yellow alert--heavy rain across isolated areas--has been issued for Mumbai and Thane on Sunday, orange alert continues for Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri.“Under the influence of a Well-Marked Low Pressure Area which now lies over central parts of East Madhya Pradesh & neighborhood and east west shear zone along 22 deg N ;west coast and parts of interior Maharashtra is likely to get receive enhanced rainfall activity at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places during next 3-4 days,” the weather bureau said in a statement on Friday.Owing to heavy rainfall, low lying areas are expected to be flooded and waterlogging may lead to traffic in major cities, IMD has warned. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into along and off the north Maharashtra coast till August 25.The weather bureau has also warned of short term disruption to municipal services such as water, electricity, etc and local trains services in Mumbai. There is also danger to very old buildings and unmaintained structures, it has said. There’s also a possibility of falling trees and local landslides in elevated hilly areas, the weather department said.Mumbai has recorded its highest August rainfall over the past nine years and is 46mm short of breaking the maximum monthly rain record for the decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-latest-update-imd-issue-orange-alert-as-city-gears-up-for-ganesh-chaturthi/story-hmLhPU3rlC8uPSrQxm5fUP.html
22-08-2020||Bangalore||50 held on rioting charges after violent protest over temple ritual in Karnataka||Fifty people have been arrested on charges including rioting after a large crowd barged into a temple and attempted to take out a procession, violating restrictions on the annual ritual due to Covid-19 situation in Koppal district in Karnataka, police said on Friday. The irate locals broke open the gate of the temple under the control of the state government, attacked police personnel and also damaged a vehicle during the incident in Dotihal village on Thursday, they said. Two cases have been registered for violating the prohibitory orders and damaging the temple and another for rioting and 50 people arrested while many have fled the village, a police officer said. When we stopped them, they hit our vehicle... and damaged it. They attacked a few of us also, the officer told PTI. According to police, every year on the eve of Gauri Pooja, the idol of sage Shukamuni is seated in a palanquin and taken around the village in a procession. However, due to coronavirus related restrictions, the jurisdictional Tahsildar had banned any ritual where a large number of people could congregate. Instead, the officer had permitted a limited number of people to do pooja inside the temple, police said. Irked over this, around 150 people gathered at the temple and demanded that they should also be given similar privilege. As the officials stuck to their stand, the angry crowd demolished the gate, barged inside the temple and took out the palanquin. However, police managed to stop them from taking out the procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/50-held-on-rioting-charges-after-violent-protest-over-temple-ritual-in-karnataka/story-GW0jzaAvtG738UAzfu8KZI.html
22-08-2020||City||151 Covid infections detected in Yamunanagar; Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel tests positive||As many as 151 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Yamunanagar on Friday, taking the tally of patients in the district to 1,154. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “Out of these latest patients, at least 64 are primary carriers and the remaining are the contacts of the previous cases. No doubt, the cases are rising, but we have increased the testing in the last few days as well. On an average, we have taken nearly 1,200 samples per day in the last week. Of the fatalities, most of those who have succumbed to the virus till now had comorbidities.”As per the office of civil surgeon, 33,094 samples have been taken in Yamunanagar till Friday evening and active cases have risen to 605, with the district logging 17 deaths. Two patients died of the infection in the last 24 hours. In Ambala, City MLA Aseem Goel was among the 98 people who tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, pushing the district Covid count to 2,961. Goel took to Twitter to announce his test results and said, “My health is fine, but I am getting home quarantined on the advice of doctors. I request that all who came in my contact in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get yourself checked by a doctor.”On the fresh cases, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “35 cases were reported from the City, 39 from Cantonment, 19 from Chourmastpur and five from other areas. 71 patients recovered on Friday and the district’s active cases stood at 409.”In Fatehabad, municipal council chairman Darshan Nagpal, who had taken part in a school inauguration programme on Friday, tested positive for the virus, an official communication said.Fatehabad MLA Dura Ram has also undergone a test after Nagpal was found infected as he had interacted with him.Two doctors are among 12 new patients registered in Jhajjar.(With inputs from Bhavey Nagpal and Sunil Rahar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/151-covid-infections-detected-in-yamunanagar-ambala-city-mla-aseem-goel-tests-positive/story-x8EGp4cycxoB4swpD1nCbJ.html
22-08-2020||City||Thane task force team writes book on Covid-19 guidelines||A 14-member task force constituted by Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar compiled and launched a book on Thursday on the guidelines to manage the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidelines include the treatment protocol, investigations, clinical management, home isolation protocol and biomedical waste disposal and other steps to control the pandemic within Thane.Dr Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter, said, “The first meeting of the task force was held on August 4, when a decision to formulate guidelines to control and management of the Covid-19 pandemic within Thane district was taken.”According to state figures, Thane district has 1.18 lakh positive cases, of which 20,133 are active cases. “Seeing the rising number of cases, we passed an order to form a task force to effectively tackle the spread of coronavirus across the district. The task force was entrusted with sharing information on government policies, to conducting webinars and meetings, monitoring patient treatment and discharge protocol at government and private hospitals,” said Narvekar.The dean of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Dr Pratibha Sawant, was heading the task force along with medical officers of health from the various municipal corporations across the district. “We started with developing patient management protocols, treatment guidelines for mild, moderate and severe patients, deciding upon staff requirements and assisting local administrations as and when required. Moreover, we would ensure hospitals have proper documentation of all patients,” said Dr Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-task-force-team-writes-book-on-covid-19-guidelines/story-tmyAkIbuTkXqiRAW4diosN.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Patient’s kin threatens doctor in Mumbai for asking her to wear mask||DB Marg police on Wednesday booked a woman for allegedly abusing and threatening a Grant Road nursing home doctor who asked her to wear a mask at the health facility and not to crowd in the patient’s room. The police have not arrested the woman yet. The complainant, Dr Kavita Tilwani, 48, is a Malabar Hill resident and runs the SP Nursing Home along with her brother. In her complaint to the police, Dr Tilwani said on Monday, an eight-month pregnant patient was admitted at the nursing home for pregnancy-related complications and the next day. On Wednesday, while the patient was in her room, around 20-22 of her relatives visited the nursing home to see her. Some of them were not wearing masks, stated the police complaint. When Dr Tilwani visited the room for the patient’s check-up, she saw that the patient’s relatives were crowding the place, even as three women sat on the patient’s bed. When Dr Tilwani raised objections over it and asked them to wear masks and leave the patient’s room, a woman sitting on the patient’s bed – Nafisa Abbas Lakdawala – started abusing her and also threatened to assault her, which led to an argument between the doctor and the patient’s relatives. Soon, the other staff members of the nursing home intervened, after which the patient’s relatives left the room. Dr Tilwani complained about the incident to DB Marg police station, following which a case was registered under section 4 of the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2010, against Lakdawala. “We would verify the allegations made in the complaint and would soon record the statement of the accused and then file a charge sheet against her at the court,” said senior inspector Suryakant Bangar of DB Marg police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/patient-s-kin-threatens-doctor-in-mumbai-for-asking-her-to-wear-mask/story-hqVltvJdkGsGxlBUW7hBXI.html
22-08-2020||City||Four staffers at Sharad Pawar’s Baramati home test positive for Covid-19||Four days after 12 staffers at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s Mumbai residence were found positive for Covid-19, four people working on the farms of his Govind Baug home at Baramati in Pune district were also tested positive for the virus on Friday. “The four are daily-wage labourers who worked at the farms of Govind Baug. They are now undergoing treatment at a local government hospital,” said an aide close to the NCP chief.According to sources, the swab samples of the four people – three men and one woman – were taken on Wednesday. Earlier, the veteran politician, his family and staffers at the Silver Oak home in south Mumbai underwent tests for Covid-19. Pawar and his family members were tested negative but after the reports of 12 of his staff members came positive, the veteran leader had decided to remain in isolation for four days. All the 12 staffers were asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment at the NSCI facility in Worli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-staffers-at-sharad-pawar-s-baramati-home-test-positive/story-rl0b5ASEafqDmpoZ0uMc1N.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Schools in Mumbai seek clarity on conducting first unit tests||More than two months after the new academic year began in the state, albeit virtually, schools are demanding clarity on the conduct of unit tests. Citing that the state education department has not issued any guidelines for conducting exams, schools said some instructions were necessary before they could arrive at a decision. Every year, schools conduct their first unit tests in August or September before students go on a vacation for Ganpati festival. However, this year schools began only virtually on June 15 due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The education department has also slashed the syllabus by 25% for the academic year. “In the absence of any uniform guidelines from the education department, several schools have started planning tests. In some schools, not all students have access to internet and mobile phones. Hence, such students are likely to stay out of the whole process. For this, a set of common guidelines are essential,” said Rajesh Pandya, teacher at Fatimadevi High School in Malad. Schools, however, added that since they cannot reopen physically, organising exams online is the only solution. “We have no other option but to chalk out a schedule now. Unit tests are held to assess students on what they have been taught in the initial months. If it is delayed, the following assessments will also be delayed,” said the principal of a suburban school. Vishal Solanki, education commissioner, said the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training was working on the issue and will come up with a plan soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-in-mumbai-seek-clarity-on-conducting-first-unit-tests/story-IFNOcSs1b8odQTZecKq2sN.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar launches ‘e-office’; sets December 25 deadline for electronic movement of official files||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday inaugurated the ambitious e-governance project called ‘e-office’ under which the official files will be moved electronically across different departments, cutting delays and ensuring accountability. As reported in HT on August 21, Khattar said the offices of chief minister, chief secretary and finance department have already switched over to the ‘e-office’. An official spokesperson said after the launch, 20 departments and three corporations formally switched over to electronic movement of files. “The official files pertaining to the chief minister’s office (CMO), chief secretary (CS) office and the finance department will now be moved digitally,” he said. Khattar directed the officers that by September 15, ‘e-office’ should be made functional in all departments of the state. He said by December 25, all files in the offices of the state government will start moving electronically. The CM issued directions to the officers that all new files should be moved through ‘e-office’ and the old files should be digitised. Chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora said ‘e-office’ will prove to be a milestone in the history of Haryana. She assured Khattar that by December 25, which is celebrated as Good Governance Day, ‘e-office’ will be implemented in all departments across the state. She said introduction of ‘e-office’ during the Covid-19 crisis was even more important as the manual exchange of files posed risk of virus spread. Arora said that so far, 18,000 e-files of 42 departments and more than 71,000 e-receipts have been forwarded 3.8 lakh times by 7,200 users through ‘e-office’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-launches-e-office-sets-december-25-deadline-for-electronic-movement-of-official-files/story-ysABnApU1xlzAoHPsbLzBL.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Railways from razing 1,000 houses in Faridabad colony||The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Railways from dispossession of residents and demolition of 1,000 odd houses in Sant Nagar locality of Faridabad. The high court bench of Justice GS Sandhawalia acted on the plea of Chandan Singh and 195 others, the residents who had approached the court challenging August 14 notices of railway administration affixed on houses and in the colony about demolition to be carried out on August 22. While restraining against demolition and dispossession of residents, the HC has sought response from Haryana, Railways and Centre by September 7. Their counsel Vaibhav Jain said the notices were the result of an order passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in October 2018 directing the Railways to form a special task force (STF) to remove occupation from the railway land. Sant Nagar Colony is an identified slum and in existence since 60s. In 2016, the area was selected to be developed as a ‘Smart Slum’ and ₹12 crore was allotted by Faridabad Smart City Limited for the development of area, Jain said, adding that the development works regarding water supply, sewerage, drainage, road improvement, community toilet, landscaping, and smart solar LED streetlights were started in 2018 and currently underway. The colony has a population of approximately 2,500, he said. The court was told that the ‘cryptic’ notice affixed in the locality does not mention a date or any issuing authority. Furthermore, the petitioners were never granted personal hearing which is in total violation of principle of natural justice. Petitioners have not been told as to how they are in unauthorised occupation since they have electricity and sewerage connections, and the land belongs to various authorities apart from the Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-railways-from-razing-1-000-houses-in-faridabad-colony/story-wPs4ubrzyHQFAikzwfsGMN.html
22-08-2020||City||Poor planning, administrative apathy held Rohtak back from faring better than Karnal: Residents||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s home city Rohtak has ranked 35th in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, lagging behind chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s Karnal in cities with population between 1 lakh to 10 lakh.Karnal performed better than Rohtak and secured 17th slot. Even though Rohtak jumped to 35th position from last year’s 69th rank, locals are of view that this city has more potential than Karnal. Rohtak failed to perform better due to administrative apathy, they say. Rohtak had grabbed 89th spot in 2018 and 295th rank in 2017.Rohtak MLA BB Batra of the Congress pinned the blame on district administration and political indifference for Rohtak’s poor performance.“The main factors are poor segregation and sanitation in the city. Residents are forced to consume contaminated water and this is a crime, which is being committed by the local municipal corporation. The water supply tanks are yet to be cleaned and interior roads are in poor condition,” he added. “The administration has failed to utilise ₹13 crore properly, which was released through Amrit Yojana. Karnal has been developed as a cleaner city than Rohtak in the past years as chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar represents that constituency,” the MLA said. “In Karnal, the chief minister has been allocating more funds than our city,” he added. Pratap Singh, a retired principal from Rohtak, attributed the reason of city’s poor performance than Karnal to faulty planning. “Water supply lines in most of the colonies are damaged and roads are in bad shape. The GPS tracking of garbage collection vehicles and maintenance of public places and toilets need to be taken seriously. People in Rohtak are not getting clean drinking water,” he added.Rohtak additional deputy commissioner Mahender Pal, however, focussed on how the city has improved its rank from 295 in 2017 to 35 this year.“Due to the efforts of municipal corporation, administration, and citizens, our city’s ranking jumped to 35 from last year’s 69. Our roads and streets are clean and the garbage collection facility is excellent. The civic bodies’ vehicles have been collecting garbage from doorsteps,” he added. ‘We are ready to accept our mistakes’Rohtak mayor Manmohan Goyal said the city lagged behind Karnal as it performed poor on four parameters.“We will have to set up a crushing plant in Rohtak so that debris can be used again. We will have to stop people from throwing construction waste on the roadsides. The swachh survekshan indictated that Rohtak has poor waste management and segregation. We are ready to accept our mistakes and will try to improve the ranking next year,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-planning-administrative-apathy-held-rohtak-back-from-faring-better-than-karnal-residents/story-agkFoA3yzboo6wkAJaIX4L.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Convert Covid-19 beds to non-Covid for monsoon-related ailments: Mumbai civic corporation to private hospitals||To ensure that those suffering from monsoon-related ailments like malaria, dengue, leptospirosis, typhoid, gastroenteritis and cholera receive proper medical treatment, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has directed all private nursing homes, clinics and dispensaries to use Covid beds for non-Covid patients.BMC deputy executive health officer Daksha Shah said, “The process of Covid patients being admitted in jumbo facilities has been simplified and there are enough beds in Covid care facilities for Covid cases. Directing small nursing homes to convert beds from Covid to non-Covid is more of a preventive measure.”Jumbo facilities were earlier conceptualised and built by BMC as Covid care centres (CCC-1 and CCC-2) to quarantine high-risk contacts and asymptomatic patients.They were then converted into dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) with oxygen beds, and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) with ICU beds.As of August 19, the total hospital-bed capacity for Covid patients in the city was 17, 331 of which 9,236 beds are vacant. BMC has an additional 2,347 beds in CCC-2 facilities and 50,077 beds in CCC-1 facilities.As per data provided by BMC, until August 16, there were 592 cases of malaria and five cases of dengue. A senior civic official said, “It is noted that the highest number of malaria cases are reported in August and September every year. It is important to keep the health facilities well-equipped to handle such cases for the next few months.”Meanwhile on Friday, Mumbai reported 1,406 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day figure in August. The previous highest daily surge was on July 26 when the city saw 1,476 cases. Forty-two deaths on Friday took the total toll to 7,356. Of the 134,228 total Covid-19 cases recorded in the city so far, 18,299 are active cases. The case fatality ratio is 5.4%, and the recovery rate stands at 80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/convert-covid-19-beds-to-non-covid-for-monsoon-related-ailments-mumbai-civic-corporation-to-private-hospitals/story-iWNB435asffx5WV6XM2hjM.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid count hits new high of 1,203||Haryana reported 1,203 new coronavirus infections on Friday, about 77% of which came from 11 districts. The new infections pushed the state’s patient tally to 52,129. Seven infected persons died of the contagion, taking the death toll to 585. Among those who died on Friday, two persons were from Kurukshetra district while one each was from Bhiwani, Panipat, Palwal, Karnal and Faridabad. As per a medical bulletin, 620 people recovered from the viral illness on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 43,413. The number of active cases in Haryana was 8,131 on Friday. About 39% of the new infections were reported from five national capital region districts of Faridabad (127), Gurugram (120), Rewari (111), Rohtak (65) and Sonepat (46). Six northern Haryana districts of Panipat (132), Ambala (98), Karnal (73), Kurukshetra (63), Yamunanagar (58) and Panchkula (43) threw up 38% of the new infections. In order to contain the virus spread, the state government on Friday ordered that all public and private offices, except those dealing with essential services, and all shopping malls and shops in the market area, except those dealing with essential goods and services, will remain shut on Saturday and Sunday. An official spokesperson said all other national directives and standard operating procedures issued by the National Disaster Management Authority that are currently in force will continue to be followed. The spokesperson said this order will have no effect on public and private transport and on tests/exams being conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission. Among the other districts, Mahendergarh reported 58 new infections followed by Hisar (56), Sirsa (48), Bhiwani (24), Fatehabad (21), Palwal (19), Kaithal (14), Jhajjar (12), Nuh (9) and Jind (6). Health dept puts price cap on Covid testsThe Haryana health department on Friday fixed prices for rapid antigen and immunoglobulin- enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (IgG-ELISA) tests conducted by the private laboratories for detection of coronavirus antigen and antibodies. In an order issued on Friday by additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora, the price for rapid antigen test was fixed at ₹650 per test and that of IgG-ELISA was fixed at ₹250 per test. The department had in June fixed ₹2,400 for conducting the real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for detection of coronavirus infection by private labs. While nasal and throat swab samples are taken for the rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, the IgG-ELISA test is a blood-based examination for detection of immunoglobulin antibodies. ACS Arora said the decision to cap the test prices was made on the advice of the experts, after taking the cost of testing kits and consumables into account and on the basis of precedents in other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-covid-count-hits-new-high-of-1-203/story-YZ9dFgoYDTyEzMqAoEJ5OI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||PTIs recruitment: HC dismisses plea against exam||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday dismissed pleas against August 23 exam being conducted in Haryana for the recruitment of physical training instructors (PTIs) in state schools.The pleas were dismissed after the state government listed out arrangements made by the authorities to accommodate 9,500 applicants.The petition had stated that some of the petitioners were suffering from chronic diseases while three of them were Covid-19 positive and in view of the lockdown imposed by the state, they would not be in a position to appear in the examination.However, the secretary, Haryana Staff Selection Commission, had told the court that the apex court had directed to complete the entire process of examination within a period of five months from the date commission starts working on it.Ninety-five centres have been set up in five districts whereas in normal conditions, the test would have been held at one station only.Each centre has been allotted only 100 candidates where apart from maintaining social distancing while entering the examination centre, it has also been ensured that one examination centre will not have more than 100 candidates whereas the minimum sitting capacity ranges from 240 to 600 candidates, the court was informed.The court was also told that two schools have been kept in reserve in each district so as to meet any sudden exigency on account of any centre falling in containment zone.“The candidates, who have symptoms of fever, cough and cold, would be made to sit in a separate room,” the court was told adding that all guidelines issued by the Centre are being complied with and transportation arrangements for the candidates have also been made.“The public interest for conducting the examination on the scheduled date far outweighs the convenience of the petitioners. The unfortunate circumstances of some of the petitioners cannot be a ground to postpone the examination wherein about 9,500 candidates have to appear,” the bench of Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal said, while dismissing the pleas.The recruits are to replace about 1,900 teachers whose appointment was set aside by the apex court on April 8 and the state was asked to complete process within five months.A single judge bench of high court had in September 2012 set aside the selection of these teachers made by the commission in 2010. They were recruited in pursuance to a 2006 advertisement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ptis-recruitment-hc-dismisses-plea-against-exam/story-E7hobQjxRzaL595D582hNP.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||303 cops test positive for Covid-19, highest in 24 hours, in Maharashtra||Maharashtra police has recorded 303 fresh cases of Coronavirus in the last 24 hours, making it the highest single-day spike the force has seen since the lockdown began in March. Also, four policemen succumbed to the virus on Thursday.With the new cases, the total number of infected policemen in state has reached 13,180. Of this, 10,655 have recovered. There are 2,389 policemen who are active patients and are being treated at various medical facilities, a statement issued by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), Maharashtra police, said.Of the four Covid deaths in the last 24 hours, three were from Mumbai police.Head constable Ravikant Salunkhe, 52, of Cuffe Parade police station died on Thursday. “Salukhe was undergoing treatment at the Nagpada’s Richardson & Cruddas Covid Care Centre and breathed his last on Thursday. He did not have any co-morbidities. He was a good policeman,” said Rajkumar Dongre, senior inspector of Cuffe Parade police station. Salunkhe is survived by his wife and two kids.Early on Thursday, 54-year-old police inspector Vishwanath Tambe of Mulund police station succumbed to the infection. He was holding charge of administration at the police station.“Tambe had some co-morbidities and succumbed to the virus during treatment,” confirmed Lakhmi Gautam, additional commissioner of police (East region).Another police officer who lost life to Coronavirus was also from the east region police. Thirty-five-year-old police sub-inspector Vinayak Babar from Deonar police station died of Covid-19 on Thursday early morning.Babar had been tested around 10 days ago after he developed Covid symptoms. On August 9, he tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to Dr D Y Patil hospital in Nerul, Navi Mumbai for treatment.As his condition deteriorated, he was moved to the intensive care unit (ICU) on Wednesday where he died a day later.“Babar was a good detection officer and was very active. The entire police station is shocked as he was so young,” said Vishwapal Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police (Deonar division).A native of Pune’s Purander district Babar was a resident of Kamothe, Navi Mumbai. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. His parents live with his brother’s family in Pune.In the fourth fatality, police Naik Shrikant Wagh died at the Shivaji hospital. Wagh was attached to the Kalwa police station of Thane police.On Friday morning, the state police headquarter received news about the death of head constable Gajendra Kamble from Rasayni police station of Raigad district on August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/303-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-highest-in-24-hours-in-maharashtra/story-eK4zT0uQ0iO47fOap0BJnN.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Explainer: Haryana’s private sector job quota law and its fate||The emotive private sector job quota issue in Haryana has become the centerpiece of a debate after an ordinance approved by the BJP-JJP cabinet was reserved for the consideration of the President by the Haryana governor. Steered by BJP’s coalition partner, Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, the proposed law is a politically sensitive matter. Assistant editor Hitender Rao tries to explain the repercussions associated with it. What’s private sector job quota ordinanceIt provides for 75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having monthly salary less than ₹50,000 in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms and partnership firms situated in Haryana. Why has governor reserved it for consideration of PresidentHe has acted on the advice of the legal remembrancer. The law officer had advised that the ordinance be reserved for the consideration of the President as it provides for an overriding effect over other laws and has the potential to be repugnant to an act of the parliament. Constitutional validity of the proposed law Since it provides for preference in jobs to local candidates domiciled in Haryana, the ordinance is believed to be in contravention of Articles 14 and 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution. Article 14 pertains to equality before law and Article 19 (1) (g) provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. Why deputy CM Dushyant Chautala wants to table a replica bill in assemblyThe replica bill will replace the ordinance. If passed by the assembly, the bill will be sent to the governor, who will also have to reserve it for the consideration of the President.Implications of reserving the ordinance/billArticle 201 of the Constitution says that the President can either declare that he assents to the proposed law or that he withholds assent. The President can also direct the governor to return it to the House for reconsideration. Is there a time limit for the President to make decisionThe Constitution does not provide a time limit for the President to assent to a bill or withhold it. Political implications if enactment of the law gets delayed It will be seen as a loss of face for Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, which had made a poll promise to implement it. Viewpoint of BJP-led CentreAt least two then Union ministers, CR Chaudhary and Vijay Sampla, had answered in negative to Parliament questions about the possibility of reservation in appointments in private companies. Will the ordinance/bill withstand judicial scrutiny Law experts say the proposed law will not pass the legal test. Former Haryana advocate general Ashok Aggarwal says that domicile can never form the basis of employment. As per him, if public employment cannot be given on the basis of domicile, how can private jobs be. The government is not the employer in private sector jobs, he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-explainer-haryana-s-private-sector-job-quota-law-and-its-fate/story-8T3S0xR6JvSR9jxfsBKNnO.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Study: Sars-CoV-2 can infect pregnant women’s placenta||A new study, jointly conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH) at Parel and Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc), has shown that the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can infect the placenta in pregnant women. The authors said their work is the first in-depth survey to identify the cellular basis of Sars-CoV-2 infection in the human placenta, and therefore assumes importance because it will help to establish the fact that cross transmission from the infected mothers to the children is possible. Analysing a database of RNA (ribonucleic acid) sequences of human placenta, the eight-member team said there is strong likelihood that the novel coronavirus infection can be passed on to the foetus because the placental cells possess the same receptors that the Sars-CoV-2 virus uses to attach itself in throat and lungs cells of Covid-19 patients. Since the global outbreak of the pandemic, the scientific community has been trying to establish whether Sars-CoV-2 can infect placenta. In Maharashtra, more than 15,000 pregnant women have contracted Covid-19 since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus infection in March, of which new born babies were diagnosed with Covid-19 in less than 1% of the cases. However, the researchers plan clinical studies to test placenta of Covid-19 pregnant women for conclusive evidence. “During pregnancy, the foetus is protected from maternal infections by the placenta. The placenta is an organ that develops during pregnancy and provides oxygen and nutrients to the growing baby, removes waste products and also blocks transmission of the infections from mother to the baby by creating a barrier,” said Dr Deepak Modi, head of Molecular and Cellular Biology Laboratory, ICMR-NIRRH. “However, the barrier can break if placental cells get infected, leading to mother-to-child transmission,” said Dr Modi, who was a part of the study. The study ‘Single-Cell RNA-seq Identifies Cell Subsets in Human Placenta That highly Expresses Factors Driving Pathogenesis of SARS-COV-2’ was published in Frontiers of Cell and Developmental Biology journal on August 19. The team conducted a secondary data study from an existing database of placental cell RNA (Ribonucleic Acid) sequences (published from the USA) to find if the RNA for coronavirus receptors are present in the placental cells. RNA is ribonucleic acid that is essential in various biological roles in coding, decoding, regulation and expression of genes. While the current assumption is that there is no vertical transmission of the virus from the infected mother to the foetus, researchers found the presence of the virus in 12% of the 93 infected women from other published literature in the UK and US. They came to this conclusion after a systematic analysis said Anshul Bhide a co-first author in the study. The team found that cells of the placenta express ACE2 receptors – the same receptor that the Sars-CoV-2 virus uses to enter the cells in the throat and lungs of an individual who is infected with the novel coronavirus. “Additionally, the placental cells also express another novel coronavirus receptor called BSG or CD147. We also found that the placenta has receptors of other coronaviruses like Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)”, said Nancy Ashary, the first author of the study. “For the virus to enter inside the cells, the Spike protein (also called as S protein) of the virus has to get sliced, which occurs by the use of enzymes called TMPRSS2 and cathepsin. We have found that along with ACE2, the cells of the placenta express the enzymes TMPRSS2, cathepsins and furin. These results provide strong evidence for the possibility of Sars-CoV-2 to infect the placenta,” said Dr Modi. The study also shows that if the virus enters the placental cells it will reproduce inside them as these cells have the necessary machinery for viral replication. These results imply that the placenta can not only get infected with the virus, but will also spread around locally. “There is a strong likelihood that if the placenta harbours viral infection it may be passed to the baby. Sars-CoV-2 is not a blood borne virus. But if in some cases the virus seeps into the mother’s blood, it will reach the placenta disseminating infection,” said Modi. With the identification of viral receptors in placenta, researchers have suggested that obstetricians need to closely monitor the infected pregnant women and study the placenta carefully since the possibility of the presence of the virus may not be as rare as it is believed to be. “We often hear that newborns have been diagnosed with Covid-19, but we don’t know the source of infection. It can be through the infected mother but also through horizontal transmission ie. hospital acquired infection,” said Dr Smita Mahale, Director, ICMR-NIRRH. “Just like reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests that help diagnose the presence of Sars-CoV-2, we plan to test placentas to identify the virus.”Mohit Kumar Jolly, co-author and assistant professor, Centre for BioSystems Science and Engineering, IISC, said, “Our study clearly shows that the organ (placenta) has molecular structures which get attached to the virus. There is also a possibility that the infection can spread to other parts of the body through placenta due to the presence of certain cells. But since this is a secondary data based study, we can’t say what percent of women in India are getting Covid-19 infection in their placenta.” Dr Aparna Hedge, head, division of urogynaecology at Cama Hospital, Grant Medical College, who was not a part of the study, said, “Even though it is not a clinical study, it provides a perspective of the possible spread of the virus in placenta. There have been several debates on it but no scientifically proven evidence is available. We need more clinical-based studies to establish any fact.” “The pilot results from the study are likely to be of immense help in understanding the role of Sars-CoV-2 infection of the human placenta and its consequences on pregnancy outcome and vertical transmission. Their study is amply supported by another recent publication ‘The SARS-CoV-2 receptor ACE2 expression of maternal-fetal interface and fetal organs by single-cell transcriptome study’. This ACE2 expression was still detected at 24 weeks of gestation. The high expression of ACE2 in these cells suggests that the placenta has the potential to be infected by Sars-CoV-2 and may cause placental dysfunction and pregnancy complications,” said Surendra Sharmam, director, Center of Excellence for Reproductive Health, Women and Infants Hospital, Brown University and editor-in-chief, American Journal of Reproductive Immunology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/study-sars-cov-2-can-infect-pregnant-women-s-placenta/story-h6xHnKDD1ECRXoCxGM9RhK.html
22-08-2020||City||Robbery accused shoots self dead, 2 accomplices held in Fatehabad||A man accused of robbery shot himself dead with a revolver while his two alleged accomplices were arrested in Fatehabad’s Loha Khera village on Friday, police said.The arrested accused are Pawan of Tohana and Ajay of Jind’s Narwana, who were caught by locals and handed over to the police.As per the reports, the three were trying to escape from a group of residents which was chasing them.A spokesman of Fatehabad police said a gang of three robbers had struck at the house of a financier, Sunil, in Tohana on Friday.“They took away ₹10 lakh and jewellery worth ₹15 lakh at gunpoint. Sunil’s wife called him after the robbers left their house. Sunil, along with other locals, gave them a chase. While fleeing, the robbers also snatched a bike from a passerby. When the locals drew near, one of them killed himself with his revolver,” the spokesman added.The police have registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbery-accused-shoots-self-dead-2-accomplices-held-in-fatehabad/story-01ycl4PdkC6bfF4mEgHngL.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal road tax collection on Haryana borders: Transport minister orders probe||Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma on Friday said shops have been opened on interstate borders where motor vehicle tax is being collected illegally. “Some people have opened private shops (kiosks) illegally in the areas of Haryana bordering Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh for depositing motor vehicle tax online,” the minister said. “They take money from the vehicle owners and give them a false receipt, but do not deposit the money in the state government’s treasury. A probe has been ordered,” he added. Sharma said such irregularities were detected during the checking of vehicles. Otherwise, he said, such malpractices are difficult to detect. Due to this, the state government faces losses and the vehicle owners are cheated too, he added. The transport minister said an inquiry has been ordered after a case in question was detected. He said strict action will be taken against those involved in fraud committed in the name of depositing motor vehicle tax (road tax) online. A case has also been registered in Bawal police station of Rewari district. A person had complained that on August 18, he deposited a tax of ₹8,500 for Rajasthan at a shop. The alleged accused gave him a receipt after taking money. However, when the bus reached Jaipur and documents were checked, no record of the said receipt was found and the receipt turned out to be fake. The transport minister said strict action will be taken against the accused in cases of tax evasion and fraud with vehicle owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-road-tax-collection-on-haryana-borders-transport-minister-orders-probe/story-ienKXfl4sXZHnnwVBaSO6J.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest outside Ludhiana school over fee payment||: Over 150 parents of students from Green Land Convent School, Chander Nagar, Civil City, protested against the school authorities on Friday for asking them to submit all charges including admission fee and transportation charges.The school authorities announced summer break from August 1 and decided to resume online classes from August 20, Thursday. They informed parents regarding the online classes, but sent the link to only those who deposited the fee. Following this, parents gathered outside the school and tried to meet the principal. When the school authorities refused to let them enter the premises, parents started protesting and raised slogans against school authorities for two hours. Many parents said they have faced financial losses amid the Covid-19 lockdown, due to which they have been unable to pay the fee. The parents said they want to request the authorities to waive off admission and transportation fee and other charges. Amit Khanna, a parent, said, “My children study in Classes 3 and 6. I visited the school to ask school authorities to waive off charges other than tuition fee. In this time of financial crisis, we are unable to pay the other charges but school authorities are not ready to cooperate. We received a message from school that online classes will be started from August 20. When we did not receive the link, we contacted the class teacher, to which she replied that students will be allowed to attend online classes only if they pay fee.”Another parent, Anny, a housewife, said, “We are ready to pay the tuition fee, but the authorities must waive off the other charges. The school authorities have asked parents to submit transportation fee and other development charges. My daughter studies in Class 3 and the authorities have asked us to deposit Rs 25,000, which includes all charges, only then she will be allowed to attend online classes.” School director, Rajesh Rudra, said, “We are just abiding the Punjab and Haryana high court’s orders which allows the school authorities to charge tuition fee and admission charges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-outside-ludhiana-school-over-fee-payment/story-GSoaHNAJ7CI4ek74buUgoO.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vaccinate livestock to prevent disease outbreak: Ludhiana vet varsity experts||With recent reports of illnesses among livestock at various dairy farms in Punjab with symptoms of respiratory problems and fever, experts of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University have advised owners to vaccinate the livestock against HS and FMD oil adjuvant vaccine for long term immunity, preferably with combined vaccine . Since the prevailing hot and humid climatic conditions are favourable for the growth of microorganisms, this can result in disease outbreaks, leading to sickness and high mortality of valuable dairy animals, causing huge economic losses to farmers. Scientists of animal disease research centre of GADVASU also investigated the outbreak of respiratory infection with high mortality at Khanna. Farmers have also been advised to provide fresh fodder and concentrate depending on the production, age and reproductive condition of bovines. Experts also advised farmers to keep animals at comfortable distance in airy and ventilated sheds. This weather is also favourable for the growth of fungus. Therefore, farmer should check that mould infested feed and fodder is not fed to livestock and feed and feed ingredients should be kept in a dry place. If urea was applied in fodder field then farmers were advised not to use this fodder minimum one week for animal consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vaccinate-livestock-to-prevent-disease-outbreak-ludhiana-vet-varsity-experts/story-wjYl8DrdpY18zcFHph88zK.html
22-08-2020||City||Markets in Kalyan-Dombivli limits witness crowding despite rise in Covid-19 cases||Despite the high number of Covid-19 cases in Kalyan and Dombivli, the markets at Shivaji Chowk and Phadke Road in the twin cities were crowded on Friday, with residents stepping out for festival purchasing on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi. All the shops were open and hawkers selling flowers and other items required for the religious rituals on the footpaths. Many were without masks and did not adhere to the social distancing norms, either, raising concerns among activists and experts. “The markets in the city were completely crowded on Friday, with people flouting all the norms. When the civic body planned to open shops on all the days, they should have monitored the situation. KDMC has the highest number of cases in MMR. The cases will increase in the coming days, “said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of Alert Citizens Forum, Kalyan. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Friday recorded the highest daily surge of 424 for the month of August. KDMC also has the highest number of Covid-19 cases (28,829) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, positive cases as per the state government records. The active cases in KDMC stand at 3,168 reveal the civic body records. KDMC epidemic officer, Pratibha Panpatil said, “There was a spike in the positive cases on Friday due to the increased in the number of tests as well as the reopening of shops on all the days. There is a rise in the movement of the people on the streets and this will lead to a surge in the cases in the coming days. We are taking precautionary measures to deal with the situation.” According to Rakesh Mutha, president of Kalyan Shahar Vyapari Mahasangh, a traders’ body, the organisation complained to the civic body against permitting hawkers to sell. “All the retailers are taking the necessary precautions. However, on Friday, the hawkers were allowed to conduct business, due to which the streets were crowded. We have complained to the civic body against giving permissions to hawkers, as it leads to crowding and there is no control on the crowd, “said Mutha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markets-in-kalyan-dombivli-limits-witness-crowding-despite-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-bBYkJcAp8MEhpqtoaI5buK.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Dadar market crowding raises fears of second Covid-19 wave in Mumbai||On the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi, hundreds of Mumbaiites threw caution to wind as they ignored social distancing norms and flocked Dadar market on Friday. Significantly, the G-North ward, which includes Dadar market, has the highest active Covid-19 cases (1,001) in Mumbai. The ward has reported more than 7,000 Covid cases since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. It was one of the major hot spots in Mumbai till June.Dadar market, one of the oldest and biggest wholesale markets in Mumbai, was partially shut down in April, when Covid-19 cases in Mumbai had started to rise. However, the market has gradually reopened over the past few weeks as part of the state government’s plan to resume economic activities and ease lockdown curbs. Chennai had witnessed a similar situation when more than 2,000 people contracted the Covid-19 infection from a crowded market in Koyambedu in May, after which it was shut down.While Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have plateaued over the past month, with less than 1,000 cases being reported on most days, Friday’s crowding at Dadar market has raised a red flag among health experts, who said the city could face a second wave of Covid-19 infections in the absence of stricter regulations. “Mumbai is not Covid-free. There are still infected people among us. In such a situation, opening up markets will add to the chaos. Considering Dadar is one of the biggest markets in Mumbai, the civic body should have been more patient. Now that people are thinking that the situation is better, they are flocking the market before Ganesh Chaturthi,” said Jitendra Tandel, secretary of Rugna Kalyan Seva Samajik Sanstha, a patients’ rights organisation. “Covid-19 is an extremely infectious disease. In 80% of the cases, its source of infection hasn’t been identified. In such a situation, the decision of the civic body to lift the lockdown in Dadar market is premature. Officers thought that due to rainfall and restrictions on local trains, people won’t flock the market,” said a senior BMC official. BMC officials now plan to seek help from Mumbai Police to ensure there is no crowding during the 11-day Ganesotsav that begins on Saturday.“As the market sells essential commodities of Ganesh Chaturthi, people rushed to the market from neighbouring areas. We are also in shock seeing the huge gathering. People need to be more responsible. They are not only risking their lives but also of others around them. We have no option but to seek help from police,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner in-charge of G-North. A police officer from Dadar police station said there were no directions for people to stay indoors or shops to be shut. “In such a situation it is not possible to control the crowd like the one at Dadar flower market,” said the officer. “In Dadar alone there are more than 3,000 household Ganpatis and more than 61 sarvajanik Ganpati mandals. The market also sees a floating population, which is not possible to control. We removed hawkers from the area, but that does not guarantee crowd control.”Health experts said it is a cause for concern and could lead to further spread of Covid-19. “This infection spreads like a chain. So, to control the pandemic, we have to cut the chain. For that we have to maintain social distancing, which is not possible in a crowded market like Dadar. This may lead to a second wave of infections,” said a city-based epidemiologist, who did not wish to be named. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said the ward officer will pay a visit to the market and a decision will be taken accordingly. “We have already spoken to the police for their help,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dadar-market-crowding-raises-fears-of-second-covid-19-wave-in-mumbai/story-kXTIOHvic7az6fafwKtEzI.html
22-08-2020||City||With 147 Covid cases, Mohali sees biggest one-day surge||Witnessing no let-up in the spread of infection, Mohali yet again recorded its highest single-day surge of Covid-19 cases, as 147 people tested positive for the virus across the district, taking the total past 2,400.With another man succumbing to the disease, the toll too rose to 46. As many as 26 people have died due to Covid-19 in the past 12 days. Meanwhile, 30% (734) of the total cases (2,417) have been reported in the past one week.While 1,116 cases remain active, with 49 people being discharged on Friday, the number of those cured rose to 1,255.The man who died was a resident of Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi. He was suffering from diabetes and was being treated at Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala. “His cremation has been performed as per the protocol under the observation of health officials. We will collect samples of his family members and also trace his other contacts,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.Among the fresh 147 cases, 66 are from Mohali, 19 from Kharar, 15 from Dhakoli, 14 from Kurali, 13 from Zirakpur, nine from Dera Bassi, eight from Lalru and two from Gharuan. 43 TEST POSITIVE IN P’KULAIn the neighbouring Panchkula district, 43 fresh cases were reported on Friday, taking the total to 1,470. The cases are spread across the city besides Pinjore, Old Panchkula, Barwala, Morni and Kalka.There are 495 active cases in the district, as 966 people have recovered while nine have died so far.“During the next three days, over 600 staff and officers of Vidhan Sabha will be tested for Covid-19 as the session is going to start,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula. As many as 27,772 people have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-147-covid-cases-mohali-sees-biggest-one-day-surge/story-ZsolvwkqOo4hvqdjuTUuOP.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Markets to remain shut in Chandigarh on weekends||Reacting to weekend restrictions imposed in Punjab and Haryana in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh administration too swung into action on Friday night, ordering closure of all shops and malls this Saturday and Sunday. The restrictions have been imposed “till further orders” though a review will be done on Monday.All government offices, including the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), will also remain closed during the weekend. “However, restaurants, hotels and private offices can remain open during the weekend. The decision will be reviewed on Monday,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida. The order also does not affect those providing essential goods, such as medicines, groceries, milk and vegetables. However, liquor shops remain closed.Parida said there will be no change in curfew timings, which will continue to be in force from 10pm to 5am. “There will be no ban on movement of people during the weekend,” he said.“Chandigarh too announces weekend lockdown in tandem with Haryana and Punjab in hope to break the chain of virus in tricity; onus now again on the people to act responsibly and understand the gravity of the situation. Keep following the health advisories,” wrote UT administrator VPS Badnore on Twitter.‘Didn’t want people to rush to UT’Significantly, in Friday’s war room meeting, which was held in the afternoon, the administration didn’t take a decision on the issue of fresh restrictions. The decision came only after Haryana’s orders came out in the evening. Haryana had on Friday announced that all offices and shops except essential services will remain shut on weekends while the Punjab government had on Thursday ordered extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7pm to 5am in the state.“With both Punjab and Haryana imposing weekend restrictions, we didn’t want to people to rush to Chandigarh for their weekend purchases. So, the decision was taken late night,” said Parida.The total tally of positive cases stands at 2,631 in Chandigarh. On Friday, 116 fresh cases were reported in the city.The UT had on July 20 suggested to both Punjab and Haryana to impose weekend curfew in the tricity, but both states had responded in the negative. Consequently, the administration didn’t impose the proposed weekend curfew in the city, though it had introduced other restrictions like closing down of Sukhna Lake on weekends. It had also reintroduced odd-even formula for opening of congested markets, which primarily included all rehri markets, motor markets and some internal markets of sectors.FOUR NEW MICRO-CONTAINMENT ZONESThe administration on Friday declared four new micro-containment zones.These include a block of 11 houses from No. 491 to 495 and No. 501 to 506 in Sector 15, a block of 32 flats from No. 6445 to 6448-C and No. 6449 to 6452-C in Sector 56, and a block of six houses from No. 1613 to 1618 (ground floors only) in Sector 40. Strict perimeter control will be maintained in these containment zones. Meanwhile, perimeter control imposed on a designated containment zone of 23 flats in Sector 46 has been directed to be removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/markets-to-remain-shut-in-chandigarh-on-weekends/story-HppiSiP2cajVamnDZir6dI.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Science, IT most sought-after stream, course in Chandigarh’s government schools||As per the stream-wise merit list of Class 11 students of city’s government schools, as uploaded by the UT education department on their website, science is the most sought-after stream at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Manimajra Modern Complex.Last year, too, the Manimajra school was at the top with 94.4% cut-off for the science stream, followed by GMSSS, Sector 16, with a cut-off of 90.8% and GMSSS, Sector 35, with a cut-off of 88.4%.The cut-off for the commerce stream at GMSSS Manimajra was also the highest at 88%, but lower than last year’s 89% at GMSSS-16. The commerce cut-off at GMSSS-16 was 87.4% followed by GMSSS-35 at 84.2%.In humanities, the cut-off at GMSSS-16 was the highest at 88.6%. This is higher than last year’s 87.2% at the same school. GMSSS-35 came in second with 84.2% cut-off and GMSSS-19 came in third with 74.2% cut-off.The most in-demand vocational course was information web technology, with the highest cut-off of 67% at GMSSS-22. Shorthand (English) office procedures and practices, typography and computer applications came in second at 61.4% cut-off at GMSSS Manimajra. Medical diagnostics, health-care followed with a 57.2% cut-off at GMSSS-32.WHAT NEXT?Candidates will now have to submit scanned documents after which another list will be uploaded on August 27. Payment of fee will have to be made online till August 31. The final figure of fees to be deposited is yet to be decided. For now students of general category have to deposit ₹1,500 and those of reserved categories will have to deposit ₹800.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/science-it-most-sought-after-stream-course-in-city-s-government-schools/story-7XZ1EHhAUzxqv42VjwYoaJ.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, track Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses live on mobile phone||Now commuters in the city will be able to track the movement of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU)’s local fleet on their mobiles.UT administrator VPS Badnore on Friday launched the Intelligent Transport System (ITS), as part of which a mobile application, “trycityBUS”, has also been made available to commuters. By downloading it, they can get information about timings, fare and routes of buses besides location of nearby bus stops. They can know the exact location and timings of the buses and alternative routes available for their travel.In the first phase, the ITS has been introduced in 100 buses covering 14 routes. CTU plans to cover the entire fleet of 350 buses on 64 routes by the end of the year.₹25-CRORE PROJECTThe World Bank-sponsored project, costing the administration around ₹25 crore, aims to modernise the transport system, wherein CTU services have been upgraded with IT-enabled solutions.There will be four cameras inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. The fleet will be monitored in the Central Control Room of CTU though global positioning system.An emergency button (panic button) will be available, both for the driver and the passengers to solicit urgent help from the police and ambulance, if needed. The digital system will enable the administration to monitor the exact location of buses, collection of revenue and the load of passengers on each route.There will be digital display of the timings of the buses at each bus queue shelter. Passenger’s information display screens have also been installed at Inter-State Bus Terminals (ISBT) in Sectors 17 and 43, railway station and 12 other bus queue shelters in different locations.“It is a big step for the tricity’s public transport system. It will attract more commuters to public transport and help reduce traffic congestion. We will be integrating the entire CTU fleet of local buses with the ITS by the end of the year,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport.After the work on both the software and hardware components of the system was completed in early March, the final trials were started. The trials were to be completed by March 18, and the system was to be launched on April 1. However, the Covid-19 lockdown delayed the trials and launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-track-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-buses-live-on-mobile-phone/story-J0cdOv67Xjq5ekdoIIKrnI.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Tansa becomes fourth lake in Mumbai to overflow, BMC may revoke water cut||The Tansa Lake located in Shahpur in Thane district, which is among the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai, began to overflow at 7.05pm on Thursday. This is the fourth lake to overflow this monsoon. Earlier, Tulsi and Vehar lakes at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) had overflowed, followed by Modak Sagar lake. However, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has not yet taken a decision on revoking the 10% water cut , after it had earlier said it will re-examine the 10% cut once the lake levels cross 90%.As of Friday morning, Mumbai’s lake levels are at 90.88%, in comparison to 94.91% on the same day in 2019, and 93.91% in 2018. The seven lakes have 1,315,423 million litres of useful water content.On Friday, the water cut in Mumbai was reduced to 10%, from the earlier 20% imposed on August 5 due to low rainfall in catchment areas. BMC announced this decision on Wednesday, after the water levels in the seven lakes crossed the 85% mark.In the past years, the Tansa lake started overflowing much earlier; on July 25 in 2019, on July 17 in 2018 and in July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tansa-becomes-fourth-lake-in-mumbai-to-overflow-bmc-may-revoke-water-cut/story-CUEbhpmnj9EVsG4IsXa0zJ.html
22-08-2020||City||Two arrested for murdering auto driver on Airport Road in Mohali||The Zirakpur police claim to have solved the murder of an auto driver on Aero City road, within 24 hours, with the arrest of two accused on Friday.The accused have been identified as Aman and Pramod Sharma, also auto drivers and residents of Gulabgarh Road, Derabassi. As per the police, they used to work with the victim, Harwinder Singh of Gulabgarh Road, and had an old rivalry with him over his relations with a woman. Police had recovered Singh’s body from Airport Road on Thursday morning. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-murdering-auto-driver-on-airport-road-in-mohali/story-A3UujjUWbKZ1VYDNdTUPXL.html
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to UT on plea against encroachment in Chandigarh’s Sector-48 auto market||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday served a notice to Chandigarh administration on a plea seeking removal of illegal encroachments by shopkeepers/motor mechanics in Sector 48C market.The high court bench of justice RK Jain has sought a response by September 3 on the plea received from the Chandigarh Sector 7 Cooperative House Building (First) Society Limited.The court was told that in 1999, the administration had framed a scheme of allotment of sites on leasehold basis to auto spare part dealers and auto repair mechanics in the city in order to control mushrooming of auto spare parts dealers and mechanics on streets and allotted designated places.Now, auto dealers in Sector 48 auto market were carrying out repair outside the designated area and even a liquor vend and a tavern had been opened on a site allotted to auto dealers.The court was told that besides five cooperative societies, there was a school and a hospital, too, in the sector, and anti-social elements had started creating problems for residents, especially women and girls. The authorities had been told on a number of occasions to take remedial steps, but there was no improvement on the ground, the court was told while being requested to intervene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-ut-on-plea-against-encroachment-in-chandigarh-s-sector-48-auto-market/story-v7ASmzjHBdWKdX4lXsgglJ.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Parth’s comments are his personal opinion: Rohit Pawar||Rohit Pawar, Karjat-Jamkhed member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) and grand-nephew of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, said he disagreed with the views shared by his cousin Parth Pawar, over the probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case.On Friday, Rohit, the son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, suggested that Parth was simply expressing his own opinion when he tweeted regarding the case. “Tweeting something means, a person is expressing his own opinion. But I have full faith in the Mumbai Police, Rohit told a Marathi news channel on Friday.Rohit was responding to a question on Parth’s reaction to the Supreme Court decision to hand the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).He also came down heavily on opposition parties, saying that their politics over Rajput’s death case brought a bad name to the Mumbai Police. “The opposition parties are playing politics in Sushant Singh Rajput case. Currently, education and health are important issues and need to be discussed. The opposition is opposing only because that’s what they are supposed to do,” Rohit said.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope denied any conflict within the Pawar family. “Even if there would be anything, it would be temporary in nature and would be resolved within the family,” Tope told reporters in Pune. He also said the Pawars are an ideal family in the country and should be taken as an example.Parth has demanded a CBI investigation into the high-profile case – a move that went against the stand taken by NCP. For this, he was also publicly rebuked by the NCP chief. Pawar had called him “immature” and had also said he does not pay attention to what Parth says.“We give no importance to what my grand-nephew says. He is immature,” Pawar told media persons on August 12.Since then, there have been speculations that Parth is unhappy and may quit the NCP. He has also held meetings with other members of the Pawar family over quitting the party.Soon after the Apex court decided to hand the case over to the CBI, Parth in a tweet said, “Satyamev Jayate” (truth alone triumphs). The tweet made no mention of the case but it is assumed that he is referring to the SC judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parth-s-comments-are-his-personal-opinion-rohit-pawar/story-cnfPTq8lrnNYOrDjfgjrxJ.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||New safety guidelines as hotels, weekly markets set to open in Delhi||The Delhi government on Friday notified its decisions to allow hotels and local weekly markets to operate and issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for both, which include mandatory wearing of masks, strict social distancing and availability of hand sanitisers.Starting Monday, weekly markets will be allowed on an experimental basis for a week, between 4 pm and 10 pm. The markets will be allowed to continue after an assessment on August 31, a senior government official said. Both hotels and weekly markets cannot operate from containment zones.The government on Friday issued another notification, winding up all Covid-19 health centres set up at banquet halls to augment bed capacity when the number of cases rose sharply in June.The Delhi government’s SOPs are much in line with the guidelines issued by the central government for hotels and markets across the city. HT has seen the official orders pertaining to both hotels and weekly markets.RULES FOR HOTELSThe government has asked hotel managements to ensure hand sanitisers are available in entry points where all guests and employees will be screened and asymptomatic individuals will be allowed inside. Other measures include mandatory wearing of masks for employees and guests; rearrangement of seats in the lobby, restaurants, and other common areas to ensure social distancing; and prohibition of gatherings. Luggage will disinfected before being taken to rooms and immediate travel history and medical conditions of guests will be recorded. Guests will have to sign self-declaration forms and submit photo identity proof.Hotels have also been directed to impose restrictions on number on people who can board elevators at any given point; issue disposable menus and encourage takeaway orders and room service instead of dine-in; and ensure periodic sanitisation of all washrooms and rooms after guests leave.Aged employees or those on high risk because of health conditions should be encouraged to work from home.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met members of hotel associations. “All stakeholders have to work together to strengthen Delhi’s economy. I want to thank the entire hotel industry because when Covid was at its peak, hotels supported us in enhancing the capacity of beds for treatment of patients. All hospitals, hotels, and religious and social organisations supported us in our efforts. Today, our situation is under control. I am happy that since we have lifted the lockdown, we have not felt the need to impose the lockdown again.”A spokesperson of Marriott group said: “We welcome the government’s decision to open hotels. All our hotels will abide by the state SOPs along with our internal SOPs that cater to enhanced hygiene and cleanliness measures. We see social distancing manifest itself in a big way when it comes to the operational and service-driven aspects of hospitality.”Sandeep Khandelwal of the Delhi hotel owners’ association welcomed the notification, saying the chief minister’s decision had saved thousands of jobs in the industryWEEKLY MARKETSAccording to the guidelines, weekly markets can operate only between 4 pm and 10 pm and vendors cannot use more than 24 square feet area for their shops, which will be separated by at least one metre. Shop owners will have to set up temporary hand wash points and keep sanitisers. Shops will not be allowed to keep carry bags of plastic or any other material.Masks are a must for all vendors and customers. Vendors will wear gloves too and shops will refrain from entertaining more than two customers at any given point, the SOPs say.Around 2,700 locations in the city host weekly markets by small-scale traders dealing in items ranging from garments, footwear, utensils, and books to toys and everyday kitchen essentials. These markets cater to millions, especially those living in low-income group localities, and provide employment to more than 400,000 people in different roles – from traders to small-time transporters and labourers. Brijesh Goyal, president of the Delhi-based Chamber of Trade and Industry, said the move would bring huge relief for them..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-safety-guidelines-as-hotels-weekly-markets-set-to-open-in-delhi/story-2gvIJyFv2Q9T2IIqrwpYnJ.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Anshu Prakash moves court, seeks early hearing in assault case||Former Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash on Friday moved the Delhi high court, seeking an early hearing in a case of alleged assault in which Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and 11 other MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have been named as accused. Prakash had alleged he was assaulted during a meeting at the chief minister’s residence on February 19, 2018. The CM, the deputy CM, and the other AAP MLAs, have denied any wrongdoing, and the party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj has accused Prakash of making false allegations at the behest of the Union government.The high court will hear the matter on Monday.In his plea, filed through advocate Stuti Gujral, Prakash has asked that the matter, which has been pending in the trial court in the arguments stage, be heard on the grounds that no substantive proceedings have happened in the last 18 months because of a pending petition in the high court.In 2018, Kejriwal and Sisodia moved the high court, challenging a trial court order allowing Prakash to have the lawyers of his choice rather than a special public prosecutor. On Friday, appearing for Prakash, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra told the court that there has been no progress in proceedings before the trial court for the last one-and-a-half years as a result of a March 14, 2019 order by the high court staying the proceedings until the lawyers’ issue was resolved.Appearing for the CM and deputy CM, their counsel Mohammad Irshaad sought some time to get instructions from his clients, following which the matter was adjourned till Monday.The AAP government refused to comment on the issue despite repeated attempts. Delhi Police, on February 20, 2018, filed a first information report (FIR) based on Prakash’s complaint. Prakash alleged he was called for a midnight meeting to discuss release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi, and manhandled and assaulted during the course of the meeting. On August 13, 2018, police filed a 1,300-page charge sheet against 13 AAP leaders, including Kejriwal and Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/anshu-prakash-moves-court-seeks-early-hearing-in-assault-case/story-eCgzeLi46sL9glcX9JT95N.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal gives Rs 1crore to family of sanitation worker who died on Covid-19 duty||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met the family of a 55-year-old sanitation worker of Hindu Rao hospital who had succumbed to Covid-19 earlier this month and offered them financial assistance of Rs 1 crore, the government said in a press statement. The chief minister said that while money could not bring back a lost life, it could help in supporting the families of such Covid warriors. “A sanitation worker, Raju, was infected while he was on duty at a hospital and later passed away. I have offered his family financial assistance of Rs 1 crore. We are proud of all these corona-warriors who have sacrificed their lives while protecting the people of Delhi,” Kejriwal told reporters after meeting the sanitation worker’s family in north Delhi’s Old Chandrawal neighbourhood. The compensation scheme was initially meant for healthcare workers. In April, its ambit was expanded to cover police officials, teachers, firemen, sanitation workers and anyone else engaged in any form of Covid-19 management duty. The scheme was given cabinet approval as a “mark of respect to Covid warriors. So far, more than 20 families have received financial assistance from the Delhi government. They include the families of a doctor, police officials and a civil defence volunteers, who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had met a city doctor’s family and handed a cheque of Rs 1 crore.Raju, only referred to by his first name in government records, was employed with the north Delhi municipal corporation.  Raju’s family said that the compensation amount has come as a relief for them and now they can hope to build their own house with it.“My father was the only one with a permanent government job. My mother also works as a sanitation worker on contract. During the lockdown I lost my job as a housekeeping staff of a private company. My brother too doesn’t have a job. With this money, we hope to make our own house and pay off the loan that my father had taken for getting my two sisters married,” said Ravi Ghogaliya (35), late Raju’s son. Raju was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He succumbed to the virus on June 26. The family had earlier said that even though he was a sanitation worker, he also worked as a ward boy in Covid ward, despite his repeated requests of not being put on duty there because of his co-morbidities. Sanjay Gehlot, president of the Safai Karamcharis Union said, “It is our responsibility to get one of the family members employed in place of their father as well as that they receive the compensation amount of ₹10 lakh from the corporation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-gives-rs-1cr-to-family-of-sanitation-worker-who-died-on-covid-19-duty/story-81M2vQsaZtiP25uu6uhsKJ.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||Vasai woman orders burger for ₹359, loses ₹44K in online fraud||A 35-year-old woman from Vasai lost ₹43,900 in an online fraud within two days after she placed an order for a ₹359-burger.Though the incident took place on January 31, the complaint was registered with the Manickpur police only on August 16.The complainant contacted on the customer care number of a food delivery provider online after her order for a burger worth ₹359 was cancelled by a Vasai restaurant. The police said the number was fake and was not of the customer care.“After contacting on the customer care number, she spoke to a man who identified himself as Deepak Sharma. He claimed that the refund for the order was being delayed owing to a problem in the server and asked for her bank details to transfer the refund at the earliest. He then sent her a link and told her to open it for the refund process, but when the link did not open, the caller asked her to forward the link back to him,” said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble from Manickpur police station. After she forwarded the link, he disconnected the call.The woman then received messages from her bank, which stated that ₹10,000 was debited from her account in two simultaneous transactions of ₹5,000 each. “She again called on the customer care number and spoke to Sharma, who said the amount was debited owing to a technical glitch and assured her that he will credit ₹10,000 and the ₹359 debited earlier for the order into her account,” said Kamble.However, the next day, the woman lost ₹33,900 from her bank account. She then tweeted to the food-delivery provider and an authorised customer representative called her and returned her the ₹359 which was debited for the food order.“The woman then sent an email to her bank, but their reply came only on August 11. They refused to help her as she gave all the bank details to the accused, the complainant told us. She then approached us and we filed a case against Sharma under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act, 2000. The cyber cell is probing the matter,” said Kamble.Such links are sent by fraudsters usually to hack into phones and access a person’s data, said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasai-woman-orders-burger-for-359-loses-44k-in-online-fraud/story-lAnNLTkriyvMogSJLI6V4M.html
22-08-2020||Mumbai||P Varavara Rao’s neurological status unstable: Medical report||The Bombay high court (HC) has highlighted that a part of the medical report of Telegu poet P Varavara Rao from Nanavati Hospital, where he was admitted for treatment Covid-19 and other comorbidities, has stated that though Rao’s electrolyte levels have normalised, his neurological status is unstable as he is still disoriented in his talks. The report further states that depending on Rao’s condition and as per hospital protocols, they would permit Rao’s family to speak to him over video call. Meanwhile, the family and lawyer of the poet, who has been arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, are yet to receive the medical report of the octogenarian. While hearing the petition filed by Rao seeking bail on grounds of his health condition, a bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Abhay Ahuja, on August 17, had directed the court administration to hand over Rao’s medical report from Nanavati Hospital to his family and his lawyer as well as to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). However, none of them received the reports as of Friday evening. In its order published on Thursday night, the bench has reproduced a paragraph of the medical report which states that Rao’s health condition with regards to reduced electrolyte levels has improved but he is still incoherent while talking. It reads, “Prognosis: Mr P Varavara Rao’s persistent hyponatremia has improved after sodium correction but neurological status has not improved clinically as he is still disoriented with irrelevant talks. He is maintaining saturation on room air; his respiratory system has not shown abnormal signs as of now but has paroxysmal bouts of cough especially during feeding. As on date, considering the comorbid factors of age, persistent hyponatremia in Covid-19 case, the patient will require close monitoring.” According to sources in the HC, the report is expected to be handed over to Rao’s family and lawyer by Monday. Rao was first admitted to Sir JJ Hospital in July after he lost consciousness while in Taloja jail. Later he tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to St George Hospital on July 16. However, he fell from the cot during treatment and was subsequently shifted to Nanavati Hospital on July 19 for neurological treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/p-varavara-rao-s-neurological-status-unstable-medical-report/story-uSy2ucinNGCSQrEcD818hI.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||3,000-car parking to come up at Nabi Karim metro station||A multilevel car parking for more than 3,000 cars will come up at Old Delhi’s Nabi Karim metro station as part of Metro’s Phase-IV expansion. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation will develop this parking facility in the densely populated area.“The car parking facility will be a part of an integrated station complex at Nabi Karim. While an interchange facility for the Janakpuri West -RK Ashram Marg Metro corridor and the proposed Inderlok -Indraprastha corridor of Phase 4 will be underground, a six-storey car parking facility along with a three-storey commercial complex will be constructed above the station. The parking facility will be fully automated,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC.DMRC managing director Mangu Singh and north corporation commissioner Gyanesh Bharti signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Friday.DMRC officials said Metro will construct the integrated substructure for the station and the north corporation will construct the super structure for the parking as well as commercial facilities through its concessionaire. “They will operate and maintain the parking facility and the commercial block,” said Dayal.Lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, who attended the event via video-conferencing, said a joint monitoring team of the north corporation and DMRC should monitor the project and ensure it is complete on time.North Mayor Jai Prakash said, “Residents of the Walled City would benefit from the project once it is completed. This project would speed up development work in old Delhi. This facility will reduce parking-related problems in Nabi Karim area.”The Metro station, a DMRC official said, will consist of four underground levels. “The surface of the building will have ground floor plus eight floors. The ground and two floors will be used for commercial purposes and the remaining will be utilised for parking. The project would be developed in a 26,198 sqm area owned by North DMC at Idgah Road Sadar Bazar,” Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-000-car-parking-to-come-up-at-nabi-karim-metro-station/story-u4RgsI9f0fpGyM5ZAkdR1O.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Jamia violence: NHRC report does not give clean chit to anyone, says HC||Quoting the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) report on the Jamia Millia Islamia violence in December 2019, the Delhi high court on Friday observed that the police action was not done in a professional manner and the report “does not give a clean chit to anyone”. The court was hearing a bunch of pleas, seeking various reliefs including a court-monitored special investigation team (SIT) probe into the violence on the campus. Violence has broken out on the varsity campus on December 15 during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Police were accused of entering the campus and assaulting students. At least 10 vehicles were torched allegedly by protesters. The Jamia students had said that they were not involved in the violence and that their peaceful march was hijacked by outsiders.Also read: A blow-by-blow account of Jamia protest in last 24 hrs over Citizenship ActA bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan made these observations after the additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi said the NHRC report itself states that the protests were not peaceful. “The protest was a mask for something far more grave and serious. There has to be an intelligence inquiry,” the ASG contended while adding that “calling the entry of police into the campus illegal and mala fide just because the students inside the campus were from minority community is completely untenable”. To this, justice Jalan said, “But the NHRC report also states that the entire police action was not handled very professionally. It doesn’t give a clean chit to anyone”. The ASG replied, “However, it does not say that police action as a whole was unnecessary.” Lekhi, while opposing the pleas seeking compensation and registration of FIRs against the police officers, said the police action was warranted. Reading from the NHRC report, ASG Lekhi said the report mentions that protesters hurled stones at the police, damaged public property and blocked traffic movement. He said the report also mentions that protesters were not as peaceful as they claimed to be and there was an influx of outsiders on the campus. As such, police action was necessary. He said the report also stated that there was a law and order problem and that the students were influenced by politicians and local leaders. He also blamed the university for not informing the police about prior incidents. Following arguments, the court adjourned the matter for further hearing to August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-violence-nhrc-report-does-not-give-clean-chit-to-anyone-says-hc/story-qyXMgu820JxcW0zdOS1FNM.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||‘Citizens had to bend their heads in shame’: AAP, BJP spar over Delhi’s cleanliness rankings||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said he is saddened by the poor ranking of the three municipal corporations in Delhi in the central government’s cleanliness survey 2020 -- the result of which were shared on Thursday.Kejriwal on Friday asked officials of the BJP-ruled MCDs to work hard and improve the ranking. “Work hard. Sad to see the latest ranking of Delhi’s three municipal corporations in the cleanliness survey,” he told reporters.The three municipal corporations in Delhi bagged the 31st, 43rd and 46th ranks in the survey.Also read | Swachh Survekshan 2020: All you need to know about India’s cleanliness surveyThe Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Friday also criticised the municipal corporations, accusing them of failing to keep the city clean, citing the central government’s cleanliness report. “The BJP-ruled MCDs ranked very poorly at the cleanliness survey. SDMC was ranked 31, North MCD ranked 43 and EDMC 46, citizens had to bend their heads in shame for this. The MCDs have failed to ensure a decently clean Delhi. The MCDs had opened all the toilets for only one week for the survey, today all these toilets have been closed again. I appeal to the people of Delhi, to give the responsibility of civic bodies to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. We will build a cleanliness model for Delhi one the lines of quality education and health,” said Bharadwaj. While the AAP controls the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations in Delhi. The next municipal elections are likely to be scheduled in 2022. The BJP hit back at AAP’s comments. The party’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “I do not wish to get involved in the dirty ranking bogey being raised by the AAP leaders as I feel today is the time to respect the hard work put in by municipal corporation Safai Karamcharis during last six months of the corona pandemic. To the AAP leaders saying that people want the Delhi government to take over sanitation service, I wish to ask if they will restore the water facility with the municipal corporation like the way it was till 1997. The Delhi Jal Board has failed and it is because of them that Delhi witnesses waterlogging after the slightest rain.” The BJP-led municipal corporations blamed the AAP government for not releasing their “due” funds in time because of which many of the works and even salaries to the staff could not be paid timely. South Corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh said, “If we don’t have a budget, how are we supposed to keep on working. We still try to generate our own revenue to make things work. The Delhi government has no right to point fingers at us without releasing our funds due under the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission.” The North and East corporation mayors too had said they were working to improve their rankings but did not have enough funds have majorly impacted their work. North Corporation mayor had on Thursday said he will call a meeting to focus on waste segregation and how it could be bettered to improve their future rankings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-bjp-spar-over-delhi-s-cleanliness-rankings/story-6UMQuhmV9aFaPqZpVjKodJ.html
22-08-2020||Gurugram||Commercial building constructed on land marked for public utility partially demolished||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday partially demolished a four-storey building allegedly constructed over private land in an area marked for public utilities in Sector 100. Officials said almost 60% of the building, which was constructed without obtaining permission from authorities, was demolished by the enforcement team before the building’s owner got a stay order from local court in the evening.Four persons were also detained by the police after they started protesting against the demolition by the enforcement team, but were later released after they tendered an apology, said DTCP officials.RS Bhath, district town planner, said that a large commercial building, spread over 45000 square feet, with an office on the ground floor and residential space on the other floors was constructed in an area that has been marked for public utility as per the Gurugram master plan 2031. “The owner said the building was three-year-old, but could not produce any valid permission for its construction from the authorities. The demolition was carried out from 10am to 6pm wherein around 60% of the structure was demolished. But the action was stopped after the owner got a stay from a local court around 6pm,” he said.The court had granted a stay to the buildings’ owner till the next hearing in view of the urgency involved in the matter, said Bhath.The owner of the builder could not be reached for comment.After obtaining the stay order, Bhath said, that few employees working for the building’s owner started protesting and misbehaved with the enforcement staff following which a police time detained them. “These persons were later released by the police after they tendered an apology,” he said. Police teams from Rajendra Park police station and Dhankot police post had accompanied the enforcement team during the demolition drive.Inspector Pankaj, station house officer, Rajendra Park police station said a team of 70 police personnel supported the enforcement team of DTCP during the drive. “No one was allowed to create any hindrance, and few persons who tried to protest were detained for some time and later released,” the SHO said.An adjoining structure, where a cement company had created a godown, was also given a notice to vacate the premises at the earliest, said officials. “They have given us in written that cement worth ₹1 crore is lying in the godown, and they should be given time to remove it,” Bhath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/commercial-building-constructed-on-land-marked-for-public-utility-partially-demolished/story-Kg4j3OnLRe3HExR651vpSJ.html
22-08-2020||Delhi||Hotels to open in Delhi; weekly markets on a trial basis, but not gyms, yoga centres||The Delhi government on Wednesday allowed hotels to resume operations and weekly markets to open on a trial basis, but continued the ban on gymnasiums and yoga centres in the national capital.The decision was taken in a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA), helmed by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal and attended by vice-chairperson chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, among others. Hotels and weekly markets will be opening in the city after a gap of nearly five months.Kejriwal said the decision will boost Delhi’s economy, which saw a steep slump during the three-month nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is much better now. The economy of Delhi has to be brought back on track. For that, we had proposed the opening of all hotels in Delhi, which was rejected by the Central government earlier. We requested Centre again and we are happy that the proposal was finally approved on Wednesday. Now, all hotels in Delhi will open, while weekly markets will be opened on a trial basis. However, everyone must exercise precautions and follow social distancing,” Kejriwal said.Senior government officials said the opening of hotels and weekly markets shall be prohibited in containment zones and an order notifying the SDMA decisions will be issued soon.Hotel groups and associations were enthused by the lifting of restrictions and said coupled with the Delhi government’s July 30 decision to do away with the night curfew (imposed between 10pm and 5am), it would help attract more customers.According to the Delhi government, the hotel industry in the capital contributes 8% of the state’s gross domestic product and employs nearly four lakh people. Weekly markets, the government said, provide employment to nearly five lakh poor families.Hotels, gyms and yoga centres were allowed to open across the country from June 8 under the Central government’s unlock 3.0 guidelines issued on May 30. But in Delhi, these services remained prohibited as a preventive measure to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Delhi government had first sent a proposal to open hotels and weekly markets to L-G Baijal on July 30. The LG, however, struck it down saying that the Covid-19 situation continues to be “fragile” in Delhi and the threat is still “far from over”. On August 6, the government sent the proposal again, this time adding the demand to allow gyms and yoga centres to open as well, but the L-G did not respond. Instead, he scheduled the SDMA meeting on Wednesday.While hotels will now open in Delhi, senior government officials said a decision on opening gyms and yoga centres will be taken “at a later stage” by the SDMA. Weekly markets are likely to be allowed to operate on a trial basis for a week or 10 days.“The L-G was of the view that the economic activities should be opened up in a phased manner. It was also pointed out that even though the Covid-19 situation has somewhat stabilised, Delhi is still witnessing around 1,033 fresh cases on average every day,” an official who attended the SDMA meeting said, on condition of anonymity.Senior government officials said the health department is likely to issue a standard operating procedure for all hotels to follow, which will mostly be a reiteration of the guidelines issued by the Central government on June 4.Shwetank Singh, vice-president, development and asset management, InterGlobe Hotels, said the hotels in the state had been under immense stress for the longest time, while those in NCR cities such as Gurugram and Faridabad have reopened and returned to normal functioning. “We are in the process of installing MERV 13 air filters in our hotels to avoid the spread through the HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) systems. We have installed plexiglas shields at check-in desks and all our staff members will wear masks and gloves throughout the day. Sanitizer dispensers will be installed at all touchpoints. While making rounds of the premises and visiting quarantined guest floors as well as during guest interactions, our staff members will wear full PPE kits,” he said.Sandeep Khandelwal, chairman, Delhi hotels and restaurant’s owner’s association (DHROA) said the decision to open hotels will give life to 3,000 budget hotels in the city. “We now request the Delhi government to help our industry recover from the losses by giving relaxations and deferments in fixed charges of electricity bills, house tax, hotel licences and fire norms,” he said.Rohit Arora, area general manager, The Park New Delhi, said the hotel has introduced a gold-certified program - S.H.I.E.L.D. “Every team member has undergone mandatory hygiene, safety, sanitization and social distancing training. We have adopted a more stringent approach towards our sanitisation and hygiene standards. All government protocols will be followed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hotels-to-open-in-delhi-weekly-markets-on-a-trial-basis-but-not-gyms-yoga-centres/story-ROfjGtB1as5p6qiwcJUzHM.html
22-08-2020||World||Democrats see racism in GOP mispronunciations of ‘Kamala’||Bantering during the final night of the Democratic National Convention, actor Julia Louis-Dreyfus and former presidential candidate Andrew Yang repeatedly got the name of “our current vice president” wrong. Was it “Mika Pints?” or “Paints?” Or maybe “Ponce,” Yang suggested.“Oh, some kind of weird foreign name?” Louis-Dreyfus asked.“Yeah, not very American sounding,” Yang replied.It was a quick bit of satire with a pointed message from Democrats: When top Republicans — including President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence — mispronounce Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris’ first name, it’s not just disrespectful, it’s racist.Harris’ first name is pronounced “KAH’-mah-lah” — or, as she explains in her biography, “’comma-la,’ like the punctuation mark.” But mispronunciations have been rampant in the days since the California senator became the first Black woman and the first Asian American woman named to a major party’s ticket. Pence referred to her as “kah-MAH’-lah,” putting his emphasis on the second syllable, at events last week. Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel did the same on Wednesday, as did Trump at a rally in Pennsylvania on Thursday, the day after Harris delivered a prime-time speech accepting the Democratic nomination — a speech he indicated he watched.Harris’ supporters say the pattern amounts to a deliberate effort by Trump and his allies to portray Harris — the daughter of immigrants — as someone who does not belong at the top ranks of politics. The mispronunciations follow a string of attacks that include racist and sexist memes and questioning whether Harris, who was born in California, is eligible to serve as vice president because her mother was Indian and her father Jamaican. (Constitutional scholars and other legal experts say there is no question that she is eligible.)“It is an effort to diminish her,” said Fatima Goss Graves, president of the National Women’s Law Center Action Fund. ”It’s designed to signal difference.”Trump campaign officials did not immediately respond to questions about the errors.To be sure, Harris isn’t the only politician who has watched other politicians and voters trip over her name. Former President Barack Obama, whose father was from Kenya, used to crack jokes about being a “skinny kid with a funny name.” Former presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, whose father was from Malta, went mostly by “Pete” — though his campaign made posters, chants and T-shirts with the pronunciation “Boot-Edge-Edge.”Even Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden slipped up and mispronounced the first “a” in Kamala during his speech introducing her as his running mate, but he quickly repeated her name with the correct pronunciation.Harris supporters say there is a difference between someone who makes an honest mistake and wants to correct it and people who knowingly mispronounce her name, or who don’t care enough to get it right.In the introduction to her biography, Harris says her name means “lotus flower.” It’s a symbol of significance in Indian culture, she wrote, noting “a lotus grows underwater, its flower rising above the surface while its roots are planted firmly in the river bottom.”When she first ran for the U.S. Senate, her campaign produced a video with small children demonstrating the proper way to say her first name.But her defenders say Harris is well past the point of introduction — especially with Republican opponents. Harris served as California’s attorney general for seven years before being elected to the Senate in 2016. Since then, she’s made headlines for tough questioning of Trump appointees and raised her profile even more with her bid for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination.And even before she was elected to the Senate, Trump knew who she was — he donated to her 2014 campaign for attorney general.Yet Trump has continued to get her name wrong, as have his allies.Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani called Harris “Pamela” during an appearance on Fox News. Pence mispronounced her name multiple times during a stop last week in Iowa, where he warned a cheering crowd that the November election isn’t about a choice between Republicans and Democrats or conservatives and liberals.“I think the choice in this election is whether America remains America,” he said, going on to mispronounce her name moments later.Pence pronounced Harris’ name correctly during an appearance on Fox News on Friday, hours after the exchange between Louis-Dreyfus and Yang.Fox News host Tucker Carlson grew agitated when a guest corrected him last week after he also pronounced Kamala incorrectly. “So what?” he said, before mispronouncing her name again and complaining about liberals being too sensitive.McDaniel also got the pronunciation wrong earlier this week during an appearance on Fox News, even though the host questioning McDaniel was saying it correctly.Many people, particularly people of color, relate to Harris having her name mispronounced because they face the same situation in workplaces and elsewhere, said Goss Graves. She’s grappled herself with people mispronouncing her first name — it’s fah-TEE’-mah — and whether, or when, to correct them.But it’s a very different thing, she said, to be a candidate for one of the highest offices in the world and have your colleagues and members of the media repeatedly mispronounce your name — or not care enough to get it right.“When people are running for the highest levels of government, there’s an expectation they will be afforded with dignity and respect,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-see-racism-in-gop-mispronunciations-of-kamala/story-iIyPUjbSnbRNcp9rlOeAMK.html
22-08-2020||World||How does coronavirus spread at a concert? Germans do a test||Germany held a pop concert Saturday to see how those attending would spread coronavirus.German researchers studying Covid-19 packed part of a Leipzig arena with volunteers, collecting data in a “real life” simulation of a pop concert with strict health and safety controls.About 1,500 people took part in the experiment run by the University Hospital in Halle, each taking a coronavirus test ahead of time, testing negative, and having to wear protective masks throughout the day’s testing.Researchers equipped each volunteer with contact tracers to record their routes in the arena and track the path of the aerosols — the small particles that could carry the virus — they emitted as they mingled and talked. Fluorescent disinfectants were used to highlight which surfaces at the mock concert were touched most frequently.German pop singer Tim Bendzko appeared on stage to create as realistic a reaction from the crowd as possible for three scenarios.Afterward, he said he had expected the day to feel more sterile and like an experiment but that the crowd was into the concert.“We really had a lot of fun,” he said. “We survived drive-in concerts this summer and in that respect, for us, this is a first step toward normalcy.”Under the first scenario, which simulated the very beginning of a pandemic, the concert-goers were kept close together in the room with no social distancing. In the second, the researchers instituted hygiene measures and larger social distances between the volunteers. In the third, a distance of 1.5 meters (5 feet) between participants was strictly enforced.Stefan Moritz, who led the study, said researchers had only about a third of the volunteers they had hoped for, partially because many Germans are still away on summer holidays and partially due to fears of participating even with the safety measures taken. But he said the experiment had gone well.“We are satisfied with the numbers,” he told reporters. “We have good data quality.”The results of the study are expected in four to six weeks, he said.In general, Germany has been praised for its handling of the pandemic with its rapid response and robust testing. It has registered only 9,267 confirmed virus deaths so far, one-fourth of Britain’s virus death toll.But the numbers have been rising recently, and Germany’s disease control center reported 2,034 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the first time the daily national increase has topped 2,000 since the end of April.The Robert Koch Institute said coronavirus outbreaks are being reported in nursing homes, hospitals, schools and “especially among travelers and in the context of religious or family events.”“The trend is very concerning,” the agency said.Germany’s 16 states are in the process of resuming in-class teaching at schools. The possible risks of virus clusters building up in educational institutions and then spreading to families and further into society has been a matter of great concern.In Berlin, one of the first states to return, at least 41 schools this week reported that students or teachers have become infected, and hundreds of them have been put into quarantine.___This story corrects the spelling of Leipzig.___Follow AP’s pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-does-coronavirus-spread-at-a-concert-germans-do-a-test/story-yMGOY0ZwBmjcWaM7PWPZ3I.html
22-08-2020||World||The bully pulpit: Donald Trump pushes Washington, but coronavirus resists||His face framed by the golden Oval Office curtains behind him, President Donald Trump stared straight into the camera aimed at the Resolute Desk.It was the night of March 11, 2020. And Trump’s presidency would be forever changed.Trump, whose improbable election ripped up the rules of American politics, had spent three-plus years defying history and orthodoxy in a chaotic spectacle that dominated the national discourse and fervently engaged both sides of a bitterly divided country. And now, essentially for the first time, he was confronted by a crisis that was not of his own making.It was the kind of test presidents inevitably must face, and Trump responded with trademark certitude.“The virus will not have a chance against us,” Trump told Americans that night.Five months later, the coronavirus has killed more than 175,000 Americans and left tens of millions unemployed. And now, as Trump prepares to again accept the Republican presidential nomination on Thursday in a ceremony at the White House, he must convince an electorate that has largely disapproved of his handling of the pandemic that he is not to blame, deserves another term and that all the chaos has been worth it.“The future of our country and indeed our civilization is at stake on Nov. 3,” Trump said Friday.Trump has spent his presidency bending Washington to his will. He has transformed a public health crisis into a political litmus test. He has presided over a booming, if stratified, economy, and claimed he created it. He has again forced race to the center of the American conversation, using federal police to enforce his view. He has alienated historical allies and changed how much of the world views the United States.At seminal moments — in set speeches, impromptu riffs and long-sought policy reversals, examined in this story — he has redefined, at least temporarily, the presidency.But he has not shaken the virus.___THE ADDRESSA virus born in China had swept through Europe and reached America’s shores. Global markets were tumbling, hospitals filling, cities locking down. On the day the coronavirus was officially declared a pandemic, beloved actor Tom Hanks announced he had tested positive. The NBA suspended its season.And for only the second time as president, Trump addressed the nation in a formal Oval Office speech. His spoke slowly, his voice halting, and he seemed unsure of what to do with his hands.The U.S., he told Americans, would “expeditiously defeat this virus.” But by any measure, Trump’s address didn’t go over well: The White House had to correct significant errors — one on travel from Europe, another on international cargo — within minutes of the speech’s conclusion.And ever since, the virus has proven impervious to bullying tweets or the ability to dictate cable news chyrons. It has upended American politics, stripping Trump of both his most potent reelection argument, a strong economy, and the venues from which to extol it, his raucous campaign rallies.“Historically, demagogic power wanes when seismic events overwhelm the existing moment,” said presidential historian Jon Meacham. “Pearl Harbor crushed America First; Bloody Sunday helped break the grip of Jim Crow. The pandemic may be the seismic shift, the mind-concentrating challenge, that ends Trump’s appeal beyond his hard-core base.”Until now, one of Trump’s greatest skills as a politician has been to assert his own political reality, careening from headline to headline, while seemingly able to dodge scandals that would likely have ended any other political career.His 2016 campaign was chaos and it worked, in part due to the unpopularity of Hillary Clinton, as well as outside help both foreign (Moscow) and domestic (James Comey). The Russia investigation shadowed him throughout his first two years in office. His response: an unrelenting assault from the Oval Office on the investigators and intelligence agencies.In the end, special counsel Robert Mueller did not find that Trump conspired with Moscow to interfere with the election, but he also did not exonerate the president on possible charges of obstruction of justice. Trump claimed total victory. Several key aides ended up with guilty pleas, yet the president emerged relatively unscathed — only soon to enter another maelstrom over foreign help, this time his request to Ukraine to investigate his eventual Democratic opponent, Joe Biden.Somehow, Trump’s block-the-sun response made the third impeachment of a sitting president feel like both a foregone conclusion and an afterthought.He had, again, survived. But the day after his acquittal also brought an ominous milestone: the nation’s first COVID-19 death.___THE CRASHWhen Trump made the trip to the Capitol for his State of the Union address in February, he was buoyed by polling that showed the impeachment proceedings had turned out to have little impact and Americans approved of his handling of the economy.“Jobs are booming, incomes are soaring, poverty is plummeting, crime is falling, confidence is surging, and our country is thriving and highly respected again,” Trump declared.The numbers did look good. And Trump aides were quick to credit his sweeping tax cut, one of his signature first-term achievements.The unemployment rate was hovering at 3.5%, a level not seen since the 1960s. The stock market, one of the president’s favorite measures of economic success, was up roughly 20% from the previous year. And workers, particularly in lower-paying jobs, were seeing wages tick up.Trump’s campaign advisers were giddy over signs that his message was resonating beyond the voters who had helped him win 2016. Advisers took note of the significant number of people requesting tickets to Trump rallies who hadn’t voted in the last presidential election.Since 1956, in the 12 months before presidential elections, only one of nine incumbent presidents lost when unemployment fell over that year (Gerald Ford in 1976), and only one was reelected when it rose (Dwight Eisenhower in 1956).Then came the virus.In a matter of weeks, the economy collapsed. Unemployment skyrocketed to 14.7% and all the gains made by the stock market since he was elected were erased.The virus-weakened economy has shown some signs of improvement but it is far from being healed. Unemployment has edged down to 10.2% — still just below the peak of U.S. joblessness in the Great Recession — and the S&P 500 reached a new high.But the suffering for a huge slice of America remains great. More than 40% of recent layoffs are likely to become permanent job losses, by one recent estimate. The National Restaurant Association forecasts the industry could lose 5 to 7 million employees. And if the White House and Congress don’t come to terms on another aid package, the economy could go sideways after Labor Day.Still, Trump’s backers believe he has an argument to make.“I think the message needs to be in post-COVID times: Trump has got the energy, the stamina, the experience and track record to bring us back,” said Dan Eberhart, chief executive of oil services company Canary LLC and a major Republican donor.But with less than 10 weeks to go until Election Day, Trump has spent an inordinate amount of time on squabbles and distractions, bashing the U.S. Postal Service, warning “suburban housewives” about perceived threats to their neighborhood idylls from affordable housing, lending credence to the right-wing QAnon conspiracy movement.“I don’t know what persuadable voter is moved by anti-Post Office rhetoric,” Eberhart said. “We’ve got to get the closing message right.”___THE NEWS CONFERENCEUnder a glistening ballroom chandelier, reporters packed into Trump’s Bedminster country club in New Jersey, waiting for the president to address shocking events that had unfolded more than 300 miles to the south on a sweltering day in August 2017.A clash in Charlottesville, Virginia, between white supremacists and anti-racism demonstrators had left a young woman dead, mowed down by a neo-Nazi who drove his car into a crowd of counter protesters. Trump’s response: There was hatred and bigotry on “many sides.” Days later, in a Trump Tower news conference, he again declined to denounce solely the white supremacists, speaking of “very fine people on both sides.”His equivocal words roiled the White House. Senior West Wing advisers threatened to quit. Republicans found their voices and condemned Trump.It was more than just a moment. Trump, a billionaire by some accounts, sold himself to voters as an unlikely champion of the forgotten man who would “Make America Great Again,” a slogan that was read by many as a callback to a simpler — and whiter — era in the United States.The president’s team showcased record low unemployment rates for African Americans and rising prosperity for minorities in the days before the pandemic. But his rhetoric and policies were viewed by many as offensive and, at times, racist.There was his campaign kickoff suggestion that many Mexican immigrants were “rapists.” His claim that an Indiana-born judge couldn’t be impartial because of his Latino heritage. And there was the racist lie of birtherism — Trump’s false suggestions that President Barack Obama wasn’t born in the U.S. and thus wasn’t eligible to be president.His moves to sharply curtail legal and illegal immigration became a frequent fault line for the administration. Thousands of Americans protested at airports in January 2017 when the White House enacted its first ban on travel from Muslim-majority countries, demonstrations that foreshadowed the uproar the following summer when the administration moved to forcibly separate migrant families at the southern border, leading to television images of weeping children pulled from their parents. And his closing — and ultimately failed — argument before the 2018 midterm elections was that dangerous caravans of migrants were headed for U.S. cities.“He has made explicit what has been fueling American politics since the 1960s. He is saying the quiet parts out loud,” said Eddie Glaude, chair of the department of African American studies at Princeton University. “He has made direct appeals to white grievance, to white resentment. He has dwelled in the underbelly of American politics.”Trump’s poll numbers, already wobbling, fell further in the aftermath of the death of George Floyd, a Black man who died under the knee of a white Minneapolis police officer.As protests calling for racial justice erupted, Trump leaned in on his law-and-order cry, depicting demonstrators as “thugs.” References to Lafayette Square, the park across from the White House, now evoke images of Trump posing in front of a damaged church holding up a Bible after officers forcefully routed demonstrators from the area.___THE SUMMITVladimir Putin smiled.The world was watching a post-summit news conference by the American and Russian leaders in Helsinki in July 2018, and Trump had just publicly sided with Putin over his own intelligence agencies on the question of election interference.The uproar was immediate. Even before Air Force One took off for Washington, Trump’s comments were condemned by Republicans and Democrats alike.Trump’s deference to Putin, beyond reviving questions about the American leader’s possible ties to Moscow, illuminated his own brand of foreign policy, one that has strained ties with Western allies, in favor of transactional relationships and a warmth toward strongmen.“Trump came into office believing that the cost of American world leadership was far greater than the benefits,” said Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations. “He sees allies as economic competitors rather than strategic partners.”It all adds up to foreign policy wins, in the view of Trump supporters. After his prodding, more NATO members boosted spending on defense. The Islamic State, which once controlled 34,000 square miles in Syria and Iraq, has been defanged. And North Korea, which at the start of Trump’s term was widely regarded as the most volatile foreign policy issue on his plate, has remained relatively quiet.“We have two foreign policy presidents with Trump,” said James Carafano, national security expert at the conservative Heritage Foundation. “There is the showman Trump and there is the serious foreign policy Trump. We spend way too much time focusing on the showmanship.”Outside of Trump’s links to Putin, no relationship has attracted more scrutiny than the president’s hot-cold ties with China’s Xi Jinping.Trump campaigned as a China hawk but, after being feted on an extravagant state visit to Beijing, his tone softened and he was eager to strike a new trade deal. And when the virus began to ignite around Wuhan, the president was reluctant to endanger negotiations and thus slow to criticize China.Those days of expedient restraint are long gone, replaced by Trump’s determination to affix blame elsewhere for the pandemic that has imperiled his presidency. The coronavirus, in Trump’s telling, became the “China virus.”___TRUTH AND CONSEQUENCENo one knew when Trump arrived in Charlotte, North Carolina, on March 2, that it might turn out to be the last jam-packed, big stadium rally of his presidency.At that point in the crisis — more than a week before the government recommended Americans sharply curtail activities to slow the spread of the virus — the number of U.S. infections had surpassed 100 and six people were confirmed dead. Trump assured the 9,600-person crowd that night he was leaning on the “greatest professionals in the world” to advise him.“My job is to protect the health of American patients and Americans first, and that’s what I’ll do,” declared Trump. He added, “America is so resilient, we know what we’re doing, we have the greatest people on earth, the greatest health system on earth.”Over the course of his presidency, Trump has leaned hard on florid overstatement, misdirection and out-right lies.It was a pattern set on his first full day in office when he ordered his press secretary to exaggerate the crowd size at his 2017 inauguration. Since then, he incorrectly claimed the Mueller report “totally exonerated” him, he insisted his administration was “taxing the hell out of China” even as the trade deficit grew, and he promised a sweeping health care plan that has yet to emerge.But his declaration at the Charlotte rally that he was getting advice from some of the greatest minds in medicine rang true. His coronavirus task force included Dr. Anthony Fauci, a renowned infectious disease expert, and Dr. Deborah Birx, who had worked with Fauci for years combating HIV/AIDS globally. Their presence gave the medical community hope that Trump would let the scientists lead him and the country through the crisis, said Lawrence Gostin, a public health expert at Georgetown University.Trump, in both private life and in the West Wing, has always made himself the center of power, the structure likened to “a wheel where all the spokes lead to the center, directly to the president,” according to Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax and a longtime friend of Trump.“There was no hierarchy at Trump Org and his White House mirrors that because, for Trump, it’s never been about organization, it is all about results,” said Ruddy.Reinforcing that, the Trump White House has seen an unprecedented amount of turnover among senior staff and Cabinet members, many of whom sharply criticized the president after leaving. And Trump soon began to break with the medical experts.“He won the benefit of the doubt in the public health community because he surrounded himself with the people who would follow the science,” Gostin said. “The problem is, it doesn’t matter if you have the right people around you if you don’t listen to them.”Trump, in defiance of federal guidelines, pushed for a rapid reopening of the economy even as public health experts warned him to go slow.He promoted the use of the drug hydroxychloroquine as a “game changer,” and even used it himself, despite federal warnings against taking the malaria drug to combat COVID-19. He regularly asserts that the virus will soon “go away.” And he recently dismissed a warning by the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr. Robert Redfield, that the U.S. could be in for “the worst fall, from a public health perspective, we’ve ever had” if Americans don’t step up mitigation efforts, such as wearing masks.“I think that we’re doing very well,” Trump said. “We’re on our way.”That’s the bravado that Trump has projected throughout his presidency. He frequently proclaims that no president, with the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln, has accomplished as much as he has.He’s moved the federal judicial system far to the right with the appointment of two conservative justices to the U.S. Supreme Court and more than 200 federal judges to lower courts. And he’s built more than 200 miles of his planned U.S.-Mexico wall, a centerpiece of his 2016 campaign promise to slow illegal immigration.But in the end, Trump has often ended up his own worst enemy, unwilling or unable to check his impulses. The campaign he now faces is less a choice between candidates than a referendum on himself, a weighting he will try to reverse before November.And his most lasting legacy might be undermining Americans’ trust in institutions, said Brian Ott, who heads the communication department at Missouri State University and has done extensive research on the president’s social media rhetoric.“He has waged war on science, fact and truth,” Ott said. “He has, in short, debased the office he holds and the entire nation with his endless lying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-bully-pulpit-donald-trump-pushes-washington-but-coronavirus-resists/story-chAxTeqRCxEZgbm26x8JNN.html
22-08-2020||World||Pakistan sanctions Taliban to avoid global finance blacklist||Pakistan has issued sweeping financial sanctions against Afghanistan’s Taliban, just as the militant group is in the midst of a US-led peace process in the neighboring country.The penalties, made public late Friday, target dozens of individuals including Taliban chief peace negotiator Abdul Ghani Baradar and several members of the Haqqani family, including Sirajuddin, the current head of the Haqqani network and deputy head of the Taliban.Many Taliban leaders, including those heading the much-feared Haqqani network, have lived in Pakistan since the 1980s. In those years they were part of the Afghan mujahedeen and allies of the US to end the 10-year invasion by the former Soviet Union. It ended in February, 1989.Many of the group’s leaders are known to own businesses and property in Pakistan.There was no immediate response from the Taliban.The list of sanctioned groups included others besides the Taliban and is in keeping with a 5-year-old United Nations resolution sanctioning the Afghan group and freezing their assets.The timing of Pakistan’s decision to issue the sanctions could be seen as a move to pressure the Taliban into a quick start to intra-Afghan negotiations, the next step in a peace deal signed in late February.The penalties were issued as part of Pakistan’s efforts to avoid being blacklisted by the Financial Action Task Force, which monitors money laundering and tracks terrorist groups’ activities, according to security officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media.Last year, the Paris-based group put Pakistan on a grey list of countries with a high risk of money laundering and terrorism financing but which have formally committed to working with the task force to make changes. Currently, only Iran and North Korea are blacklisted, which severely restricts a country’s international borrowing capabilities. Pakistan is trying to get off the grey list, said the officials.Pakistan has denied giving sanctuary to Taliban members following their ouster in 2001 by the US-led coalition but both Washington and Kabul routinely accuse Islamabad of giving them a safe haven.Still, it was Pakistan’s relationship with the Taliban that Washington eventually sought to exploit to move its peace negotiations with the insurgent movement forward.The US signed a peace deal with the Taliban on Feb. 29. The deal is intended to end Washington’s nearly 20 years of military engagement in Afghanistan, and has been touted as Afghanistan’s best hope for peace after more than four decades of war.But even as the US has already begun withdrawing its soldiers, efforts to get talks started between Kabul’s political leadership and the Taliban have been stymied by delays in a prisoner release program.The two sides are to release prisoners — 5,000 by the government and 1,000 by the Taliban — as a good will gesture ahead of talks. Both sides blame the other for the delays.Kabul has defied an order by a traditional loya jirga, or council, to release the last Taliban members it is holding, saying it wants 22 Afghan commandos being held by the Taliban freed first.Besides the Taliban, the sanctions target al-Qaida and the Islamic State affiliate, which has carried out deadly attacks in both Pakistan and Afghanistan.They also take aim at outlawed Pakistani groups like Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, thousands of whom are believed by the UN to be hiding in remote regions of Afghanistan. The TTP has declared war on Pakistan, carrying out one of the worst terrorist attacks in the country in 2014 killing 145 children and their teachers at an army public school in northwest Pakistan.The sanctions also take aim at outlawed anti-Indian groups considered allied with the country’s security services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-sanctions-taliban-to-avoid-global-finance-blacklist/story-m2SkyIcXDX0t9FzXfvzxgP.html
22-08-2020||World||Donald Trump’s Iran Move at UN Amplifies ‘America First’ Snub of Allies||The US move to “snap back” UN nuclear sanctions on Iran involves legal arcana unlikely to be resolved quickly. What’s clear, however, is that the Trump administration took an approach certain to inflict damage on Iran and relations with America’s allies.For critics and supporters alike, the disputed US effort to force the restoration of international sanctions on Tehran was peak “America First,” a policy undertaken with little pre-tense of diplomacy and without regard to the consequences.They see a conflict between President Donald Trump’s decision to walk away from the nuclear accord crafted during the Obama administration, only to rely on the architecture of that 2015 deal to demand stringent new punishments on Iran. And in response to their rebuke, the US ridiculed its allies for “siding with the ayatollahs.”Also read: In letter to UNSC, Iran says US has no right to demand restoration of sanctions“We are seeing how ‘America First’ ultimately means America alone,” said Gerard Araud, a former French ambassador to the US and the United Nations who helped negotiate sanctions on Iran. “They don’t care about their allies. They are burning all the bridges constructed over years of careful diplomacy due to an obsession to kill off the Iran deal.”For some observers, the US move is a distillation of Trump’s style in another sense: It seeks to blow up a deal without having anything to replace it. They draw parallels to the debate over health care in the US, where the Trump team has sought to dismantle the Affordable Care Act without any viable alternative on the horizon.Tracking the Escalating Conflict Between US, IranThe move came days before Republicans kick off their convention to renominate Trump for the presidency on Monday. And the timeline of events -- a 30-day window for a United Nations Security Council vote and the October expiration of a UN arms embargo -- means the dispute will be front-and-center during the final weeks of the US election campaign.European allies expressed shock and disappointment that the US was so willing to be isolated -- first by suffering a humiliating defeat when only one other country, the Dominican Republic, voted with it last week to extend the expiring arms embargo, and then by invoking snapback over almost universal opposition.The team led by Secretary of State Michael Pompeo is “trying to turn an international agreement and the international system on their heads,” said Ellie Geranmayeh, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. “It’s really nothing short of vandalism on a broad scale.”That maximalist strategy risks grave consequences. For the last three years, US allies have kept up a public facade that the trans-Atlantic relationship remains strong despite all their disagreements and Trump’s criticism. But that will be harder to maintain now, especially after Pompeo’s crack about siding with the ayatollahs and showing a failure of leadership by refusing to support the USTrump Touts Diplomacy After Pushing Alliances to Breaking PointOpposition to the multinational agreement was a foreign policy rallying cry for Trump, Republicans and some Democrats soon after it was negotiated. They said it lifted sanctions on Iran in the short-term without providing any long-term guarantee that the Islamic Republic wouldn’t seek nuclear weapons. In the meantime, they argued, Iran used fresh investment and cash flows to fuel conflicts from Syria to Yemen.Fulfilling a campaign promise, the president withdrew the US from the accord in 2018 and began tightening US sanctions on Tehran. The “maximum pressure” strategy had an impact, fueling inflation and undermining domestic support for President Hassan Rouhani’s government And yet, the other nations participating in the accord refused to abandon it altogether. So the US has returned to the UN to argue it still had standing to use its framework to punish Iran.It’s an argument few others believe. Opposition from China and Russia was expected, but soon after Pompeo made the US position official, the UK, France and Germany issued a joint statement criticizing the move. It may have been the most direct joint rebuke yet of Trump’s “America First” doctrine.Pompeo Rebukes Allies on Iran With Sanctions Demand“France, Germany and the United Kingdom are committed to preserving the processes and institutions which constitute the foundation of multilateralism,” the nations said.Rebuking the allies, Pompeo said, “America won’t join in this failure of leadership. America will not appease. America will lead.”Supporters of the strategy argue that it puts the US in position to address some of the key flaws of the original deal -- chiefly that many of its most strict restrictions on Iran expire, or “sunset,” in coming years. Trump has repeatedly predicted that Iran will return to the negotiating table after he wins a second term, a claim officials in Tehran have ruled out.“If the president wins re-election he’s set up well to address the sunsets and step up maximum pressure and then the regime will be desperate enough to negotiate,” said Richard Goldberg, senior adviser at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, which has helped guide the Trump administration’s Iran sanctions policies.30-Day ClockOpponents of the US strategy say that while the nuclear accord was imperfect, it was the best available tool to ensure Iran never again sought to develop a nuclear weapon.Pompeo now insists time is running out on Tehran. He contends that the US notification at the UN starts a 30-day clock that will wind down with the council required to restore sanctions.Other nations say they will simply ignore the US move, arguing that it means nothing as long as the US continues to renounce the accord. That may also be a calculated bet that Trump will lose in November and that an administration led by Democrat Joe Biden would take a different tack.Yet the US move this week augurs what could come next should Trump win a second term: a foreign policy built even more on individual transactions rather than a broader sense of mutual gain.There was a hint of that approach in the Iran debate, when Pompeo visited the Dominican Republic last Sunday to attend the country’s presidential inauguration. The trip followed the Caribbean nation’s decision to cast the lone vote in support of the failed US effort just days earlier to extend the arms embargo on Iran indefinitely.Critics say that’s an approach historically adopted by China, which has generally shied away from alliances and conducts foreign policy on more transactional terms.“China’s preferred way of dealing with the world is in bilateral relationships where China is the stronger party,” said Jon Alterman, director of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The United States has never acted that way until now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-iran-move-at-un-amplifies-america-first-snub-of-allies/story-C6tkCCSlHJfg7mjnrQ7LgM.html
22-08-2020||World||Pakistan bans 88 new terrorists in bid to slip out of FATF’s grey list||In an attempt to be dropped from the Financial Action Task Force’s grey list, Pakistan has banned 88 new terrorists, in compliance with the new list issued by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). The banned terrorists include Hafiz Saeed, Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim, local media reports said on Saturday.Paris-based FATF put Pakistan on the grey list in June 2018 and asked Islamabad to implement a plan of action by the end of 2019, but the deadline was extended later due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Pakistan government issued two notifications on August 18 announcing sanctions on key leaders of terror outfits such as 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind and Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, and underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. Ibrahim, who heads a vast illegal business, has emerged as India’s most wanted terrorist after the 1993 Mumbai bombings which killed nearly 200 people.The notifications ratified a complete ban on all leaders and members of the now defunct Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) hiding in the Pak-Afghan border areas. Hafiz Saeed Ahmad of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, Mohammad Masood Azhar who leads the Jaish-e-Mohammed, Mullah Fazlullah (alias Mullah Radio), Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, Muhammad Yahya Mujahid and Abdul Hakeem Murad who is wanted by Interpol.Leaders of other terror outfits like Noor Wali Mehsud, Fazal Raheem Shah of the Uzbekistan Liberation Movement, Taliban leaders Jalaluddin Haqqani, Khalil Ahmad Haqqani, Yahya Haqqani and Dawood Ibrahim originally from Maharashtra and his associates, were also on the list.The notifications order seizure of all movable and immoveable properties of these outfits and individuals, and freezing of their bank accounts. These terrorists have been barred from transferring money through financial institutions, purchasing arms and travelling abroad.The notifications said that leadership of the defunct TTP, and other organisations including Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Tariq Geedar group of TTP, Harkatul Mujahedin, Al Rasheed Trust, Al Akhtar Trust, Tanzim Jaish-al Mohajireen Ansar, Jamaat-ul Ahrar, Tanzim Khutba Imam Bukhari, Rabita Trust Lahore, Revival of Islamic Heritage Society of Pakistan, Al-Harmain Foundation Islamabad, Harkat Jihad Al Islami, Islami Jihad Group, Uzbekistan Islami Tehrik, Daesh of Iraq, Emirates of Tanzim Qafqaz working against Russia, and Abdul Haq Uyghurs of Islamic Freedom Movement of China have been banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-bans-88-new-terrorists-in-bid-to-slip-out-of-fatf-s-grey-list/story-0bPRdaYZLZl5pNZz5v7FkP.html
22-08-2020||World||FATF sword hanging over its head, Pakistan announces sanctions against Taliban||Five years after a United Nations resolution sanctioned the Afghani terror group and recommended member states to freeze their assets, Pakistan on Friday announced financial sanctions against the Taliban and key individuals including the head of Haqqani network, associated with the group.The sanctions are part of Pakistan’s efforts to avoid being blacklisted by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an international body that provides a framework against money laundering, terrorist financing, and other threats to the global financial system.Pakistan is currently on the grey list and has been warned that lack of compliance with the international regulations on terror financing will result in the country being downgraded to the black list. Only Iran and North Korea are currently blacklisted. Blacklisting by FATF isolates a country financially by severely impacting its borrowing credentials.Islamabad’s sanctions also identified dozens of individuals, including the Taliban’s chief peace negotiator Abdul Ghani Baradar and several members of the Haqqani family, including Sirajuddin, the current head of the Haqqani network and the deputy head of the Taliban.The sanctions also target al-Qaida, the Islamic State affiliate and local terror groups like Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which has carried out deadly attacks in Pakistan.It has been reported that several leaders of the Taliban own businesses and properties in Pakistan. Islamabad’s association with the proscribed group goes back to the 1980s when they were fighting the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan with the backing of Pakistan and the US.Also Read: BSF shoots down 5 intruders at India-Pakistan border in Punjab’s Tarn TaranMeanwhile, the Pakistan foreign office said that it is the UNSC Taliban sanctions Committee that deals with sanctions on Taliban and related entities and individuals. Upon any change by the Committee, all states including Pakistan, implement these sanctions which include assets freeze, arms embargo and travel ban.The Taliban Sanctions Committee has not announced any changes in its sanctions list recently.The order, issued by Pakistan on Aug 18, 2020 only consolidates and documents the previously announced orders as a procedural measure and does not reflect any change in the sanctions list or sanction measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fatf-sword-hanging-over-its-head-pakistan-announces-sanctions-against-taliban/story-eyGOwzSzCbWApgf7f96mKL.html
22-08-2020||World||Two tropical storms a potential double threat to US Gulf Coast||Two newly formed tropical storms could become almost simultaneous threats to the US Gulf Coast early next week. They could even get sucked into an odd dance around each other. Or they could fall apart as they soak the Caribbean and Mexico this weekend.Tropical storms Laura and Marco have such bad and good environments ahead of them that their futures were not clear late Friday. Computer forecast models varied so much that some saw Laura becoming a major hurricane nearing the US, while others saw it dissipating.If both storms survive the weekend, the National Hurricane Center forecast that Laura would as head a hurricane toward the central Gulf Coast around Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and the western Florida Panhandle, while Marco aimed at Texas, though most likely remaining a tropical storm.“A lot of people are going to be impacted by rainfall and storm surge in the Gulf of Mexico,” said Joel Cline, the tropical program coordinator for the National Weather Service. “Since you simply don’t know you really need to make precautions.”Two hurricanes have never appeared in the Gulf of Mexico at the same time, according to records going back to at least 1900, said Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach. The last time two tropical storms were in the Gulf together was in 1959, he said.Because the hurricane center slowed Laura’s entrance into the Gulf and moved its track westward, the two storms are now forecast to be together in the Gulf on Tuesday, just before Marco smacks Texas with Laura making landfall a bit less than a day later.Tropical storm warnings were in effect early Saturday for Puerto Rico, the US and British Virgin Islands and parts of the Dominican Republic. Laura was forecast to hit Puerto Rico on Saturday morning, go over or near the Dominican Republic and Haiti late Saturday and Cuba on Sunday.Laura, which set a record for the earliest 12th named storm of a season when it formed Friday morning, was about 70 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of San Juan, Puerto Rico on Saturday morning. It had maximum sustained winds of 40 mph (65 kph) and was heading west at 21 mph (33 kph).The hurricane center also issued a tropical storm warning and hurricane watch for part of Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula for Marco, which grew into a tropical storm Friday night.Saturday morning, Marco was centered about 115 miles (185 kilometers) east-southeast of Cozumel, Mexico, with maximum sustained winds of 45 mph (75 kph). It was headed north-northwest at 12 mph (19 kph).If the two storms make it, they could be crowded in the Gulf of Mexico at the same time Tuesday about 550 miles apart. That would leave open some weird possibilities, including the storms rotating around each other in a tropical two-step, pulling in closer to each other, nudging each other, weakening each other or — far less likely — merging.The last time two storms made landfall in the United States within 24 hours of each other was in 1933, Klotzbach said.It seems fitting for 2020 to have this type of twin threats, said University of Miami hurricane researcher Brian McNoldy.“Of course, we have to have two simultaneously land-falling hurricanes,” McNoldy said. “It’s best not to ask what’s next.”On Friday morning, a hurricane-hunting airplane found Laura’s center to be dozens of miles farther south and better formed than satellite images showed. That triggered a shift in the forecast track, putting Caribbean islands more at risk and an upgrade to tropical storm status.If Laura goes over land, Puerto Rico and the mountains of Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Cuba could tear it apart and not make it much of a threat to the mainland United States, meteorologists said. But if it misses or skirts land, it could head into warm waters conducive to strengthening as it approaches Florida, meteorologists said.With competing scenarios, the hurricane center is forecasting a middle range for Laura of a weak hurricane heading into the eastern Gulf of Mexico.Officials in the Florida Keys, which Laura might pass over on its route into the Gulf, declared a local state of emergency Friday and issued a mandatory evacuation order for anyone living on boats, in mobile homes and in campers. Tourists staying in hotels should be aware of hazardous weather conditions and consider altering their plans starting on Sunday, Monroe County officials said in a news release.Citing both storm systems, Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards declared a state of emergency Friday night. “It is too soon to know exactly where, when or how these dual storms will affect Louisiana, but now is the time for our people to prepare for these storms,” Edwards said in a statement.Meteorologists said Marco has a better chance of surviving its early land encounter, then strengthening to a minimal hurricane over warm water, but the hurricane center was forecasting it to weaken before it reaches the US Gulf Coast because of decapitating high winds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-tropical-storms-a-potential-double-threat-to-us-gulf-coast/story-EtCuyPZN9W8HgK7LdDsiXK.html
22-08-2020||World||Over a dozen VOA journalists forced to leave US soon as visas expire||More than a dozen journalists with the US government’s premier international broadcaster may soon be forced to leave the United States as their visas expire with no action from the agency’s new leadership.Some 16 Voice of America journalists will have to return to their native countries in the coming weeks unless the government agrees to either renew their visas or extend grace periods for them to depart, according to congressional aides. Several of the journalists, from China and Indonesia notably, could face difficulties at home because of their work for VOA, the aides said.Rep. Eliot Engel, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, complained Friday that the US Agency for Global Media, which oversees VOA and its sister outlets, had ignored congressional requests for an explanation as to why the usually routine visa renewals had not been processed.Also read: Relief for students as US rolls back visa ruleIn addition, he said not even the affected journalists had been given details of their status. There are roughly 80 foreign VOA employees in the United States, but the documents of the 16 are among the first to come up for renewal, according to congressional aides who were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.Engel, D-N.Y., also appealed to the departments of State and Homeland Security to extend grace periods for those journalists whose visas have already expired so they are not forced to leave without having the time to make adequate arrangements.“It’s unconscionable that a US government agency would create such fear and uncertainty for people whom we asked to do a job,” Engel said in a statement. “Congress’s attempts to seek answers from USAGM on this matter have been met with silence. It’s clear that the agency is just trying to run out the clock until these journalists are forced to leave.”Engel blamed USAGM’s new chief, conservative filmmaker Michael Pack, for the situation. Pack, an associate of President Donald Trump’s former political strategist Steve Bannon, has come under fire from both Democrats and Republicans for major changes he has made to the agency since he took over in June following a contentious confirmation process in the Senate.“Michael Pack’s failure to seek visa extensions for these journalists means that they must leave the country, some of them going home to nations where governments regularly silence and harass journalists,” Engel said. “Mr. Pack still has time to act to resolve this situation, but make no mistake, he is accountable for what comes next. Any harm that comes to these brave individuals will be a direct result of Michael Pack’s inaction.”Among Pack’s other changes have been purges of various AGM outlets’ management, including officials supported by Republicans, the wholesale replacement of their boards and the suspension of funding for some projects. The firings have prompted at least one lawsuit, which remains in litigation.The moves have increased fears, particularly among Democrats, that Pack intends to turn the agency into a Trump propaganda machine at odds with its congressionally mandated mission to broadcast impartial news around the world.Pack has defended his moves as necessary to overhaul the agency, which critics have long said is beset by bureaucratic and journalistic issues. That criticism exploded earlier this year when the White House attacked VOA for its coverage of Covid-19.USAGM did not immediately respond to a query about the visa situation but has previously said it is reviewing the use of so-called J-1 visas for journalists with critical foreign language skills needed to communicate with foreign audiences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-a-dozen-voa-journalists-forced-to-leave-us-soon-as-visas-expire/story-wfSvqLLEiV2dXswuDHCvzL.html
22-08-2020||World||Israel’s Covid-19 chief urges Ukraine to ban annual Jewish pilgrimage||The head of Israel’s coronavirus task force has asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy to ban an annual pilgrimage in which Hasidic Jews visit the central Ukrainian town of Uman over concerns the site may become a virus hotspot.Tens of thousands of Hasidic Jews descend on Uman every Jewish New Year to visit the grave of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov, who revived the Hasidic movement and died in 1810. This year, Jewish New Year celebrations run from September 18-20.The Ukrainian and Israeli governments have already issued a joint statement pleading with pilgrims to cancel their trips, but huge crowds are still planning to fly.Ronni Gamzu, Israel’s lead adviser on coronavirus, has now sent a letter to Zelenskiy, urging him to take action.“A gathering of this sort, at such troubled times, is expected to generate mass events of infection of tourists and local Ukrainian residents, turning into a heavy burden on local medical systems, while thousands more are expected to come back to Israel and further spread the virus,” Gamzu said in the letter seen by Reuters on Saturday.“I urge you to enforce a ban on these celebrations this year, as part of the entire global community’s effort to stop this horrific pandemic,” he said.On Friday Israel passed 100,000 reported coronavirus cases. It has recorded 809 Covid-19 deaths among its 9 million population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-s-covid-19-chief-urges-ukraine-to-ban-annual-jewish-pilgrimage/story-8fXLmVylaLnvlMswgwDFQL.html
22-08-2020||World||Rumblings within China over President Xi’s ‘wolf warrior’ diplomacy | Analysis||President Xi Jinping’s elaborate exercise to pick up a fight with everyone to divert attention from domestic troubles is reaching a point of diminishing returns with a global pushback against Beijing and rumblings within the Communist Party of China over his ‘wolf warrior diplomacy’, a weakening economy and the twin shock of coronavirus and floods.Cai Xia, the former professor at the Central Party School of Beijing that Xi headed till he became President in 2012, was expelled this week after an online recording of her criticism of President Xi’s policies leaked online. In this, she described President Xi as a “mafia boss” and accused him of provoking conflict with other countries such as India to divert the attention of the Chinese public from domestic economic and social tensions. In an interview with the Guardian, she went further, blaming President Xi for “killing a party and a country” and turning China into “an enemy” of the world.There had been a handful of other vocal liberal voices too such as the law professor Xu Zhangrun and property developer Ren Zhiqiang, promptly axed after they criticised Xi or his handling of the coronavirus. Ren now also faces an investigation on corruption charges. Cai has suggested there were others in China’s communist party waiting for the tide to turn.Xi’s party has also bolstered its counter-campaign, asking party cadres and the people to back the President. Xi has also had meetings with business leaders for a pep talk in the face of the pressure from major economies attempting to barricade Chinese firms.Being boxed in A CornerTaiwanTaiwan has banned the settlement of Hong Kong with mainland citizenship, and who work for the mainland government, political parties or military in Taiwan. It has also tightened rules for investments made in Taiwan by such individuals.United StatesLawmakers in the US have introduced “The Name the Enemy Act” that requires President Xi Jinping to be referred to as head of the Communist Party of China, and not the President.The US has also proposed separating Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation’s cross border privacy riles from the APEC forum amid its growing rift with China on technology issuesJapanNorihiro Nakayama, a senior member of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party has hinted at a likely move to push for change in the ownership of the Japanese unit of TikTok.VietnamVietnam’s foreign ministry has criticised the presence of Chinese bombers on the disputed Paracel islands in the South China SeaLike with India, China has attempted to nudge countries - even rivals - of going for a compartalised approach that would let businesses in China continue as usual even as President Xi ‘wolf warrior diplomacy’ approach tries to squeeze them. That approach hasn’t worked, with India or any other country.India has blocked nearly 100 mobile apps linked to China, started the review of pacts with its universities, locked out Chinese companies from getting government contracts and cancelled bids where they stood a chance. Besides other steps, United States President Donald Trump has already signed off on an executive order to ban short video-sharing app TikTok and messenger app WeChat, citing India’s decision to purge the two applications. The US restriction on the transactions will kick in mid-September.Soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army have been parked at India’s doorstep in the East Ladakh sector for over 100 days and Beijing has, despite more than a dozen rounds of discussions at military and diplomatic levels, shown no signs of stepping back. Weeks after the two sides stumbled into a bloody clash on 15 June, the two sides had agreed to completely disengage at the friction points and then de-escalate.But the PLA, under orders from Beijing, has been reluctant to deliver on the agreement and has mobilised soldiers in the depth areas. President Xi’s expansionist approach in Ladakh and a similar one with its other neighbours in the South China Sea, imposition of draconian national security law in Hong Kong and attempts to bully Taiwan have pushed China in a corner. The US has been leading the front, bringing around countries such as Japan and Australia and Europe to counter China.Back home, President Xi’s challenges within the party run much deeper than just crushing dissent and silencing critics in China. Xi, who has amended the party constitution to let him continue as China’s President indefinitely, has to contend with the rival faction of CPC leaders who took their baby steps in the party through its youth organisation, the Communist Youth League (CYL).The CYL has traditionally been an important domain from where the CPC picks up its cadres, many of them rising to senior positions in the party. President Xi, has ever since his elevation as President in 2012, put together his faction, often referred as the Zhejiang faction, a reference to the eastern, coastal province Xi was party secretary of for several years before he reached Beijing.Hu Chunhua, currently a Vice Prime Minister part of the 25-member Politburo and Prime Minister Li Keqiang - are the face of the CYL faction that is battling President Xi.Xi has been openly disparaging of CYL, which he views as an elitist group. “All they [cadres] can do is just repeat the same old bureaucratic, stereotypical talk,” President Xi once said, according to reports.Another China watcher in New Delhi said the faction fight had been building up but may be some distance from an inflection point. “We still need to watch for the signs,” he said. For instance, he said, what happens to China’s Vice Prime Minister Hu Chunhua and PM Li Keqiang.“In case he is netted in some corruption scandal - filing bribery charges has been Xi’s favourite tool to take down powerful rivals - means that the dog fight between Xi’s faction and CYL has begun,” he added. Another would be if Prime Minister Li suddenly “decides” to retire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prez-xi-s-wolf-warrior-diplomacy-kicks-in-law-of-diminishing-returns-analysis/story-Qj8RvtNsR69epQIg9bXcbJ.html
22-08-2020||World||3 IED blasts rock Afghanistan’s Kabul; one dead, four injured||One security personnel died while four others, including a civilian, sustained injuries following three Improvised Explosive Device (IED) explosions in Kabul on Saturday.As per TOLO News quoting the Kabul Police statement, the first blast happened in the Sarak-e-Naw area in Kabul’s PD5 (police district 5). The blast killed one member of the security force and injured two (including a civilian).While the second blast happened in Hangarha Roundabout in Kabul’s PD15 at around 7:20 am where two policemen were wounded. The blast targeted a police vehicle, TOLO News reported further quoting the police statement.The third explosion happened in the Company area in Kabul’s PD5 but there were no casualties reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-ied-blasts-rock-afghanistan-s-kabul-one-dead-four-injured/story-gx9KWqRnRsTGmauVXK3McM.html
22-08-2020||World||California wildfires among largest in state’s history: What we know so far||The wildfires in the US state of California sparked by lightning strikes have more than doubled in size and claimed at least six lives and injured 43 fighters and civilians, reports said on Friday.The conflagrations, which broke out over the last week and are among some of the largest in state history, have blackened an area larger than the US state of Rhode Island and destroyed more than 500 homes and other structures. Charred debris has even floated into Santa Cruz as flames advanced to the edge of the coastal city. In addition to the fatalities, 43 firefighters and civilians have been hurt.Three groups of fires, called complexes, burning north, east and south of San Francisco have together scorched 780 square miles or 2,020 square kilometres. More than 12,000 firefighters assisted by helicopters and air tankers have been deployed to tackle the wildfires across California.At least 100,000 people have been ordered to evacuate as the “deadly” blaze continues to spread. “We are not naive by any stretch about how deadly this moment is and why it is essential ... that you heed evacuation orders and that you take them seriously,” the state governor Gavin Newsom told citizens.The blazes, coming during a heatwave that has seen temperatures top 100 degrees, are taxing the state’s firefighting capacity but assistance from throughout the country was beginning to arrive, with 10 states sending fire crews, engines and aircraft to help, Newsom said.“We have more people but it’s not enough. We have more air support but it’s still not enough and that’s why we need support from our federal partners,” the governor was quoted as saying by news agency Associated Press.Newsom also thanked President Donald Trump’s administration for its help a day after criticising him for his remarks on the state’s wildfire prevention work. “While he may make statements publicly, the working relationship privately has been a very effective one,” he said.There are 560 fires burning in the state, many small and remote but there are about two dozen major fires, mainly in Northern California. Many blazes were sparked by thousands of lightning strikes earlier in the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-wildfires-among-largest-in-state-s-history-what-we-know-so-far/story-rluOEKXOzxdKupvD2YtFRL.html
22-08-2020||World||Putin critic Navalny arrives in Germany for medical treatment||Prominent Russian anti-corruption campaigner Alexei Navalny, who has been in a coma since Thursday, arrived in Germany for medical treatment after his suspected poisoning, according to his spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh’s tweet.After two days, Russian authorities allowed his transportation abroad after Navalny’s family, activists and international leaders appealed directly to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny will be treated at the Charite hospital in Berlin.Navalny, 44, fell ill on a plane returning to Moscow from the Siberian city of Tomsk on Thursday. He was in the city meeting local activists and opposition candidates ahead of regional elections in September, and Yarmysh said he’d only had a cup of tea that day before the flight. The aircraft made an emergency landing in another Siberian city, Omsk, where he was put on a ventilator.During last two days there were conflicting reports about what could have caused his condition. Doctors at the Omsk hospital initially said they were investigating a possible poisoning but later said they found no evidence. His team also cited an unidentified police officer who told them that there was some toxin found. There was never official confirmation of a possible poisoning.Omsk’s hospital chief medic Alexander Murakhovsky said that Navalny is suffering from a metabolic disorder. On Friday another doctor said tests showed no traces of toxins, according to a video posted by Yarmysh.The case has drawn international attention. U.S. President Donald Trump said he’s looking into the situation, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for a probe of the incident and French President Emmanuel Macron said he’s extremely concerned.The Kremlin hasn’t done anything to hinder Navalny’s medical evacuation, Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in response to reporters’ questions Friday that followed on accusations from Navalny’s supporters.The ruble was among the weakest performers in emerging markets for a second day on Friday, breaching 75 versus the dollar for the first time in four months. While oil has weakened, domestic politics were also a factor in the move, Rosbank analyst Yury Tulinov said.Navalny’s widely-viewed exposes about corruption in Putin’s inner circle have made him countless enemies over the years. He has a huge following on social media, with 2.2 million subscribers on Twitter alone, and his YouTube channel regularly posts investigations that have embarrassed top allies of Putin, such as former Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, for their lavish lifestyles.Merkel, who discussed the situation with Macron on Thursday, said Germany will insist on finding out why the Kremlin critic collapsed into a coma. “We were shocked about the news of Navalny’s condition,” she said.Macron said France is also ready to provide assistance to Navalny and his family “in terms of health, asylum and protection.”Sudden IllnessNavalny became Russia’s most prominent opposition activist during massive 2011-2012 protests against Putin’s return to the Kremlin for a third term following four years as prime minister.His sudden illness has raised suspicions following a string of Kremlin critics who’ve been victims of poisoning, including dissident security service officer Alexander Litvinenko and ex-spy Sergei Skripal. U.K. officials link both attacks to the Russian state.Activist Pyotr Verzilov, who led a pitch invasion during the 2018 soccer World Cup final game to protest Putin’s rule, was treated for what doctors said were symptoms of poisoning later that year. The chief coordinator for Mikhail Khodorkovsky’s Open Russia organization, Vladimir Kara-Murza, suffered acute kidney failure after being poisoned in 2015, later making a recovery after being flown to the U.S.“No matter whether it’s an attempted murder or just scare tactics, poisonings are pretty much always somehow connected to the security services,” Tatiana Stanovaya, head of R. Politik, a political consultancy, said in a social media post.Navalny has been repeatedly jailed and attacked for leading anti-Putin protests, including during the wave of unrest last year when opposition candidates were barred from contesting Moscow city council elections. Those protests were the largest in the capital since 2011.He suffered chemical burns to his eye when a man threw green antiseptic liquid in his face in Moscow in 2017. He was briefly taken to hospital from detention during last year’s protests after suffering a major allergic reaction that he said could have been an attempt to poison him in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/navalny-s-condition-stable-after-flight-to-berlin-report/story-g3EqFEWvj76gnAELD8WyBP.html
22-08-2020||World||‘The bogeyman gone’: California’s ‘Golden State Killer’ sentenced to life in prison||A former California police officer who lived a double life as the “Golden State Killer” was sentenced to life in prison on Friday for a string of 1970s and ‘80s murders and rapes that were solved through the use of public genealogy websites. A Sacramento County judge granted prosecutors’ request that Joseph James DeAngelo, 74, serve life in prison without the possibility of parole following emotional statements from victims or their family members in open court. A seemingly frail DeAngelo showed no emotion during the nearly two-hour sentencing, held in a makeshift courtroom inside a ballroom at Sacramento State University so that victims and family members could spread out amid the coronavirus pandemic. When given the opportunity to speak, DeAngelo rose from a wheelchair, took off a mask, looked around at surviving victims and relatives of those he murdered and said: “I’ve listened to all your statements. Each one of them. And I’m really sorry to everyone I’ve hurt.”Prosecutors afterward said they did not think DeAngelo’s apology was sincere. They also showed video of him in his jail cell, climbing on a desk and standing on one leg while cleaning, which they said proved he did not need to use a wheelchair. In June, DeAngelo confessed to 13 murders and 13 rape-related charges for crimes carried out between 1975 and 1986 as part of a plea deal with prosecutors sparing him from a potential death sentence. DeAngelo, whom a prosecutor on Friday called a bogeyman who haunted California for decades, also publicly admitted to dozens more rapes for which the statute of limitations had expired. Prosecutors said he invaded 120 homes across 11 counties during his crime spree, initially identified with a series of rapes and murders around the state capital of Sacramento. The identity of the Golden State Killer remained a mystery, his crimes unsolved, for decades until DeAngelo’s arrest in Sacramento County on April 24, 2018.Investigators tied DeAngelo to the crimes using a then-novel technique of tracing him through family DNA from commercial genealogy websites.Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert pushed for decades to find a way to solve the cold case that shook the state and region. DeAngelo’s crimes, she said, had traumatized generations in the capital region. “For folks in Sacramento that lived through this, I hope you open the windows tonight and feel the breeze,” she said. ‘NO MERCY’Prosecutors from counties where he carried out his crimes told Judge Michael Bowman that he deserved no mercy.“Over four decades - that’s a long time to wait for justice,” said Diana Becton, the Contra Costa County District Attorney, where some of DeAngelo’s crimes occurred. Bowman said he had no power to determine what type of prison DeAngelo is sent to. “But the survivors have spoken clearly - the defendant deserves no mercy,” he said, as those in the courtroom burst into loud applause.Courtney Strouse’s mother was raped by DeAngelo in the 1970s, and until her death in 2016 she awoke repeatedly during the nights to check on her children and make sure all doors and windows were locked, Strouse said.Strouse said she had learned to live in constant fear, but that Friday’s sentencing brought some relief. “It’s nice to have the bogeyman gone,” she said. “It’s like a fable you’re told all your life about the bogeyman and now he’s gone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-bogeyman-gone-california-s-golden-state-killer-sentenced-to-life-in-prison/story-wJXDO4YP8IGIx82QD2GQbN.html
22-08-2020||World||US buildings closed in Portland after car-bomb threat||At least two federal buildings in Portland have been closed and the FBI is investigating after a car bomb threat was made, the officials said Friday.The threat, which was received Thursday, warned of the intention to use a car bomb to target federal property in Portland, according to two law enforcement officials. A number of federal offices in the area have been closed because of the threat, the officials said. The officials could not discuss the investigation publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.Investigators are trying to determine whether the threat is credible, the FBI said in a statement.The Portland office of the US Bankruptcy Court was closed because of a threat of violence in the area, according to the court’s website. Also closed was the Mark O Hatfield Federal courthouse, which was the site of weeks of violent protests last month.Demonstrators have taken to the streets of Oregon’s largest city nightly since the May police killing of George Floyd and clashed repeatedly with federal agents dispatched to protect the courthouse. A statement on the courthouse website did not say why the building had closed.The FBI’s statement said: “If we develop information indicating a credible threat, we will notify the public.” Protesters this week have focused their ire on the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement building in Portland.People in a group of about 100 late Thursday and before dawn Friday sprayed the building with graffiti, hurled rocks and bottles at agents and shined laser lights at them, Portland police said in a statement.Agents set off smoke or tear gas and used crowd-control munitions to try to disperse the crowd, The Oregonian/OregonLive reported. Three people were arrested, police said in their statement.It wasn’t clear if that building was included in the alleged threat or if the threat was connected in any way to those protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-buildings-closed-in-portland-after-car-bomb-threat/story-73RXRQGfeY22nO3joKdAkP.html
22-08-2020||World||Joe Biden says he’d shut down US over Covid-19 if experts said to||Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he would do whatever was needed to keep the country safe amid the coronavirus pandemic even if that meant shutting down the country.Biden made the comment in an interview with ABC. The interview airs Sunday night, but clips were provided Friday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Biden says, “I will be prepared to do whatever it takes to save lives because we cannot get the country moving until we control the virus.” He adds that if scientists recommended shutting down the country, “I would shut it down.” President Donald Trump is encouraging schools to reopen and people to get back to work. The US has had more than 5.5 million confirmed coronavirus cases, with more than 175,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-he-d-shut-down-us-over-covid-19-if-experts-said-to/story-zFKp4pobWfeo3dVS2MHgQI.html
22-08-2020||World||US FDA-approved ointment found to treat, kill viral infections including Covid-19||A US pharma company has successfully tested a Food and Drug Administration-approved over the counter ointment as the first line of defence against the deadly coronavirus that has so far killed over eight lakh people globally. Scientists associated with the project said the FDA-registered non-prescription over the counter (OTC) ointment has been proven to prevent, treat and kill viral infections including coronavirus. “As per the lab report states, no infectious virus was detected after 30 seconds of T3X treatment,” the pharma company said in a statement.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here“We believe this will be a breakthrough that will reduce the likelihood of becoming infected with coronavirus through the nose, which is where most cases are contracted,” said Dr Brian Huber, CEO and founder of Advanced Penetration Technology, which is based out of Indiana and Texas.“This is a big deal. It is the type of protection a lot of people have been hoping for and could be a first line of defence against the COVID virus. It is a powerful and effective layer of prevention,” Huber said.He was speaking after the company released the results of an independent laboratory evaluation of a topical medical formulation that mitigates coronavirus from entering the body through the nasal passages, thereby significantly reducing the likelihood of people becoming infected with the virus.A recent study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) concluded that people contract Covid-19 and other viruses primarily through the nose. However, virus may still enter a body through the mouth and the eyes.“T3X is an FDA registered, over-the-counter formulation, which means that no prescription is needed. It is easy to use and can be self-administered without the assistance of medical personnel or technicians,” the company said. A London-based research laboratory, Virology Research Services Ltd, evaluated the anti-viral impact of the product, named APT™ T3X, against Corona Virus (NL63) and Influenza A virus and concluded that it is a highly effective formulation against coronavirus, it said. The research concludes that APT™ T3X effectively neutralises viral infectivity within seconds. The anti-viral efficacy supports the topical intranasal use of APT™ T3X to decrease the viral load of exposure. “Under the conditions tested, APT T3X displays a 99.9% virucidal activity against human coronavirus NL63,” the company said.Click here for complete coronavirus here The testing was performed over two months, in May and June. All definitive anti-viral assays were performed in triplicate, it said. The product was initially developed eight years ago for resistant-bacterial infections, but its formulation additionally provides powerful anti-fungal and anti-viral therapies. It has no documented side effects. However, patients diagnosed with Lyme disease should be aware of a potential “Herx” reaction shortly after use, the company said. A total of 22,864,873 people have contracted coronavirus globally so far, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid resource centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-fda-approved-ointment-found-to-treat-kill-viral-infections-including-covid-19/story-LBCbTcSJgMRyQf2ewYBioI.html
22-08-2020||World||China reports 22 coronavirus cases, sixth day without local transmission||China reported 22 cases of the new coronavirus in the mainland for Aug. 21, same as a day earlier, the health commission said on Saturday.All 22 new infections were imported cases, according to a statement by the National Health Commission, marking the sixth straight day with no new locally transmitted infections.China reported 34 new asymptomatic patients, up from 23 a day earlier.As of Friday, mainland China had 84,939 confirmed coronavirus cases, the health authority said. The Covid-19 death toll remained at 4,634.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-22-coronavirus-cases-sixth-day-without-local-transmission/story-4RxRLIHdSUr4Bn6QKHzrmI.html
22-08-2020||World||Donald Trump puts out an emotional tweet after brother Robert Trump’s memorial service||US President Donald Trump on Saturday posted an emotional tweet remembering his brother Robert Trump, who passed away at the age of 71. Donald Trump in his tweet wrote, “Robert, I love you. Rest in Peace!”, after the memorial service which was held in the White House.  Robert, I Love You. Rest In Peace!The White House on Friday held a memorial service for Robert Trump, whom the US president described “not just my brother. He was my best friend.”Robert Trump was hospitalized in New York and passed away last Saturday. He was a corporate financier in Wall Street and later he joined the family business. He was a top executive in the Trump Organization. US first lady Melania Trump and other family members were present alongside the US president during the memorial service in the White House. Trump explained that he held a memorial service for his brother Robert at the White House because his brother had deep love for the country. While speaking to mediapersons the US president said, “He loved our country so much. He was so proud of what we were doing and what we are doing for our country. So I think it would be appropriate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-puts-out-an-emotional-tweet-after-brother-robert-trump-s-memorial-service/story-8lOz7o0NTvvM1FVpke2PCL.html
22-08-2020||World||Moderna says more than 40% of participants enrolled for Covid-19 vaccine trial||Drug developer Moderna Inc on Friday said it has so far enrolled 13,194 participants in the ongoing late-stage 30,000-volunteer U.S. trial testing its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.In a tweet, the company also said that 18% of the participants currently enrolled are Black, Latino, American Indian or Alaska Native, groups among the hardest hit by the coronavirus virus pandemic.Moderna began the study of its vaccine candidate, mRNA-1273, in July and expects to complete enrollment in September.The 30,000 subject U.S. trial is among the first late-stage studies supported by the Trump administration’s effort to speed development of measures against the novel coronavirus, adding to hope that an effective vaccine will help end the pandemic.Last week, the company entered a supply agreement with the U.S. government to provide 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine for around $1.5 billion.Moderna, which has never brought a vaccine to market, had earlier received nearly $1 billion from the U.S. government, which is helping bankroll several vaccine candidates under its Operation Warp Speed program.Black and Latino Americans are infected with Covid-19 at more than twice the rate of white Americans, with Native Americans infected at even higher rates, research has shown. The groups are historically underrepresented in clinical trials.A top executive of Pfizer told Reuters that about 19% of the 11,000 people enrolled so far in a 30,000-volunteer U.S. trial of its Covid-19 vaccine with German partner BioNTech are Black or Latino.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-more-than-40-of-participants-enrolled-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial/story-EhKB8NflPUhOeeEHUyQmPM.html
22-08-2020||World||After Hagia Sophia, Erdogan reconverts Turkey’s historic Chora church to mosque||Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan reconverted the historic Chora church, one of Istanbul’s most celebrated Byzantine buildings, into a mosque on Friday, a month after opening the famed Hagia Sophia to Muslim worship. The medieval Church of the Holy Saviour in Chora, built near the ancient city walls of Constantinople, contains 14th century Byzantine mosaics and frescoes showing scenes from biblical stories.They were plastered over after the city was conquered by the Muslim Ottomans in 1453, but brought to light again when - like Hagia Sophia - the building was converted to a museum by Turkey’s secular republic more than 70 years ago.Erdogan, whose AK Party is rooted in political Islam, has positioned himself as a champion of Turkey’s pious Muslims and last month joined tens of thousands of worshippers in the first prayers at Hagia Sophia in 86 years.The move was sharply criticised by church leaders and some Western countries, who said that reconverting Hagia Sophia exclusively for Muslim worship risked deepening religious rifts.Last year a Turkish court annulled a 1945 government decision converting Chora - known as Kariye in Turkish - into a museum run by the Education Ministry. On Friday, an edict signed by Erdogan and published in Turkey’s official gazette declared “the management of the Kariye Mosque be transferred to the Religious Affairs Directorate, and (the mosque) opened to worship.”A church was first built at the site in the 4th century, but most of the existing building dates to an 11th century church that was partly rebuilt 200 years later following an earthquake.Erdogan’s edict on Friday did not say when the first Muslim prayers would be held at Chora, or what arrangements would be made for the Christian artworks there. At Hagia Sophia, curtains have been drawn in front of an image facing worshippers of Mary and the infant Jesus. (Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu; Editing by Dominic Evans/Mark Heinrich)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-hagia-sophia-erdogan-reconverts-turkey-s-historic-chora-church-to-mosque/story-aE0YyGSM57oSED7iqPvc2J.html
22-08-2020||World||Indian national arrested in $21 million H1B visa fraud||An Indian national has been arrested on charges of conspiracy to commit visa fraud and for inducing foreign nationals to come to the US using fraudulently obtained H-1B visas, federal prosecutors said on Friday. Arrested on Thursday, 48-year-old Ashish Sawhney allegedly used four corporations to orchestrate the improper submission of fraudulent applications for H-1B specialty-occupation work visas, they said. Charged with two counts of conspiracy, three counts of inducing an alien to come to and reside in the US for commercial advantage or private financial gain, and one count of attempted naturalisation fraud, Sawhney allegedly generated gross profits from 2011 to 2016 of approximately USD 21 million, the prosecutors said. If convicted, Sawhney faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. A resident of Sterling, a Virginia suburb of Washington DC, he submitted or caused to be submitted H-1B visa application materials stating that the foreign workers named in the applications would fulfil a specific job, where in fact, no such job existed at the time of filing, the prosecutors said. Sawhney also attempted to naturalise as a US citizen by submitting an application containing false statements, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-national-arrested-in-21-million-h1b-visa-fraud/story-IZxBhHE8gqb7w6ZjIqJjhN.html
22-08-2020||World||Russia vaccine roll-out plan prompts virus mutation worries||Russia’s plan to roll-out its “Sputnik-V” Covid-19 vaccine even before full trials show how well it works is prompting concern among virus experts, who warn a partially effective shot may encourage the novel coronavirus to mutate. Viruses, including the pandemic SARS-CoV-2, are known for their ability to mutate all the time - and often this has little or no impact on the risk posed to people. But some scientists are worried that adding “evolutionary pressure” to the pathogen by deploying what might not be a fully protective vaccine could make things worse.“Less than complete protection could provide a selection pressure that drives the virus to evade what antibody there is, creating strains that then evade all vaccine responses,” said Ian Jones, a virology professor at Britain’s Reading University.“In that sense, a poor vaccine is worse than no vaccine.”Sputnik-V’s developers, as well as financial backers and Russian authorities, say the vaccine is safe and that two months of small-scale human trials have shown that it works. But the results of those trials have not been made public, and many Western scientists are sceptical, warning against its use until all internationally approved testing and regulatory hurdles have been passed.Russia said on Thursday it plans to begin a large-scale efficacy trial of the vaccine in a total of 40,000 people, but will also begin administering it to people in high-risk groups, such as healthcare workers, before the trial has produced any results. “You want to make sure the vaccine is effective. We really don’t know that (about the Sputnik vaccine),” said Kathryn Edwards, a professor of paediatrics and vaccine expert in the infectious diseases division at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in the United States.She said that the risk of what a vaccine might do to a virus - in terms of fighting it, blocking it, or forcing it to adapt - is “always a concern”.Dan Barouch, a specialist at Harvard’s Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, noted that mutation rates for coronaviruses are far lower than for viruses like HIV, but added: “There are many potential downsides of using a vaccine that doesn’t work. The risk that it (the virus) would mutate is a theoretical risk.”Scientists say similar evolutionary pressure to mutate is seen with bacterial pathogens, which - when faced with antibiotics designed to target them - can evolve and adapt to evade the drugs and develop resistance. Antibiotic resistance and the rise of superbugs, is described by the World Health Organization as one of the biggest threats to global health, food security and development today. Jones stressed that vaccine-induced viral mutations are “a rare outcome”, and the greater the efficacy of the vaccine in blocking a virus’ ability to enter cells and replicate there, the lower the risk of it having an opportunity to circulate and “learn” how to evade antibody defences.“If (a vaccine) is completely sterilizing, the virus can’t get in, so it can’t learn anything because it never gets a chance,” he said. “But if it gets in and replicates ... there is selection pressure for it to evade whatever antibodies have been generated by the inefficient vaccine. And you don’t know what the outcome of that will be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-vaccine-roll-out-plan-prompts-virus-mutation-worries/story-CYGRcTFdHanZtz3hzx1VcN.html
22-08-2020||World||US CDC reports 173,490 deaths from coronavirus||The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Friday said the number of deaths due to the new coronavirus had risen by 1,074 to 173,490 and reported 5,551,793 cases, an increase of 44,864 cases from its previous count.The CDC reported its tally of cases of the respiratory illness known as Covid-19, caused by a new coronavirus, as of 4 pm ET on August 20 versus its previous report a day earlier.The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-reports-173-490-deaths-from-coronavirus/story-esLgtYLwghQ3JSyuOmOS2M.html
22-08-2020||World||More evacuations as massive fires rapidly expand in California||A series of massive fires in northern and central California forced more evacuations as they quickly spread Thursday, sending plumes of smoke over the San Francisco area and dangerously affecting air quality.The blazes, most of which were touched off by a rash of lightning strikes earlier in the week, are being fed by a grueling heat wave afflicting the state.Evacuation orders were expanded in several counties overnight as the flames devoured homes, forced the shutdown of roads and heavily damaged California’s oldest state park.Authorities said the fires had consumed nearly 350,000 acres in the central and northern part of the state, including in the wine regions of Sonoma and Napa, which are still recovering from deadly, devastating fires in recent years.“2020 has thrown a lot at us. A pandemic. Lightning strikes. Record heatwaves. Fires. But if there’s one thing I know about CA it’s that we are resilient,” Governor Gavin Newsom, who has declared a state of emergency to free up funds to battle the flames, said in a tweet Thursday.One of the largest groupings of fires -- known as the LNU Lightning complex, which encompasses Napa and Sonoma Counties -- grew to 131,000 acres by Thursday and was zero percent contained.Cal Fire officials said the many blazes of the LNU Lightning Complex had begun to merge together to create a massive inferno.“This is a very large fire. It’s one of many in the state of California and honestly our resources are stretched very far,” Cal Fire unit chief Shana Jones said. “So please be patient.”The group of wildfires has already destroyed 105 homes and structures and is threatening more than 30,000 other buildings, fire officials said.- State’s oldest park -Two people taking part in the firefighting efforts have died. One was a helicopter pilot who was killed in a crash in Fresno County, southeast of San Francisco, as he was attempting to drop water.The second was an employee of the utility company Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) who was clearing poles and electrical lines in Solano County and was found unresponsive in his vehicle Wednesday, Cal Fire said.Meanwhile southeast of San Francisco, another grouping of fires dubbed the SCU Lightning Complex prompted evacuation orders in some communities near San Jose, but the fires were for the most part raging in unpopulated areas.In Santa Cruz County near the coast, a series of fires called the CZU Lightning Complex caused extensive damage to California’s oldest state park, Big Basin Redwoods State Park, known for its majestic redwoods that are up to 2,000 years old.“The fire damaged the park’s headquarters, historic core and campgrounds,” park officials said.More than two dozen other parks and beaches in the region were shut down because of the wildfires.Authorities have said the fires were caused by nearly 11,000 lightning strikes that hit the northern part of the state as it endures a heat wave with historic high temperatures, including a record of 130 degrees Fahrenheit (54.4 degrees Celsius) in Death Valley.Experts believe climate change has contributed to the frequency of the fires, which are becoming more common year-round rather than just during fire season -- usually between August and November.The latest fires have prompted air quality alerts in the affected regions, with the air over the Bay Area expected to be extremely poor in the coming days.“As many of these fires will burn for days--even weeks--air quality will be extremely poor for an extended period,” Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), said in a tweet.The deadliest fire in the state’s history -- the Camp Fire -- took place in northern California in November 2018 and killed 86 people.PG&E was found responsible for the blaze that destroyed the town of Paradise and caused billions of dollars in property damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-evacuations-as-massive-fires-rapidly-expand-in-california/story-4RnQxGHuPvVZBVJmvfiU8K.html
22-08-2020||World||Germany registers biggest surge in Covid-19 cases since April||Germany recorded the highest number of new coronavirus cases in more than four months, as infections exceeded 2,000 in the 24 hours to Saturday morning.Cases rose by 2,034 to 232,082, the most since April, according to data from the Robert Koch Institute, the German government’s monitoring agency. The number of daily cases reached current peaks at the end of March and in early April.There were seven fatalities linked to virus complications through Saturday morning, taking the total number of deaths to 9,267, Robert Koch said.German cases jumped this month as authorities boost testing and summer travellers return home, according to the institute. Over 40 schools in Berlin recorded infections in the two weeks since opening after the summer break, the Berliner Zeitung reported on August 20.Chancellor Angela Merkel on August 18 ruled out any further easing of restrictions in place to combat the virus. Germany is “still in the middle of a pandemic,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-registers-biggest-surge-in-covid-19-cases-since-april/story-yMy46iGvYfzvIRNs4HFFaI.html
22-08-2020||India||Bloomsbury says it won’t publish book on Delhi riots after social media backlash||Bloomsbury India on Saturday said that it will not publish an upcoming book on the February Delhi riots after there was outrage over a virtual pre-publication launch, which it said was being organised without its knowledge.The authors - advocate Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra - were however, undeterred, saying one publisher may have declined but there many others to publish the book.The publishing house faced massive backlash online on Friday after an advertisement of the book launch on Saturday with BJP leader Kapil Mishra as a guest of honour did the rounds on social media.There have been allegations that several leaders including Mishra made inflammatory speeches targeting anti-citizenship law protesters before the violence broke out in Northeast Delhi on February 23. Bloomsbury India issued a statement saying it strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society. “Bloomsbury India had planned to release Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors. “However, in view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society,” the statement said.The authors slammed “left liberals and intellectuals” for launching a social media campaign against the book, its writers and guests of the launch including senior BJP leader Bhupender Yadav, Mishra and Bollywood filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri.“The book very well reveals how the urban Naxals and jihadists are weakening the theory of Indianness that is based on democracy, the Constitution and elections in the country,” Yadav said.Reacting to Bloomsbury India’s decision to withdraw itself from publishing the book, Arora said, “If one publisher withdraws, ten will rise. The messiahs of freedom of speech are scared of this book. They mounted a frontal attack on its writers, publisher and guests of the launch even before the book was released and one could go through it.” Mishra asserted “no power in the world can stop this book from coming out and people want to read it” and the “contractors of freedom of speech are scared that the book will expose how training was given for the riots and the propaganda machinery was involved in it”.Yadav said those behind Shaheen Bagh protest against the citizenship law earlier this year did not raise the issues of rights of women but spread “poison” in the society.Arora said that the Delhi riots need to be probed by the NIA, claiming it was “pre-planned”. She said the book has been divided into eight chapters and five annexures, all based on ground research in the riot-affected areas. The chapters of the book were about urban-Naxalism and jihadist theory in India, CAA, Shaheen Bagh Model, among others, she said.Malhotra said that the book was opposed by the “so-called leftist thinkers and intellectuals” who earlier “spread lies” that the citizenship law was against the Muslims.“The Delhi riots were an outcome of the urban Naxal and Islamic fanatics and the book exposes it,” she said.Chitalkar said the book was a result of “thorough ground research”.“We talked to everyone, including Muslims. We were not biased. This books takes stand against urban Naxals and Islamic jihadists, it is not an anti-Muslim book,” she claimed. Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after citizenship law supporters and protesters clashed with each other in the area, leaving 53 people dead and nearly 200 injured. A number of people took to Twitter to react to Bloomsbury’s decision with many decrying it.“I have not read the book in question & have no idea if it is good or bad. However, this is obviously not a quality control problem but about censorship. I commit to never publish a book with @BloomsburyIndia,” tweeted author, economist and Principal Economic Advisor in the Ministry of Finance Sanjeev Sanyal.“Bloomsbury is doing a Facebook and feels that their giving platform for hate will pass in India. Oh well appeasement of Sanghi falsehoods will not work. Will it adopt similar standards to legitimise and glorify and racists and fascists in America and Europe?,” tweeted All India Student Association (AISA). Author Ashwin Sanghi said, “What utter hypocrisy @BloomsburyIndia ... why did you agree to publish it if you had problems with the book?” Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, “After facing massive outrage, publishing house #Bloomsbury India has decided to withdraw the book titled ‘Delhi Riots 2020 - The Untold Story’, which was slated to be launched on 22 August by #BJP leader #KapilMishra. Sense prevails & so does spine.” Novelist Nilanjana Roy tagged a news report on the Delhi riots and tweeted, “Hi, @BloomsburyIndia. Some reasons why you should never have published a book that pushes the rightwing’s rotten conspiracy theory about the Delhi riots: Safoora, Meeran, Ishrat, Khalid, Devangana, Natasha, scores of local residents who are jailed.” The authors also put out tweets saying how their book exposes several wrong theories about the Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bloomsbury-says-it-won-t-publish-book-on-delhi-riots-after-social-media-backlash/story-KsEs4hLXrRfxCj3X0vimyN.html
22-08-2020||India||CBI registers case against MD, directors of oil company for alleged bank loan fraud||A CBI team carried out raids at five places in Morena and Delhi on Saturday after registering a case against the managing director, promoter and directors of KS Oils Ltd of Morena for allegedly committing a loan fraud of Rs 938 crore with the State Bank of India, a CBI official said.A case has been registered against managing director Ramesh Chandra Garg, director Saurabh Garg and director Devesh Agrawal. The raids were carried out at the factory and registered offices of the company in Morena, residences of Garg and another director Saurabh Garg and an office in New Delhi. CBI, Delhi, public relations officer RK Gaur said, “It was alleged that the findings of the forensic audit indicated that the financials of the company while applying for loan facilities were inflated. It was further alleged that the loan amount was misappropriated through fraudulent diversion.” Earlier in 2013, Income Tax officers had also raided the office and factory of this company following reports of tax evasion by the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-registers-case-against-md-directors-of-oil-company-for-alleged-bank-loan-fraud/story-A3403AmOnBTHEV2F6JwEfL.html
22-08-2020||India||UP assembly passes bill to recover damages from protestors||The Uttar Pradesh state assembly has passed the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill 2020 that provides for putting up posters or hoardings listing or displaying protestors and recovery of damages caused to public and private property during political agitations/processions and demonstrations.It will replace the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Ordinance 2020 that was promulgated earlier this year in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. Besides empowering the state government to put up hoardings/posters to name and shame protestors at public places, the bill has stringent provision to recover the cost of damages caused to public and private property from protestors and rioters. The state government has recently set up two tribunals in Lucknow and Meerut to investigate the cases of damage to property under rules framed under the provisions of the ordinance.The government had earlier in March this year quoted controversy for publicly listing names of protestors alleged to be involved in anti-CAA protests.Bill for repealing 62 laws passed The state assembly passed the Uttar Pradesh Repealing Bill 2020 to repeal 62 acts that have become obsolete, useless and redundant over the years. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission had decided to repeal all such acts. Also Read: Yogi counters opposition’s Parsuram ploy, says he is not different from RamSetting up of MSMEs eased The Uttar Pradesh Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Bill was also passed in the assembly. It provides to ease the process to set up MSMEs that will be entitled to begin operation within 72 hours of submitting an application. The no objection certificate (NOC) may be obtained in 1,000 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-passes-bill-to-recover-damages-from-protestors/story-whFmz4H1K54m8wmwBFgDkI.html
22-08-2020||India||In poll-bound Bengal, TMC gears up to reach out to women voters||With West Bengal moving towards the crucial assembly elections in 2021, state chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s two recent announcements - both aimed at women – are being seen as a renewed effort by the party supremo to win over more women voters. Earlier this week, Banerjee had announced that the Trinamool Congress-led government would weed out gender bias in the state police force. In another announcement, which was more of a direct effort to win over women voters who constitute more than 48% of total electorate, the party supremo said that female workers of the party would visit each of the 70,000 odd booths in the state and speak to 20 women in the area making them aware of the TMC’s developmental programs. Women empowerment has always been a core segment of the Mamata Banerjee government’s development issues since it assumed power. This is exemplified by the dozens of welfare schemes that have been rolled out by the government including the Kanyashree scheme which aims at promoting education and prevent child marriage by using cash incentives. But recently when the TMC government was on the back foot with allegations of massive corruption and nepotism in the ration delivery and distribution of relief, women could be seen in the forefront of protests. “The TMC had started an initiative ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ (Tell Didi) so that people could tell her their concerns and grievances. But now the government has been unmasked and the women of the state have seen the actual face of Mamata Banerjee and her government. They have stopped telling her about their grievances. Instead they are hitting the streets with broomsticks as we have seen during the Cyclone Amphan relief scam and ration scam. That is why the TMC is undertaking such drama,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Out of the 6.98 crore voters in the state during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 3.39 crores or around 48% of the voters were women. If one goes by the representation the TMC has been on the forefront of fielding women candidates. In the 2019 elections 41% of the TMC candidates were women candidates in Bengal. The number of women candidates contesting for Trinamool Congress in 2011 was 31 while in 2016 the number has increased to 45. Compared to this the BJP fielded around 31 candidates in 2016. The CPI(M) fielded around 19 women candidates while the Congress fielded only eight women. Tapas Roy, Bengal minister of state for parliamentary affairs and a spokesperson of the ruling TMC said: “If you have seen women coming to the forefront during protests, I would say it is a good sign. We never saw women protesting during the Left regime. Mamata Banerjee gave them that platform and empowered them. They have the faith in the government and that’s why they are coming out in large numbers to tell us where we have gone wrong. We welcome this.” Even though the TMC said that the party has always put women empowerment at the forefront and it is a continuous process while the opposition has taken a jibe saying it is a lost game for the ruling party, political analysts said that such schemes and efforts by the TMC would definitely have an impact on the society. “The Kanyashree scheme has won accolades from within the country and abroad. Not all efforts by a political party may give it political gains but it would definitely have an impact on the society at large,” said Udayan Bandyopadhyay, professor of political science at Kolkata’s Bangabasi College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-bengal-tmc-gears-up-to-reach-out-to-women-voters/story-emeNEjX5q5FrlxXXjGKTWO.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be developed by end of 2020’: Health minister Harsh Vardhan||A vaccine for Covid-19 will be developed by the end of this year, union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday as the infection tally crossed three million mark.“One of our Covid-19 vaccine candidates is in the third phase of the clinical trial. We are very confident that a vaccine will be developed by the end of this year,” the health minister said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, the minister didn’t mention which vaccine he is referring to.Also read: Bharat Biotech gets nod to conduct Covaxin trial through skinMeanwhile, just 16 days after crossing 2 million mark, India’s Covid-19 tally soared to 3,040,492, according to the data published by the worldometers.info.On Saturday, India recorded 68,898 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) disease and 983 deaths in a single day. While, the total number of recoveries surged to 22.71 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-developed-by-end-of-2020-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-sV0i4KZQ46bHrdPKzvl2gO.html
22-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s latest Atmanirbhar Bharat push involves Indian toys||In line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign launched by him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting with top functionaries of his government aiming to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys.India is home to several toy manufacturing clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys which not only have cultural connect but also help in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children at an early age, Modi said at the meeting, according to an official statement.He said such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods, the statement added.Significantly, the toy market is one of the several, flooded with Chinese products.According to the official statement, the Indian toy market has huge potential and can bring a transformative change in the industry by promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ under Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign. PM Modi said the focus should be on the use of technology and innovation and also towards manufacturing quality products that meet global standards.Highlighting the importance of toys in moulding a child’s mind, the Prime Minister said toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all anganwadi centres and schools for all-round development of children. He even suggested that youth should be engaged to come up with innovative designs and toys that can instill a sense of pride towards national goals and achievements.Modi noted that toys can be an excellent medium to further the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ and exhorted that toys should reflect India’s value system and culturally established environment-friendly approach. He further suggested using tourism as a tool to promote India’s culture especially in regions which are renowned for handcrafted toys. The prime minister emphasized the need to organize hackathons for youth and students for innovations in toy technology and design, including online games, to reflect the Indian ethos and values.Laying emphasis on the fast growing digital gaming arena, Modi said India should tap the huge potential in this area and lead the international digital gaming sector by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-latest-atmanirbhar-bharat-push-involves-indian-toys/story-InMz5jbrYNiN4R7JUcmNlM.html
22-08-2020||India||Yogi counters opposition’s Parsuram ploy, says he is not different from Ram||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday took on the opposition over its apparent ploy of projecting Parshuram as a Brahmin icon by asserting that both Parshuram and Ram were incarnations of Lord Vishnu and therefore attempts to wedge a divide in the name of divinities was futile.Both Lord Ram and Parshuram were incarnations of Lord Vishnu and were revered by the people, Adityanath said in his counter-attack after the opposition resorted to sloganeering in the state assembly over the law and order and other issues. The House was later adjourned sine die after the day’s proceedings during which 27 bills were passed. During the three-day monsoon session, the House conducted its business only for about four and a half hours. The Parshuram issue had come up earlier this month when a foundation led by a Samajwadi Party leader announced plans to install a 108-foot statue of Parshuram in the state capital and the Bahujan Samaj Party responded by vowing to install even a bigger statue. The move was seen as a way to woo Brahmins, who constitute 10% of the state’s electorate, as Parshuram, considered the sixth incarnation of Lord Vishnu in the Hindu pantheon, was also a Brahmin. He is also said to have cleansed the world of Kshatriyas on several occasions. In a veiled message, Adityanath said going against Ram or his values has proven to be self-destructive.“Whoever remembers Ram becomes ‘pujya’ (worthy of veneration) for all, be it Hanuman or Maharishi Valmiki, and the one who goes against him faces death like Maricha (a demon killed by Ram),” Yogi Adityanath said in the assembly. He said those who remembered Lord Ram did not face any problem in the world. Be it Ram, Parsuram or ‘Mara’ (Rama written backwards in Devnagari script), remembering Ram’s name in any manner was important but the opposition did not realise this, he said. The chief minister also targeted the opposition for its role on the Ram temple issue. Even those who spoke of Rome earlier were talking of Ram now, he said. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh Assembly passes 27 key bills on SaturdayHe announced that ministers of his government would take the temple construction ‘prasad’ from Ayodhya to all the states in the same manner in which they took the invitation for the Prayagraj Kumbh earlier in 2019. He congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah for their efforts in ending the ‘492-year-old dispute’ in a peaceful and democratic manner. This was a matter of pride for the people of the country, he said. The Supreme Court had delivered its verdict in the Ayodhya title dispute case on November 9, 2019. The foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya was laid on August 5 this year. Adityanath targeted the opposition and said, “But these people don’t like the concept of Ram Rajya….they could not suppress their feelings when the construction of Ram temple began… I am surprised to hear their statements… They are the same people who ordered firing on the ‘Ram Bhakts’.” He made a special reference to the Samajwadi Party and the Congress and said they were the ones who indulged in divisive politics and casteism. “They are the same people who asked for the head of Kannauj’s BJP worker Neeraj Mishra and they are the same people who talk of tilak and tarazu. But Ram’s work will continue,” he said.Neeraj Mishra, a BJP worker from Kannauj, was brutally murdered in 2004. The opposition members staged a walkout after the chief minister began his address. Yogi said the opposition was running away from a debate as his government was moving at a faster pace than the opposition. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh govt to table bill for recovery of damages from protesters Yogi asked members to speed up developmental work as assembly polls are due in early 2022. “You don’t have even a year and a half for elections. Give the government a list of the village areas that you want to get electrified. We will launch a campaign to complete the electrification in one year,” he said. He hit out at the Congress alleging the party had given a list with registration numbers of scooters instead of buses to ferry migrant workers home during the initial days of coronavirus induced lockdown. He also made a mention of Aam Aadmi Party’s attacks on his government and took a dig at AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh without naming him or his party. He used the Hindi word ‘namuna’ or a joker in his description. In a tweet in Hindi, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said the UP chief minister had committed contempt of Parliament by using insulting words against a Rajya Sabha member. Parliament should take suo motu cognisance and take decisive action, he said. Facing attack over the alleged rise in crime graph in the state, Yogi asserted there has been a drastic fall in criminal cases since 2016. “They don’t want to hear this truth and they have gone out now,” said Yogi, pointing out the Opposition’s walkout. He also referred to his government’s handling of the Tablighi Jamaat issue, saying, “We made them understand in the language they understood.” In a lighter vein, Yogi said an opposition member wore a placard around his neck in the same manner in which a criminal of Meerut had appealed to save his life. The opposition would have to go to the public with a placard to save them, he said. During the day’s proceedings, the assembly passed 27 bills, including 17 for replacing ordinances, amid unruly scenes and sloganeering. The Samajwadi Party and the Congress members remained in the well of the House while the BSP members displayed placards with slogans against the state government on the law and order issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-counters-opposition-s-parsuram-ploy-says-he-is-not-different-from-ram/story-mGOWKKcS3NmbNE2TGyXodM.html
22-08-2020||India||India’s coronavirus tally crosses 30-lakh mark||India’s Covid-19 tally hurtled past the 30-lakh mark on Saturday night, just 16 days after it crossed 20 lakh, while the total number of recoveries too surged to 22.71 lakh, according to data from states and union territories.Union health ministry data updated on Saturday 8 am showed a record single-day spike of 69,874 infections, taking the country’s Covid-19 caseload to 29,75,701, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHowever, by night, a PTI tally showed India’s Covid-19 caseload at 30,37,657, death toll at 56,762 and recoveries at 22,71,054. The tally has been compiled as per information provided by the states and union territories.India is the third worst-hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US and Brazil.The Union health ministry on Saturday said the total number of recoveries has surged to 22,22,577 pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.87 per cent. Recoveries exceeded active cases of the coronavirus infection by more than 15 lakhs.India also crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in 24 hours on Friday, taking cumulative tests to 3,44,91,073, the health ministry said on Saturday.There are 6,97,330 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.43 per cent of the total caseload, it stated.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, India has been conducting on an average 8,89,935 tests in the last five days. The country has tested 3,44,91,073 samples across the country till August 21, it said.India also has been testing around 74.7 people per lakh population, much higher than WHO’s guidelines of testing 14 people per lakh population, the apex health research body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-tally-crosses-30-lakh-mark/story-YbkUDaOVfA3zkhk2ck7TyN.html
22-08-2020||India||Tripura govt considering to hold assembly session outdoors in view of Covid crisis||Tripura law minister Ratan Lal Nath on Saturday said that the state government is considering to hold its assembly session at a park here due to the coronavirus outbreak. The session is scheduled in the third week of September and it will be difficult to maintain social distancing in the assembly house, said Nath who paid a visit to the Heritage Park. The law minister said that assembly sessions in many states such as Assam were held outside the assembly building. However, the final decision on holding the assembly session in the open is yet to be taken, he added. Tripura on Saturday registered 280 new coronavirus cases, pushing the state’s tally to 8,389, a senior health department official said. The total cases include 2,240 active cases, 6,061 recoveries and 70 deaths. Nearly 238,000 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far. Tripura’s budget session, which started on March 20 was cut short by two days due to the pandemic and was called off soon after the budget was passed in the assembly. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-considering-to-hold-assembly-session-outdoors-in-view-of-covid-crisis/story-m8xQxmzTKpGrxcNuBa6ihM.html
22-08-2020||India||Anti-fibrotic drugs effective in Covid-19 patients: Army||For the first time in the country, anti-fibrotic drugs have been used to treat patients suffering from Covid-19-related lung fibrosis and breathlessness which has helped in the recovery of four such patients in Maharashtra’s Pune, the Army has said.“The researchers at the Pune-based Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences (AICTS) have found this therapy very effective in this subset of Covid-19 patients and they were safely tolerated as well. This is a novel strategy to tackle the lung fibrosis to treat subset of Covid-19 patients,” the release said.It said these are early results and more research is being undertaken in this field to identify the patients who are likely to benefit from the therapy.“Scientists have achieved a breakthrough in management of severe cases by commencing anti-fibrotic therapy in four such patients who were difficult to wean from oxygen due to extensive lung fibrosis. The patients have been discharged from the hospital after the recovery,” it said.It said a breakthrough in management of severe cases has been achieved by pulmonologists at the Pune-based AICTS by commencing anti-fibrotic therapy (tablet Nintedanib) in four such patients.“The therapy proved to be very helpful in reducing the oxygen requirement of these patients and they were discharged home on minimal oxygen after few weeks.“This is the first time in the country that these anti-fibrotic drugs have been used in Covid-19 related lung fibrosis. These drugs have been used for other types of lung fibrosis secondary to auto-immune diseases (arthritis related) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis,” it said.These drugs have an established safety profile in these fibrotic diseases, the statement said.“Researchers at AICTS have found this therapy very effective in this subset of Covid-19 patients and they were safely tolerated as well. This is a novel strategy to tackle the lung fibrosis to treat subset of Covid-19 patients,” it said.The release said it had been observed that a significant number of patients treated for severe Covid pneumonia are developing lung fibrosis, which means a severe scarring of lung tissue that causes low oxygen levels.“This may manifest as fatigue, breathlessness and lifelong requirement of oxygen support,” it said.“The lung fibrosis is usually seen in those patients who are detected late and have extensive pneumonia. Many a times, it becomes difficult to wean these patients off oxygen in spite of anti-inflammatory therapies like steroids and they remain in ICU for a long period of time,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-fibrotic-drugs-effective-in-covid-19-patients-army/story-8z3wtyaXTGzbcdHQrRiJCO.html
22-08-2020||India||Inspection of centres in Odisha run by alleged British-origin paedophile ordered||Three days after the 68-year-old England-born Indian owner of an orphanage and children shelter home in Jharsuguda district of Odisha was arrested over allegations of paedophilia, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights asked Odisha government to furnish detailed report on the matter by the end of August this year.Taking cognizance of the matter under section 13 (1) (j) of the CPCR Act 2005, the NCPCR asked the Odisha chief secretary to issue directions to district level officials and women and child development departments for inspection of each and every home, institution, hostel, school and day care centre run by John Patrick Bridge, who ran a child shelter home called Faith Outreach in the Cox Colony area of Jharsuguda town.The Commission also asked the Odisha government to find out the number and types of child care institutions run by Faith Outreach and whether the NGO was registered under JJ Act 2015. It also asked whether inspection committees were formed as per JJ Act and sought the latest report in respect of the homes run by Faith Outreach.On August 19, Odisha police had arrested 68-year-old Bridge following a complaint by a tribal boy about the latter sexually abusing him.In his complaint, the victim alleged that when he had gone with Bridge to his native place in Rayagada district for Christmas in 2015, then the latter had sexually abused him inside an SUV. The boy, who has now become a major, alleged that he was sodomised by Bridge but could not reveal it due to shame and fear.Also Read: 6 arrested for Bihar gang rape after video surfacesAfter a complaint was lodged at Jharsuguda police station under section 341 of the IPC (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 10 POCSO Act (aggravated sexual assault ) and section 3(i) (r), 2 (va) of SC/ST (POA) Act, Bridge was arrested.Also Read: Odisha Lokayukta demands to bring vigilance department under its control, gets supportBridge arrived in India some 25 years ago on an evangelical mission and started Faith Outreach in Jharsuguda to provide education to the tribal students. As per the description on the website of his organisation, he decided to dedicate his life for the poor when he saw the poverty in the western tribal belt of Odisha. He later married a Tamilian girl named Delphine alias Dell and took Indian citizenship in 1992. In the Faith Outreach facility at Jharsuguda town, he ran two schools, a baby care center, which provided a home and care for abandoned babies as well as a children’s home that provided clothing, education, medical care and daily food to over 400 poor children. The organisation also has a training centre that prepares volunteers to work as social workers in the local communities.The shelter homes and schools run by Bridge have been sealed after his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspection-of-centres-in-odisha-run-by-alleged-british-origin-paedophile-ordered/story-Uz1sucrBny8CElDDxceD1O.html
22-08-2020||India||Kerala minister says he is ready for probe in gold smuggling case||Amid reports that the Union Finance Ministry asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to probe the Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel’s so-called import of holy books and accepting contribution from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate, the minister said he is ready for any probe. While investigating the Kerala gold smuggling case in which 30 kg of gold was seized by the customs on July 5 from a diplomatic consignment, probe agencies had stumbled upon another consignment that came to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in March weighing more than 4,000 kg. Later, the minister admitted that 31 consignments of Quran came and he took them to his constituency for distribution. He also said the consular office provided money for food kits to be distributed in his constituency. But the opposition Congress and BJP claimed that some of the boxes carried gold. “Let any agency probe it. I am least worried because I did not do anything wrong. Among 31 bags that arrived only one bag was opened. Anybody can examine them. I think distributing the Quran is not a big crime either,” he said. But the opposition said he was dragging in religion to camouflage his alleged wrong doings. Diplomatic experts said religious books can’t be imported like this and he can be booked under the foreign exchange regulations act for receiving funds from a foreign country without permission of the Ministry of External Affairs. Jaleel came under a cloud after his name figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling racket. But he insisted he interacted with Suresh as a diplomatic official and did not know about her past or other dealings. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Agency, which is heading the multi-agency probe in the gold smuggling case, told a special court in Kochi that blue corner notices will be issued against four more people staying abroad to unearth a larger conspiracy in the case. It also said during investigation it found that a well organized racket was functioning in the state and it wielded enough influence in high echelons of power. The NIA had arrested 20 people in connection with the case so far. It told the court that the accused had conspired to damage the monetary stability of the country by destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantities of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-says-he-is-ready-for-probe-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-E922HN7gcE2Ns28gvBLdUM.html
22-08-2020||India||Pakistan mentions Dawood Ibrahim’s Karachi addresses in sanctions document||Weeks ahead of an expected assessment of its counter-terror financing actions, Pakistan has tightened curbs on eight Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) leaders, including its founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim by taking steps to enforce UN sanctions against them. This is perhaps the first time that any government document released by Islamabad lists Dawood Ibrahim’s addresses in Pakistan after continuous denials of India’s allegation of harbouring the 1993 bomb blasts accused.Pakistan’s foreign ministry quietly issued two statutory regulatory orders on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions against hundreds of terrorists, including operatives of LeT, JeM, al-Qaeda, Taliban, Haqqani Network and Islamic State, and 93 terrorist groups and entities. The action clearly appears to have been taken with an eye on the upcoming assessment of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing and anti-money laundering regimes by the Financial Action Task Force, which is expected to take place by October. FATF was scheduled to review Pakistan’s actions in June but the Paris-based watchdog pushed back the deadline by four months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In some cases, Pakistan hadn’t acted on UN sanctions imposed more than a decade ago despite growing pressure from Western countries, including the US. It also repeatedly failed to meet FATF’s deadlines to implement a 27-point action plan, and the watchdog has warned of harsher measures since Pakistan has addressed only 14 of the 27 points in the action plan. The first statutory regulatory order issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office listed 88 entities, including terror groups, front organisations such as Al Rashid Trust that has been linked to al-Qaeda, and money exchange firms involved in terror financing, and hundreds of terrorists. Besides Hafiz Saeed, the seven other LeT operatives named in the notification are Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the chief of its operations and one of the main accused in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, Haji Muhammad Ashraf, the chief of finance, Mahmoud Mohammad Ahmed Bahaziq, a Saudi national and the leader of LeT in Saudi Arabia, Hafiz Abdul Salam Bhuttavi, a founding member and deputy to Saeed, Zafar Iqbal, co-founder of the group who has held senior positions in its front organisation Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD), Mohammed Yahya Mujahid, a former spokesman, and Arif Qasmani, who was associated with al-Qaeda. The first notification also listed JeM chief Masood Azhar and Abdur Rehman, who has provided facilitation and financial services to al-Qaeda and was associated with Harakat-ul-Jihad Islami (HuJI) and JeM. It also lists Dawood Ibrahim, wanted by India for the 1993 Mumbai bombings, and gives three different addresses in Karachi given for him by the UN Security Council. This is possibly the first Pakistani document that lists addresses for Ibrahim in the country. In the past, Pakistan has always dismissed assertions by India and other countries that Ibrahim is based in Karachi. The second notification listed prominent Taliban and Haqqani Network leaders such as Abdul Ghani Baradar alias Mullah Baradar, Siraj Haqqani, Bakht Gul and Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai. Baradar and Stanekzai are key members of the Taliban team that is currently negotiating with the US. The two notifications ratified the UN Security’s Council’s call for freezing the assets of the terrorist individuals and terror entities, banning the travel of the terrorist individuals and ensuring that they cannot access any weapons, ammunition and military equipment. Also Watch: BSF shoots down 5 infiltrators at India-Pakistan border in Punjab, arms recoveredThe notifications ordered the seizure of all movable and immovable properties of these groups and individuals, and freezing of their bank accounts. They were also barred from transferring money through financial institutions. Saeed was convicted by a court in Lahore and given a five-and-a-half year prison term in two terror financing cases in February. Lakhvi, one of the seven men arrested by Pakistani authorities for the Mumbai attacks, was granted bail in April 2015 and his current whereabouts aren’t known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-mentions-dawood-ibrahim-s-karachi-addresses-in-sanctions-document/story-0r9Ihriyn7subi7HI1d6xK.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Top Kashmiri leaders decide to strive for restoration of Article 370 and 35A, J&K statehood and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehoodTop Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of J&K and its statehood. National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Congress state president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, CPI (M) general secretary M Y Tarigami, Peoples Conference chairman, Sajad Gani Lone and vice president Awami National Conference Muzuffar Shah have stated so in a joint statement issued on Saturday. Read moreBihar polls: BJP picks development as winning card, Fadnavis fine tunes messageThe two-day BJP state executive committee meeting has set the agenda for Bihar assembly elections by declaring that the alliance will contest on the plank of development and would leverage the youth power for return to power. The political resolution passed on the day one of the meeting also made it clear that the BJP was also going to repeat its time-tested formula of projecting the opposition Grand Alliance as a coalition formed to protect ‘scam-tainted’ families. Read moreAndhra Pradesh irrigation minister reviews flood situation in state,directs officials to be alertAndhra Pradesh’s irrigation minister P Anil Kumar on Friday held a virtual meeting with officials from all 13 districts of the state and reviewed the situation in flood affected areas. Kumar further directed them to be alert to face any situation. The minister termed the opposition’s allegations of not taking care of people in low lying areas and lack of planning as ‘baseless’ and said that all precautionary measures were taken. Read morePublic-safety, a primary focus during 10-day festivalThe 2020 Ganesh festival has gone to another level in terms of public safety, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Though there won’t be any grand celebrations by Ganpati mandals this year, the enthusiasm of Punekars to welcome Ganesha at home is high. Read moreDonald Trump’s Iran Move at UN Amplifies ‘America First’ Snub of AlliesThe US move to “snap back” UN nuclear sanctions on Iran involves legal arcana unlikely to be resolved quickly. What’s clear, however, is that the Trump administration took an approach certain to inflict damage on Iran and relations with America’s allies. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s neighbour says no party at actor’s house night before his death: ‘Lights were switched off’Sushant Singh Rajput’s neighbour has said that on the night of June 13--a day before the actor’s death--there wasn’t any party at his home. As per ANI, the neighbour said that only a light in the kitchen was turned on. Read moreMan creates record by wearing several t-shirts at once. Guess how many?Guinness World Records often takes to social media to share record-breaking videos which usually make people say “Omg” or “Wow.” For instance, just a few days ago, they shared a video of an “extreme basketball challenge” which involved the use of a trampoline. Read more‘Promise to bring many more laurels to the country’: Rohit Sharma thanks fans after Khel Ratna honourIndia batsman Rohit Sharma on Saturday thanked his fans and followers around the world a day after he, along with four other Indian sportspersons, won the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award. Read moreChina: Thousands of maskless revellers gather for beer festival, pool party raves in Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemicWhile healthcare systems around the world buckle under the pressure of the coronavirus pandemic, Wuhan, which emerged as ground zero for the pandemic, in a very non-2020 fashion is busy raving, hosting beer festivals and pool parties. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-top-kashmiri-leaders-decide-to-strive-for-restoration-of-article-370-and-35a-j-k-statehood-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0nZXz6nVDO8aaaGFZshrfN.html
22-08-2020||India||Bengal police bust gang that stole more than 100 LPG cylinders from Farakka godown||The West Bengal police busted a gang which had allegedly stolen more than 100 LPG cylinders from a godown in Murshidabad. Six people have been arrested from two districts. “Out of the 132 LPG cylinders that were stolen from an Indane godown we have recovered around 123 cylinders. Besides this 340 oven regulators and one electronic weighing machine were also recovered,” said Y Raghuvamshi, Superintendent of Police of Jangipur. A senior officer said that all the cylinders were stolen from an Indane godown at Farakka on August 17. When police reached the spot they found a blade which the accused had used to break the godown locks. Preliminary inquiry with some local shops revealed that one Shyamal Mondol had purchased the blade on August 15. Mondol was picked up and during interrogation he coughed up the names of other people who were part of the gang. Based on the information, police arrested six people, including two persons who purchased the stolen cylinders, from Murshidabad and Malda. “Further investigation is on to find out whether any other person was involved,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-police-bust-gang-that-stole-more-than-100-lpg-cylinders-from-farakka-godown/story-ecBLBnzEJZcswLhF4SquSO.html
22-08-2020||India||MHA issues SOP for global travel, Air Bubble passengers need not register with Indian missions||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday issued Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under the Vande Bharat Scheme and Air Transport Bubble arrangement. The SOP, reviewed by HT, states that persons wanting to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded/residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by the ministry of external affairs (MEA). On the other hand, people coming to India on flights operating under air-bubble arrangements will not need to register themselves with the Indian missions. India, so far, has bilateral air travel arrangements or ‘air bubbles’ with the US, the UK, Germany, France, Qatar, Maldives and the UAE while negotiations are going on with 13 more countries. The Vande Bharat flights have been operating since May 6 and currently the Scheme is in Phase-5. The SOP issued on Saturday said that priority will be given to compelling cases in distress, including workers who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly persons or those required to return to India due to death of family members and students. For inbound passengers, MEA will prepare flight/ship wise database of all travellers, including details such as name, age, gender, mobile number, place of residence, place final destination, and information on RT-PCR test taken and its result. “This database will be shared by MEA with the respective state/UT in advance (where the passenger is heading),” the SOP reads. It said that “in case of people travelling to India under air-bubble arrangement, passenger manifest containing the same details as above for Vande Bharat flights or in a revised format as may be finalized by the MEA with the country concerned, will be submitted by the airlines to the Indian mission in the country concerned before operation of each flight with a copy to the state/UT government of the destination port in India”. All travellers coming to India will have to give an undertaking that they are making the journey at their own risk, according to the SOP. In case of people wanting to travel out of India under these two programs, they will have to apply to ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) or to an agency designated by MOCA for this purpose, along with necessary details, including the place of departure and arrival, the SOP issued on Saturday said. It said that Indian seafarers seeking to accept contracts abroad to serve on vessels abroad can travel on the non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the civil aviation ministry or the flights arranged by their employers subject to clearance given by ministry of shipping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-issues-sop-for-global-travel-air-bubble-passengers-need-not-register-with-indian-missions/story-OKagYpfRKN8yP37aOBbIpJ.html
22-08-2020||India||India-China standoff at Ladakh discussed at top-level security meeting||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security advisor Ajit Doval and the military’s top brass on Saturday met for a security review during which they also deliberated on the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese forces have been locked in a standoff for more than three months and the disengagement process has hit a roadblock, people familiar with the developments said.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, air force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh attended the meeting that took place two days after diplomatic talks between the two nuclear-armed countries on the border issue, the officials said, asking not to be named. Details of the discussions were not immediately known. The top level security review also came a day after the army’s top commanders discussed the security situation at the northern and western borders.“A meeting of the Army Commanders was conducted on 20-21 August 2020 to review the security situation and operational preparedness on both the Northern and Western Fronts,” the army tweeted on Saturday. The army is preparing for a long haul in the Ladakh sector, stretching through the harsh winters, due to the Chinese build up at the LAC.India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks on Thursday, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process.The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock, the officials said.Also Read: hina stepping up military activity near Lipulekh pass, new satellite imagery suggests The August 20 WMCC meeting was co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. This was the body’s fifth virtual meeting since the Ladakh standoffs emerged in the open in May. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. Also Read: Rumblings within China over President Xi’s ‘wolf warrior’ diplomacy | AnalysisThere is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-standoff-at-ladakh-discussed-at-top-level-security-meeting/story-Upsq669XwSe6jmwK2sFP7H.html
22-08-2020||India||UN needs to enhance sustained action against states sponsoring terror: Ambassador Tirumurti||Any country sponsoring terrorism should not be allowed to paint itself as a victim of terror, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti has said, underlining that the global body must enhance sustained action against perpetrators and states that sponsor terror, especially cross-border terrorism, in a veiled reference to Pakistan.The UN held a virtual commemoration of the 3rd International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, a day established by the General Assembly to be marked annually on August 21 to honour and support the victims and survivors of terrorism and to promote and protect the full enjoyment of their human rights and fundamental freedoms.“Let’s not allow any State sponsoring terrorism paint itself as its victim. The UN needs to enhance sustained action against perpetrators of terror and against States sponsoring terror, especially cross-border terrorism,” Tirumurti said in a tweet on Friday. @MEAIndia @IndiaUNNewYork @UN_OCT Let is not allow any State sponsoring terrorism paint itself as its victim. The UN needs to enhance sustained action against perpetrators of terror and against States sponsoring terror, especially cross-border terrorism.India’s Permanent Mission to the UN tweeted that on this International Day, “we remember the victims of terror, and also remember that the perpetrators of terror continue to enjoy State patronage with impunity from across our border.” Accompanying the Indian Mission’s tweet was an over three-minute video on the devastating attacks carried out across India by Pakistan-based terrorist groups - the deadly 1993 Mumbai blasts, the 2001 Parliament attack, 2002 Akshardham Temple attack, 2008 Mumbai attacks, 2016 Uri attack and the 2019 Pulwama attack.The video begins with the footage of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and has audio of the handlers from Pakistan providing instructions to the Lashkar e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists carrying out the three-day attack on some of Mumbai’s most prominent addresses, including the Taj Hotel.The commemoration of the day included an interactive discussion with a panel of survivors of terror attacks and victims’ associations on the impact of terrorism on their lives and how the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the ability to honour and commemorate victims and survivors of terrorism.Speaking at the virtual panel from India was Nidhi Chaphekar, survivor of the March 2016 bombing at Brussels airport and subway that killed 31 people and wounded 270. A photograph of Chaphekar, who was then a flight attendant with Jet Airways, had become one of the most haunting and impactful images of the terror attacks. The photo showed Chaphekar sitting injured and anguished, her leg stretched across a bench at the Brussels airport, her bright yellow uniform ripped open, her hair turned grey with dust and soot from the blast.“My name is Nidhi Chaphekar and I’m one of the survivors of the deadliest attack of terrorism that ever took place in the history of Belgium,” she said at the panel.Chaphekar said the blast had left her extensively injured and she is still bearing the consequences of it. “I fought between life and death,” she said, adding that she was in an induced coma for 23 days.Chaphekar said she sustained nearly 25 per cent burns, underwent dozens of surgeries, suffers from partial loss of hearing and still has multiple pieces of shrapnels in her body.After the terror attack, Chaphekar said she felt dejected and thought it was the end of her life but slowly she learnt to fight her fears. “I stood more powerful, more courageous and more confident,” she said, adding that she shares her story with other survivors to help them realise that they are not alone in this battle.“By sharing our experiences, we are trying to encourage others to be more resilient, more powerful, more important,” she said.As people around the world fight against the coronavirus disease, she said, “I feel terrorism is a disease and it needs to be uprooted” and this is not only a responsibility of each country or the UN but it is a “moral responsibility” of each human being to contribute towards a peaceful world.Underlining that everyone must acknowledge the lives of innocent people taken away during heinous terror attacks, she said, “We should rise, we should unite together against terrorism for the sake of humanity. Let’s take the oath that our voices should be stronger and louder to unite humanity than the act of terrorism to divide us.” UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the UN stands in solidarity with the families who have lost loved ones, the wounded survivors, and those whose lives have been forever changed by acts of terrorism.“We commit to raising their voices and seeking truth and justice. We cannot undo the damage done, but we can defend their human rights and dignity. We have a duty to ensure they are always heard and never forgotten,” he said.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, vital services for victims, such as criminal justice processes and psychological support, have been interrupted, delayed or ended while governments focus attention and resources on fighting the pandemic, he said.Guterres stressed that victims should remind the international community every day of the importance of global counter-terrorism efforts.“Let us put in place measures that uphold their rights to justice, protection, support and rehabilitation, so they can rebuild their lives. Let us do everything in our power to prevent terrorist attacks and demand that those responsible are held accountable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-needs-to-enhance-sustained-action-against-states-sponsoring-terror-ambassador-tirumurti/story-8rBzLqyXyWbdwdnLCCNblK.html
22-08-2020||India||Bharat Biotech gets nod to conduct Covaxin trial through skin||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited got approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct a separate clinical trial of their Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ through the skin. Currently, the vaccine was being tested through intramuscular route, where it is injected directly into the muscle. The CDSCO is a pharmaceutical regulatory body under the health ministry. It regulates the quality of drugs and vaccines in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe trial is being conducted on 1,125 patients at 12 hospitals across the country including All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The Bharat Biotech is working on the Covid-19 vaccine project call “Covaxin”. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has also partnered with the company on the trials.As per the report, the findings of the intradermal route will be analysed separately along with the current intramuscular trial. If the result proves to be successful, the vaccine could be made cheaper as the vaccine would be injected in the dermis, one of the layers of the skin. Lesser dosage is required in this method which can then help in more people getting vaccinated.However, the committee’s approval is subjected to two conditions that the company is required to follow— following up on participants for six months to check how much antibodies have been developed along with general health assessment. The sites for the study should be different from the sites of the intramuscular study, according to the second condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-nod-to-conduct-covaxin-trial-through-skin/story-slISz7aHe425LEjqm3xnAM.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19 cases rise marginally in Delhi with 1,412 new patients, count over 1.6 lakh||After witnessing a slight dip in Covid-19 cases earlier this month, Delhi on Saturday logged 1,412 new cases of coronavirus taking the infection count in the national capital to 1,60,016 while the death toll touched 4,284, health department data indicated.At least 14 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 4,284. On Saturday, 1,230 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals. A total of 1,44,138 patients have recovered, migrated or been discharged while the number of active cases in the capital currently stand at 11,594.According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, 6,090 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 13,345 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.ALSO READ | India records highest one-day spike of Covid-19 cases at 69,878; tally nears 3 millionWith the 1,412 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tally has now crossed the 1.6 lakh mark.The number of containment zones in the national capital now stands at 591. The number of containment zones in Delhi has risen from 539 on August 1 to 591 on August 21, with officials attributing the rise to smaller areas which are being contained now.According to health department data, the number of containment zones had decreased to 496 in the national capital on August 2 and had witnessed a marginal increase to 499 on August 4. On those days, the number declined to 481 and 466. On August 12, the number of containment zones went past 500.After a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the government has issued an order for winding up healthcare facilities operating in banquet halls linked with the designated Covid-19 hospitals of the Delhi government. On Saturday, India crossed a milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in a single day, taking the cumulative tests to more than 3.4 crore, while the viral caseload inched towards the 30 lakh-mark, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.“Although higher number of tests will initially lead to a rise in the positivity rate, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, efficient tracking, and timely effective and clinical management,” the ministry said.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, “Keeping its promise of exponentially increasing daily Covid-19 tests, India has crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples in a day.”The number of daily tests has been increasing steeply. The average daily tests during the past three weeks also indicate the progress made in enhancement of coronavirus testing across the country, Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-rise-marginally-in-delhi-with-1-412-patients-count-over-1-6-lakh/story-SA8OvIgWMvrJpADfpLumnM.html
22-08-2020||India||Nagaland church body warns against ‘dangerous’ Chinese cult||The most powerful church body in Nagaland has issued a warning to its followers against a “dangerous” Chinese cult and its online activities. The Nagaland Baptist Church Council (NBCC), the umbrella body of Baptist churches and associations in the state, sounded the warning on August 19 through a letter to all its associate units. “I am writing this with a grave concern concerning a cult, called the Church of Almighty God from China, reportedly making inroads into our land,” the letter by NBCC general secretary Rev. Zelhou Keyho said. NBCC is the central organisation of nearly 1,500 Baptist churches in Nagaland. Christians account for 87.93% the state’s population of 1.97 million people, according to the 2011 census. It is the biggest church body in the state and has considerable clout. According to the NBCC letter, the Church of Almighty God, also called Eastern Lightning cult, is a well-organised group, which is aggressively spreading its influence in the northeastern state by creating many Facebook pages and by publication of colourful artwork that appears “biblical and enticing”. “Till date, this cult, which seems to have started in 1991 and has since spread to the US and other countries, doesn’t have any office in Nagaland or have conducted any activity in the state. But they are very active online and usually target young people by sending friend requests,” Rev. Keyho told HT over phone. “They also conduct indoctrination online. The teachings of this cult are faulty and don’t conform to our faith. They are connecting with people across India, and not just Nagaland. We have warned our organizations, but have no plan of filing official complaint against the cult,” he added. A Facebook page by the name The Church of Almighty God has over 137,000 followers. The page claims Almighty God is the second coming of Jesus, and the organisation says it has offices in the US, the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Germany, Netherlands, France and South Korea. “The cult teaches that Jesus/God has come back to Earth as a woman, named Yang Xiangbin, also called Lightning Deng, and the New Testament has been replaced by their new bible, called ‘The Word Appears in the Flesh’,” the NBCC letter read. According to the letter, the Chinese cult proclaims that there are three ages: “Age of Law”, when salvation begins and the God’s name is Jehovah; “Age of Grace”, when salvation continues and the God’s name is Jesus; and “Age of Kingdom”, when salvation is completed and the God’s name is The Almighty.  “Jesus said in his word that he would return to Earth, not as the Almighty who speaks through a woman from China, but as he was, is and shall ever be. Let us beware of this dangerous cult as they are actively spreading a false gospel and false teachings,” the letter read. Rev. N Paphino, vice president, Nagaland Joint Christian Forum, said: “I am not certain how much inroad the Chinese cult has made into Nagaland. But if Rev. Keyho has issued the letter, it means that there is definitely some cause of worry as he will not write without a genuine concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-church-body-warns-against-dangerous-chinese-cult/story-e2SrkRHGpV7D6ZbKVSLneK.html
22-08-2020||India||Railways told to finish key Kashmir railway project by Aug 15, 2022||Jammu and Kashmir’s newly appointed lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday reviewed the progress of 272 km long Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line project, being built at a cost of Rs 27,949 crore. Sinha, who was informed that the 161 km length of the project has been commissioned, asked the railways to complete the remaining portion between Katra and Banihal by August 15, 2022. The railway line project-- considered a key infrastructure initiative for the region—includes the construction of the world’s highest railway bridge over river Chenab, at a height of 359 metres. Similarly, India’s first cable-stayed railway bridge on Anji Nallah in Reasi is also coming up along the link. The LG directed the railway authorities to expand the rail link towards unconnected areas of Rajouri-Poonch and Kupwara region. Railway officers said that a preliminary survey for the 223 km long Jammu-Poonch rail link, at an estimated cost of Rs 22,768 crore, was completed and submitted to the railway board in 2017. They added that another survey for a 39 km long Baramulla-Kupwara rail link to be built at an estimated cost of Rs 3843 core has also been completed and submitted to the board in July 2020. Also Read: Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s BaramullaThe LG requested the railways to prepare DPRs (Detailed Project Report) for both the projects so that the matter could be taken up with the ministry of finance for funding of these projects. Sinha also asked the railways to run Vistadome coaches in Kashmir to attract tourists and offer them a better view of the scenic Kashmir valley, once the Covid situation normalises. On the intervention of LG, the railways agreed to run local train service between Kathua and Udhampur for the benefit of local commuters. The local train service will be started once the Covid pandemic subsides. Sinha also proposed launching a single-ticket travel facility allowing travel from Kashmir to Kanyakumari via trains and busses. It was decided that the service would be started after the Covid situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-told-to-finish-key-kashmir-railway-project-by-aug-15-2022/story-A5XFIqT94ed1pvdfdmc4mL.html
22-08-2020||India||Two more arrested in Kerala’s snake bite murder case||Three months after the mysterious snake-bite murder of Uthra S (25) in south Kerala’s Kollam district, the special investigation team (SIT) on Saturday arrested her mother-in-law and sister-in-law on charges of destroying evidence and domestic violence. Earlier two people, including the deceased’s husband P Sooraj and a local snake handler, were arrested for letting a cobra loose in Uthra’s room on May 6 night, which led to her death a day later. Shockingly, the fatal bite occurred when Uthra was undergoing treatment for the first bite by a viper at her husband’s home two months ago. Later, the father-in-law was also arrested. The chilling murder was allegedly executed by Sooraj with much precision and training but his design fell flat after Uthra’s father approached the police suspecting foul play in his daughter’s death. The sordid tale came out during the investigation and shocked the southern state. Sooraj later admitted that he gave sleeping pills to Uthra before letting the snake loose and provoking it to bite her twice. During one of the evidence collection trips he publicly admitted that he committed the heinous crime and never thought he will be caught. The SIT said in the murder case Sooraj will be the lone accused and another case was registered for domestic violence and destroying evidence-- besides him, his mother, father and sister are accused in the second case. The snake handler who gave him the snake on both the occasions will be made an approver, it said. Her parents had alleged that the in-laws were also a party to the crime and there were many attempts earlier also. “We are very particular about the murder case so we collected enough scientific evidence to corroborate the crime. There is no delay in latest arrests. We arrested the mother and sister after collecting evidence,” said S Harishankar, Kollam rural superintendent of police (SP), who supervised the probe. The case surfaced after Uthra’s parents filed a complaint a week after her death. They alleged that Sooraj and his family members often harassed her for dowry and many of her ornaments were missing. The couple had got married two years ago and has a one-year-old son. Her father said that he had gifted over 100 sovereigns of gold and a new car to appease her demanding in-laws. During the probe Sooraj reportedly told the SIT that he had bought a cobra from a snake handler for Rs 10,000. On May 6, he took the snake to Uthra’s paternal house in Anchal, where she was undergoing treatment since the first snake bite two months ago. The police said after Uthra fell asleep, Sooraj allegedly took out the snake from the bottle and threw it on her. He kept awake all night to ensure that he could escape unscathed. He left the room in the morning and started reading a newspaper in the verandah. Soon, Uthra’s mother found her daughter lying unconscious in the bed. She was rushed to a hospital, where doctors said she died of a snake bite. Later, when the room was examined, the family members found a cobra, which was killed by Sooraj. The couple slept in an air-conditioned room and it was difficult to believe that he did not notice the snake before, the woman’s parents alleged in the police complaint. The SIT had later conducted a post-mortem on the carcass of the black cobra which bit the deceased in a bid to collect scientific evidence. Veterinary surgeons who conducted the post-mortem later said after examining the fangs of the cobra they found that it bit the victim twice. The 80-cm long cobra was capable enough of killing a human being, they said. Later a DNA test was also done on the carcass. The SIT had filed the charge sheet last week in the Punalur magistrate’s court. The charge sheet said it was a well-planned and executed murder to secure her family property and the husband had tried his best to make it appear like a natural death. He thought of making his son a bargaining chip and later would marry another woman, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-arrested-in-kerala-s-snake-bite-murder-case/story-K449vsquXy6ppH4y2FsL2O.html
22-08-2020||India||Odisha Lokayukta demands to bring vigilance department under its control, gets support||A year after it was set up, Odisha Lokayukta has suggested to the Naveen Patnaik government to bring the directorate of vigilance under its control to enhance the trust and credibility of its office and requested that the state issues an advisory to all the departments to promptly respond to Lokayukta’s notices.The Lokayukta, in its first annual report for the year 2019-20, has said that bringing the directorate of vigilance under its ambit will not only enhance the trust and credibility of the anti-corruption institution, but also substantially improve the functioning of both Lokayukta and the vigilance directorate. Odisha, last year commissioned its first Lokayukta under the Odisha Lokayukta Act, 2014 with the appointment of former justice of Guwahati High Court as its chairperson and 3 others as members. Though set up a little more than a year ago, the office of Lokayukta is yet to have an investigation agency of its own and currently has to entrust the investigation to other agencies.Lack of a dedicated investigation agency in Lokayukta’s office has resulted in pendency of more than 50 per cent of cases. Of the 1132 cases lodged with the Lokayukta in 2019, at least 548 cases were pending for disposal. With 1252 unresolved cases transferred from the office of Lokpal, the total number of pending cases have ballooned to over 1800.In its annual report, the office of Odisha Lokayukta headed by former HC judge Ajit Singh also asked the state government to issue instructions to departmental heads to promptly respond to notices issued by the office. As per Section 22 of the Odisha Lokayukta Act, the Lokayukta may require any public servant to furnish information or produce documents relevant to preliminary inquiry or investigation. Similarly, as per Section 28 of the Act, the Lokayukta can utilize the services of any officer or organization or investigating agency of the Government.“But the experience so far shows that sometimes, the government officials do not respond to the notices issued from the Lokayukta, even though the proceedings before the Lokayukta are deemed to be judicial proceeding within the meaning of Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code,” the annual report suggested.Also Read: Odisha whistleblower alleges threat from IAS officer accused of irregularitiesFormer SC judge Ananga Patnaik, who was a member of the selection committee for Odisha Lokayukta, said the anti-corruption body will be more effective in curbing corruption, if the directorate of vigilance arm of the state government is put under its control. “The Odisha Lokayukta does not have an investigation agency of its own and has to entrust the investigation to other agencies. The investigation agency entrusted with the investigation may not be impartial and may also delay the investigation. This step of putting the directorate of vigilance under the Odisha Lokayukta will also ensure that investigation into corruption cases are speedy, credible and free from political influences,” Patnaik said.Opposition Congress and anti-corruption activists, too, supported the demand to bring the vigilance directorate under the Lokayukta. State PCC chief Niranjan Patnaik said his party had raised the demand in 2014 when the Act was first passed in Assembly.“If vigilance is brought under Lokayukta, then the director of vigilance would not have to report to the state government and it would be free from political influence. Vigilance in Odisha lacks credibility as many IAS officers against whom complaints were raised were never investigated by vigilance officials. Though Odisha Vigilance claimed to have a conviction rate of 51% in 2018, a large number of corruption cases were pending trial in different courts. Most importantly the department had not taken any action against several senior officials though they were under the needle of suspicion,” said Patnaik.Anti-corruption activist Pradip Pradhan said unlike the CBI, the directorate of vigilance in Odisha remains under the direct control of the government.“There is no law to regulate the vigilance directorate. As the vigilance director is appointed by the government and his tenure and service matters are under the control of the chief minister, they cannot function independently. Besides, no approval of the Lokayukta is needed for the transfer of a vigilance officer investigating a case referred to by the Lokayukta,” alleged Pradhan.Alluding to the India Corruption Survey, done by corruption watchdog Transparency International in 2019, which said 40% citizens of Odisha admitted to paying a bribe to get their work done, Pradhan said the vigilance department has failed to tackle corruption as most of the financial irregularities happened in government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-demands-to-bring-vigilance-department-under-its-control-gets-support/story-MXtaYUiPnVbPDYbImrJOqK.html
22-08-2020||India||Rajasthan: Hike in family pension of deceased legislators proposed||The Rajasthan government introduced a bill in the assembly on Friday to increase the family pension of former legislators and sumptuary allowance of the deputy government chief whip. Eight other bills were also introduced on which discussions are likely to be held on Monday. According to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, family pension of ₹17,500 or equal to 50% of the last drawn pension, whichever is higher, shall be paid to the family of a former MLA. The bill said the spouse of a deceased ex-member shall be paid the whole amount of any arrear of the family pension and if the spouse is not alive, the amount of arrear shall be paid in equal shares to the members of the family. For the bill, family means the sons and unmarried daughters and such parents of the deceased ex-member who were wholly or mainly dependent on him or her at the time of his or her death. The statement of objects and reasons of the bill said the family pension payable to the spouse of the deceased ex-member appears to be inadequate in view of price rise. The bill also proposes to increase the sumptuary allowance of deputy government chief whip to ₹80,000 per mensem (every month) from ₹70,000. “It has been decided that the sumptuary allowance payable to the deputy government chief whip should be at par with the sumptuary allowance payable to the state minister,” the statement said. After the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government decided that it needed to take prevention and remedial measures and promulgated the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, on May 1 with more effective and stringent measures than those in the existing the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957. An amendment to this was brought on May 22 through the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Bill, 2020, has been introduced to replace the two ordinances. The third bill – the Rajasthan Police (Amendment) Bill, 2020 – is for village guards in rural areas. The bill seeks to amend the minimum age of these people from 30 years to 40 years, and reduce the tenure of village guards from 3 years to 2 years. The bill also proposes to add the duty of assisting the police in patrolling to the existing duties and responsibilities. The village guards will be honorary workers. The government promulgated an ordinance for this on July 4 and the bill seeks to replace that. The government has also introduced the Rajasthan Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to introduce a surcharge for mitigating natural or manmade calamities. This surcharge shall be charged on any excisable article at such rate not exceeding 50% of the duty for mitigating natural or man-made calamities such as drought, flood, epidemic, public health exigencies and fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hike-in-family-pension-of-deceased-legislators-proposed/story-Yr4o8jg5MOUe8MNXPfZPVI.html
22-08-2020||India||Illegally printed NCERT books worth Rs 35 crore seized in UP, 12 held||In a joint operation, the special task force (STF) and the Uttar Pradesh police arrested 12 persons and claimed to have busted a gang that was allegedly involved in illegally printing National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books. Officials said the team also seized printed books worth Rs 35 crore from two stores in Partapur area of Meerut and Gajraula in Amroha district. Six facilities, where the books were allegedly printed, were sealed on Friday evening. Meerut Police SSP, Ajay Shahni said, “The joint team recovered Rs 35 crores worth NCERT books, and printing machines. During the initial investigation, we came to know that these books were being sold in Delhi, Uttarakhand and other places through illegal means after being printed.”Brajesh Singh, the deputy SP of STF, said the raids were conducted after receiving a tip-off. More than a dozen employees of the press and store were rounded up for interrogation. “The mastermind, Sachin Gupta, is still at large and efforts are being made to arrest him,” he added. Singh said that approximately 900,000 books of NCERT were confiscated from Partapur store and STF would register a case after preparing a seizure list. He said that approximately the same number of books were found in Gajraula store and the list would be made soon . Singh said that NCERT distributes its books after printing them in its Delhi-based printing press and that it doesn’t have any press in Meerut and other locations. Sachin Gupta and his aides started printing these books in their printing press. Over the period of time, they developed a good distribution system across the country. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegally-printed-ncert-books-worth-rs-35-crore-seized-in-up-12-held/story-KujHUGOd4HXQIVVq5WgOJM.html
22-08-2020||India||Sold for £260,000, Mahatma Gandhi’s glasses set to transform seller’s life||A pair of gold-plated circular glasses worn by Mahatma Gandhi during his time in South Africa was on Friday sold for £260,000, surprising the owner who did not realise its value and left it in an envelope for the local auctioneer in Bristol three weeks ago.The rare item was bought by an unnamed collector from the United States, auctioneer Andy Stowe said, adding that the initial reserve price was set for £15,000 but it attracted much interest from various countries, including India.Stowe said on Saturday: “It’s a phenomenal result! These glasses have been lying in a drawer for the best part of 50 years. The vendor literally told me to throw them away if they were ‘no good’. Now, he gets a life-changing sum of money”.“It’s the ‘good news’ story that we all want – as an elderly gentleman, our vendor has probably had a rough time in recent months and to be able to change his life is just incredible. The price is outstanding, but it’s not about the money.”“We had interest from all over the world – bids came from India, Qatar, America, Russia, Canada. It’s completely spellbinding, and a wonderful thing to be a part of. It’s been a complete honour to handle these spectacles and find them a new home”.The glasses were in the vendor’s family for nearly a century, given to his uncle by Gandhi between 1920 and 1930. The uncle was working with British Petroleum in South Africa, where Gandhi spent years before returning to India to launch the freedom struggle.“It can be presumed that these (glasses) were gifted by way of thanks from Gandhi for some good deed. A note from the vendor is included”, the auctioneer said.The glasses were described by the auctioneer as being “of usual form, with sprung gold plated arms and prescription lenses. Jointed by a gold plated nose bar. The spectacles formed an important and somewhat iconic part of Gandhi’s overall appearance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sold-for-260-000-mahatma-gandhi-s-glasses-set-to-transform-seller-s-life/story-yyVUwQolWJCUwaYRjwfNZJ.html
22-08-2020||India||UP man, father of 4 and cosmetic shop owner, was in touch with ISIS for years: Police||The suspected ISIS operative, arrested by Delhi Police on Friday night, had planned to carry out terror strikes in crowded areas of the Capital after being instructed by his handlers in Afghanistan, a senior official said.Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said the operative identified as Mohd Mustaqeem Khan, Yusuf aka Abdul aka Abu Yusuf, was in direct touch with the commanders of Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in Afghanistan through social media platforms.Khan was arrested after a “brief exchange of fire” late on Friday night from the section of the Ridge Road between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh. He was going to install the two pressure cooker Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), which were recovered from him, at “heavy footfall area” in Delhi, he said. The IEDs were defused later.Police had been keeping an eye on the 36-year-old resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Balarampur and his contacts since the past one year, Kushwaha added.“He was connected with ISIS for the last many years and was directly in touch with ISIS commanders. He was handled by Yusuf Alhindi, who was killed in Syria later. After that, Abu Huzafa, a Pakistani, was handling him,” he said during a press briefing.Huzafa had promised Khan, an owner of a small cosmetic shop, he would call him to Khorasan and he had passports made of his wife and four children. He learnt to make IEDs while he was in touch with Huzafa, who was killed in a drone attack, Kushwaha said.“We are verifying whether he made the IEDs found on him or someone else gave them to him. He has told us during interrogation that he had made them,” the senior official said.The new amir had instructed him to stay put and carry out lone-wolf attacks in the country. Khan had planned a terror strike in the national capital on August 15 but could not do so due to heavy security arrangements, he added.He had been instructed to carry out fidayeen attacks after installing the IEDs and but was not told about the places he was to strike. “A terror strike has been averted through this operation and I think a major incident has been avoided,” Kushwaha said.He was sent to eight-day police custody by a local court in the Capital. The accused was presented at the house of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat, who allowed Special Cell to question the accused for eight days, news agency ANI said citing sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-father-of-4-and-cosmetic-shop-owner-was-in-touch-with-isis-for-years-police/story-uGiHbjhV7TojglzIuzSgfL.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In Bihar, BJP might begin seat-sharing talks with allies and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP may soon begin seat-sharing talks with allies in BiharThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may begin seat-sharing talks with allies in poll-bound Bihar after its two-day state executive committee meeting that begins on Saturday. J P Nadda, the party chief, and BJP’s Bihar election in-charge, Devendra Fadnavis, and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav will hold talks with chief minister Nitish Kumar and other top leaders of his Janata Dal (United), or JDU, in Patna next week. Read moreKashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehoodTop Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of J&K and its statehood. Read more‘Lift all restrictions on inter-state movement of people, cargo,’: Centre tells statesUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to chief secretaries of all states explaining that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. His letter mentions that any such restriction would amount to a violation of guidelines issued earlier by the Ministry of Home Affairs during the Unlock phases. Read moreHeavy rainfall lashes parts of western Madhya Pradesh, low-lying areas floodedHeavy rains inundated low-lying areas in several parts of Madhya Pradesh, especially those in the western parts of the state, affecting normal life, officials said on Saturday. Incessant rainfall in the western districts, including Bhopal, Indore and Sehore, since Friday has sent small rivers and nullahs into spate, they added. Read moreIsrael’s Covid-19 chief urges Ukraine to ban annual Jewish pilgrimageThe head of Israel’s coronavirus task force has asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy to ban an annual pilgrimage in which Hasidic Jews visit the central Ukrainian town of Uman over concerns the site may become a virus hotspot. Read moreDo a Shahid Afridi and come out of retirement: Former India opener Aakash Chopra tells Suresh RainaDrawing Shahid Afridi’s example, former India opener Aakash Chopra asked Suresh Raina to reconsider his decision to retire from international cricket. Raina had decided to call time on his international career on India’s 74th Independence Day, minutes after legendary cricketer MS Dhoni had decided to hang his boots. Read moreGanesh Chaturthi: Malaika Arora amps up festive vibe in red Banarasi sareeSlaying this festive week like the true diva she is, Bollywood actor Malaika Arora amped up Ganesh Chaturthi vibes as she dressed up in her ethnic best. Gearing up for the upcoming episode of television dance reality India’s Best Dancer, Malaika set fans’ hearts on a frenzy with her drop-dead gorgeous look. Read moreNetflix India asks Instagram users to caption this still from Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara. They complyNetflix India’s Instagram account often shares posts which leave netizens in fits. Their recent post is no different. On August 21, the account shared a still from the 2011 film Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara. The image features the three male leads, Hrithik Roshan, Abhay Deol, and Farhan Akhtar. Read moreWatch: How you can stay safe on this Ganesh Chaturthi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-bihar-bjp-might-begin-seat-sharing-talks-with-allies-and-all-the-latest-news/story-au94PFjUze00LJLnc7wcpM.html
22-08-2020||India||Kashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehood||Top Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of J&K and its statehood.National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Congress state president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, CPI (M) general secretary M Y Tarigami, Peoples Conference chairman, Sajad Gani Lone and vice president Awami National Conference Muzuffar Shah have stated so in a joint statement issued on Saturday. The first such joint statement signed by mainstream parties after the revocation of Article 370 also hints at launching a joint struggle for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood. “We all reiterate that we are bound, wholly, by the contents of the Gupkar declaration and will unwaveringly adhere to it. We are committed to strive for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, the Constitution of J&K and the restoration of the State and any division of the State is unacceptable to us. We unanimously reiterate that there can be ‘nothing about us without us’”, the joint statement said. Panchayat polls have been held in Jammu and Kashmir after it was reorganised as a Union Territory and the Centre has stated that it will soon have a government elected by people once assembly elections are held after the ongoing delimitation exercise. However, the joint statement was silent on this. The statement said the signatories to the Gupkar declaration of 4th August 2019 have barely managed to establish a basic level of communication with each other in the face of a series of “prohibitive and punitive” curbs imposed by the government, aimed at “impeding” all social and political interactions. “The limited confabulations held within the constraints imposed have resulted in this unanimous resolution that the unfortunate events of 5th August 2019 have unrecognizably changed the relationship between J&K and New Delhi. In a spitefully shortsighted and unconstitutional move, Articles 370 and 35A were abrogated and the State was bifurcated and relegated to the status of two Union Territories and its Constitution tried to be made unenforceable.”The Centre has maintained that the provisions removed by it on August 5 were temporary and were partly responsible for breeding terrorism in the region and preventing its growth. The statement signed by the parties, however, states that the Centre’s move to abrogate Article 370 and bifurcate the erstwhile state into two union territories was a challenge to the basic identity of the people of J&K.“The measures attempt to redefine who we are. These changes were accompanied by repressive measures meant to silence people and coerce them into submission, and continue unabated,” the statement said.The statement also stresses on a collective political fight for the demands raised therein.“We want to assure the people that all our political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of J&K as it existed on 4th August 2019,” the statement further said.The statement also expresses gratitude to people, political parties, the intelligentsia and other civil society groups for opposing the changes made on 5th August 2019 and standing with the people of J&K. Several petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court against the change effected in the status of Jammu and Kashmir. The leaders also called attention to the recent skirmishes at the LAC (Line of Actual Control) and the LOC (Line of Control) that have resulted in casualties on both sides and said there was a need to work for enduring peace in the region.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti could not attend the meeting since she continues to be in detention. However, her daughter tweeted to express her support for the principle of a ‘joint struggle’ as expressed in the statement.“Ms Mufti appreciates the statesmanship shown by Dr Farooq sahab in forging a collective response to Delhi’s onslaught on J&Ks special status. It’s time we forego political differences & stand together,” tweeted Iltija Mufti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-leaders-resolve-to-fight-for-restoration-of-article-370-and-j-k-statehood/story-u6knbADZX0bGNzCpW3TuVM.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Lift all restrictions on inter-state movement of people, cargo’: Centre tells states||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to chief secretaries of all states explaining that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. His letter mentions that any such restriction would amount to a violation of guidelines issued earlier by the Ministry of Home Affairs during the Unlock phases.The home secretary’s letter to states says that local level restrictions on inter and intra- state movement of people and goods are impacting supply chains nationwide resulting in disruption of economic activity and leading to unemployment also.Bhalla has drawn attention to the fifth paragraph of Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the MHA. The Unlock-3 guidelines clearly state that there shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. It also states that no separate permission or approval or e-permit will be needed for such movement for cross land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.ALSO READ | Unlock 3.0 rules get the right mix | HT EditorialSeveral reports of local level restrictions on movement being imposed by various districts and states have made their way to the Centre, he has written in the letter. The letter claims such restrictions which are different in different states are leading to problems in inter-state movement of goods and are thereby impacting supply chains across the country.The home secretary said restrictions amount to violation of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The home secretary has requested state governments to lift the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure that MHA guidelines issued during the phases of unlocking the country are followed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a nationwide lockdown with effect from March 25 to combat the coronavirus pandemic which was subsequently extended till May 31.Since June 1, the unlock process began with the opening up industrial activities and offices across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lift-all-restrictions-on-inter-state-movement-of-people-cargo-centre-tells-states/story-GKKXCSviYPqRoZEhIycIBN.html
22-08-2020||India||CBI team visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s Mumbai house to recreate last moments of actor’s life||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation officials along with forensic experts visited the house of Sushatnt Singh Rajput at Bandra along with his cook Neeraj Singh and roommate Siddharth Pithani on Saturday afternoon to recreate the happenings that led to the death of the actor, sources in the CBI said.Rajput was found dead in his rented apartment on June 14. Earlier in the day, CBI officials visited Cooper Hospital at 11 am to meet the doctors who conducted the autopsy.The investigators who spent about two hours at the facility also met the dean of the hospital, the sources said. On Friday, investigators had already questioned Neeraj Singh, the actor’s cook at the DRDO’s guest house in Mumbai. Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda was questioned in the guest house of a private company at Marol in Andheri. The CBI team also collected documents from Mumbai police including forensic report, post mortem report, statements of more than 60 people that Mumbai police has recorded in the case, and other material evidence, a police official said.The team also collected evidence like the three mobile phones that Rajput used, his laptop, clothes, blanket, bedsheets, a green kurta, a glass used to drink juice and CCTV footage of his house and building. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court allowed the CBI to continue with its probe into the case filed against actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-mumbai-house-to-recreate-last-moments-of-actor-s-life/story-OSqcRCuLISYxBVSTtDL7iL.html
22-08-2020||India||Tripura voters in Mizoram’s list? Probe ordered||The Tripura government has ordered a probe into the inclusion of 130 voters from the state’s Phuldungsei village on Mizoram voters’ list. The village that borders Mizoram is located over 300 kilometres from capital Agartala and has a population of 640.“We have heard about the matter [and] already asked our concerned higher officials to conduct a probe into the matter,” said Tripura minister NC Debbarma. Sub-divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran raised the issue in a letter to magistrate Raval H Kumar after the scrutiny of Mizoram’s voters’ list. She pointed out the 130 voters have been added to Mizoram voters’ list even as they are ration holders in Tripura. She stressed the urgency of demarcating the exact boundary between the two neighbouring states and incorporating the entire Phuldungsei Village Council in Tripura. “ ....the road leading to Kawnpui border village of Jampui hill RD block is regarded as the boundary between Tripura and Mizoram in Phuldungsei where the Eastern side belongs to Mizoram and the western side is Tripura. Traditional Phuldungsei VC [village council] as a whole (despite Eastern side falling in Mizoram) has been accepted as a part of Tripura. Hence, the inclusion of the VC and its residents in Mizoram electoral rolls seems to be problematic. There is an urgent need to demarcate the exact boundary between Mizoram and Tripura incorporating the entire Phuldungsei VC in Tripura,” the letter said. The village council elections in Mizoram would be held on August 27. District Magistrate of Mizoram’s neighbouring Mamit district, Lalrozama, could not be reached for a reaction. Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance founder Pradyot Bikram Kishore Manikya Deb Burman said the boundaries of Tripura cannot be negotiable and asked the state government to deal with the issue firmly. “We want an investigation on how people can hold two voting cards in two separate states and also demand that our state government take strict measures to ensure that no territory is seen as a part of another neighbouring state, “he wrote on his Facebook page. He asked the state government to open a police outpost at Phuldungsei and cancel the election process and the illegal voting cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-voters-in-mizoram-s-list-probe-ordered/story-222UuDUEAGMf2eF2pdjXWI.html
22-08-2020||India||Assam observes weekend lockdown to combat Covid-19||The weekend lockdown to combat Covid-19 was observed in Assam on Saturday following the guidelines issued by the state government on August 14.Guwahati also wore a deserted look today with people staying indoors in the fight against coronavirus.Earlier on August 14, the state government issued new Covid-19 lockdown guidelines with relaxations between August 16 and 31.“All permitted activities mentioned in our earlier orders shall continue to be allowed between 5 am and 9 pm between Monday and Friday. Inter-District movement of passenger vehicles and people are allowed between Monday and Friday only. Inter-District movement of vehicles is allowed with 50 per cent capacity,” the state government order read.“City buses are allowed subject to maintenance of all Covid-19 protocols and social distancing and with 50 per cent capacity. Public transport is allowed subject to maintenance of all Covid-19 protocols and social distancing with 50 per cent capacity,” it further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-observes-weekend-lockdown-to-combat-covid-19/story-4pXcsLQ56vSzIahaZ6x8GL.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Scapegoats’: Bombay High court cancels FIR against 29 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has said that the foreign nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi in March this year, were made “scapegoats” and allegations were levelled that they were responsible for spreading Covid-19 in the country.A division bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar made the observations on August 21 while quashing the FIRs filed against 29 foreigners, who had attended the event.The bench also noted that while the Maharashtra police acted mechanically in the case, the state government acted under “political compulsion”.The 29 foreign nationals were booked under various provisions of the IPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Foreigner’s Act for allegedly violating their tourist visa conditions by attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin in the national capital.The bench in its order noted that there was a big propaganda against the foreigners who had come to the Markaz in Delhi.“A political government tries to find the scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them a scapegoat,” the court said in its order.“The propaganda against the so-called religious activity (Tablighi Jamaat) was unwarranted. The activity was going on for more than 50 years and it is there throughout the year,” it added.It said that the circumstances and the latest figures of infection of Covid-19 in India show that such action against the petitioners should not have been taken.“It is now high time for the concerned to repent about this action taken against the foreigners and to take some positive steps to repair the damage done by such action,” the court said.In its order, the bench noted that many Muslims from across the world come to India and visit the Markaz Masjid in Delhi as they are attracted to the reform movement of Tablighi Jamat.“It is a continuous process and it appears that there are arrangements of stay also made by the Muslims at Markaz Delhi,” it said.The bench added that the visits of these foreigners to Masjids in India were not prohibited and there is nothing on record to show that this activity is prohibited permanently by the government.“The activity of Tablighi Jamat got stalled only after the declaration of lockdown in Delhi and till then it was going on,” the court said.The bench further questioned as to whether the people in India are really acting as per its great tradition and culture of welcoming guests.“During the situation created by Covid-19 pandemic, we need to show more tolerance and need to be more sensitive towards our guests, particularly like the present petitioners.“Instead of helping them, we lodged them in jails by making allegations that they were responsible for violation of travel documents and that they are responsible for spreading the coronavirus,” the court said.The bench noted that the Maharashtra police acted mechanically in the present matter and the state government acted under “political compulsion”.“The government cannot give different treatment to citizens of different religions of different countries,” the court said.Apart from the foreign nationals, police also booked six Indian nationals and trustees of the Masjids for giving shelter to the petitioners.The bench was hearing three separate petitions filed by the accused foreign nationals, who belong to the countries like Ghana, Tanzania, Benin and Indonesia.At the end of the judgement, Justice Sewlikar said that while he agrees with the quashing part of the order, he has differing views on a few observations made by Justice Nalawade. However, he did not specify which observations.The petitioners claimed that they came to India on valid visa in February 2020 and before March 10, 2020 to experience Indian culture, tradition, hospitality and Indian food.They claimed that when they arrived in India, they were screened and were let to leave the airport only after they did not show any symptoms of Covid-19.The petitioners further claimed that they were visiting several places in India to observe the religious practices of Muslims.They claimed that due to lockdown imposed across the country in March, the petitioners, who were in Ahmednagar district at the time, were accommodated in masjids as most lodges and hotels were closed.They further claimed that while granting visa, there was no prohibition to visit religious places, like masjids.The police, while opposing the pleas, said that post- lockdown, announcements were made at public places, asking persons who had attended the Tablighi event to come forward voluntarily for testing, but the petitioners did not do so and created a threat of spreading the coronavirus.The prosecution further argued that the accused persons were propagating Islam religion among public.The court, however, refused to accept this and said there is nothing on record to show that the foreigners (accused persons) were spreading Islam religion by converting persons of other religions to Islam.The bench further held that no orders were issued by any authority preventing Indians from accommodating persons in masjids or supplying meals to persons, including foreigners.PTI SP NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scapegoats-bombay-high-court-cancels-fir-against-29-foreign-jamaat-members/story-ct8wNaoRENyZsu65k0rVCJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand increases honorarium of ex-servicemen in govt depts||The Uttarakhand government has increased the honorarium of ex-servicemen employed on contract basis in various government departments through the Uttarakhand Purvasainik Kalyan Nigam Limited (UPNL) by 20%, said officials. An order in this regard was issued on Friday evening. The move is set to benefit more than 20,000 such employees in the state, said officials. The increase ranges from Rs 6,960 to Rs 5,935 for the employees under UPNL.“The unskilled ones who with, existing honorarium of Rs 6960, will get a hike of Rs 1392, the semi-skilled, with an honorarium of Rs 8008, will get a hike of Rs 1602, skilled ones, with Rs 8892 honorarium, will get a hike of Rs 1778, highly-skilled ones, with Rs 9892 honorarium, will get a hike of Rs 1978 and those in higher positions, with an honorarium of Rs 29675, will get a hike of about 5935,” said an official. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the employees were demanding the increase for a long time. “The government has now acted on their demand and hiked their honorarium by 20% which will benefit them. The move has upheld their rights.”Hemant Rawat, general secretary, UPNL Karmchari Mahasangh, said, “We were demanding this for long and even met the CM on this matter. Now it has been accepted by the government, it will benefit all of us in this dire situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-increases-honorarium-of-ex-servicemen-in-govt-depts/story-U1e02pefn7dzFPpOhRQagO.html
22-08-2020||India||Tripura orders probe after names of 130 villagers found in Mizoram’s voters list||The Tripura government has ordered a probe after the names of 130 residents of a border village were included in Mizoram’s voters list, revenue minister NC Debbarma said Saturday.Phuldungsei village falls under Kanchanpur sub division in North District of Tripura, more than 300 km southeast of Agartala. The village has a population of more than 600. “We have heard of the matter. We have already asked our higher official concerned to conduct a probe into the matter,” Debbarma said. Kanchanpur sub divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran, recently wrote to North district magistrate Raval H Kumar after scrutiny of Mizoram’s voters’ list found that 130 residents of Phulungsei who hold ration cards of Tripura have been added in the neighbouring state’s voters’ list.She also stressed on the urgency of demarcating the exact boundary between the two neighbouring states incorporating the entire Phuldungsei Village Council in Tripura. “The PWD road leading to Kawnpui border village of Jampui hill RD block is regarded as the boundary between Tripura and Mizoram in Phuldungsei where the eastern side belongs to Mizoram and the western side is Tripura. Traditionally Phuldungsei VC as a whole (despite Eastern side falling in Mizoram) has been accepted as a part of Tripura. Hence, the inclusion of the VC and its residents in Mizoram electoral rolls seems to be problematic,” she wrote in the letter.“There is an urgent need to demarcate the exact boundary between Mizoram and Tripura incorporating the entire Phuldungsei VC in Tripura,” the letter reads. The village council elections in Mizoram are scheduled to be held on August 27. When contacted, Chandni said that the 130 voters are ration cardholders of Tripura but she could not say how many Tripura voters could be taking rations from Mizoram. District Magistrate of Mizoram’s Mamit District Dr. Lalrozama could not be reached for reaction as he did not take calls. Former Congress leader Pradyot Bikram Kishore Manikya Deb Burman said that the boundaries of Tripura are not negotiable and demanded that the state government deal with the issue firmly. “We want investigation on how people can hold two voting cards in two separate states and also demand that our state government take strict measures to ensure that no territory is seen as a part of another neighbouring state, “ Pradyot wrote on Facebook. He also demanded the government should open a police outpost at Phuldungsei and cancel the election process and the illegal voting cards. Pradyot floated an apolitical organization under the banner ‘The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance’ (TIPRA) after resigning from Congress as its Tripura president in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-orders-probe-after-130-villagers-names-found-in-mizoram-s-voters-list/story-AvcCOVipLld6sUrcdNMGTK.html
22-08-2020||India||Complete trial of BJP leaders in Babri Masjid demolition case by September end: SC||The Supreme Court has set a new deadline of September 30 for completing trial and pronouncing verdict in the criminal case against BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti for demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992.The apex court had, in May, asked special judge, Surendra Kumar Yadav to complete the trail and deliver its judgment by August 31. A 3-judge bench headed by Justice Rohinton Nariman extended the deadline by one more month after taking into account the report by Yadav stating that the trial was at its fag end.“Having read the report of Mr. Surendra Kumar Yadav, learned Special Judge, and considering that the proceedings are at the fag end, we grant one month’s time, i.e., till September 30, 2020, to complete the proceedings including delivery of judgment,” the bench which also comprised justices Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee said in its order passed on August 19.This would be the fourth instance of the top court setting a deadline for completion of trial in the case. The BJP leaders are on trial for the 1992 demolition of Babri Masjid at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. They have been charged for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including promoting enmity between religious groups (section 153A), making statements affecting national integration (section 153B) or which are likely to cause public mischief (section 505).In April 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered that the additional charge of criminal conspiracy under section 120B of IPC should be framed against the accused BJP leaders. The apex court had also ordered the special court to complete trial within two years.Subsequently, the court had taken up the matter in July 2019 and extended the deadline for completion of trial and delivering the verdict by 9 months.That deadline expired on April 19 and the special judge Yadav wrote to the apex court on May 6, 2020 seeking further extension of time. The court then took up the matter on May 8 and set a deadline of August 31 while also asking Yadav to make use of video conferencing facilities to ensure that recording of evidence is complete and there is no inordinate delay in concluding the trial.The top court had, on November 9, 2019 decided the title suit to the disputed site at Ayodhya in favour of Hindu parties while also acknowledging that the demolition of Babri Masjid which stood at the site was a “calculated act”.“During the pendency of the suits, the entire structure of the mosque was brought down in a calculated act of destroying a place of public worship. The Muslims have been wrongly deprived of a mosque which had been constructed well over 450 years ago,” the November 9 judgment said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-trial-of-bjp-leaders-for-babri-masjid-demolition-by-sept-30-sc/story-GEZQqiZyuheHF2VkY3hR0J.html
22-08-2020||India||With 2,474 new cases, Covid-19 tally breaches one lakh mark in Telangana||The total coronavirus caseload in Telangana crossed the one lakh mark with 2,474 fresh cases being added, health officials said on Saturday.With seven more people succumbing to the virus, the toll in the state mounted to 744.Out of the fresh cases, 447 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by districts of Ranga Reddy 201, Nizamabad 153, Medchal 149, Khammam 125, Warangal Urban 123, Nalgonda 122, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 PM on August 21.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe overall tally of Covid-19 rose to 1,01,865 as 2,474 new cases were added.It said 1,768 people were discharged on Friday taking the total number of people getting discharged to 78,735 so far, while 22,386 were under treatment.According to the bulletin, 43,095 samples were tested on Friday. Cumulatively, 8,91,173 samples have been tested.The recovery rate was 77.29 per cent in the state, while it was 74.30 per cent in the country.On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent.The percentage of deaths caused by Covid-19 was 46.13 per cent. PTI VVK ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-474-new-cases-covid-19-tally-breaches-one-lakh-mark-in-telangana/story-5Sf3RwbyaQHeSGwFDBJ0DI.html
22-08-2020||India||Woman shot dead by sandalwood smugglers in Kerala, 3 arrested: Cops||A tribal woman was shot dead by members of a sandalwood smuggling gang in Idukki district in Kerala on Saturday over suspicion that she was informing forest officials about their activities, police said. She was 34.The deceased has been identified as K Chandrika, a resident of a tribal settlement in Marayur. “We have arrested three people, including a relative of the deceased, and recovered the gun used in the crime. Preliminary reports suggest she was allegedly killed for passing information about the sandalwood smugglers. Local people helped us to arrest the accused,” said Munnar assistant police superintendent Ramesh Kumar.Local people said last month forest officials had raided the area and arrested some people for smuggling of a fully grown sandalwood tree and some gang members suspected her alleged role in informing officials and entered into an argument which resulted in the murder. Police said investigation was on and will seek the help of forest officials also.Marayur sandalwood is world famous for its aroma and rich oil content. Every year the forest department auctions logs fetching crores of rupees to the exchequer. Last year, Rs 80 crore was collected through auctioning. The rich forests attract smugglers.At least 20 cases of smuggling were reported last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-shot-dead-by-sandalwood-smugglers-in-kerala-3-arrested-cops/story-imB9V0Far6vqQihPVXSgUJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s case latest developments: CBI begins probe, AIIMS’ forensic experts to assist||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday took over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput as directed by the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The central agency’s officials landed in Mumbai on Thursday night. They have divided themselves into four teams to carry out the investigation in the high-profile case. While one team will translate documents from Marathi to English, another will be questioning people involved in the case. A third team is coordinating with senior officials in Delhi and handling logistics in Mumbai while the fourth one met deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe at his Bandra office on Friday to collect the case related documents.Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.Here are the recent developments on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case:CBI questions Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook Neeraj SinghThe CBI on Friday questioned the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh and house manager Samuel Miranda. Singh was on Saturday brought to the guest house in Mumbai’s Santacruz, where the CBI officials are staying, for the second round of questioning.Forensic experts meet CBI officialsA team of forensic experts also arrived at the guesthouse on Saturday morning, according to news agency ANI, while some CBI officials were spotted leaving the guesthouse for further investigation.Rhea Chakraborty had ‘no relationship’ with Rajput on the day of his death: LawyerRajput’s father KK Singh’s lawyer on Friday said that Rhea Chakraborty’s visit to the mortuary is “very suspicious” since “no relationship” with Rajput on the day of his death. He pointed towards the possibility of tampering with evidence.“In what capacity was she allowed to see the body of Sushant? I believe she was taken from the backroom. Without showing grief, without sobbing, without breaking down, clearly exposes her mind that she was probably wanting to accept the blame of his death and she has no regret of it. She had no affection for Sushant,” lawyer Vikas Singh told ANI.AIIMS team to ‘look into the possibility of murder’After the CBI approached the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi to assist it with the probe, the hospital formed a five-member board of forensic experts to look into the autopsy reports of the late actor. “We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined,” AIIMS’ forensic department chief Dr Sudhir Gupta was quoted as saying by PTI.Rhea Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats with Mahesh Bhatt surface onlineA conversation on WhatsApp between actor Rhea Chakraborty and film director Mahesh Bhatt has again surfaced online. On June 14, the morning of Sushant’s death, Chakraborty sent Bhatt a message at 9:35am, “Goodmorning sir. I demand my dose of energy via the morning quotes you send on WhatsApp. That’s it love you.” Later in the day at 2:35pm, Bhatt texted Chakraborty, “Call me,” but did not receive a response. He called her twice on WhatsApp between 4 and 5pm.ED asks Rajput’s sister about missing fundsThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka’s statement on Friday and asked her about the missing funds from the actor’s bank accounts, according to officials quoted by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-case-latest-developments-cbi-begins-probe-aiims-forensic-experts-to-assist/story-poqnyc9eGvBkgpeGkuKncM.html
22-08-2020||India||Junior doctors in Bihar threaten to boycott work from Aug 27||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 cases, around 600 junior doctors in Bihar have threatened to boycott work indefinitely from August 27 demanding a raise in stipend and relaxation in clauses of the government bond for post-graduate (PG) medical students.The junior doctors, who are at the frontline of the battle against the pandemic, have demanded that their monthly stipend be progressively increased to Rs 80,000, Rs 85,000 and Rs 90,000 during the three-year PG course. At present, they get Rs 50,000, Rs 55,000 and Rs 60,000, respectively. In a letter on Friday to the principal secretary (health), the Junior Doctors Association (JDA), Bihar, claimed that The government, while revising their stipend it on May 9, 2017, had said it would be reviewed every three years.The JDA also demanded provision of study leave in the government bond so that doctors, after completing their PG, could pursue higher superspecialty courses like DM, M.Ch, secondary DNB or fellowship programme. In 2017, the state government had made it mandatory for PG students from government-run medical colleges to serve three years in its health facilities after completing their course. The JDA argued that the academics of doctors who compete in the entrance examination for higher superspecialty courses would be interrupted and it would become difficult for them to complete the course if the government were to attach them with its health facility for three years, as mandated in their bond. They also demanded provision of maternity leave during the three-year mandatory service period. The first batch of PG students, after introduction of bond for such medical students will graduate this year. The association also sought to assure the government that doctors who completed their higher superspecialty courses would come back to the state to complete the three-year service condition in their bond. Among the JDA’s 10-point charter of demands, is one to allow doctors who complete their PG course to work as senior resident (SR) or tutor at least for one year. Subsequently, they could be attached with any government health facility, like the district or sub-divisional hospital or the community health centre (CHC), for the remaining two-year period. This, it said, would make them eligible for applying as assistant professors, as per the norms of the Medical Council of India (MCI). It also demanded that posting of doctors who complete PG courses be done on merit-cum-choice basis. In case of default of bond, the doctors demanded that the government should not take back the remuneration paid to them during their PG course. “We have also demanded that the penalty of Rs 25 lakh be recovered per defaulted year — Rs 9 lakh for one-year default, Rs 16 lakh for two years and full Rs 25 lakh for three years of default,” said Dr Harendra Kumar, president JDA-Bihar. The junior doctors also demanded that the incentive of one-month basic salary to doctors and healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty, as announced by the state government, besides Rs 50 lakh life insurance cover by the Central government, be also extended to them. The JDA also requested the government to allow treatment of non-Covid-19 patients at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital in Patna, the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya, and the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur — all of which have been designated as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Not allowing non-Covid patients was hampering the training of PG students, said the letter.Bihar’s Covid-19 tally stands at 1,17,671.There are around 600 PG medicos in six of the nine state government medical colleges, which have PG curriculum in Bihar, said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-doctors-in-bihar-threaten-to-boycott-work-from-aug-27/story-Mr572d3bkZMkBkyweUbPmN.html
22-08-2020||India||BJP may soon begin seat-sharing talks with allies in Bihar||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may begin seat-sharing talks with allies in poll-bound Bihar after its two-day state executive committee meeting that begins on Saturday. J P Nadda, the party chief, and BJP’s Bihar election in-charge, Devendra Fadnavis, and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav will hold talks with chief minister Nitish Kumar and other top leaders of his Janata Dal (United), or JDU, in Patna next week.A BJP leader said with elections likely to be announced in mid-September, the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will have to sort out the alliance issues and decide the seats to be contested by each party as soon as possible. He said it was particularly important because of disagreements between the JD (U) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), the other NDA constituent.The seat-sharing will be discussed at the state executive committee meeting. “This is an important meeting which will begin with the address of Fadnavis. A political resolution will be passed on the first day and party national president [Nadda] will address the meeting on the concluding day,” said state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. “The meeting will plan the strategy for the assembly polls besides expanding the party’s organization.”People aware of the matter said two to three formulas were under consideration. BJP leaders believe that after distributing seats among allies, the BJP and JD (U) should get theirs on the 50-50 basis as was the case during the 2019 national polls. “HAM-S [Hindustani Awam Morcha], which is likely to align with the JD (U), is likely to get seven seats… it will leave 115 seats for the JD (U). The BJP has been asked to adjust LJP from its quota and it is demanding no less than 42 seats,” said a person on condition of anonymity.The assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November.The Election Commission on Friday released a set of broad guidelines for holding elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic. HT reported on Wednesday that the poll watchdog was finalising the guidelines to hold the first set of elections, especially in Bihar, after the pandemic disrupted electoral processes.The elections in Bihar are crucial to the BJP after it lost power in Maharashtra, and Jharkhand last year despite forming the government at the Centre with a bigger majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-soon-begin-seat-sharing-talks-with-allies-in-bihar/story-cVoaIA01R5fjSLTFV3dtIO.html
22-08-2020||India||2 years after woman’s death, report confirms rape; police begin probe||Almost two years after a woman allegedly died by suicide in Bhopal, the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report received by Bairasia police station on Friday evening confirmed that she had been raped, said police.The police have registered a case under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the IPC on Friday and started investigation in the matter.“In November 2018, the woman complained of stomach ache. She had been taken to a hospital in Bairasia from where she was referred to Hamidia Hospital in Bhopal city. On her way to Hamidia hospital, she told her brother that she had consumed poison. Later, the brother had informed the police about it,” said Kailash Narayan Bhardwaj, town inspector Bairasia.However, there was no allegation regarding rape. After her death, post mortem was conducted and her viscera with vaginal swab had been sent to the Forensic science laboratory (FSL), Bhopal, for testing, said Bhardwaj.Additional director general of police Upendra Jain said, “We have received FSL report. According to the report, the woman was raped. Now, we will start a fresh investigation and we will register the statement of family members.”AIIMS, Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh said, “In case of death due to poisoning, chemical examination of viscera is important but in case of death of a girl or woman due to poisoning, viscera, and vaginal swab are collected. The overall chemical and molecular report of FSL confirms poisoning and rape.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-years-after-woman-s-death-report-confirms-rape-police-begin-probe/story-msLxpcWN4YUnwrX6bBJjdI.html
22-08-2020||India||Delhi police launch hearse van facility for poor, homeless||The Delhi Police have started a facility to assist people who cannot afford to hire hearse vans for their dead kin and to transport unidentified bodies found on the city’s roads. The facility will also be available for transporting bodies of those who succumb to Covid-19, officials said.From the homeless, who died natural deaths to hit and run accident victims or those who die of drug overdose, police find at least 6-10 bodies across the city daily. Until August 15, the number of unidentified bodies recovered this year was 937.Police officers said, apart from transporting unidentified dead bodies, the facility of free hearse vans has also been introduced keeping in mind the Covid-19 deaths. They added in many cases of deaths related to the disease, there were complaints from family members that ambulance vehicles were either not available or were charging hefty sums for transporting bodies.The facility started in Central police district on Friday and will be available in areas like Daryaganj, Karol Bagh, Rajinder Nagar, Chawri Bazar, Hauz Qazi, Jhandewalan, Patel Nagar, Nabi Karim and Paharganj. Other police districts are also expected to adopt the idea soon, officials said.Deputy police commissioner (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the facility will be available round the clock. “Those who want to avail the facility in tough times can request it through their police stations concerned. Apart from the driver, there will be two other policemen in the vehicle for assistance. The staff will take all required precautions and measures to ensure their and other’s safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-launch-hearse-van-facility-for-poor-homeless/story-IZ5POfcDci6RaubOcqf0nN.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CBI questions Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook for second day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI questions cook for second dayThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned a man, who was employed as Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook, for the second day on Saturday in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor in June. Read more BSF shoots down 5 intruders at Indo-Pak border: How it all happenedThe Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead five alleged intruders along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early on Saturday, officials said. Read more WHO mulls vaccine allocation in phases: Who would get it first?The WHO said the allocation of coronavirus vaccines should be first made proportionally to all nations and then considering the vulnerability of their populations. Read more ‘Pranab Mukherjee deeply comatose, on ventilator support’: HospitalFormer President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition continued to remain stable for third consecutive day on Saturday, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi. Read more ‘Dude with sign’ gets desi twist: Mumbai man’s hilarious messages on placards are something you can’t missIt was not that long ago when an Instagram user, with the handle name ‘Dude with sign’, piqued the attention of netizens with his funny and relatable placards about annoying day-to-day problems. Inspired by that idea, a mass media student from Mumbai, Nilraj Kadam has started his own hilarious page with a desi twist. Read more Toyota opens booking for Urban Cruiser sub-compact SUVUrban Cruiser sub-compact SUV will be Toyota’s second spin-off of a Maruti Suzuki car, the first being the Baleno hatchback which has been rebranded and marketed by the Japanese carmaker as Glanza. Read more If he was part of World Cup squad, we would have won the tournament: Suresh Raina on India batsmanIt looked like Ambati Rayudu was lock-in for the squad after being the preferred choice for Team India for the last one year. But the MSK Prasad-led selection committee sprung up a surprise when they omitted Rayudu from the squad and picked Vijay Shankar instead. Read more Kangana Ranaut isn’t Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend nor his representative, only highlighting discrimination: lawyer Vikas SinghLawyer Vikas Singh, who represents Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, has said that Kangana Ranaut is neither Sushant’s friend nor representative. He said she is ‘bringing out a general problem in the industry’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cbi-questions-sushant-singh-rajput-s-cook-for-second-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xKhpbZtncDX4gPCsNyG8LP.html
22-08-2020||India||How to stay safe and celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi||The 11-day Ganesh Chaturthi began on Saturday. In Maharashtra, the Covid-19 pandemic has altered possibly every aspect of the festivities. As of August 21, coronavirus cases in the state stood at 657,450 with 21,698 deaths, the most for any state in India. Here’s how you can stay safe while taking part in the Ganpati festivities:Avoid crowding: Order Ganesh puja material including idols online. If an online option is unavailable, step out with all precaution – wear masks, stay away from the crowd. Seek online ritual service from priests instead of calling them home. In cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik, several priests are offering services through social media and various apps. Seek online darshan Instead of visiting temples and pandals, one can opt for online darshan. Several mandals such as Dagdusheth Halwai temple are offering online darshan in Pune The Maharashtra government has advised people not to immerse idols in artificial ponds. Instead immerse the Ganpati idols at home in big pot or keep it for next year. Install clay idols which are environment friendly and can be dissolved in water easily. Follow guidelines issued by government authorities and police, which have put in place a code of conduct that prohibits public celebration including procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-stay-safe-and-celebrate-ganesh-chaturthi/story-KKdjRfUwrHGqWAf4eIDwEI.html
22-08-2020||India||Villagers thrash, tonsure 4 boys over phone theft in Bihar||Villagers thrashed and tonsured four boys for allegedly stealing a mobile phone at Barachatti in Bihar’s Gaya district after tying them to a tree in front of their parents. The four allegedly stole the phone from one person’s house on Thursday and were caught while selling it at a local market. Their hands were tied and they were marched on the streets for over an hour till fine of Rs 5,000 was collected from each of the minor’s families.Police on Saturday said they have started an investigation into the matter after the footage of the incident went viral on social media. The video purportedly shows the four being thrashed by a mob and their heads being tonsured in full public view. Gaya’s senior police superintendent, Rajiv Mishra, said necessary action has been taken against the offenders and that he has asked the local station house officer, Kumar Sourabh, to investigate the matter. “As nobody had given a complaint, we brought the victims to our police station and will lodge a case on the basis of their oral report,” said Sourabh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-thrash-tonsure-4-boys-over-phone-theft-in-bihar/story-g7S0pfvZwA6qNc5GK2B6oI.html
22-08-2020||India||BSF shoots down 5 intruders at Indo-Pak border: How it all happened||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead five alleged intruders along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early on Saturday, officials said.The BSF personnel from 103rd battalion have also recovered an AK-series rifle and a pistol from the site where these intruders were killed near Dall village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in the district, they added.This is the highest number of intruders killed in a single incident along the more than 3,300 km-long border with Pakistan in more than a decade, officials said.Here is what happened at the border: • The BSF troops, officials said, first noticed suspicious activity at the border around midnight and launched a focussed surveillance on the intruders. They also set up multiple ambushes along the front after which ‘contact was established’ early in the morning, just behind the IB fence.• According to people familiar with the developments, two men at that point of time were trying to sneak into India.• The intruders were seen carrying rifles and were taking the aid of the ‘sarkanda’ or tall grass to sneak into India, they said.• The two men were asked to stop, but they continued their movement, which prompted the troops to open fire. After the firing, a search operation was launched following which the BSF found five bodies.• An intensive search operation along the front is underway. “The search operation is still going on. It is yet to be ascertained if those who were shot down are Pakistanis. An AK-series rifle and a rucksack has been recover so far. We can tell about the motive of the accused once the operation is finished,” said a senior BSF official. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-shoots-down-5-intruders-at-indo-pak-border-how-it-all-happened/story-sfBU9xL8vMcKdQAIY28VFI.html
22-08-2020||India||WHO mulls vaccine allocation in phases: Who would get it first?||The World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed allocating vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) equitably to all countries to reduce overall risk, warning that wealthy nations move to corner limited supplies will hinder efforts to end the pandemic.The WHO said the allocation of coronavirus vaccines should be first made proportionally to all nations and then considering the vulnerability of their populations.Several countries have set up expert committees to decide on the next tier of distribution as initially only a limited amount of vaccines will be available before mass production. In June, the WHO had come out with a tentative plan of ‘strategic allocation’ of the coronavirus vaccine. It said healthcare workers should be given priority first followed by adults older than 65 and those having comorbidities such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity, or chronic respiratory disease.The world body hopes the coronavirus crisis can be over in less than two years, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Friday. “Our situation now with more technology, of course with more connectiveness, the virus has a better chance of spreading, it can move fast,” he said.Here is how these countries are working a way out to distribute the Covid-19 vaccine once ready:IndiaThe government took the first steps on Monday to potentially secure a procurement deal for a Covid-19 vaccine, asking officials of five pharmaceutical firms, including three that have candidates in clinical trials, to present a road map within three days of how soon they can produce large quantities and what pricing they expect if their shot is approved.India is yet to strike a pre-production deal with any of the vaccine developers that are in the race for a successful candidate, a strategy several advanced economies such as United States, United Kingdom and some European Union nations have adopted in order to jump what might be a long waiting line.United StatesA subgroup of the Centre for Disease Control’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has suggested a tiered system on prioritising vaccine recipients, according to a report in journal Science. The top tier includes 12 million highest risk healthcare professionals and national security workers.AustraliaWhile announcing a deal with pharma major AstraZeneca, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that all Australians would get vaccinated for free and also suggested that he would also like it to become mandatory for everyone in his country.RussiaRussia has become the first country to grant regulatory approval to a Covid-19 vaccine. “We will begin the stage-by-stage civilian use of the vaccine. First and foremost, we would like to offer vaccination to those who come into contact with infected persons at work. These are medical workers. And also those who are responsible for children’s health – teachers,” Russian health minister Mikhail Murashko told TASS news agency.CanadaIn Canada, the National Advisory Committee on Immunisation has recommended prioritising people with health conditions that are risk factors for Covid-19, such as asthma, diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung disease and cardiovascular disease, followed by those whose jobs make them more susceptible, such as emergency and healthcare workers. Third on the list are those living in long-term care or crowded or remote locations and people with tobacco, alcohol or drug use disorders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-mulls-vaccine-allocation-in-phases-who-would-get-it-first/story-maQcf6WrfUPMBKrbMkV62O.html
22-08-2020||India||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla||A terrorist was killed in a gunfight with security forces in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Saturday, officials said.The encounter in Saloosa area of Kreeri of Baramulla is underway and at least three terrorists are believed to be trapped, they added.Personnel of Indian Army’s 52 Rashtriya Rifles, Jammu and Kashmir police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a joint operation on receiving inputs about the presence of terrorists in the village, officials said.Saturday’s gunbattle site is close to Watergam Kreeri where five security personnel and three terrorists were killed on Monday when a group of terrorists had targeted the security forces’ joint patrol party. A so-called top commander of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Sajjad Haider, was among the terrorists killed in the encounter that day.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-baramulla/story-XfOVKxqi6hI749bvRcD9JJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Bengal: 3 held for minor’s rape and murder, family alleges police inaction||The West Bengal police have arrested three people in the state’s Jalpaiguri district for allegedly raping and murdering a 16-year-old girl even as her family alleged inaction and said she could have been saved had action been taken on time and one of the accused not released initially after questioning.The girl’s partially decomposed body was recovered from a septic tank near the house of one of the accused on Thursday, nine days after her father lodged her missing report. The family said police detained the accused on the basis of her father’s complaint but released him after questioning. On Friday, local residents staged a demonstration in front of a police station alleging inaction. They alleged that police did little to prevent the crime despite being alerted by the girl’s family and save the girl, who was alive for at least five days after she went missing on August 10. Khageswar Roy, the local ruling Trinamool Congress lawmaker, supported the family, saying the police acted casually and could have saved the girl if they had acted seriously. “It is a heinous crime. Police officials, who were supposed to find the girl, took it casually. The police are saying that the girl was raped on August 15 and then murdered. This means she was alive till August 15 and could have been saved had the police acted immediately on the complaint and took it seriously,” said Roy.He demanded immediate transfer of all the police officers involved in the investigation for dereliction of duty. Jalpaiguri police superintendent Pradeep Kumar Yadav promised action. “We will conduct an inquiry against the officers involved. If the allegations of negligence of duty are found to be true, strict action would be taken,” said Yadav.He cited the statement of two of the accused and said they took the girl to a house on August 10 and sexually assaulted her along with another accomplice. “All the accused live in the neighbouring villages and are aged around 30-35,” said Yadav.Police said the interrogation of the accused has revealed that the girl was raped on August 15 before they killed her and dumped the body in the septic tank. “The court has sent them in police custody for eight days. The accused would be interrogated to get further details,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-3-held-for-minor-s-rape-and-murder-family-alleges-police-inaction/story-qoojqIOnX5W5uB3k400neL.html
22-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI questions cook for second day, to call manager as well||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned a man, who was employed as Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook, for the second day on Saturday in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor in June, news agency ANI reported.A team of CBI officials questioned Neeraj Singh at the guest house in Santacruz area of Mumbai, where they are staying. A team of forensic experts also reached the guest house, according to ANI. Singh and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda were questioned on Friday.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty said Sushant Singh Rajput told her to leave his house, chats with Mahesh Bhatt reveal otherwise: lawyerThe central probe agency has set up four teams to investigate the circumstances surrounding Rajput’s death. One team will focus on translating documents from Marathi to English, while another will question people involved in the case. Another team will coordinate with superiors in Delhi and handle logistics in Mumbai.According to officials privy to the probe, the central agency will also question the actor’s manager Deepesh Sawant, said sources in the CBI.Also Read: AIIMS forensic team to analyze Sushant Singh Rajput case reports, give medico-legal opinionA team of officials met deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe on Friday at his office in Bandra to collect documents, including the forensic report and post-mortem reports as well as statements of more than 60 people whom Mumbai Police had questioned as part of its investigation. These and other material evidence were handed over to the CBI team, said sources in Mumbai Police.CBI will also collect other evidence, including Rajput’s personal items including three mobile phones, a laptop, clothes, a blanket, bedsheets, a green kurta, a glass; and CCTV footage of his house and building, added sources in CBI.Also Read: ED asks Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister about missing funds: OfficialsAccording to sources, once the documentation is complete, CBI plans to visit the actor’s flat in Bandra and recreate the scene of his death scientifically, using weights.The actor was found dead in his apartment on June 14, following which Mumbai Police had registered a case of accidental death. Later, Rajput’s father filed a police complaint in Bihar, accusing actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s suicide and misappropriating his money.A first information report (FIR) was filed by Patna Police on the basis of the complaint and it later handed over the case to CBI. The Enforcement Directorate also filed a case on July 31, to probe the allegations of money laundering.CBI has also approached the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi and the premier hospital formed a five-member medical board of forensic experts to look into the autopsy files related to Rajput’s death.“We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined,” AIIMS’ forensic department chief Dr Sudhir Gupta, who will lead the team, told PTI.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister expresses faith in CBI, Kangana Ranaut joins TwitterGupta said the team will evaluate the injury pattern on Rajput’s body and correlate it with circumstantial evidence. “The preserved viscera will be examined and the anti-depressants that were given to Rajput will also be analysed at the AIIMS laboratory,” Gupta said.The probe agency, in its letter to the premier medical institute, has said it will provide the team of forensic experts with the necessary medical papers, post-mortem reports, videographs and viscera reports at the earliest.(With agency reports)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-questions-cook-for-second-day-to-call-manager-as-well/story-g3EcA71SgbANvKlj9zeuhL.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Pranab Mukherjee deeply comatose, on ventilator support’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition continued to remain stable for third consecutive day on Saturday, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.“The condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He is deeply comatose and is being treated for respiratory infection. His vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in a statement.Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, had tweeted an emotional post on August 15, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). His health parameters are being closely monitored by a team of doctors at the hospital.Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-deeply-comatose-on-ventilator-support-hospital/story-kXVR0iC17Ujv878GiUq7AJ.html
22-08-2020||India||After Thursday’s spike of 17 Covid cases, Dharavi reports 3 on Friday||Dharavi recorded three new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, returning to its earlier trend of single digit cases in a day for the past few weeks, after a spike on Thursday when it recorded 17 cases, the health department said.There are now 92 active cases in Dharavi, Mumbai’s sprawling shanty town, where the Covid-19 tally stands at 2,700.In August so far, Dharavi’s average doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has touched 406 days, as opposed to 300 days in July, 108 days in June, 43 days in May, and 18 days in April. The average growth rate of cases in Dharavi is 0.24%, as opposed to 0.39% in July, 0.83% in June, and 4.3% in May, and 12% in April.For the past week, Dharavi has reported new Covid-19 cases in single digits. On August 19, August 18, and August 17, it reported 4 new cases respectively, on August 16 and August 15 it reported 5 new cases, on August 14, there were 9 new cases, on August 13 there were 6 new cases, on August 12 there were 9 new cases.A total of 116 new cases have been reported in Dharavi in August till Friday, in comparison to 358 in July. Its peak was in May, when a total of 1,216 cases were reported. The cases fell to 480 in June. The recovery rate in Dharavi is presently 87%, higher than Mumbai’s recovery rate of 80.65%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-thursday-s-spike-of-17-covid-cases-dharavi-reports-3-on-friday/story-qibWuylVRof9p3MefOShXK.html
22-08-2020||India||National Council for Transgender Persons formed||The Centre has constituted the national council for transgender persons, headed by the Union social justice minster and comprising representatives from 10 central departments, five states and members of the community. The council – India’s first and formed under Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 – was announced in a gazette notification issued late on Friday. According to the legislation, the council has five main functions -- advising the central government on the formulation of policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to transgender persons; monitoring and evaluating the impact of policies and programmes designed for achieving equality and full participation of transgender persons; reviewing and coordinating the activities of all the departments; redressing grievances of transgender persons; and performing such other functions as prescribed by the Centre. The council will have joint secretary-level members from the ministries of health, home, minority affairs, education, rural development, labour and law. In addition, there will be a member from the department of pensions, Niti Aayog, National Human Rights Commission and National Commission for Women. Representatives from five states or Union Territories, on a rotational basis, will be members of the commission. The first such clutch comprises Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura and Gujarat. Five members of the community and five experts, from non-governmental organisations, have also been named to the commission. The tenure of the community members and expert shall be three years.“I am glad that a member from the Northeast region has been appointed to be part of the council. However, there was no transparency in the manner in which the members were selected. This is a matter of concern, said Santa Khurai, Nupi Maanbi and trans rights activist based in Manipur.“Intersex people are often invisiblised in the legal and policy discourse. The distinction between gender identity and sex characteristics is also not understood. To bring about changes in the existing governance regime, it is important to work and engage with the system. During my tenure in the Council, I plan to raise awareness about rights of intersex people in general and intersex infants and children in particular. I hope to contribute in developing a comprehensive legal protection regime for intersex people,” said panel member Gopi Shankar M.“My main aim will be to mainstream the trans community’s concerns, focusing on livelihood issues as well as to raise awareness about the trans community, so that transpersons are accepted within families and in the larger society. I look forward to working with the government to achieve this,” said Reshma Prasad, founder of Dostana Safar, a Patna-based community organisation and a member of the newly constituted council. R Subramanyam, Union social justice secretary, said: “The transgender welfare board would guide the government in welfare schemes for them. This is a landmark event.” (With inputs from Amandeep Shukla)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-council-for-transgender-persons-formed/story-QXO57cxN8jhrpdmZZaWtbM.html
22-08-2020||India||Coronavirus latest updates: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs to 74.69%||India has recorded 69,878 coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, taking its total to 2,975,701. With 953 fatalities reported on Friday, the country’s death toll has surged to 55,928. India remained the third worst-hit country in the world after the US and Brazil, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday.The number of active cases were at 697,330 and 55,794 people have succumbed to the viral disease, data showed. The recovery rate climbed to 74.69% as record 63,631 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. There are 2,222,577 people who have been cured of the coronavirus disease till date.As many as 23,120,802 people around the world have been diagnosed with Covid-19. While 15,714,993 have recovered, 803,213 have died so far. Here are all the latest updates on Covid-19 in India and recent developments:•India will see close to 57,000 deaths by the end of Saturday, with around 16,000 of them being registered since it crossed the two million mark. A little over 13,000 of them were registered between the time it crossed one million cases and touched two million. •The third million cases largely mirrored the trend of the second. Maharashtra accounted for 18.6% of the million, Andhra Pradesh 14.9%, Karnataka 11.1%, and Tamil Nadu 9.3%. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two of India’s most populous states accounted for 7.2% and 5.3% of the million cases. West Bengal accounted for 4.8% of the cases, and Assam 3.9%. Delhi accounted for just 1.8% of cases.•British Pharma giant AstraZeneca has tied up with Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) to produce a billion doses for low-income nations including India. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had already given the go-ahead to conduct Phase II/III trial of Oxford vaccine in India. The trials are being conducted in 17 selected sites across India on 1600 volunteers, including KEM and Nair Hospitals of Mumbai.•Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in an interview to Hindustan Times said vaccine trials against Covid-19 are being fast-tracked globally. “It is expected that the trials of India-made vaccines would be completed by the end of this year. We will know the efficacy of vaccines by then. The Oxford vaccine produced by Serum Institute of India is already being produced parallelly, so that the time required to market it will be reduced to a larger extent.”•As the race for a vaccine against the coronavirus heats up, the US faces another potential crisis: a shortage of syringes. The US federal government has already spent hundreds of millions of dollars in hopes of warding off a syringe shortage, if and when a Covid-19 vaccine is approved. It comes as shortages of personal protective equipment continue to hamper the response to the pandemic.•India is not planning to follow a preset benchmark for selecting a Covid-19 vaccine and will explore all available options for mass immunization against the contagion. “When we will have a vaccine ready, we will look at all parameters in a balanced manner, how effective it is, what is the cost, ease of administration, besides other factors,” said Dr V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), and the chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration.•Bangladesh will be a priority recipient for the Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, according to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. “For us, Bangladesh is always a priority country,” Shringla who is on a two-day visit here quoted by local media as telling reporters here on Wednesday on being asked about the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-updates-india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-to-74-69/story-0l2U2qsieXKK1DJlVSg87J.html
22-08-2020||India||BMC expects spike in Covid-19 cases amid Ganpati celebrations||Anticipating crowds around markets and Ganesh pandals, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed assistant commissioners of all wards to deploy more civic staff to disperse large gatherings and maintain social distancing as part of Covid-19 protocol.After a widely-circulated video on social media on Friday, showing an over-crowded market in Dadar West that is popular among Ganesh festival shoppers, the BMC asked the ward office concerned to disperse the crowd and take crowd control measures such as opening shops on alternate sides of the road, on alternate days. Assistant commissioners of other wards have been asked to take similar measures where necessary.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have instructed all assistant commissioners to take a round of their wards and deploy more staff for periodic rounds during the day to disperse crowds gathered anywhere. If more crowds are seen anywhere, the officers have been instructed to take a call to shut shops on one side of the road on alternate days, or shift hawkers elsewhere.”The BMC is bracing for a likely spike in Covid-19 cases during the festival as more people will venture out for shopping or visiting Ganesh pandals, but says it is prepared for it.“If cases increase, we are ready to handle the surge. At some point Mumbai is going to completely open up and a surge is expected. We have been preparing for that. People going out during the Ganesh festival take Mumbai one step closer to opening up in a controlled environment,” Kakani said.On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,406 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single day figure in August. Before this, Mumbai had recorded 1,476 cases on July 26. The city also reported 42 casualties due to Covid-19 taking the total toll to 7,356. There are 18,299 active cases in Mumbai where the Covid-19 tally stands at 1,34,228 cases. The case fatality rate is 5.4%, and the recovery rate is 80%.This year, BMC has given permission for setting up 1,820 Ganesh mandals to celebrate the festival. The civic body received 2,350 applications of which 256 were rejected and 274 are still being scrutinised. A civic official said, “Applicants are first supposed to take traffic police permissions and police permissions, and then apply to BMC. Applications are rejected if all permissions are not in place.”Earlier in July, a set of guidelines were issued for the festival directing mandals to restrict the height of Ganesh idols to four feet, and those celebrating the festival at home to restrict the height to 2 feet. BMC has also directed Ganesh mandals to restrict height of pandals, sanitise the pandal three times a day, and has not allowed any offerings such as garlands or edible items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-expects-spike-in-covid-19-cases-amid-ganpati-celebrations/story-WY3aV0XgYdNQ5ln5H7iejP.html
22-08-2020||India||BSF shoots down 5 intruders at India-Pakistan border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot down five intruders, who were trying to cross over the Indian territory from Pakistan, in a village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, officials said on Saturday.Personnel from BSF’s 103rd battalion have also recovered an AK-series rifle and a pistol from the site where these intruders were killed near Dal village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in the district, they added.They observed suspicious movements across the fence on the other side of the border near the Dall border outpost around 5am. According to people familiar with the developments, two men at that point of time were trying to sneak into India.They were challenged but continued their movement which prompted the troops to open fire. After the firing, a search operation was launched following which they found five bodies.“The search operation is still going on. It is yet to be ascertained if those who were shot down are Pakistanis. An AK-series rifle and a rucksack have been recovered so far. We can tell about the motive of the accused once the operation is finished,” said a senior BSF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-shoots-down-5-intruders-at-india-pakistan-border-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran/story-UZWJ7bEZxuaG9CDv8hjuzL.html
22-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh govt to table bill for recovery of damages from protesters||The Uttar Pradesh government will on Saturday table 17 bills in the assembly to replace ordinances promulgated after the last session of the state legislature. The bills include the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill, 2020, that relates to putting up posters/hoardings by protesters and recovery of damages caused to public and private property during political agitations/processions and demonstrations. The state government had earlier promulgated the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Ordinance, 2020, this year in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests.The bill to replace the ordinance seeks to empower the government to make protesters and rioters pay for the damages caused to public and private property. The state government has set up two tribunals in Lucknow and Meerut to investigate the cases of damage to property during the protests under the provisions of the ordinance. Opposition leader Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, who is not attending the state session on medical advice, said as there was no provision for an appeal in a civil court against the tribunal’s orders, and hence his party would oppose the bill in the assembly. The state legislature’s monsoon session began on Thursday and the state government proposed to table the bills in the state assembly on Friday. It, however, decided to take up Friday’s agenda on Saturday as the House was adjourned after condoling the death of Janmjeya Singh, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Deoria (Sadar) earlier in the day. The state government also proposes to repeal about 60 laws that have become obsolete and redundant over the years. A bill in this regard is likely to be tabled in the state assembly besides other bills. The Uttar Pradesh Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Bill 2020 is also likely to be tabled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-table-bill-for-recovery-of-damages-from-protesters/story-a2d8CnQOS4orovlnLzj3RJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations begin in India amid Covid-19 restrictions||As 10-day festivities of Ganesh Chaturthi begin today amid Covid-19 outbreak, a grand ‘arti’ of Lord Ganesha was performed in several parts of the country including at the Shri Siddhivinayak Temple here in Dwarka.Similarly, priests also performed ‘arti’ at renowned Shri Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai, the Shri Ganesh Mandir Tekdi in Nagpur, Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati Mandir in Pune and the Ganesh Temple in Delhi’s Connaught Place.On the occasion, the temples and Ganpati idols are beautifully decorated. Devotees are visiting the temples to seek blessings of Lord Ganesha. However, the number of people arriving at the temples is less number as compared to previous years due to Covid-19 restrictions. At the temples, priests were seen following Covid-19 protocols, covering their faces with mask and maintaining social distancing to combat the virus. ‘Hawan’ was also performed in several temples amid chanting of mantras.Meanwhile, Dr Aditi Mittal, a resident of Surat, made a Ganpati idol with dry fruits on the occasion.“I made this idol with dry fruits with the shells still on. It will be kept at a COVID-19 hospital. After the puja, the dry fruits will be distributed among patients at the hospital,” she said.After 10 days of festivities, finally, the devotees bid adieu to the elephant-god for the year by immersing it in water bodies.However, the festival this year is being celebrated in a much more restricted way amidst the global pandemic situation. The social distancing norms will prevent people to celebrate the festival in the congregation.According to new guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued on July 29, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will continue to remain prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-begin-in-india-amid-covid-19-restrictions/story-9AfETr55tKIHaBYF6nWCLJ.html
22-08-2020||India||14 UP health officials send resignation letters citing Covid threats||Fourteen health officials have written a letter to the state government seeking to step down as in charges and superintendents of community health centres in Uttar Pradesh’s Basti district, citing difficulties they face during Covid-19 sampling and lack of support from the administration. “People do not cooperate and even give fake mobile numbers, addresses during sampling. Also, they threaten to beat up medical teams and register fake cases. We are not getting any administrative support to work,” said the letter.The officials said they will continue to work as doctors in the health department. “Working is becoming difficult with every passing day. With no security, doctors and field staff are being threatened by people. There is no option, but to resign from administrative posts,” said Dr Amit Singh, secretary of the Provincial Medical Services Association, a body of government doctors. Last week, 28 health officials submitted their resignations from their administrative posts in Varanasi, alleging threats from an official. They later resumed work after assurances from the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-up-health-officials-send-resignation-letters-citing-covid-threats/story-YBLAEgVuFC4slx6toXxPEM.html
22-08-2020||India||Bengal govt to go ahead with Ganga Sagar Mela despite pandemic threat||The Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal has started planning for the Ganga Sagar Mela, the second largest congregation of pilgrims in India, after the Kumbh Mela in Prayag.The Ganga Sagar Mela is held in January every year.“The first meeting to plan for the mela was held on Thursday with various departments including the police, irrigation and transport among others. Various aspects of the preparation for the mela were discussed in detail keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas. To celebrate Makar Sankranti, the first major Hindu festival in the Gregorian calendar, more than four million people bathe in Gangasagar where the Ganga meets the Bay of Bengal.“This year, because of the pandemic, elaborate plans have to be made to maintain social distance and hygiene. A significant portion of the mela budget could be spent in this regard. The budget would be prepared soon,” said an officer of the district administration. More than 1.32 lakh people have already tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengal and the state is registering more than 3,000 new cases every day. A total of 2,689 people have died in the pandemic so far.The chief minister is expected to hold the first virtual administrative meeting on Monday. District officials are expecting some more clarifications and directions regarding the mela preparations during the meeting. “Usually the first meeting is held in the month of July and preparations start soon after, But because of the pandemic we are late this year. Joint visits by the police, district administration and engineers to inspect the mela ground and jetties would be held soon,” said an officer. Preparations have also started for the Durga Puja, the largest festival in Bengal in October. Chief minister Banerjee had shown keen interest in organsing the puja and festival this time despite the pandemic. The city’s only forum of puja organizers has drawn up detailed guidelines on how the festival may be held by maintaining social distancing norms despite the pandemic. “We can’t forecast what the situation would be in October-end. The puja would be held for sure. The question is whether the week-long festival can be organized. We are being optimistic and have prepared the guidelines with the presumption that the festival would be held,” said Saswata Bau, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-go-ahead-with-ganga-sagar-mela-despite-pandemic-threat/story-meodExxOs7YfiDDtz2UXOL.html
22-08-2020||India||Bihar launches sensitisation programme for healthcare staff for better infection control||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 in Bihar, the state government on Saturday launched an eight-day virtual training and sensitisation programme on infection control and best practices by experts from Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The exercise will cover all the 38 districts of the state and conclude on September 3. The programme on infection control and best practices involves Bihar’s healthcare workers down the line - from doctors to ward boys and cook.Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who assumed charge of the department earlier this month after two reshuffles at the top in the midst of pandemic, said experience and knowledge sharing on best practices was always helpful in such times when there was no room for getting complacent until there was a vaccine available.“I have been holding meetings with all the superintendents and principals of medical colleges and hospitals for the past couple of weeks every Monday and also made field visits to underline the importance of experience sharing for adopting best practices, as Covid management requires training at all levels - be it the cook providing food to patients, trolly boy, housekeeping staff as well as others directly involved in the treatment,, as infection at any level could turn out to be a source of superspreaders,” he said.He said that virtual experience sharing had also been done with the healthcare professionals and others at the Patna Medical College Hospital and the Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial Medical College, Bhagalpur in the past by AIIMS experts. The government is also trying to engage the WHO in the exercise..“We want to make experience sharing a continuous process. From next week, we will try to rope in WHO experts also as a lot is still changing and we need to be prepared, which will require adoption of best practices. If required, we will also send doctors and healthcare staff to learn best practices at AIIMS or other top hospitals. Post-Covid treatment is also emerging as an important component, as many people have issues. AIIMS Patna is already working on it and a couple of more hospitals will also be prepared for that,” he added.Five districts will be covered on Saturday in the training and sensitisation programme.Jehanabad civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Sinha said all preparations have been made for the virtual training and all in charges of hospitals and doctors and healthcare workers of the primary health centres would participate in it. Last month, the same team from AIIMS Delhi had conducted a training session for the doctors of Sadar Hospital, Ara at the request of Union minister for power Raj Kumar Singh, it was the first of its kind initiative in the state grappling with a surge in Covid-19 positive cases. The Bihar government has now decided to extend it to all the hospitals for better clinical management and infection control.The team of doctors from AIIMS involved in the training includes associate professor Dr Neeraj Nischal, Dr Ankit Mittal, Dr Shivdas Naik and Mrs Lilu Tomas (nursing officer).The experts, according to a senior official of Delhi AIIMS, will hold interactive virtual sessions to impart training on best practices, which will cover various aspects, viz. use of PPE kit for safety of health workers while taking care of Covid-19 patients and various dos and don’ts.“In the fight against Covid, the most important aspect is that the healthcare workers and doctors need to protect themselves first. It will be immensely helpful for district hospitals to understand the nuances of Covid-19 treatment and lead to better care without having to move to Patna,” said the official.The move is significant as several doctors and healthcare professionals have died after being infected. The attempt is to create a safe environment for doctors and health staff so that they could treat patients without fear.During an earlier visit to Patna with a central team, Dr Nischal had said that the first and the foremost importance be given to hospital infection control policy and for this a mechanism be developed for proper training to staff and doctors across the healthcare system. The central team was surprised to see that attendants were allowed to freely move in and out of the Covid wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-launches-sensitisation-programme-for-healthcare-staff-for-better-infection-control/story-Mhq2Ov6wPCmpHhksxtXwUL.html
22-08-2020||India||JMM chief Shibu Soren, wife Roopi Soren test positive for Covid-19||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren and his wife Roopi Soren have been tested positive for the coronavirus disease, a party leader said on Saturday.Samples of the former chief minister Soren and his wife were collected on Friday and their test reports came late evening.Confirming the development, JMM’s general secretary-cum-spokesperson, Binod Pandey, said, “I am myself in home quarantine. But, as per our information, Guruji (as Soren is popularly known) and his wife are doing fine. There is nothing to worry. If needed, they would be shifted to hospital.”Earlier on August 7, 12 security guards posted at Soren’s official residence in Ranchi’s Morabadi ground were tested positive. The guards were in charge of external security. In July, Soren’s son and chief minister, Hemant Soren, had placed himself in home quarantine after coming in contact with an infected cabinet minister Mithilesh Thakur. The father and the son live in separate bungalows.Hemant Soren, who has been tested negative twice, went into home quarantine this week after health minister Banna Gupta was found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-chief-shibu-soren-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8p09VzEuupGxA5XKagehJM.html
22-08-2020||India||‘History will judge the court’: Kapil Sibal on Prashant Bhushan contempt case||Congress leader Kapil Sibal said on Saturday “contempt power being used as a sledgehammer”, in the context of the case involving lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan which is being heard by the Supreme Court.The top court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for two tweets — the first, on June 27, where he was critical of the top court and the role of the last four chief justices, and, the second, on June 29, where he criticised the current CJI. The three-judge bench had said the tweets cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest.Prashant Bhushan Contempt power being used as a sledgehammerWhy are Courts helpless when institutions that need to protect the constitution and the laws show " open contempt " for both ?Larger issues are at stake History will judge the Court for having let us down“Prashant Bhushan Contempt power being used as a sledgehammer Why are Courts helpless when institutions that need to protect the constitution and the laws show “ open contempt “ for both ? Larger issues are at stake History will judge the Court for having let us down,” Sibal, who is also a senior lawyer, tweeted.Before Sibal, the Congress had on Thursday said the “law has to be applied in an even-handed, fair and balanced manner” in the context of the contempt case. Congress’ spokesperson and senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the concerns raised by those after the judgment are certainly not in any manner false or frivolous.“They cannot be dismissed off hand and deserve a lot of careful thinking because they include former judges of that very court, they include precedence and they include the basic spirit of the Supreme Court that its chest is larger than any chest in India and its shoulders being wider than any shoulder in India,” Singhvi had said.The Supreme Court on Thursday granted two days to Bhushan to reconsider his “defiant statement” refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan told a bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, that he would consult his lawyers and think over the top court’s suggestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/history-will-judge-the-court-kapil-sibal-on-prashant-bhushan-contempt-case/story-ILOloGgYHa1FUYqfoSBOwO.html
22-08-2020||India||India records highest one-day spike of Covid-19 cases at 69,878; tally nears 3 million||India’s tally of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) neared the 3 million-mark as it remained the third worst-hit country in the world after the US and Brazil, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday.There were 69,878 cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day spike, and 945 fatalities reported across the country in the last 24 hours, taking India’s tally to 2,975,701, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.The number of active cases were at 697,330 and 55,794 people have succumbed to the viral disease, data showed. The recovery rate climbed to 74.69% as record 63,631 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. There are 2,222,577 people who have been cured of the coronavirus disease till date.The gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has increased further and reached 1,525,247 on Saturday.The health ministry also said India has crossed the milestone of conducting 1 million tests every day to detect Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, which experts say is important to know the exact disease burden.“Early identification through TESTING, prompt & effective TREATMENT through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, & innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days,” the ministry tweeted.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) “is maintained below the global average”, the health ministry said on Friday. “It is on a continuous positive slide and currently stands at 1.89%,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-one-day-spike-of-covid-19-cases-at-69-878-tally-nears-3-million/story-I7ubTDi2aFnDg0xZAQHkLN.html
22-08-2020||India||India crosses target of a million Covid-19 tests a day||India crossed the one million daily testing milestone on Friday with a total of 10, 23,836 tests, according to the Union health ministry data.“Early identification through testing, prompt and effective treatment through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, and innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days,” the health ministry tweeted on Saturday.In an interview with HT, Harsh Vardhan, the minister of health and family welfare, had underscored how the government was aggressively pursuing its targets.“We have met our goal of doing one million Covid-19 tests a day at least six weeks ahead of target --- just as we have done in the past for other goals. When we promised to take testing up to 100,000 a day by May 31, we achieved that target by May 10. A few weeks go, I had promised to reach the one million a day mark in 12 weeks. And now look at our progress,” he said in the interview.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine agreements in the works with candidates, producers, says Harsh VardhanICMR director general Balram Bhargava, in a recent briefing, had said the research body adopted an intelligent and calibrated approach to meet the testing requirement. “If we look at overall testing numbers, then we are comfortably placed but there are certain states/regions that need extra attention. So we focused accordingly when building testing capacity. States where there were fewer labs were given priority to establish or upgrade existing infrastructure,” Bhargava had said. All states in India are currently performing at least 140 tests per day per million population as prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as the minimum requirement for adequate Covid-19 testing. Most states are performing much higher numbers, with the national average being 580 tests per day per million population. Experts agree that it is important to keep the testing momentum high to know the exact disease burden. “The more you test, the higher will be the number of infected that you will be able to identify. To curtail an infectious disease from spreading, one must be able to identify, through testing, as many infected individuals as possible in time so that they are isolated and put on treatment. It will also ensure they don’t roam around freely within the community and transmit the infection,” said T Jacob John, former head of the virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. The testing lab network in the country is also being continuously strengthened and currently consists of 1,504 labs. Of them, 978 labs are in the government sector and 526 are private labs. Covid cases in India are set to cross three million on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-target-of-a-million-covid-19-tests-a-day/story-gdjeWjdG2qpejDwI7O4ylM.html
22-08-2020||India||All offices, shops to remain shut: These states are under weekend lockdown||At least a dozen states have ordered weekend lockdown citing the need to revive economic activities and reduce the risk of spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the same time. India, the third worst-affected country in the world by the coronavirus pandemic after the US and Brazil, has surpassed 2.9 million Covid-19 cases till date. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), India has been reporting the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases for the last 17 days, but the fatality rate has reduced to 1.89 per cent, according to the official figures.Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are among the states put in weekend curbs.Here’s a list of states in India that are under weekend lockdown:•As Covid-19 cases continue to see a sharp spike in Punjab, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on August 20 ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7pm to 5am in all 167 cities and towns of the state. Also, Singh has imposed restrictions on vehicular capacity in five districts - Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. No more than three passengers are allowed in each private four-wheeler. At present, these five districts account for 80 per cent of the active caseload in Punjab.•Following the footsteps of Haryana government, Chandigarh administration on Friday announced that all shops and establishments, barring essential stores, will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.• Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua is the second district after Jammu to announce a weekend lockdown for an indefinite period. The restrictions will begin at 5 pm on all Fridays and will last till 6 am on Mondays, authorities said.• Weekend lockdown will continue in Guwahati till August 31. “No movement of individuals shall be allowed on Saturday and Sunday at any time all over the State,” states the government of Assam’s latest guidelines of Covid-19 lockdown.• Uttar Pradesh is under weekend lockdown from Friday 10pm to Monday 5am. These curbs had been announced on July 10. The lockdown in containment zones will continue till August 31, with only essential services allowed in such areas.• The Andaman and Nicobar administration has also announced complete lockdown on weekends to contain the spread of Covid-19. • The lockdown has been extended in Tamil Nadu till August 31 as part of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government announced on Thursday. There will be complete lockdown on all Sundays (August 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30), according to a release issued by the government of Tamil Nadu.•In worst-affected Maharashtra, civic authorities of Nagpur city have announced a voluntary ‘janta curfew’ on Saturday and Sunday, when only essential services will remain functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-offices-shops-to-remain-shut-these-states-are-under-weekend-lockdown/story-8FoK0YmIM5wsqFx9aeAAJP.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: PM Modi greets nation on occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘May there be joy and prosperity all over’: PM Modi greets nation on Ganesh ChaturthiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted the nation on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.He said, “Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.” Read moreGovt reaches target of testing a million people in a dayThe health ministry on Saturday said that the government has crossed the milestone of conducting 1 million coronavirus tests per day. The Ministry of Health also highlighted that the recovery rate has risen by 100% in the past three weeks.Read moreBreathless in cricket’s bio-bubbleBy the time the West Indies Test side (which restarted international cricket against England in England) was ready to take their chartered flight back home, the boys from the Caribbean were mentally worn thin. They had, after all, spent 51 consecutive days in two bio-secure bubbles – in Southampton for the first Test and then in Manchester for the next two. Read moreNASA shares image of galaxy that was host to a supernova explosionImages of the world outside the Earth always have the capability to evoke a sense of wonder in people. This tweet shared by NASA, a day ago, is no different. The image shows a galaxy of an irregular shape and it’s too beautiful to describe in words. Read moreSaturday Motivation: Halle Berry shares fitness tips and the secret to her ripped abs at 53Halle Berry might just be acting as an MMA fighter in her upcoming film, Bruised, but she is certainly training as hard as one. Actors go through a lot of body changes to look the part of their roles in movies, but Halle Berry walks the walk when it comes to fitness and body training. Read moreRhea Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats with Mahesh Bhatt on day Sushant Singh Rajput died reveal filmmaker tried calling herMore text exchanges between actor Rhea Chakraborty and filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt have been revealed. A day after bits of their conversation on the day Rhea left her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput’s house were leaked to the press, further exchanges -- this time even on the day of Sushant’s death -- have been revealed. Sushant died on June 14, at the age of 34. Read moreNokia feature phone with Android, Google Assistant button in the worksHMD Global has a slew of Nokia phones in the pipeline ready to launch starting this month. There’s also been an Android-powered Nokia feature phone rumoured for the longest time. A new sketch now reveals what is believed to be the Nokia feature phone running on Android. Read moreWatch: TMC leaders cut tricolor cake on Independence Day; BJP, Cong condemnA group of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in West Bengal sparked a row after they cut a tricolor cake on Independence Day. Row broke out in Bengal’s Malda district after a video of the incident went viral. The TMC leaders, in the video, can be seen cutting the tricolor cake and eating it. Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have criticised the incident and said it amounted to insulting the national flag. TMC leaders Shehnaz Qadri, Sheikh Yasin and Krishna Das were seen in the video among others. Malda Congress chief said TMC leaders didn’t respect the national flag. BJP MP Khagen Murmu also condemned the incident. Shehnaz Qadri, on the other hand, called it a conspiracy to malign him. Watch video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-pm-modi-greets-nation-on-occasion-of-ganesh-chaturthi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6cihyxsexNlraOTuwUXPkO.html
22-08-2020||India||Big Ganpati pandals in Mumbai go online for devotees to catch a glimpse of the elephant god||The city’s favourite Ganpati Bappa will arrive on Saturday without much of the fanfare associated with the festival - grand openings, dhol tasha performance and long queues of devotees outside the many pandals in every corner of Mumbai.With the Covid-19 pandemic casting a shadow on the festival season, most big pandals have decided to go online to ensure that devotees are not devoid of a glimpse of the lord. At King’s Circle, the Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Seva Mandal (committee) - one of the richest Ganpati mandals in the city - has decided to conduct regular aartis all day long and make the same available for devotees everyday on the mandal’s Facebook page as well as YouTube channel. While live darshan will be on from 7 am to 9 pm, devotees have also been booking sevas that will be offered to the Ganesh idol over the next few days. “Since only five people are allowed inside a pandal as per restrictions due to Covid-19, we have decided to allow only five priests in the pandal who will keep performing poojas and chanting mantras through the day,” said R G Bhat, trustee, GSB Seva Mandal. He added that Ganesh seva will be done in a way that devotees can log in any time and perform the same pooja at their home as well.For the first time in the 86 years of its existence, the Lalbaugcha Raja Ganpati Mandal will not have an idol this year, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, an 11-day plasma donation drive is being conducted.A few lanes away from Lalbaugcha Raja, the Mumbaicha Raja idol was unveiled on Saturday morning in Ganesh Galli. Departing from the tradition of tall idols and grand pandal decorations, this year’s idol is only 3-feet high, as directed by the state government. Devotees can catch a live glimpse of the idol on the official Facebook, YouTube and Instagram channels of Lalbaug Sarvajanik Utsav Mandal (Mumbaicha Raja). “Devotees will be allowed for darshan with social distancing and sanitisation measures only. We are encouraging devotees to opt for online darshan,” said Aniket Singh, a member of the committee. This year, the pandal will not be accepting voluntary donations from its members as the pandemic has likely increased financial burdens on most families. “There will be no immersion procession and the idol will be immersed in an artificial pond,” Singh added.Andhericha Raja in the western suburbs is one of the last idols to be immersed, giving devotees two extra days to catch a glimpse of the lord. This year, to avoid crowding, the committee has decided to place the 4-feet idol on a hydraulic crane. “The idea is that devotees can see the idol from afar and need not crowd the pandal,” said a member of the Azad Nagar Utsav Committee. Devotees will get a chance to do online darshan, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-ganpati-pandals-in-mumbai-go-online-for-devotees-to-catch-a-glimpse-of-the-elephant-god/story-g7QpoDONgmgEmlT4pNvwfP.html
22-08-2020||India||Online classes, idol kits for people to celebrate Ganesha festival at home||Coming forward to help people to celebrate the festival while being home, sculptors this year have come up with free online workshops to make ganpati idols at home and also delivered idol making traditional kits to people so that they do not have to step out amid the coronavirus pandemic and are able to celebrate the festival safely. Thum Creative Paryavaran Dakshata Kruti Munch, a Pune-based agency, that has been working towards educating kids on the importance of celebrating festivals in an eco-friendly manner, sold kits for making the idols at home.For the preparation of these kits, the agency roped in around 40 women who lost their jobs due the pandemic. The kit consists of 8.2 inches Ganesha idol mould, farm clay, three paint colours and a brush, a ready made clay modak with seeds. Not only this, the agency offered training videos for making the idols at home. Some 2,500 suck kits were sold by the agency in around a month. Prashant Avachat, director of the agency, said, “Our agency works towards making the youngsters know the importance of celebrating festivals in a traditional manner. This is done by imparting knowledge to them in the form of logic and reason. However, due to the pandemic, we decided to supply these kits containing fresh clay picked up from the farms along with other required materials and make people self reliant. We followed all necessary precautions and sanitised the kits well before getting them delivered at people’s doorsteps.”Mumbai’s Santacruz-based Rintu Rathod, inventor of chocolate Ganpati idol, conducted a free international online workshop on August 15. This workshop included tutorials for making chocolate and clay based idols at home and saw 2,400 participants from 45 countries. Rathod said, “For the first time, I had 900 registrations in just one day which assured that many people have attempted to make their own ‘bappa’ this time.” Gauri Kekre, a baker by profession, conducted two online workshops with an aim to appeal to people to immerse their idols at home. A Thane resident, Kekre has been conducting hands-on classes for students every year but decided to conduct online tutorials for people due to the pandemic this year. “By teaching people to make ganpati idols out of clay and chocolates, my aim was to ensure that more people don’t have to visit any crowded places for the immersion process,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-classes-idol-kits-for-people-to-celebrate-ganesha-festival-at-home/story-0j1KPX1W9M5N5pfnEXFtVI.html
22-08-2020||India||Delhiwale: The show must go on||He would hardly be at home, and now he always is. But his music is going on in spite of that. In fact, you have to watch the acapella video he recently conceptualised of an iconic Pink Floyd song, bringing together dozens of home-bound singers... but wait, we can’t fast-forward our track.Recalling the texture of the pre-corona era, Yeashu Yuvraj, musician and photographer, confesses he is “an outdoorsy person, for whom home was only about dinner and sleep... my schedule was always hectic… I always had so many things to do.”The illusion that his life was meant to happen outdoors stayed with him for the initial days of the lockdown. But as time passed, Mr Yuvraj started settling down into the ordinariness of these extraordinary days. “I began to sit more often with my father and mother, I would discuss music with my wife.... I would write music.”Mr Yuvraj is chatting on WhatsApp this evening from his home in Gurugram’s Sector 51. In this city of high-rises, he is one of the rare people living in a stand-alone house—the ground floor is for his parents, the first floor for him and his wife, and the second floor is his studio.A vocalist trained in the western classical tradition, he honed his skills under the guidance of well-known soprano Situ Singh Buehler, founder of the Lyric Ensemble of ﻿Delhi. But Mr Yuvraj, 36, is more of a teacher than a performance artiste, a choice that serves him well in the pandemic. He continues with his job as a music educator, teaching classes online these days. And despite being (happily) home-bound, he is not just doing the minimum required to get by. He continues to produce new work, including music videos. Since the pandemic fell on us, Mr Yuvraj has already made and released three music videos on his Instagram, working along with other musicians and singers to produce collective works of art. To do so, he would follow the modus operandi of our new normal: first, writing the parts for the music; then e-mailing the concerned fragments to select singers and musicians, who would send him back video clips recorded in their respective homes; and finally, pooling the bits together to create a smoothly flowing track. In the most recent release shared on his Instagram, late last month, Mr Yuvraj produced his own version of Pink Floyd’s Shine On You Crazy Diamond, starring a mind-boggling number of 35 singers spread in five cities. The video is an engrossing ensemble of voices, masterfully coordinated, true to the emotions of the original song. Because it was all created from so many different homes and places, the video tells us something about the art of connecting together in these unprecedented times of physical distancing. You may watch it on YouTube as well as on this Instagram handle—@withyeashuYet, there are other pursuits in Mr Yuvraj’s life that cannot be pursued while sitting at home. Such as photography. His occasional assignment to shoot in concerts held in clubs and malls are no longer possible for now, obviously. Gone also are the pleasures of occasional Sunday photo walks through picturesque spaces in Delhi like Transport Mandi, Yamuna Bazaar and India Gate. Even so, he remains mindful of his gains.“Unlike many others, I am not suffering greatly due to the pandemic. I have used this period as a beautiful opportunity to rethink my way of living.” A pause later, he says, “Probably, when the pandemic is over, I will want to retain this pace of life.”Meanwhile, he is working on a new music video, based on his “arrangement of the national anthem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-show-must-go-on/story-AJvVOv1MDesamlfeJuYX4L.html
22-08-2020||India||HT Interview: ‘The promises made to Bihar were not kept,’ says Chirag Paswan||Chirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party president and MP from Bihar’s Jamui constituency, is vocal in his criticism of the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government, even though it is a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). In an interview to Smriti Kak Ramachhandran, he said he conveyed his concerns about holding elections to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the NDA. Edited excerpts: Your party is a part of the NDA. Yet, there seems to be a disconnect between the LJP and the Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), and disagreements on some issues. There is a lot of disagreement between the LJP and JD(U). The basis of my disagreement is that a lot of promises were made to Bihar that were not delivered. Consider the present scenario. Bihar is facing dual challenges of the unprecedented Covid-19 outbreak and the annual flood fury that have affected a lot of people. It is a matter of grave concern the way the state machinery is working. I expected my chief minister and my government to perform better and to deliver more, but he (Kumar) disappointed us all. What has disappointed you the most? The day the migrant worker crisis started I expected the government to help them and not leave them to die on highways. I expected that buses would be sent to ferry them back home, as was done by Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath. I don’t know if any direct benefit transfer was done because a lot of people whom I met don’t seem to have received any. But the biggest issue right now is the way our government is playing with the lives of the Biharis. A few days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with a few CMs through a video-conference. Soon after the meeting the PM tweeted some states are required to improve their testing records and Bihar topped the list. On that day, though about 75,000 tests were conducted, the PM said categorically that there is a need to improve. This implies that something is wrong somewhere. What is also going wrong is that until now about 90% of the testing is being done through the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test, which even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said should only be conducted in Covid-19 containment zones or during emergencies in hospitals. So not only are we not testing enough, but we are also not doing it the right way. In such a scenario, are you willing to be a part of the NDA? At present, I am not even thinking about elections; I don’t understand how my CM is thinking about elections at a time when 18 districts are flooded and Covid-19 cases are increasing by leaps and bounds on a daily basis. You have said this to the ECI, but have you mentioned this to the BJP or raised it at an NDA meeting? At a meeting with BJP national president JP Nadda a few weeks ago, I mentioned this to him. I had said our priority should be to control the pandemic and we should not be thinking about the elections. So will you participate, if the ECI decides to hold the polls on schedule? The call has to be taken only by the ECI. And if that happens, then we will participate because we are prepared for the elections but we would prefer not to hold them now. As a head of a political party, it is my responsibility to give a correct picture about the state of affairs to the ECI. Political parties are not meant to only contest elections -- to win or strategise. We have a much bigger social responsibility as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-interview-the-promises-made-to-bihar-were-not-kept-says-chirag-paswan/story-IHkhW5GxmNFwQl6zanCmrO.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt reaches target of testing a million people per day||The Union health ministry on Saturday said India has crossed the milestone of conducting 1 million tests to detect Covid-19 per day, which experts say is important to know the exact disease burden. The health ministry also highlighted that the recovery rate has risen by 100% in the past three weeks.The union health ministry further added that the surge in recovery rate was due to early identification through testing.  #IndiaFightsCoronaIndia crosses the milestone of 1 million #COVID19 tests a day.More than 10 lakh people tested in the last 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/McUcc1JbZJIndia recorded the highest-number of recoveries in a single day on Friday with 62,282 patients recovering from coronavirus. The total number of recoveries crossed the 21.5-lakh mark on Friday. The union health ministry highlighted in the tweet that prompt and effective measures were taken to cure the patients. Treatment under home isolation and graded policy measures which were innovative has led to this milestone, the ministry said in its tweet. #IndiaFightsCoronaEarly identification through TESTING, prompt & effective TREATMENT through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, & innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days.The government was close to crossing the milestone as more than 900,000 tests were being conducted over the last two days. More than 1,500 labs have been conducting tests across the nation and ICMR is looking forward to further ramp up testing to curb the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-reaches-target-of-testing-a-million-people-in-a-day/story-6G33zy5k3VTi5ZF2u7r4bP.html
22-08-2020||India||‘May there be joy and prosperity all over’: PM Modi greets nation on Ganesh Chaturthi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted the nation on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. He said, “Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.”Ganesh Chaturthi, also known as Vinayaka Chaturthi, is a Hindu festival celebrating the arrival of Ganesh to earth from Kailash Parvat with his mother Goddess Parvati/Gauri. The festival is marked with the installation of Ganesh clay idols privately in homes, or publicly on elaborate pandals. आप सभी को गणेश चतुर्थी की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। गणपति बाप्पा मोरया! Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.Also read: BMC issues advisory ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, urges caution on 13 dilapidated bridgesPresident Ram Nath Kovind on Friday greeted citizens on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi and prayed that Lord Ganesha bless all to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, celebrated as the birthday of Lord Ganesha, is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of society along on this occasion, he said.“Ganpati Bappa Morya! Greetings on Ganesh Chaturthi. The festival is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of the society along. May Vighnaharta help us all to overcome COVID-19 pandemic and bless us with a happy and healthy life,” the statement said. Ganpati Bappa Morya!Greetings on Ganesh Chaturthi. The festival is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of the society along.May Vighnaharta help us all to overcome COVID-19 pandemic and bless us with a happy and healthy life.Kovind extended his best wishes and heartiest congratulations to all fellow citizens living in India and abroad on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-there-be-joy-and-prosperity-all-over-pm-modi-greets-nation-on-ganesh-chaturthi/story-kbpULZj9uKoMRDAXFnaiaK.html
22-08-2020||India||Low testing and delay in results a concern in Uttar Pradesh||Rajkumar Patel, a resident of Manikpur town in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot district, gave his swab samples to the local authority after he developed symptoms of Covid-19. A week had passed and Patel, 45, was still waiting for the test result. When he finally receive it, it was positive. “I have visited the local community health centres; the doctor prescribed some medicine, he told me to stay at home till the test report comes. I was worried that other members of the family might be infected,” he said.Chitrakoot’s chief medical officer, Dr Vinod Kumar Yadav, said the report on a Reverse Transcriptase -Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, takes around six to seven days. Samples collected from suspected Covid-19 patients are being sent to the Maharani Laxmi Bai Medical College in Jhansi, located 290 km from Chitrakoot.When the backlog of samples increased in the Jhansi laboratory, the district administration started sending them to a government laboratory in Prayagraj, located 150 km away, which still takes five to six days. The district is conducting 250 rapid antigen tests and 20 TrueNat tests daily besides RT-PCR tests to accelerate the pace of testing, Yadav said. Delays in the delivery of test results amid an increase in the number of infections is adding to the anxiety of people of Uttar Pradesh. Also read: In Uttar Pradesh, doctors grapple with triple challenge in war against Covid-19The first 1,000 cases (1,184) came up on April 20, 49 days after the first case reported (March 2). On June 9, UP crossed the 11,000 mark (11,335 cases) and since then every 48 hours, the fresh case count has been rising by more than 1,000. The doubling rate — the time it takes for the cases to double — in the state is 24 days, worse than the national average of 29.3 days. Among the high case-load states, UP’s doubling rate is only worse than two states, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh (Chart 1). Director General, Health, Dr DS Negi said although the trajectory of cases was still on an upward trend, there is a silver lining in that the case fatality rate (number of people dying of Covid-19, at 1.6%, remains low.That compares with a national average 1.9%.In April, the case fatality rate was 1.2%. It increased to 4.1% in May and then came down to 3.0% in June and to 1.0% in July.In a study conducted by the state health department, it was found that comorbidity (the existence of another serious disease) was one of the main reasons for the death of patients. Delays in testing and admission of patients in hospital for treatment also contributed. Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in UP was 61.16% (compared to a national average of 70%). Until Monday, out of the 131, 763 coronavirus infected patients detected in Uttar Pradesh, 80,589 had been discharged from hospital treatment after recovering. Dr Rajendra Prasad, former director of the Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute and former head of pulmonary department at King Geoge’s Medical University (KGMU), said the infection rate in Uttar Pradesh is 5-6% compared to 20% in Delhi and Mumbai at their peak in July. Uttar Pradesh is likely to reach its peak in September, and then start to plateau, he said. Prasad said Uttar Pradesh was working to ramp up testing. Until July 23, it had tested 1.705 million samples since the start of the pandemic. Until June 24 since the beginning of March, 600,000 samples had been tested. The state conducted a record 109,516 tests on August 20, taking the total tally of tests to upwards of 4.18 million. The state is conducting more tests than the 140 samples per one million target prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO), he said.To be sure, although daily testing has picked up, overall tests per million is 18,600, significantly lower than the national average of 25,109. In contrast, other high-caseload states such as Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra have all fared far better than UP with 58,881, 52,693, 34,300 and 27,995 tests conducted per million residents, respectively (Chart 2). Laboratories in the state are testing 35,000 to 40,000 samples daily; in March, a mere 60 samples were tested daily. The state government is also increasing the number of laboratories for Covid-19 testing. In March, the samples were being tested only in KGMU, the count of labs conducting the tests have increased to 33.Also read | Covid-19: Tracing India’s journey to two million casesUttar Pradesh has set the target of conducting 60,000 to 80,000 rapid antigen tests per day.The state is working to increase the number of RT-PCR tests from 35,000 daily to 50,000 to 60,000. Around two-thirds of all tests in the state are antigen tests, much higher than the national average. A high dependence on antigen tests, which throw up more false negatives (they identify infected people as uninfected), leads to two major problems – under-detection of cases, and tilting data metrics such as positivity rate and case distribution, HT reported on Thursday.Despite the increase in testing, the positivity rate in the state has not changed much. According to recommendations by WHO, the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least 14 days before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. In case the positivity rate rises, WHO recommends increasing testing numbers for prolonged periods of time till the number drops below 5%.In UP, although the positivity rate has remained relatively low, the low per capita testing numbers may be masking the true infection rate. In fact, despite the recent increase in number of tests, the positivity rate has not dropped at all (Chart 3), which may not be a good sign. In mid-July, the state added seven new laboratories in the district hospitals of Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Aligarh and Lucknow. The state government has also decided to set up new laboratories in government medical colleges located in Jalaun, Ambedkar Nagar, Saharanpur, Banda, Badaun, Azamgarh, Ayodhya, Firozabad, Basti and Bahraich districts. The laboratories will test using the RT-PCR method. Yet, experts caution that delays in delivering the test results is a cause of concern for both the patients undergoing the tests and the community at large. “Reports should come the same day (as the tests are done). When you give a report on the fourth or the fifth day, crucial time is lost {in treatment},” .said Professor TN Dhole, former head of the department of microbiology at the Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. Experts say public flouting of Covid-19 protocols was a key reason behind the increase in the case tally. “A majority of offices are now open and while stepping out, frequently people forget to maintain protocols such as physical distance and wearing masks correctly,” said Dr Kauser Usman, a senior faculty member KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-testing-and-delay-in-results-a-concern-in-uttar-pradesh/story-mEBubv2RC6ZtR2gEyEjo4H.html
22-08-2020||India||EC issues guidelines for conduct of general elections during Covid-19: Full details||The Election Commission of India has issued guidelines for the conduct of general elections/by-elections during coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Door-to-door campaigns with only five people and gloves for voters before they press the button at electronic voting machines are some of the guidelines for holding elections amid the coronavirus pandemic.Here are the do’s and don’t’s to be followed during elections:•Every person shall wear face mask during election-related activities.•Thermal screening to be carried out at the entry of hall/room/premises used for election purposes. Sanitizer, soap and water shall also be made available.•Social distancing shall be maintained as per the extant Covid-19 guidelines of the state government and Ministry of Home Affairs.•As far as practicable, large halls should be identified and utilised to ensure social distancing norms.•Adequate number of vehicles, shall be mobilised for movement of polling personnel, security personnel to ensure compliance of Covid-19 guidelines.•Full nomination process can be completed online; for physical filing of nomination, only two persons can accompany candidate.•All voters will be given gloves to sign voter register and press EVM button to cast vote.•Those running temperature and even Covid positive patients shall be facilitated to vote in the last hour of poll.•Maximum of 5 people, including candidate, will be allowed for door to door campaign•No more than 5 vehicles to be allowed in roadshows; public rallies to be held in grounds pre-identified by district election officer.•Nodal officer to be designated for the state, district and assembly constituency to oversee enforcement of Covid-19 safety measures.•A reserve pool of polling, counting and other staff will be maintained by the Returning Officer to replace election staff who show symptoms of coronavirus infection.•Only two people and two vehicles can accompany a candidate if coming to the election office to file papers.•Returning Officer’s chamber should have sufficient space to perform the functions of nomination, scrutiny and symbol allocation following social distancing norms. Returning Officer should allot staggered time in advance to prospective candidates.Elections are due in later this year in Bihar, which has reported 1.15 lakh coronavirus cases and over 570 deaths till now. The Election Commission, however, has not made any announcement about the schedule.In Bihar, except Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and the BJP, almost all major political parties have demanded that elections be postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-issues-guidelines-for-conduct-of-general-elections-during-covid-19-full-details/story-mGY55YpjNjVTZ3cJlb79qI.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19 toll on MSMEs: 3 in 4 at below half capacity||Nine out of every 10 of India’s 63.3 million small businesses (termed micro, small, and medium enterprises or MSMEs) have restarted operations after the lockdown necessitated by Covid-19, but only one in four is producing at least half its capacity -- largely on account of poor demand, logistical issues, and their own financial troubles (at least half said they faced a liquidity crunch as of August 1). “85% of MSME units operate from households and as their exposure to formal banking is almost zero, they are not able to take the benefit of the Centre’s liquidity package, which is linked to outstanding bank credit. The government should come out with a separate fund or fast-track MUDRA [Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency Ltd] loan for these people. For bigger MSMEs, e-marketing should be strengthened and a special fund for technology upgradation is required as many MSMEs want to invest heavily in technology,” said Tamal Sarkar, executive director of Foundation for MSME Cluster. And as of August 6, four million MSMEs had been sanctioned around ~140,000 crore under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme announced as part of the government’s ~20 lakh crore relief package, of which around ~95,000 crore had been disbursed. Also read: World Bank, government of India sign $750 mn agreement to support MSMEs amid Covid-19 crisisThe numbers highlight the toll the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread (while the national lockdown ended on May 31, localised lockdowns continue across many parts of India as cases continue to rise) has taken on what is popularly described as the backbone of Indian industry -- MSMEs.The numbers are part of a presentation made by the ministry of MSMEs this week, and based on a survey conducted by National Small Industries Corporation. India’s small businesses employ around 110 million people and accounted for almost half of India’s exports in 2019-20. According to the presentation, they also account for around 30% of GDP. “If the MSME can’t produce, big industries would not be able to survive in India. To give just one example, India is the world’s largest producer of bicycles and 98% of bicycle parts are made by MSMEs. They are also a cost-effective way of production as one MSME’s scrap is raw material for another. The government must do everything to turn it around to revive the Indian industry,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organization (FICO). To be sure, the August survey (around 3,100 MSMEs responded) show an improvement over the July and June ones. For instance, in June, only 18.2% of MSMEs were producing more than 50% of their capacity; and in June 70% of MSMEs said they faced a liquidity crunch. Also read: Special Covid package has 6 MSME reforms to power PM Modi’s reliant India mantra“One cannot talk of last month or August only but have to start from the beginning. In April and May, there was almost total closure, no [availability of] labour, no liquidity. June onwards, there is tremendous improvement, especially after the Atmanirbhar Bharat package was put in place in mid-May. To be precise, from mid-March to entire April, [there] was almost total closure and the sector started opening only from May,” said the spokesperson of the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises. In addition to this, the presentation also identified sectors such as automobiles, tourism, consumer products and apparel as those worst affected by the pandemic, while listing internet service providers, online retailers, and pharma companies as possible beneficiaries. Interestingly, the presentation also showed the overlap between India’s industrial belts and the regions worst affected by the pandemic: states accounting for 72% of the country’s total industrial output saw around 60% of Covid-19 cases (till August 1). This highlights the economic challenge before the country; consensus estimates say the Indian economy will contract by at lest 5% this financial year. For instance, Maharashtra , Tamil Nadu and Karnataka accounted for exactly a third of the country’s industrial output but also 43% of active cases (as on August 1). Most MSMEs do not seem to be worried about labour shortage -- despite at least 10 million migrant workers leaving for their homes in the hinterland during the lockdown. Just 9% of the respondents in the August survey flagged labour shortage compared to 12% respondents facing problem with raw materials. Still, this could just be because of poor demand and lack of working capital -- forcing many of these businesses to operate at low capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-toll-on-msmes-1-in-4-at-below-half-capacity/story-s9Uw0IgdoxJTPRGqmacSUO.html
22-08-2020||India||Virus spreads in aircraft but transmission risk low: Study||Two people were most likely infected with Covid-19 on a 4 hour, 40 minute international flight in the early days of the pandemic, according to a new scientific study that confirms the possibility of viral spread in an aircraft but also highlights that the risk may be lower than previously believed.The two were among 102 passengers on a Tel Aviv-Frankfurt flight on March 9. Among these were seven confirmed Covid-19 infected persons, or index patients, with four being symptomatic during the flight. None of the passengers wore a mask.“When we started with the interviews to determine whether transmissions had occurred, we expected the rate of suspected transmissions to be higher, as there was an unusually large number of index cases, some of which were symptomatic, on the plane. The passengers did not wear masks,” said Sandra Ciesek, director of the Institute for Medical Virology at Frankfurt’s Goethe University, in an e-mail interaction with HT.Ciesek, one of the authors of the study that was published on Tuesday on the JAMA Open network, said that it appeared “as though the air circulation inside the airplane cabin may have reduced the rate of transmission” and that wearing masks could further reduce the risk of spread.The seven index patients, the study notes, may have picked up the infection from a hotel manager a week before the flight. “At the destination airport, we conducted a medical evaluation of the tourist group, including testing Sars-CoV2 in a throat swab specimen. In addition, we contacted all passengers four to five weeks later by phone and conducted structured interviews,” they said.In all, 71 of the other 78 passengers (91%) who had been exposed to the group on the flight completed the interview and serum samples were obtained from 13 of these individuals six to nine weeks after the flight. An analysis of these revealed that two of the people who had contact with the infected group also got the virus, although the researchers acknowledge the slim chance that transmission may have also occurred before or after the flight.Several of the passengers could not be reached, and it was not clear whether they too were infected, the authors note, identifying it as another of the limitations of their study.Closed indoor spaces have become a particular worry for the spread of the Sars-Cov2, which can linger on as aerosols; people usually breathe out microscopic viral particles even when they speak but the volume increases drastically if someone coughs or sneezes. In such circumstances, experts have feared that a long flight may be particularly risky, even as airline industry representatives say cabin air circulation systems replace air at a regular rate and passenger jets have adequate particulate filtration devices. The researchers indicate this may be a possibility. “The airflow in the cabin from the ceiling to the floor and from the front to the rear may have been associated with a reduced transmission rate. It could be speculated that the rate may have been reduced further had the passengers worn masks,” they say in the report. According to Ciesek, both passengers with likely infections on flight were seated within the two-row perimeter. “This means seating in the same row as an index passengers as well as the two rows in front and behind. It has previously been demonstrated that the risk of droplet-mediated transmissions is higher in this area,” she said. The professor underscored that “it is important to note that transmission of Sars-CoV2 in air travel may occur. Measure to prevent transmission should be applied, such as the wearing of masks”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-spreads-in-aircraft-but-transmission-risk-low-study/story-oD0oxQSnxmPTVjOXColUON.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Sometime today, Saturday, August 22, India’s coronavirus case count will cross the three million mark. India will become the third country to do so after the US and Brazil. If cases in India continue to grow at the same rate, it will overtake Brazil sometime in the next two weeks. India crossed two million cases on August 6 and one million cases on July 17. The country has around 700,000 active cases right now, mostly people with mild infections (or no visible symptoms) who have isolated themselves at home — and some experts say this is the number to look at. India will see close to 57,000 deaths by the end of Saturday, with around 16,000 of them being registered since it crossed the two million mark. A little over 13,000 of them were registered between the time it crossed one million cases and touched two million. Almost 50% of India’s total deaths were registered in the pandemic’s run to one million cases in the country — an indication of the difficulties faced by administrators in coping with cases (there weren’t enough hospital beds; protective kits for health care workers were in short supply) and health care workers (no one knew which therapies or medicines worked) in the early days of the pandemic. Some other experts say this (the daily death toll) is the number to look at.It isn’t clear what explains the increase in the number of deaths corresponding to the third million when compared to the number of deaths corresponding to the second. The number (2,700+) is significant enough to be worrisome — it is the kind of detail that the health ministry and researchers should look at, although it can be explained mathematically by a growing base of active cases.The big trend — no longer new; the HT newsroom has been writing about it for at least a month — is the fact that the growth in cases (and there is no sign that India has seen its peak) is being driven by states in the hinterland and the peninsula. Of the first million cases, around 57% came from two states, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, and the Capital. Maharashtra accounted for 28.3% of the million, Tamil Nadu 15.6%, and Delhi 11.8%. Only one other state (Karnataka) accounted for more than 5% of cases (5.1%).Of the second million cases, around 57% came from four states, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Maharashtra accounted for 19.2% of the million, Andhra Pradesh 15.6%, Tamil Nadu 12.1%, and Karnataka 10.5%. Delhi only accounted for 2.2%. Two other states, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, accounted for at least 5% of cases (6.4% and 5% respectively), and Bihar accounted for 4.6%. The third million cases largely mirrored the trend of the second. Maharashtra accounted for 18.6% of the million, Andhra Pradesh 14.9%, Karnataka 11.1%, and Tamil Nadu 9.3%. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two of India’s most populous states accounted for 7.2% and 5.3% of the million cases. West Bengal accounted for 4.8% of the cases, and Assam 3.9%. Delhi accounted for just 1.8% of cases. Interestingly, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, which are still seeing a high number of cases, have seen their contributions drop from the first million to the third. In Maharashtra’s case, the decline is about 10 percentage points, and in Tamil Nadu’s case a little over 6 percentage points. Other states have stepped in to take the slack. Delhi perhaps has the most reason to celebrate, although as the cautionary tales of South Korea, Australia and New Zealand show, it still needs to remain vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ofoz1sQiPUC7DzmyQHID3L.html
22-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand rights body orders probe against senior IPS officer accused of stripping class 11 student||The Uttarakhand Human Rights Commission on Friday asked inspector general (IG), human rights to probe allegations that a senior IPS officer, posted in the Dehradun, stripped a class 11 student inside a police check post in the city to dissuade the boy from speaking to his daughter. The father of the boy had lodged a complaint with the Commission on August 12. On Friday, member of the commission, Justice Akhilesh Chandra Sharma, asked IG human rights Pooran Singh Rawat to probe the matter and submit a report to the commission on the same. Confirming the development, IG Rawat said, “I have received the letter from the Commission on Friday asking me to probe the matter and submit a report to it. Usually there is a time frame for such probes, but there is no timeframe in this letter.” “I will soon probe the matter by speaking to the IPS officer as well as the boy,” said Rawat. Also Read: Two Uttarakhand women killed in rain-related incidents, timely escape for a familyThe incident came to light after the father of the18 year old class-11 student of a Dehradun-based school, lodged a complaint against senior IPS officer, PVK Prasad, who is deployed as the additional director general (jail) on August 11. The complaint alleged that Prasad had beaten and tortured the boy inside Bindal police check post of the city while objecting to him speaking to his daughter over phone. Following his complaint, Prasad lodged a counter complaint against the boy accusing him of harassing his daughter by sending objectionable messages on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-rights-body-orders-probe-against-senior-ips-officer-accused-of-stripping-class-11-student/story-M9iH6UzTtcPWtAijUlvaTP.html
22-08-2020||India||51 eco-friendly Ganesh idols gifted to devotees facing financial woes in Mumbai||A Mumbai-based group and Ghatkopar mandal have offered 51 eco-friendly Ganesha idols made from clay, turmeric and vermillion, free of cost to devotees facing financial difficulties, salary cuts or job losses during the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of Malhar Foundation and Deepak Baba Hande Mitra Mandal Ghatkopar have also developed an artificial immersion pond with support from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, the umbrella body of Ganesh mandals, for the immersion of each of the 51 idols.“By bearing the cost for each idol—up to Rs 1600-- our intention is to ensure that devotees are not troubled during this difficult period. This way we are providing our services during this auspicious festival by helping others. We are providing flower offerings and other puja material also with the idols with no cost. Additionally, we have also provided washable masks to all family members,” said Pratik Jadhav, one of the organisers from Malhar Foundation.Also Read: Coimbatore NGO creates eco-friendly Ganesha idols with seeds insideAn Andheri resident, who lost her job during the Covid lockdown said, “We had planned not to celebrate the festival at all this year until we were approached by members of Malhar. They did not treat us with pity. Their only intention was that we must not sacrifice the happiness this one time of the year and complete the objective of preserving our culture and traditions.”Jadhav added that all instructions and guidance have been provided to citizens for making their way to the pond on all immersion days. “They need to wear masks and follow mandatory social distancing protocol,” he said.MPCB officials said the effort is in line with their awareness campaign to ensure the city celebrates an eco-friendly festival. “This initiative aims to celebrate Ganeshotsav in an environmentally friendly manner with due respect to Ganesha devotees as well as to the environment,” said Sanjay Bhuskute, public relations officer, MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-eco-friendly-ganesh-idols-gifted-to-devotees-facing-financial-woes-in-mumbai/story-cvNGKfjRMfOdiCy5cGUwGI.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19 count in MP crosses 50K, another minister tests positive for viral infection||Covid-19 positive cases in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 50,000 mark on Friday with 1,147 new cases identified in the past 24 hours. The tally stands at 50,640 now, as per the state health department’s bulletin released on Friday night. Another minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet tested positive for coronavirus on Friday which he announced on his Twitter account. He happens to be the sixth minister in Chouhan’s cabinet to have tested positive for the virus besides chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan himself. Indore continues to be the worst affected among all the 52 districts with 10,786 positive cases out of whom 353 have died so far. Bhopal follows with 8,989 cases and 255 deaths. Besides Bhopal there are six other districts which have Covid-19 patients in four digits- Gwalior (3,840), Jabalpur (2,867), Morena (1,936), Ujjain (1,434), Khargone (1,226) and Barwani (1,014). The total number of deaths of Covid-19 patients in the state stands at 1,185 and thus the death rate in the state is 2.34%. Out of the total 50,640 patients 38,527 have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals across the state. The recovery rate in the state is 76%. The number of Covid-19 tests conducted so far is 11,33,826 with 22,678 tests conducted in the past 24 hours. On Friday, PWD minister Gopal Bhargava shared information with people through a tweet that his Covid-19 test report had come back positive and he was going to be hospitalised on doctors advice, though, he added, he was in good health. The minister advised people who came in contact with him in the past one week to get themselves tested and go in for home quarantine. Earlier, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his five ministerial colleagues tested positive for coronavirus and were hospitalised since July 22. The state government transferred district collectors of Harda and Morena Anurag Verma and Priyanka Das. Morena in Gwalior-Chambal region which will witness bypolls by the next month is on the MP-Rajasthan border and is one of the worst affected districts in the state. Priyanka Das has been replaced with Anurag Verma who was transferred from Harda while Sanjay Gupta will be the new collector of Harda, as per the state government’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-count-in-mp-crosses-50k-another-minister-tests-positive-for-viral-infection/story-7XRfVCkKAZrKoiPnNY6tBI.html
22-08-2020||India||Muslim woman gets triple talaq on WhatsApp, MP CM promises justice||An NRI woman lodged an FIR in Bhopal on Friday accusing her husband of divorcing her by uttering talaq thrice through WhatsApp, said police. Triple Talaq has been banned in the country through an act of the parliament to protect the rights of Muslim women.The case became a high profile one when Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took note of the woman’s grievance, saying justice will be ensured.The accused, a resident of Bhopal, is working as a manager in a hotel in Bengaluru while her parents reside in Bhopal.As per the complaint lodged by the 42-year-old woman with Kohefiza police station, she was married to one Faiz Alam Ansari, a resident of Kohefiza locality on October 4, 2001. They have two children. After the marriage, Ansari shifted to Singapore with his family and now they both have citizenship of Singapore.Officer-in-charge of Kohefiza police station Anil Bajpai said, “As per the woman’s complaint, she was regularly harassed by her husband who exerted pressure on her to give him Rs 25 lakh in dowry. The couple shifted to Bengaluru in 2013. In June, her husband asked her to leave the house and come back only when she has Rs 25 lakh. She came to her parental place in June. On July 31, the husband gave a call on WhatsApp to her brother and when she talked to him, he uttered talaq three times.”Also Read: MP budgets Rs 1.6 daily for 1.8 lakh cows in state shelters, department sends SOS The police officer said that an FIR has been lodged against the accused under Dowry Prohibition Act and Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act. He added that a team of police personnel will go to Bengaluru in connection with the investigation.” In a series of tweets on the issue, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “A Muslim sister in Bhopal lodged an FIR with police this morning regarding her divorce through triple talaq delivered through a message. I can assure the sister that MP police will take all possible steps to ensure justice to her.” Also Read: Madhya Pradesh police rescue kidnapped 6-year-old boy within 24 hours Referring to the Central legislation banning triple talaq, he said, “After years of struggle of our Muslim sisters, the central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi enacted a law to prohibit the practice of triple talaq but still there are still some mean-minded people who are playing with the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-woman-files-fir-against-triple-talaq-on-whatsapp-mp-cm-promises-justice/story-C6t27CafprYtmlQXeH4d3M.html
22-08-2020||India||Clamour grows to delay NEET, JEE but govt firm||With the number of coronavirus disease cases increasing steadily, several politicians have joined the clamour to postpone the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-Undergraduate) after a large section of students made such a demand. On Friday, politicians such as Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Subramanian Swamy, Congress’s Vivek Tankha and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s Tejashwi Yadav raised safety concerns over the conduct of NEET ( for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses) and JEE (for those aspiring to join top engineering schools). But the education ministry said the tests will be conducted in September as scheduled. In a statement the National Testing Agency (NTA), which functions under the ministry and holds these exams, said a full academic year cannot be wasted. Congress Rajya Sabha member Tankha sent a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, urging him to postpone the exams. “The number of cases and the death rate have been increasing. If the situation persists, the country may have to face lockdown again. Holding exams at such a large scale leads to the threat of further escalation of the pandemic,” Tankha said. RJD’s Yadav tweeted: “Central Govt, NTA, UGC & IIT Delhi must have a considerate & humane view of the plight of the students & youth of this country! This hurry to conduct exams amidst spiking Covid cases will prove to be costly! In Bihar floods+Govt apathy will compound problems!” Similar views were expressed by a large number of students on social media. BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Swamy, too, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to conduct entrance examinations such as the NEET and the JEE after Diwali in the wake of the pandemic. But in a statement, NTA made it clear that it plans to go ahead with the exams and cited that the Supreme Court rejected a plea seeking postponement of the two entrance tests. “In our opinion, though there is pandemic situation, but ultimately life has to go and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted…the examination is going to be held with due precaution and it is not going to be postponed. Thus, we find no merit in the writ petition,” said the NTA statement, quoting the SC order. The premier testing agency said it released the admit cards for the JEE (Main) examinations scheduled from 01-09-2020 to 06-09-2020. Altogether, 649,223 candidates have downloaded their admit cards against a total number 858,273. “NTA is happy to share with the JEE (Main) 2020 candidates that it has been able to offer the first choice of preference of centre cities to 99.07% of the candidates. 142 candidates have, subsequently requested for a change in their allotted centre city due to various reasons, and the NTA is considering these requests positively,” the statement said. The agency said NEET aspirants, too, were allowed to change their exam venue and 95,000 availed it. “The NEET (UG)-2020 exam is now scheduled on September 13 and the total of 15,97,433 candidates are registered for the same. The admit cards will be released shortly. Overall, 99.87% candidates will be accommodated against their first preference of centre city,” it added. The agency said it made elaborate arrangements to sanitise the test centres before and after the examinations, and will even provide masks and hand gloves to candidates if needed. According to a government official, NTA reached out to top medical professionals for a “comprehensive plan to ensure all students and staff” are safe. NTA has also developed a detailed protocol to ensure the exams are held following social distancing norms. “The predicament is that there is no alternative to the highly competitive exams such as NEET and JEE for admission to coveted institutions like IITs (Indian Institutes of Technology) and top medical colleges. Therefore, it is important that these exams are held with utmost safety precautions,” said a second official.IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said the JEE (Advanced), which is slated for September 27, will be held with all precautions and safety measures. “The number of centres has been doubled, computers will be sanitized and all safety measures have been put in place,” Rao told HT. Prof Furqan Qamar, former secretary general of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU), said the Supreme Court had already given its verdict. “These are all related to admissions. Admissions need to be done otherwise students lose a year. The only thing is that all necessary precautions for social distancing and hygiene etc should be taken,” he said. Prof Ajit K Chaturvedi, director, IIT Roorkee, said: “We should go ahead with the exam as per the announced schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clamour-grows-to-delay-neet-jee-but-govt-firm/story-5itcuihiX8BO6fKvezvhTL.html
22-08-2020||India||Apex court permits prayers at 3 Jain temples in Mumbai||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the entry of a limited number of devotees to three Jain temples in Mumbai over the weekend (August 22 and 23) to offer prayers during a community festival. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said that the opening of the temples would be subject to the undertaking given by the petitioner trust, which said that only five people will be allowed to enter a temple at a time and only 250 people would be allowed to enter per day in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “Considering the peculiar facts and circumstances, the prayer made by the petitioners is allowed to the limited extent of permitting them to open the three temples one each in Byculla, Dadar (West) and Chembur in Mumbai on August 22 and 23 for devotees to perform the rituals connected with ‘Paryushan’,” the bench said. The court was also critical of the Maharashtra government’s policy of allowing economic activities to continue but imposing restrictions on activities connected with religion on ground of Covid threat.“We find it strange that you are allowing every activity involving economic interests and money. But if it involves religion, you say you cannot do it because of Covid,” CJI Bobde said.The court stated that its order allowing entry into the three temples would be limited to this particular case and would not apply to any other temple or festivals involving large congregation, including the annual 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, which start on Saturday. “We make it clear that this order is not intended to be used as a precedent by other persons to seek permission to hold any festivals/festivities which would involve, by their very nature, congregation of people, such as ‘Ganesh Festival’,” the court said.The order was passed on a plea by Shri Parshwatilak Shwetamber Murtipujak Tapagacch Jain Trust, which had approached the apex court against a Bombay high court on August 13, in which the HC said that it did not wish to interfere with the state’s decision not to permit Jain temples in Mumbai to open during the Paryushan festival. ‘Paryushana’ is a key festival for members of Jain community, during which they observe fast and come together to pray.The Maharashtra government opposed the plea before the Supreme Court stating that the state was worst hit by the pandemic in the country and it would be difficult for the state to ensure adherence to Covid-19 precautions if places of worship are opened.“Maharashtra is the state most affected by Covid in India. I am here opposing the plea vigorously due to the unimaginable situation in the state and keeping in mind the interests of the state,” senior counsel AM Singhvi, who was appearing on behalf of Maharashtra, said.CJI Bobde, however, pointed out that if the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the central government on June 4 and the undertaking given by the petitioner can be enforced, the plea can be allowed.The central government, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, supported the plea provided all precautions and SOPs are adhered to. “This is exactly the choice we had faced with the Puri Jagannath Ratha Yatra. We held that of congregation can be avoided then mere pulling of Rath will not lead to anything bad. And nothing bad happened after that. Lord Jagannath forgave us. We will be forgiven in this case too,” CJI Bobde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-permits-prayers-at-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai/story-5G3AQxdzs8p8oCvLPwuj6M.html
22-08-2020||India||China, Pak say oppose J&K ‘unilateral’ action||China has told Pakistan it opposes any “unilateral” action that complicates the situation in Kashmir, after Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi briefed his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi of his country’s concerns regarding the situation in the Indian state. The Kashmir issue figured in the second strategic dialogue of the Chinese and Pakistani foreign ministers in the southern province of Hainan on Friday. Qureshi arrived in China on Thursday for talks against the backdrop of the India-China LAC standoff. “The Pakistani side briefed the Chinese side on the situation in Jammu & Kashmir, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues,” said a joint statement issued at the end of the two-day strategic dialogue. “The Chinese side reiterated that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation,” it said. China and Pakistan believe a “peaceful, stable, cooperative and prosperous South Asia was in common interest of all parties”, the statement said. It added: “Parties need to settle disputes and issues in the region through dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect.” There was no immediate response to the joint statement from Indian officials. India has traditionally bristled at China’s efforts to raise the Kashmir issue on Pakistan’s behalf, describing it as interference in its internal affairs. China had issued a similar statement immediately after India scrapped Kashmir’s special status in August last year. Since then, it has sought to raise the Kashmir issue at the UN Security Council on Pakistan’s behalf several times, but without much success. The dialogue between Wang and Qureshi took place at a time when the ties of both Beijing and Islamabad with New Delhi are at an all-time low, over the border tensions in eastern Ladakh, and India’s decision last year to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The joint statement was issued soon after President Xi Jinping was quoted as saying that China and Pakistan are “good brothers” and “good partners”, and that the economic corridor between the two countries, which passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), is key to forging even closer ties between Beijing and Islamabad. In a recorded message addressed to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi, Xi said the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), “a landmark project” under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), is of “great importance to promoting in-depth development of the China-Pakistan all-weather strategic cooperative partnership and forging a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future”. India has consistently opposed CPEC because it passes through PoK. Beijing has paid little attention to New Delhi’s reservations about trade and transit corridor and pumped in money and resources to building infrastructure such as power plants and highways. CPEC is among the new irritants and concerns for India’s ties with China, but Beijing has refused to address this issue, arguing it is only an economic project. State-run Xinhua news agency released Xi’s statement, which said: “China and Pakistan are good brothers and partners who share special friendship.” He added that the frequent meeting of political parties from both sides is conducive to steadily advancing the construction of CPEC and high-quality cooperation under BRI. According to the joint statement, both sides also “agreed on continuing their firm support on issues concerning each other’s core national interests”. Beijing told Islamabad that China “firmly supports Pakistan in safeguarding its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence, independently choosing a development path based on its national conditions, striving for a better external security environment and playing a more constructive role on international and regional affairs”. In a statement released separately, Wang said China and Pakistan had agreed on cooperation in research and development of a Covid-19 vaccine. Fu Xiaoqiang, an expert on South Asia at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told state media that India has a narrow approach to China-Pakistan friendship. “India has adopted a hostile attitude toward the cooperation between China and Pakistan and believes China and Pakistan will soon unite against India. It’s a rather ‘narrow-minded’ perspective that does not conform to India’s position of a big country in South Asia,” Fu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pak-say-oppose-j-k-unilateral-action/story-IZ1nfLHn5daZpdGMasQOwI.html
22-08-2020||India||In 3 months, 430 more CATS ambulances put on Covid duty, cuts response time||The size of the ambulance fleet in Delhi, deployed on free-of-charge Covid-19 service, has been increased threefold in the past three months, with the result that the response time has now reduced to one-third of what it used to be earlier, said a senior government official on Friday, citing the findings of a report from the health department.The report was submitted to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office this week, after he sought to assess the response of ambulances to Covid-19 distress calls.According to the report, as on May 15, there were 164 centralised emergency trauma services (CATS) ambulances on Covid duty, with a response time of 55 minutes per distress call. The fleet size has now been increased to 594, thereby cutting their response time to 18 minutes per call, the senior official said, on condition of anonymity.Also read: Delhi govt plans to augment its ambulance fleet to up to 1,000To increase the fleet size within such a short span, the government signed contracts with numerous small and medium scale service providers and hired ambulances not only from those within Delhi but also from neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “Around May 15, ambulances collectively used to attend to around 750 Covid related distress calls every day. The support centres were forced to refuse services to 222 distress callers a day on average, thus compelling people to rely on private ambulances that charge money. The response time then was 55 minutes per distress call,” the senior official elaborated. The official further said, “Currently, the response time of CATS ambulances has reduced to 18 minutes after the fleet size was increased to 594. Collectively, these ambulances attended 944 calls a day, on average, between August 5 and 15. No caller has been refused service since July 31 and the staff get adequate breaks between trips.” A Delhi government spokesperson said, “In Delhi, the Covid-19 situation was tough in June as the number of cases and deaths was rising. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took a serious note of the situation and immediately started discussions with top medical experts in the country to formulate a plan to combat the pandemic. After several rounds of discussion, the chief minister directed officials to improve the response time of CATS ambulances as soon as possible. He then started monitoring the response time of ambulances himself.”Also read | Mission impossible: 163 Covid ambulances, 3,000 patients to transportDelhi witnessed its peak Covid-19 caseload in June, recording more than 3,500 cases a day at one point, but the numbers have now dropped to around 1,100 fresh cases a day. During the peak period, there were rampant complaints of call drops and people not being able to get through to CATS helpline because of high volume of calls. Such issues have been resolved after the government increased the number of lines to the support centre from 20, as on June 1, to 30 by July 31, a second senior official said.The government ambulances ferry Covid patients between hospitals and also from their residences to hospitals and quarantine centres. Other than the 594 on Covid duty, the CATS also has around 200 ambulances reserved for non-Covid emergencies. And then there are private hospitals and service providers with their own fleet of ambulances – the number of which is pegged at 800 by the government’s health department. T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College in Vellore, said: “This is a good achievement by the government. Reduced response time for ambulances can be a life saver in cases where the patient develops respiratory issues or cardiac issues, which are very common among those in the higher age groups and those with co-morbidities.” Of the current fleet on Covid service, only 164 ambulances that were there with the CATS as on May 15 belong to the administration, the others have been hired on a temporary basis, said another senior official in the health department who did not wish to be identified. Under Covid protocol, the ambulances have to go through a fumigation process on the completion of each trip. Each ambulance has a driver and a paramedic staff. They operate on 12 hour shifts, dressed in full PPE kit throughout their shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-3-months-430-more-cats-ambulances-put-on-covid-duty-cuts-response-time/story-pS1YbzREX6FwsSGedJpFgL.html
22-08-2020||India||IB staffer murder: Court summons Tahir Hussain, nine others to stand trial||A Delhi court on Friday summoned former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and nine other people as accused in the murder of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma, who was killed on February 25 during the north-east Delhi riots. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purshottam Pathak took cognizance of the police chargesheet in the case and directed the accused to appear before him through video conferencing on August 28.The court said prima facie it shows that Hussain had provoked and instigated people to promote enmity between Hindus and Muslims, by claiming that Hindu people had killed a number of Muslims and that they should not let them go scot-free.“On his provocation/ instigation, the Muslims turned violent on February 24 and February 25 and started burning shops and pelting stones and petrol bombs houses belonging to Hindus situated in that locality.…The uncontrolled mob turned into rioters and in process of rioting caught hold of Ankit Sharma and dragged him to Chand Bagh Pulia and attacked him using sharp and blunt objects/ weapons in a brutal manner and threw his body in the drain,” the judge said.The judge said that the “circumstances indicated that the riot took place in a planned manner resulted from a well hatched conspiracy and it was abetted by the leader of the mob, accused Tahir Hussain.”The judge said Hussain had facilitated the rooptop of his house and provided logistical support to the rioters. The court also said Hussain was leading the mob and that there is sufficient evidence to take cognizance against Hussain and others. Police had charged Hussain and others on June 3 under sections of murder, rioting, robbery among other sections. But the court did not take cognizance under sections of 505 ( intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community), and 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc) because of lack of sanction from the competent authority.“Even though cognisance has been taken and the case has been committed to sessions court for trial, it does not mean that offence is committed by the accused. It shows that the evidence given in the chargesheet is sufficient to start the trial. Moreover, the prosecution has to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt during the trial’” said advocate Javed Ali, who is represnting Hussain in the case.MM Pathak also took the cognizance of another charge sheet filed in the murder case of one Hashim Ali against nine persons. The judge said that the accused persons had lost their individuality and started working with the mob minds. Police had said that the accused person created a whatsapp group named - Kattar Hindut Ekta -- to mobilise rioters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-staffer-murder-court-summons-tahir-hussain-nine-others-to-stand-trial/story-YBzarK11qDXxtjEPNzsqfM.html
22-08-2020||India||Kerala moves High Court against govt decision to lease international airport||The Kerala government on Friday filed an application in the high court, seeking a stay on the Union government’s move to lease out Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises. In the plea, the government said the airport was handed over to a private entity while ignoring the state’s opposition and that a petition was already pending in the court questioning the 50-year lease. The state government filed the application a day after an all-party-meeting in Kerala demanded withdrawal of the Union government’s decision.Last year, the high court dismissed a petition challenging the decision, terming it as not maintainable under Article 226 of the Constitution. The state government then filed an appeal before the Supreme Court challenging the high court order. The apex court set aside the judgement of the high court and the matter was remanded back to it for a decision on merit.Referring to the top court directive, the state government said: “All further proceedings in relation to grant of lease with regard to operation, management and development of Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd, is to be stayed pending disposal of the aforementioned writ petition.”The Adani Enterprises won the rights to run six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati — through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February, 2019. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) had taken part in the bidding.Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted: “If Kerala Govt is against privatisation, then why did it participate in the bidding process? State Govt was given a fair chance & Right of First Refusal (RoFR) if their bid was within 10% below the range of highest bid. However, they bid 19.64 % below.”“Then they approached Hon’ble Kerala High Court which dismissed the petition in Dec 2019. Petitioners then filed a SLP in Hon’ble SC. Apex Court remitted the matter back to Hon’ble Kerala High Court. There is no stay in the case either by Hon’ble SC or Hon’ble Kerala High Court.“The Union Cabinet has given its go-ahead for awarding the airport to the private party subject to the outcome of Writ Petition & in accordance with provisions of undertaking given by the Concessionaire,” he added.Meanwhile, Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) decided to send 200,000 mails to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him not to lease out the airport to Adani Enterprises. “During pandemic times, the Centre is privatising all sectors, including civil aviation and railways. A selected group of businessmen are thriving under the present regime. We will not allow the transfer of the airport,” said party leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-moves-hc-against-govt-decision-to-lease-int-l-airport/story-bP3oxg1ZQ6IhbGII1pmGxO.html
22-08-2020||India||9 dead, 8 injured in fire at Telangana power plant||Nine people were killed and eight others injured after a fire broke out at an underground hydroelectric plant in Telangana, officials said on Friday. In a statement, the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) said there were 17 people present at the fire-hit unit of the Srisailam Left Bank Hydel Power Station (SLBHP) when the mishap occurred late on Thursday. “Eight of them managed to come out of the house with injuries, nine others remained trapped inside, as they were trying their best efforts to put out the fire and save the power plant from being burnt completely,” the statement said. Seven of the nine deceased were TSGenco employees. The SLBHP is a 900 MW hydel power plant, located on the Krishna river. It was constructed inside a two-km tunnel under the Nallamala hill range on the Telangana side of the Srisailam reservoir. The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained but Telangana power minister G Jagadeeshwar Reddy said that a short circuit in one of the electric panels of the power house might have caused it. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) were pressed into rescue operation immediately after the fire broke out, officials said. However, Reddy said that the “thick smoke that engulfed the tunnel” made it difficult for the rescuers to reach those trapped inside. “…Because of flames and heavy smoke, it was not possible to enter the tunnel. The rescue teams could enter the power house only by Friday afternoon. But by that time, all the nine employees were unfortunately found dead,” the TSGenco statement added. Out of the eight persons who managed to escape from the exit route in the initial hours, three were seriously injured and were being treated, the statement said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to express his condolences to the families of the deceased. “Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest,” he tweeted. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered a probe by Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the tragedy. He appointed CID additional director general Govind Singh as inquiry officer to probe into the cause of the accident and submit a report to the government. Describing the accident as “most tragic”, the CM conveyed his condolences to the family members of the deceased and wished a speedy recovery to the injured, an official statement said. He also announced ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the family of deputy engineer Venkatesh Goud, who died in the fire and Rs 25 lakh each to the families of the eight other deceased. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-dead-8-injured-in-fire-at-t-gana-power-plant/story-J6jprV5lrcq9iaHDbOsysL.html
22-08-2020||India||Hyderabad company leads race for Zojila Tunnel project||A Hyderabad-based infrastructure firm is likely to be awarded the contract for the construction of the long-pending Zojila Tunnel in the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, after the Centre shortlisted three firms for the project, officials familiar with the matter said. The government’s nodal agency for the strategic project, National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd, had issued a tender in June and opened the bids on July 24. The NHIDCL shortlisted three firms -- L&T Construction, MEIL and railways’ PSU Ircon International Limited (IRCON) -- on Tuesday. Hindustan Times has reviewed a copy of the notification. “Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) has emerged as the lowest bidder and is likely to be awarded but no official award letter has been issued yet,” a senior official, said requesting anonymity. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 4429.83 crore. The project, which will be implemented in two sections, involves the construction of a connecting road from Z-Morh Tunnel to Zojila Tunnel and a 14.150 km long bi-directional tunnel across Zojila Pass on the Sonamarg-Kargil section of NH-01 on Engineering, Procurement, Construction mode. The first section of the project is expected to be completed in 2.5 years and the second part 6.5 years. The long-pending project has gone through many design changes. In its previous tender a ‘parallel escape (egress) tunnel’ was also included earlier but has been done away with to reduce the cost of the project, officials said. The project got further delayed after it was stranded by IL&FS Transportation Network amid financial crisis.“MEIL has become an L-1 in the most prestigious Zoji-la pass tunnel in Jammu Kashmir-Ladakh in Himalayan region. National Highways and Industrial Development Corporation (NHIDCL) has opened the bids on Friday, and MEIL topped the list by quoting less than other companies. MEIL topped as L-1 by quoting for a less amount than the other two companies. On 30th July, three companies submitted the bids to NHIDCL, and the finance bids opened on 21st August. The project to be constructed in 2 divisions in two sections of about 33 kilometres,” MEIL said in a statement on Friday.“The road from Srinagar to Leh in Ladakh is not suitable for vehicular traffic throughout the year. The Srinagar-Ladakh highway is completely closed for six months, especially during the winter season. Even the military vehicles are unable to move under these conditions. Travelling long distances on alternate routes has become a costly affair and a waste of time. Under these circumstances, the road tunnel was proposed between Sonamarg to Leh and Ladakh via Kargil long back,” it added.The tunnel, likely to be Asia’s longest 14.2 km long two-lane tunnel road, is expected to reduce travel time between Srinagar and Leh to just 15 minutes, from the current from three and a half hours||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-company-leads-race-for-zojila-tunnel-project/story-jRQlbHm1wdj5eYRFALhXXL.html
22-08-2020||India||Lok Sabha officials to get new uniforms, yearly allowances||The Lok Sabha, home to many shades of politics, is likely to add a new dash of colours in the uniform of its officials soon, according to officials with knowledge of developments. Chamber attendants, who attend guests who come to meet the Speaker, will sport light blue safari suits instead of the current pale grey. Similarly, the Question branch and Table office—two key sets of back room staff of the Lower House -- will see a change in their uniform from cream to blue safari suits. It is a part of a big change in uniform policy initiated by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that will include senior House officials and those involved in public affairs receiving an annual allowance for uniform for the first time. Earlier, Lok Sabha officials were handed over cut pieces of cloth once in two years, which they would get stitched from any of the 4-5 Delhi tailors empaneled with the House. Now, women officers will get up to Rs 17,000 and men up Rs 16,000 depending on the nature of their jobs and ranks. Instead of every two years, House officials will sport a new uniform every year. Five key branches of the Parliament secretariat -- reporting, table office, security service, drivers and chamber attendants -- are eligible for the new uniform allowance and they will also sport new colours. The table office handles all paper work for the House, receiving notices for debates and introduction of bills, the question branch manages the background works for Question Hour. Parliament security is a special branch handling all security of the estate. The reporting branch takes verbatim notes of all discussions inside the House and parliamentary committees. Chamber attendants are in duty of the Speaker’s chamber handing VIP guests and the drivers run the ferry service for the lawmakers to shuttle them between their residence in Lutyens’ Delhi and the House. The new colour code may also make a distinction between senior and junior officers in the table office and question branch. While senior officers will wear blue safari suits, their juniors will sport either Prussian blue or charcoal-coloured uniform. “These branches deal with MPs and other visitors. They are the face of the Parliament secretariat in the public eyes and so, they have a set uniform that adds to the dignity and glamour of Indian Parliament,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity. The benefit of this allowance system, several officers pointed out, is that officials can buy their new uniform whenever they want, instead of getting it every two years. Also, they are free to buy clothes of better quality but which must adhere to the fixed colour patterns. The lady officers are to wear a fixed pattern saree, while men can choose between a range of safari suits—blue, fawn, Prussian blue, charcoal—depending on the section employing the person. In the winter, there are options of blazers and buttoned up coats for both men and women. Last year, the marshals of both Houses were relieved of their traditional attire but it stirred a controversy after the new uniform was found very similar to military uniforms. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu suspended the new uniform within a week and the marshals went back to wearing the Indian bandhgalas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-officials-to-get-new-uniforms-yearly-allowances/story-JaDRRemrvbiZ8TwZzfLKAI.html
22-08-2020||India||Heavy rain likely in central, western states this week: IMD||Two low pressure systems are likely to bring widespread, heavy rains in some central and western states in the coming week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low-pressure area over eastern Madhya Pradesh is likely to move westwards across the state in the next three-four days, an IMD official said on Friday. “During its transit, the system will bring extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) in Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Gujarat,” the official said, presenting the forecast for the next two weeks.The monsoon trough is active and south of its normal position (which is Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal), according to IMD.Under the influence of favourable conditions, widespread rain — with some very heavy spells — is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan in the next three-four days.Extremely heavy rain is also likely over eastern Rajasthan and the Gujarat region from August 21 to 23. Due to the low-pressure area, rainfall activity is likely to increase over eastern and adjoining areas in central India from August 23. Very heavy rain is likely over Odisha from August 23 to 24, over Gangetic West Bengal on August 24 and 25, and over Jharkhand on August 25.Around August 24, another low-pressure area is likely to develop over the Bay of Bengal. During the next one week, monsoon will remain extremely active in all parts of country, except Jammu and Kashmir and the southern Peninsula.Very active monsoon conditions in late August indicate that there may be an extended rainy season. “Normally, by August last week, rains start reducing very gradually. But this time, July was very weak. Monsoon picked up in August, and as of today, no monsoon model is showing any likelihood of reduction in rain...,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.According to an analysis of data from 1971-2019, monsoon starts withdrawing from northwest India around September 17, which is over two weeks later compared to the earlier normal date of September 1.Last year, IMD declared the beginning of monsoon retreat on October 9. And within a span of just five days, it withdrew from most parts of the country. The entire withdrawal process took just eight days. Previously, the process used to take about 45 days.“Modified onset and withdrawal dates have already been issued by IMD (in May). Our forecast also shows that we will record excess rains in September — about 106% of LPA (long period average) in August and September period. So, it’s very difficult to say when monsoon will retreat,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Till August 21, monsoon rain is 7% excess in India (6% excess over east and northeast India, 15% deficient over northwest India, 11% excess over central India, and 26% excess over southern Peninsula).The August 13-19 week recorded 42% excess rain compared to LPA for the week. This was the highest rainfall received in a week this monsoon season. LPA is the averages of monsoon rain recorded between 1951 and 2000.Five states — Delhi (143% excess), Gujarat (350% excess), Maharashtra (114% excess), Telangana (297%) and Chhattisgarh (62% excess) — recorded large excess rains during the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-central-western-states-this-week/story-PVD3F5I73ZxrjczYWKoltK.html
22-08-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects plea for inquiry into Gogoi’s conduct as top court judge||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition seeking an in-house inquiry against former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi over allegations of “misconduct” levelled by a 69-year-old man aggrieved by a 2016 order passed by the former judge. Gogoi demitted office in November 2019 and was recently nominated by the President to become a member of the Rajya Sabha.Arun Ramchandra Hublikar, a resident of Pune, had filed the petition against Gogoi in 2018. Appearing in person before a bench of justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, Hublikar demanded that a three-judge committee should be constituted under the in-house procedure for remedial action against judges of the higher judiciary whose conduct does not follow the prescribed Restatement of Judicial Values adopted by the Supreme Court in 1999. Hublikar said he was an industrial workman and pleaded that he was aggrieved by an “ex-parte” order passed by Gogoi in July 2016. He said, “This is a matter of concern for the institution and must be investigated in depth”. After hearing the petitioner, the bench said, “He has demitted office. Your every prayer has become infructuous. No prayer can be allowed. We cannot consider anything because of efflux of time.” Hublikar said, “What is my fault? Since 2018, I have been writing dozens of letters to the Supreme Court registry to list my petition. In April 2019, I even met the secretary general in this regard.” He requested the bench to at least order an inquiry based on his petition. The bench said, “Not like this can we order at your will,” as it proceeded to dismiss the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-for-inquiry-into-gogoi-s-conduct-as-top-court-judge/story-bp841jQGHAwe3ZxPDQtqQJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Supreme Court issues revised order with AG’s name in Prashant Bhushan case||The Supreme Court on Friday published a revised copy of its order passed on Thursday in the contempt-of-court case against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan to acknowledge the appearance of Attorney General KK Venugopal. The omission of Venugopal’s name in the order sheet published on Thursday had raised eyebrows in the legal fraternity. Venugopal appeared in the case in his personal capacity on August 5 when the matter was heard on merit, and on August 20 when the hearing on the sentencing took place.While the order sheet of August 5 contained Venugopal’s name, the one uploaded on August 20 did not. A revised copy was later published on Friday afternoon reflecting the AG’s name.“It is a minor error and not a big issue. These mistakes happen and nothing should be read into it. Moreover, the error has been rectified now,” senior counsel Arvind Datar said.Venugopal, 89 — whose consent, which is otherwise required, was not obtained before the matter was taken up by the Supreme Court and who was not heard by the court during the contempt hearings — appeared in his personal capacity before the bench on Thursday and argued the judges shouldn’t impose any punishment on Bhushan.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra held the activist lawyer guilty of contempt of court for two tweets on August 14.“The Attorney General (AG) is the pre-eminent member of the Bar and generations of judges have known and understood the high constitutional authority of that office. The manner in which he was ignored for four-and-a-half hours during the conviction hearing and then interrupted repeatedly today by the presiding judge is a slight against the entire Bar. Under the Constitution, the AG doesn’t need anybody’s permission to appear -- the fact that the present incumbent is a gentleman should not be taken as a sign of weakness,’’ said senior advocate Gopal Shankarnarayanan, who was following the proceedings of the court.The order sheet, a record of proceedings that transpire in court, contains names of all lawyers who appear in a case on the day of the hearing. The lawyers’ names are provided to the court staff on a form known as “appearance slip” by the advocate-on-record (i.e. the lawyer in whose name the petition and other documents are filed).The court staff then include those names in the order prepared by them, which is then published on the Supreme Court website. After hearings through video conference began before the Supreme Court on March 23, the appearance slip is submitted online.“Not including the Attorney General’s name in the order sheet is a serious issue and cannot be brushed aside as an inadvertent omission by the court staff. When the Attorney General for India appears and speaks in a case, it means his office is seized of the matter,” said Supreme Court lawyer and advocate-on-record Sriram Parakkat.“It does happen sometimes that names of junior lawyers who are part of a case are omitted by the court staff by mistake but such a mistake hardly happens when it comes to law officers, particularly the highest law officer of the country who is also a constitutional functionary.”In court on Thursday, the three-judge bench cut short the AG’s arguments and said its judgment of August 14 will not be reconsidered, and that the AG should not make arguments on the merits of the case. The bench later gave Bhushan 3-4 days to reconsider his stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-revised-order-with-ag-s-name-in-bhushan-case/story-TBe6vgHfO9V8eMPlKWA2JP.html
22-08-2020||India||We are transparent, non-partisan: Facebook||Facebook is a non-partisan platform that denounces hate and bigotry, the social media company’s India head said in a statement on Friday in an attempt to address allegations of political bias after a media report said its executives based in Delhi blocked action against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politician. Friday’s statement, uploaded on the website, was signed by Facebook India head Ajit Mohan, who did not go into the specific allegations against the company’s India policy head Ankhi Das. Das, according to an August 14 report by Wall Street Journal citing unnamed company insiders, opposed applying hate-speech rules to some members linked to BJP, including Telangana MLA T Raja Singh.“The decisions around content escalations are not made unilaterally by just one person ... the process comes with robust checks and balances,” Mohan, wrote in an online post titled “We are open, transparent and non-partisan”.Also read: ‘Facebook denounces hate and bigotry’, says its India chief amid content rowThe statement did not go into specific allegations that the company was giving BJP a preferential treatment. Mohan, who has previously defended Das in an internal memo, backed company employees on Friday without naming the policy executive. “This also reflects in our organizational set up - like a truly diverse organization, our employees represent a varied political spectrum who have either served in many administrations or have political experience and take immense pride in being active contributors to public service. Despite hailing from diverse political affiliations and backgrounds, they perform their respective duties and interpret our policies in a fair and non-partisan way,” the statement said.Facebook has been battling political fallout in recent days. The opposition Congress criticised the company while some ruling-party lawmakers have accused it of censoring right-wing voices to ostensibly pander to liberal sentiments.On Thursday, news agency Reuters reported that some Facebook employees in the United States and beyond had raised questions in internal forums about whether adequate content regulation practices were being followed by the India team. In an internal open letter to Facebook’s leadership, 11 employees demanded that company leaders acknowledge and denounce “anti-Muslim bigotry” and ensure more policy consistency. One source had said there was a debate happening internally at Facebook about content moderation processes.Also read: Why Facebook is wrong, yet again |OpinionA parliamentary standing committee on information and technology has summoned representatives of the social media company to appear before it on September 2 to present their views on the issue of safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social and online news media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-transparent-non-partisan-fb/story-wpbNY9Qgdkd8dYXthLeLDL.html
22-08-2020||India||3 Opposition parties back Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon FB officials||Members of at least three opposition parties are now backing Congress MP Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon officials from Facebook to answer a parliamentary panel over allegations that the social media company acted in a politically partisan manner to benefit the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Tharoor, who heads the 30-member panel on information and technology, till Thursday found support from Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra. The panel also has 14 MPs from BJP, which has opposed the committee’s decision to go into the matter. On Friday, the Hindustan Times reached out to at least one member of each party to see if they backed the senior Congress leader, and found that the DMK and TRS – in addition to TMC -- are in favour of the move. CPI(M) and Shiv Sena did not respond to repeated calls and texts to confirm their position, while YSRCP declined to comment. The lone LJP MP could not be reached since he was not fit to take a call, his aide told Hindustan Times. The Panel has 30 members and one vacant seat. Its Lok Sabha party representatives include two each from the Congress and TMC, 11 from BJP, and one each from DMK, CPI(M), Shiv Sena, TRS, LJP and YSRCP. The Rajya Sabha party members include two from Congress, three from BJP, one each from TMC and YSRCP and two nominated members. Of the 30, 15 are BJP and allies, while one seat is vacant. The controversy was spotlighted by the Wall Street Journal last week. The newspaper reported that Facebook India intervened in content moderation processes to ensure hate speeches by a BJP leader were not taken down – a claim the company has since denied. Facebook India on Friday evening reiterated it acts in an unbiased manner. “If Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg can appear in front of the US Congress to assuage their fears, then why a double standard when it comes to India,” said DMK MP Sumathy Thamizhachi Thangapandian. “The reports paint a grave picture and we would like to hear from Facebook about them.”She added that this was not only a point of concern for the parliamentary panel or the members of parliament, but also for the public at large. “They can’t selectively apply their rules or fulfil their obligations on the basis of which country is making the demand,” she added.TRS MP Gaddam Ranjith too said he would like to hear from Facebook on the matters. “If you ask me, yes I would like to hear an explanation from them,” Reddy told Hindustan Times. “I don’t find there is anything wrong with calling a meeting. It is well within the power of the chair.”Reddy also added that there was nothing wrong about seeking an explanation when Facebook was behaving in such a biased manner. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey objected on Thursday to Tharoor’s decision saying the chairperson does not have the power to summon anyone without the signature of the Secretary General. Dubey and BJP MP Rajyavardhan Rathore have also written to the Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking Tharoor be removed as chairperson for misusing his position for political purposes. “He (Tharoor) cannot use the panel to further his party’s interests. The Parliament is not an extension of the Congress,” Dubey had told Hindustan Times. TMC Mahua Moitra has also alleged that Facebook conducted a training in the Parliament annexe, where foreign entities are not supposed to be allowed. “They conducted the training last November or December,” she said. “When I asked officials in the Parliament about it, they said they didn’t know the training was being conducted by Facebook.”Hindustan Times reached out to Facebook for a comment about the panel invitation and Moitra’s allegations but did not receive a response. CPI(M) MP PR Natarajan, said that he would wait and watch how the proceedings go. “The Committee will meet on 1 September, let us see what grievances Dubey has,” Natarajan said. “We will raise and discuss the issue in the Committee.” Shiv Sena MP Dhairyasheel Mane too remained non-committal on the issue. PDT Achary, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, said the chairperson has a right to introduce a special subject during the proceedings and the members have to be informed about it, or a member can recommend a particular subject under Rule 276. In this case, he added, 276 need not be applied since the subject has already been selected. “Moreover, for selecting the witnesses, consent of the Committee is not required. It is the prerogative of the chair. The members are informed after that.” said Achary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-oppn-parties-back-tharoor-s-decision-to-summon-fb-officials/story-loRAFoXwIZ0iQDJ1u1UFwN.html
22-08-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah meets more National Conference leaders today||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah today held the second round of meeting with senior NC leaders at his residence in Srinagar in the backdrop of party’s allegations that several of its leaders were forcefully being kept under house arrest or detention.“The attendees included Mubarak Gul, Choudhary Ramzaan, Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi, Shameema Firdous, Basharat Bukhari. These members who were under detention/house arrest met Dr Farooq after over a year,” NC spokesman said, adding that party’s Provincial President Nasir Aslam Wani, Treasurer Shammi Oberoi, Political Advisor to Dr Farooq Mushtaq Guroo were also present.On Thursday too, Abdullah had met senior party leaders in the backdrop of the Jammu and Kashmir administration’s denial of NC’s contention in court that several party leaders were in illegal confinement at their homes.Yesterday’s meeting was the first at Abdullah’s Gupkar residence since the nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. He said it was called to find out whether his party colleagues could come out of their homes.NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and former ministers Mohammad Shafi Uri, Abdul Rahim Rather and Nasir Aslam Wani had attended the meeting yesterday.On July 13, Abdullah and his son, Omar Abdullah, filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court, contending that several NC leaders were being held in a “brazen violation” of constitutional guarantees of the right to liberty.The party decided to convene Thursday’s meeting after the administration told the court that none of the 16 leaders, who the party said were in illegal confinement, were detained.The government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, last August and also bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.In anticipation of protests erupting in the wake of the announcement, several political leaders and activists including former chief ministers were detained as a preventive measure. While prominent politicians such as ex-CMs Farooq and Omar Abdullah have been released, about 20 leaders, including Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti, are still in detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-meets-more-national-conference-leaders-today/story-wdLebvZgmNIS8LLGxlJk8H.html
22-08-2020||India||Haryana, Madhya Pradesh may face legal challenges over quota in jobs||Decisions by the Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments this week to push ahead for reservations in jobs for local residents has put the spotlight on the legal implications of the move with some experts saying such quotas may face a legal challenge. On Thursday, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said his government would bring a bill in the upcoming assembly session proposing reserving 75% of private sector jobs for locals. His announcement came a day after governor Satyadeo Narain Arya sought presidential approval for the state cabinet’s ordinance on the same issue. Arya decision was based Haryana’s law secretary’s view that the proposed law could be seen as violation of two articles of the Constitution --- Article 14 that allows equality before law and Article 16(1)(g) that allows freedom to practice any profession or trade. Haryana’s advocate general M B Mahajan said the proposed rule reserving jobs for locals did not violate any central law. “It also does not come in conflict with Article 14 of the Constitution, either,” Mahajan said. On Monday, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that all government jobs in the state would be reserved for students of the state, who have cleared class X and XII examinations from a school in the state. He said the regulations in this regard would be issued soon. Maharashtra (up to 80%), Andhra Pradesh (75%), and Karnataka (75%) already reserve private jobs for locals. Madhya Pradesh also provides 70% quota for locals in private jobs -- a decision taken during the previous Kamal Nath regime. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Ashok Arora said reservation for locals can be provided if the state can provide quantifiable reasons for the same to ensure equality. “The state governments will have to provide ‘reasonable’ ground for reserving jobs for locals which is quantifiable. And, this can be achieved only through a proper scientific study,” he said. In various judgments, the SC has said reservation can be given only after a detailed study providing evidence of socio-economic and educational backwardness. In the past, the SC struck down reservation in government jobs for castes such as Jats in Haryana and Marathas in Maharashtra in the absence of a detailed study.“The ground for giving reservation has to be socio-economic backwardness. Place of birth and residence cannot be a ground. This has been clearly stated by Supreme Court in at least 10 various judgments, if not more, since 1954. Providing reservation in any other form could be seen as contrary to the Constitutional norms,” said senior Supreme Court lawyer and Congress leader Vivek Tankha. Showing economic backwardness of local residents may not be easy. As per the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) of report of January 2020, Haryana’s per capita income was Rs 2,26,644 in 2018-19, sixth highest in the country after Goa, Delhi, Sikkim, Chandigarh and Puducherry. Maharashtra is ranked seventh, Andhra Pradesh 16th and Karnataka 17th in the per capita income index released by MOSPI.The Andhra Pradesh Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act, 2020, that stipulates reservation for locals in private sector jobs, is under challenge in the state high court on the grounds that it violates Article 16(2) and (3) of the Constitution that prohibit discrimination in employment on the ground of place of residence. Neighbouring Telangana too has approved a policy giving tax concessions to industries that reserve jobs for locals in the state. “The cabinet felt that the locals should have more opportunities in the industries being set up in the state,” said an official statement.Written and spoken knowledge of Marathi in Maharashtra, Tamil in Tamil Nadu, Kannada in Karnataka and Bengali in West Bengal is mandatory to be eligible for a government job. “It is a dangerous trend,” said Supreme Court lawyer Sanjay Hegde. “When job market is turning international, some states are trying to make it purely local for political reasons. It will hurt talent and development. There is sufficient ground to challenge these regulations in the Supreme Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hry-mp-may-face-legal-challenges-over-quota-in-jobs/story-rPpHh160qpDmPdH2iAGUDJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Sikkim health minister tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home isolation||Sikkim’s health minister M K Sharma has tested positive for Covid-19 and gone in for home isolation. In an official statement, Sharma said, “I would like to inform the Sikkimese people that I have developed symptoms of Covid-19 and got myself tested today and the result came positive. I’m under isolation and I’m fine. I appeal to everyone not to panic and request those who came in contact with me (primary) to self-isolate and get tested after seven days or if they develop symptoms.” Till Friday morning, Sikkim recorded 1,336 cases of Covid-19 while the death toll in the Himalayan state stood at three. In Sikkim, 834 people have been cured from the infectious disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-health-minster-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-home-isolation/story-vFDFUtbjgxG1BVGDLllPMN.html
22-08-2020||India||Show proof of Devangana Kalita ‘creating nuisance’: HC to cops||The Delhi high court on Friday, while reserving its order on the bail plea of Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, in connection with the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, asked the Delhi Police why they did not have any video of Kalita making instigating speeches. Justice Suresh Kait said that if Kalita had been “creating a nuisance since 2019”, the police should have collected some evidence against her. “Do you have anything to show that the speeches she made were troublesome? Don’t you think that you should have recorded or kept some evidence since she has been allegedly making a nuisance since 2019,” the court asked the police. Kait also remarked that during the riots, “the media was everywhere and had recorded everything”. “Show me any portion of the speech recorded by the media or anyone else which showed that Kalita instigated the mob to commit the crime...I want to know what she said that instigated the mob,” Kait said.The crime branch had arrested Kalita and another member of the group in May for their role in an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protest, which led to violent clashes in Jafrabad during the north-east Delhi riots. The two were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting, unlawful assembly and delivering inflammatory speeches. The investigating officer (IO) told the court that Kalita’s video could not be taken as she was about a kilometre away, behind the Jafrabad Metro station, while their camera person was positioned in the front. To this, the judge said, “Then how did you hear that she (Kalita) was making instigating speeches?” The IO responded that the station house officer had gone to the rear of the station when he heard her instigating the crowd. Appearing for Kalita, senior advocate Kapil Sibal told the court that she had been falsely implicated and had not made any instigating speech even though she had participated in the protest. He said there was no evidence proving her guilt, and that she had already been granted bail in two of the four FIRs. He played a video in the court to show that the police were recording the protest and said the officials were still not showing any videos to the court. He said the videos do not have any inflammatory speech. “Accused in not a politician. She is an academician and a research scholar. She has already been granted bail in two cases. Let the police show us the video and the hate speech,” Sibal submitted. Countering his submissions, additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju told the court that just because she had been granted bail did not mean that she was innocent. He said Kalita delivered speeches which led to widespread riots in the city and was also part of an unlawful assembly. Raju said there was no media on February 25 when the incident in question happened and the witness accounts showed Kalita’s role in instigating the mob. Kalita has been arrested in four cases related to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February and has been charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for her alleged role in hatching a conspiracy along with other accused persons. The Delhi Police have said that the riots were planned by some anti-CAA protesters, who blocked the road and made inflammatory speeches to incite people. The arrested anti-CAA protesters, who are students, student activists, and local politicians, have denied the police’s allegations and said that the police have launched a witch-hunt against the Citizenship Law protesters. The violence claimed 53 lives and left several others injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-reserves-judgment-on-pinjra-tod-member-devangana-kalita-s-bail-plea/story-YB7Kl2UUd4CJLjRWeJerPL.html
22-08-2020||India||Front-line workers must be vaccinated first, says report||Workers essential to sustaining the ongoing response to coronavirus disease (Covid-19); people maintaining core societal functions; and those at greatest risk of severe illness and death and their caregivers should be vaccinated first whenever a vaccine is approved but is still in limited supply , according to a new report released in the US on Wednesday. The report, written by public health experts led by the Center for Health Security at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, proposes establishing tiers of high-priority candidates who will receiving a vaccine first. Also read: ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infraFirst responders and those at risk are in tier one, with tier two including those providing non-Covid healthcare, people supporting maintenance of important societal functions such as police and fire personnel, transportation and delivery workers, food system workers, teachers, and workers involved in the maintenance of electricity, water, information, finance and fuel infrastructure, among others, those who may not be able to access health care if they become ill, and those working in sectors that raises their risk of infection.Apart from health and frontline workers, people over the age of 65, and those with chronic diseases, the report recommends protecting workers needed to maintain public safety, such as police and fire personnel. It also recommends vaccinating those who can spread infection, such as workers in high public contact jobs like transportation, grocery shops workers, teachers, and childcare workers, school-going children and children living with high-risk adults.Also read: 68.7k fresh Covid-19 cases take tally near 3 millionThe report, the Interim Framework for Covid-19 Vaccine Allocation and Distribution in the United States, can be applied in every country.There are 29 candidate vaccines undergoing human clinical trials, with eight vaccines in late stages of clinical evaluation around the world, according to the latest World Health Organisation Draft Landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. Another 138 experimental vaccines are in preclinical evaluation -- all adding to hope that one or more of these candidates will be available at scale in 2021.“The purpose of this report is to offer an additional ethics framework for use in making decisions about allocation of Sars-CoV-2 vaccine during this initial period of scarcity in the United States and make related suggestions about vaccine distribution. Our approach takes into account considerations of medical risk, public health, ethics and equity, economic impact, and logistics,” said authors.Also read: Serum Institute registers its Covid-19 vaccine trialIndia has not placed global pre-orders for a Covid-19 vaccine yet, but has begun talks with made-in-India vaccine producers on production and procurement. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration will meet the country’s leading vaccine developers and producers for the second time this week for information on their production capacity and plans on pricing. “No vaccine will be 100% effective, but with scientists working on many experimental vaccines, more than one is likely to be available next year. To ensure their timely availability for our population, including priority populations such as our Covid warriors, the expert group has begun consultations with vaccine manufacturers to plan ahead for the production, pricing and distribution of the vaccine, whenever it is ready,” said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage There is a lag from the time of vaccine administration to the production of a robust immune response, and many vaccines may need more than one dose to offer protection, say experts. “Even with a highly effective vaccine, it will take at least two weeks after the first dose for some immunity to develop, with full protection appearing around two to four weeks after the second dose. This means it may take six to eight weeks to develop immunity after vaccination, which can be short-lived. We still don’t know,” said a scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/front-line-workers-must-be-vaccinated-first-says-report/story-kpeJGVOqMItk8P52hmbH8O.html
22-08-2020||India||India’s jewel says goodbye||New Delhi Nearly 400 days since he played his last match for India, Mahendra Singh Dhoni has retired from international cricket, putting to an end both a storied career and months of speculation on his future. The 39-year-old made this announcement via an Instagram post on Saturday. “Thanks a lot for ur love and support throughout from 1929 hrs consider me as Retired,” the caption of the post read, which also contained a slideshow of images from his dazzling decade-and-a-half spell with the Indian cricket team, which he championed in several roles—as India’s most illustrious captain, distinguished wicketkeeper and also as one of the most destructive batsmen the world has ever seen. The career, then, began and ended with a run out. On December 23, 2004, a 23-year-old boy with a bleached mane was run out first ball during his debut match in Chattogram against hosts Bangladesh, ostensibly desperate to score his first international run. And on July 9, 2019—a day after he turned 38—Dhoni fell short of the crease in Manchester while attempting to take a second run against New Zealand in the semifinal of the World Cup. His score of 50 was unable to take India over the line, and as he walked back to the pavilion—disappointment stretched over his grizzled face—the whispers about his impending retirement had turned into a raging national debate. In between that shaky start and end, Dhoni’s storyline had the mythical narrative of a Bollywood movie (and indeed, a movie had been made on his life). He had a cricket-crazy nation starved of consistent success eating out of his hands, first with the bat, then with his gloves and most definitively, with his leadership. He also transcended the game, becoming a cultural icon, an emblem of small-town India — he came from Ranchi — making it to the top of the world. A blazing 148 in Visakhapatnam against Pakistan in just his fifth ODI made him both a household name and the country’s first-choice wicketkeeper. That hundred was scored while batting at No 3, just as his second ton (which also happens to be his highest ODI score of 183*) scored a year later was. But very soon, Dhoni would establish himself as a middle-order batsman of such repute that he would be recognised as the greatest finisher in the game, so much so that India was never beyond posting a grand total or chasing down an impossible target until he had had his say. In 2007, Dhoni’s first leadership test was at the inaugural T20 World Cup in South Africa. With Indian cricket’s behemoths—Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and then-captain Rahul Dravid—sitting out of the team in an untested format, Dhoni led India’s next-gen to his first of three ICC majors with a win against Pakistan in the final at Johannesburg. This he did by tossing the ball towards Joginder Sharma—a small-time bowler from a small town that no one had heard of— against a raging Misbah ul Haq, and his captaincy skills were never questioned again. The timing of that trophy ensured that India was gripped with the fever of T20 cricket, serendipitously in time for the Indian Premier League in 2008. As the star-captain of Chennai Super Kings, Dhoni set the marker for franchise cricket greatness by leading his team to the IPL final in eight out of the 12 seasons so far. CSK won three times. By 2008, Dhoni was captain of all three formats with the Indian team. Under his stewardship, and with a little help from coach Gary Kirsten, Dhoni dragged India to No.1 in the world in Test cricket for the first ever time in their history. This ranking was achieved with a drawn series in South Africa in 2011, making Dhoni the only Indian captain to have not lost a series on those shores. While the Test match was symbolic of Dhoni’s influence on a side that was fractured into unhappy factions right through the first decade of this century, Dhoni’s finest hour as both captain and batsman, undoubtedly, came at the 50-over World Cup that the subcontinent hosted in 2011. In the final against Sri Lanka at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai, Dhoni’s steely nerves burdened the weight of a tricky chase with 91 unbeaten runs, ending a 28-year wait for glory with a six that’ll perhaps always be entwined with his legacy. That legacy, however, was stained somewhat in the lead up to his sudden Test retirement in the middle of a Test series in Australia in 2014, possibly brought upon by several consecutive away series losses, including whitewashes in England and Australia, just after the World Cup win. Even after his Test retirement, Dhoni stayed on as India’s ODI captain until after the 2015 World Cup, completing his set of all ICC majors with a Champions Trophy victory in England (2013) along the way. Even as his fabled finishing touch abandoned him and his form in front of the stumps dipped drastically, Dhoni remained a constant in short-format cricket; partly due to his quick reflexes behind the stumps and mostly due to his ability to hand-hold new captain Virat Kohli. Dhoni was picked in Kohli’s 2019 World Cup squad, despite having scored his last international century in 2017. The debate over his presence raged on during the course of the World Cup, and for a few months after. The uncertainty over his future had all but hijacked his narrative. Until Saturday, that is, when he exited the global stage far more quietly than he had first exploded onto it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-jewel-says-goodbye/story-R4enx9ynaXafQp95fY7f1N.html
