26-08-2020||News||Biden will stay the course with India||So many major issues appear to be at stake in this November’s elections in the United States (US) — the recovery from Covid-19, race relations, unemployment, US-China competition, the composition of the Supreme Court — that Washington’s largely cooperative relations with India should normally be but an afterthought. But that did not prevent the Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, his running mate Kamala Harris, and several senior campaign advisers from participating in a virtual event on August 15 dedicated to India and Indian-Americans. While similar events had been held for other countries and constituencies, the content of the speeches and profile of the speakers were significant. The message was essentially two-fold: First, a Biden administration would look to preserve and further deepen the relationship with India and, second, that it would be particularly inclusive of Indian-Americans. Although Biden is a veteran of the American foreign policy establishment, there had been questions about his campaign’s approach towards India amid competing priorities. In his August 15 address, Biden described the relationship with India as a “special bond” and recalled his role in securing the passage of the India-US civil nuclear agreement as a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He pledged to continue “standing with India in confronting the threats it faces in its own region and along its border,” while also working with India to expand trade, tackle global challenges such as the climate crisis, and strengthen democracy. In his words, he hoped for an “honest conversation about all issues as close friends”.Biden’s top foreign policy adviser Tony Blinken similarly highlighted the Obama-Biden administration’s “significant progress in strengthening relations between our countries,” including the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), the Major Defense Partner status for India to be treated on a par with close allies, and cooperation on the Paris Climate Agreement. “There’s probably no common global challenge we can solve without India,” he argued. By contrast, Blinken said, Trump’s approach to India has been “basically full of photo-ops and short on actual real demonstrable progress.”The broad theme of building a more cooperative partnership with India is consistent with statements that Biden and his advisers have made elsewhere. For example, in an article in Foreign Affairs published in March, Biden effectively promised to build upon Trump’s approach to the Indo-Pacific. He argued that the US needed to work with democratic friends beyond North America and Europe, including Australia, Japan, South Korea, India, and Indonesia, “to advance shared values in a region that will determine the United States’ future.” In his policy platform — articulated in a document called “Joe Biden’s Agenda for the Indian American Community” — Biden pledged to “work with India to support a rules-based and stable Indo-Pacific region in which no country, including China, is able to threaten its neighbors with impunity.” Biden’s outreach to Indian-Americans, and articulation of priorities concerning India, suggest that the differences between Democrats and Republicans are not as wide on strategic relations with India as they are on most other issues. As an incumbent, Donald Trump’s approach to India during a second-term is already somewhat discernible, or at least as discernible as possible for a leader known for his inconsistency. More favourably disposed following his visit to India earlier this year, Trump would be expected to continue to deepen the US strategic partnership with India as part of his administration’s Free and Open Indo-Pacific strategy. This would potentially translate into even closer security coordination, deeper technological cooperation, and increased military interoperability, as part of several efforts that are currently underway.Instead, the differences between Republicans and Democrats of relevance to India would manifest themselves more in bilateral ties. Biden has spoken in favour of greater two-way trade, cooperation on global health and the climate crisis, and improvements in immigration policies. He has also underscored the importance of democracy and pluralism, as part of a cemented partnership between the two countries. By contrast, a second Trump administration would be likely to redouble efforts at eliminating trade deficits and restricting immigration. The biggest targets of his trade policies would be China, Mexico, Germany, and Japan, while Mexico and Central America would bear the brunt of immigration crackdowns. But in the short-run, India could be adversely affected by both.There had been widespread speculation about the prospect of a more difficult relationship between Washington and New Delhi in the event of a Democratic victory in November, one defined primarily by American disapproval over internal developments in India. This is unlikely. While less ambivalent than a Trump presidency, Biden and his advisers have now made it clear that their bigger priority is to build further upon the emerging strategic partnership with New Delhi. This should not be surprising. Whatever the outcome in November, the next US presidential term beginning in January will require the victor to deal urgently with a series of daunting challenges — a major public health crisis, a recessed national and global economy, and intensifying geopolitical competition in a more disorderly world. Dhruva Jaishankar is director of the US Initiative at the Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/biden-will-stay-the-course-with-india/story-Ott6O9eO6yB1Pg3NC6ZVDM.html
26-08-2020||News||Proposed reforms can light up the power sector | Analysis||Universal and round-the-clock access to affordable electricity is a prerequisite for India’s sustained economic growth. India is currently the world’s third-largest producer of electricity with an installed capacity of 371 GW. Going ahead, rapid growth and urbanisation will drive up the demand for electricity manifold, necessitating a healthy, efficient and consumer-centric power sector. It is in this light that an overhaul of The Electricity Act 2003 has been proposed. Many provisions of the 2003 Act are now archaic, given the sector’s rapid evolution, and this has resulted in several inefficiencies and challenges creeping in, hampering further growth. Foremost among these is a cash-strapped distribution sector, the weakest link in the value chain. Most distribution companies (discoms) today are beset with operational inefficiencies and acute financial crunch, with high Aggregate Technical and Commercial (AT&C) losses (averaging around 22%). Unsustainably designed tariff structures coupled with collection inefficiencies have played havoc with discoms’ cash flows, leading to their delaying payments to generators and also curtailing power purchase, both dampening investments in the sector. Over the last few years, we have been seeing a transition from fossil fuels to cleaner sources such as renewables, and the power sector must be future-ready to handle the interplay of distributed energy resources, storage, electric vehicle (EV) charging requirements and other emerging technologies. While these technologies have set the stage for next-generation technology reforms, legislative reforms are required to boost the sector’s viability while promoting transparency and accountability. Recognising this, even amid Covid-19, the government refocused its attention on power sector reforms, with landmark measures including a Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion to help discoms service overdue payments. However, it is the government’s draft Electricity Amendment Bill (2020) that has generated maximum interest, as it promises sweeping structural reforms to fix the health of distribution companies, boost investor sentiments and ensure the long-term sustainability of the power sector. The amendments proposed are forward-looking and impactful, which should pave the way for a thriving power sector. Some of the key positive tenets of the Bill include the following:One, it aims to help liquidity-starved discoms by mandating determination of tariffs purely on costs basis, without taking into account subsidies, which would be directly paid to consumers. This could solve discoms’ chronic cash-flow woes, enabling them to invest in improving infrastructure and clear outstanding dues. This will also boost transparency, as discoms will no longer be able to mask their inefficiencies. In parallel, rationalisation of tariff will ease the burden on industries making them competitive and support the atma nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiative. This should also ensure financial discipline across the value chain of the power sector.Two, the strengthening of the regulatory ecosystem for dispute resolution is also a welcome step. The proposal to bolster the strength of the appellate tribunal will help in speedy resolution of cases. A 60-day window for adopting tariffs post bidding is also a positive step to check unnecessary delays that bother investors. The Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) with civil court powers will help uphold contract sanctity, and should inspire confidence among private investors hamstrung by delayed payments, unilateral tariff and renegotiations on power purchase agreements, and random curtailments in offtake. However, to avoid complexities, the jurisdictional boundaries of Electricity Regulatory Commission and the proposed Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority need to be clearly defined. Three, enhancing private sector participation in the distribution sector by allowing sub-licensees will help attract capital, boost efficiency and improve service delivery. We have already seen public-private partnership models running successfully in Delhi and Mumbai. However, further clarity is required on structure, responsibilities and compensation mechanisms, and there must be adequate grievance redressal avenues to handle friction arising from possible rent-seeking behaviour. Four, the National Renewable Energy Policy will provide impetus to clean energy transition by creating a conducive investment climate and enabling market mechanisms. This will usher in a uniform, unambiguous regulatory ecosystem across the nation for promoting renewables at the state-level that is fully aligned to the Centre’s vision. High penalties for dishonouring Renewable Purchase Obligations should improve compliance and accelerate renewables’ adoption. As a next step, the government should consider an integrated National Clean Energy Policy focusing on resources and technologies including storage, energy efficiency, EVs and grid integration.The proposed reforms reflect the Centre’s intent to create a robust power sector for fuelling post-pandemic economic recovery. It is critical that these amendments see the light of day. Not surprisingly, it has met with resistance from some states, expressing concerns about the centralisation of powers, increasing privatisation and questioning the efficacy of the direct benefit transfer model for subsidising consumers. At the same time, there are states that have already started to move in the right direction, even in absence of the amendments. The proposed reforms can infuse much-needed momentum into the power sector if properly implemented and this needs the Centre and states to work in unison. This is an opportunity for the central and state governments to bury political motives and cooperate in the larger national interest for a vibrant power sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/proposed-reforms-can-light-up-the-power-sector-analysis/story-PQ4WNe09HETzkOrTE7SOwN.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Dadumajra waste plant can perform at 40% capacity at best: IIT Roorkee||Recommending setting up of a new “modern” waste processing plant at the existing site in Dadumajra, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee in its report has stated that even after the existing machinery is repaired, the plant can at best run at only 40% of its total capacity.Department of civil engineering, IIT Roorkee, in its “Status Report of 500 TPD Solid Waste Processing Plant, Chandigarh” has stated, “The best way is to set up a new modern 500 TPD (tonnes per day) plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot. For the wet waste stream – biological treatment will be required to meet Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM) 2016 rules.”On the working of the existing plant, which was recently taken over by the municipal corporation (MC), IIT experts state that it is currently working at only 10% of its capacity.The plant was constructed in 2008 as per the Municipal Solid Waste 2000 (MSW) guidelines. “All machines are already 12 years old, which is practically the life of such machines. Primary and secondary shredders are not in working condition,” states the report.In a best case scenario for the existing plant, the report states, “For dry waste or mixed wastes, even after repairs/maintenance of existing machinery, shredder, trommels, etc., the existing plant will at best handle 60 to 65 TPD. Hence, if the corporation expects the plant to treat 200 TPD (40% of 500 TPD), additional new equipment will be required.”Terminating Jaypee Group’s contract, the MC General House on March 4 had approved a detailed revival plan that included getting the plant examined from IIT Roorkee.After MC took over the plant in June, it requested IIT Roorkee to visit the plant and suggest measures for improving its capacity and effectiveness.Notably, earlier National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research had also recommended, “complete replacement of the machinery to process MSW with new technology is required”.Poor solid waste management has been among the primary causes for Chandigarh’s poor performance in the annual Swachh Survekshan this year (rank 16) as well as in 2019 (rank 20).BOXFINDINGS IN THE REPORTThe plant is processing around 30 tonne per day waste – only 10 % of the design capacityThe plant is designed only for processing source-segregated dry wasteHousekeeping and regular cleaning, as well as painting, is not up to the markStorm water management is poorNo record of air emissions, compost quality and calorific value of refuse-derived fuel (RDF)RECOMMENDATIONSBy strict enforcement of segregated waste collection rules, the capacity can be increased to 20-40 %Keep the unprocessed waste in the shedFinal RDF should be stored in a covered area with regular testsRoutine operation and maintenance logbooks, and repair schedule should be maintained for all machinesConduct regular stack monitoring for air pollutants of incineratorsAfter incorporating these suggestions, conduct an analysis of all machines in coordination with the manufacturers and IITBut, the best way is to set up a new modern 500 TPD plant for dry and wet waste treatment in compliance with SWB 2016 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-dadumajra-waste-plant-can-perform-at-40-capacity-at-best-iit-roorkee/story-p6XzNAWEuzR1MPq8kk1PDJ.html
26-08-2020||City||Tough times ahead for daily wage workers from tribal villages of Shahpur||Around this time every year, Pandurang Kale, 45, used to return to Sarangpuri village in Shahpur, less than 90km from Mumbai city, after having earned a good sum by working as a daily wage worker in Bhiwandi and the neighbouring cities for six months. He used to help his family in agricultural activities till Diwali, after which he would return to the city. This year, the Covid pandemic and resultant lockdown have changed the pattern for Kale and other men from more than 300 families from the tribal villages of Shahpur and Murbad areas of Thane district, who travelled to cities to work in brick kilns or at construction sites. As daily wage workers, they used to earn around ₹15,000-₹20,000 over three months. Forced to return home in March, their earning took a hit and the extended lockdown is only adding to their financial woes, making even survival tough for many. “This is the time when our children used to be in ashram schools and receive mid-day meals. We would get food at our workplaces, but everybody is at home now. With no earnings and need for more resources, we started to cultivate rice in our front yard. This will help us for the next few months,” said Kale, who has a family of five, his mother, two children and wife. “Usually, the money we earn by working as daily wage labourers helps us sail through, even in case of an emergency. However, we could not earn anything after March this year and have exhausted all our savings. We have extra mouths to feed, with our children having no schools due to the lockdown,” said Vithal Wagh, 40, from Murbichapada village, also in Shahpur. Wagh has three children and elderly parents to look after. Hiralal Sonawane, CEO, Zilla Parishad, Thane, said, “We provide 5kg of grains every month to each person in the villages. We are also coming up with livelihood options for women self-help groups such as making masks, cloth bags or sanitary napkins.” However, the villagers claim they have not been getting food grains, “All that we get we divide it equally among all villagers. We will not be having any other source of income till Diwali now,” said Tulsi, 35, Wagh’s wife, who fears they may have to resort to begging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tough-times-ahead-for-daily-wage-workers-from-tribal-villages-of-shahpur/story-k0FdbgS7MQVejuxscomttJ.html
26-08-2020||City||KDMC recovers ₹24.79 lakh in inflated bills from 16 private Covid hospitals||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has returned ₹24.79 lakh to Covid patients who were overcharged for treatment at 16 private hospitals in the jurisdiction. The money was recovered following audits of overcharged bills by the 16 Covid hospitals. As per the audit carried out by a flying squad set up by the civic body, since June 25, a total of 16 hospitals were under watch, and their bills for Covid treatment were monitored and audited. “Based on complaints and also generally, our squad members are deployed at hospitals to check the bills and ensure that patients are charged as per the rates fixed by the government,” said a KDMC official. Throughout the audit, the squad found objection to ₹46.93 lakh in bills, of which ₹24.79 lakh was refunded. Earlier, the civic body had also suspended the license of the two private Covid hospitals and instructed them to refund the overcharged amount and follow all the directions set by the KDMC and state government.The squad had audited nearly 100 bills of these hospitals, following which it served notices to the errant hospitals, asking for explanations. Those hospitals which failed to explain their inflated bills had their licenses suspended and had to refund the overcharged amount to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-recovers-24-79-lakh-in-inflated-bills-from-16-private-covid-hospitals/story-2NbKAFb6ZXxNBF7HrqLGON.html
26-08-2020||City||26-year-old gunned down in Modinagar, victim’s family names MLA’s husband in conspiracy||The police on Tuesday booked five people for the murder of a 26-year-old man in Modinagar in Ghaziabad on Monday evening and named three others, including the local MLA’s husband, for criminal conspiracy on a complaint filed by the victim’s family. Denying the allegations, the Modinagar MLA hinted at a political conspiracy to frame her husband. On Monday evening, 26-year-old Akshay Kumar was called out of his house near Tibra road in Modinagar town by a few persons who fired several gunshots at him and fled from the spot. The police said the victim was rushed to a hospital run by MLA Dr Manju Siwach and her husband Dr Devendra Siwach, where he was declared brought dead. “The victim suffered several gunshots and succumbed to the injuries. His body was sent for an autopsy. Soon after the incident, local residents, along with the victim’s family, blocked the main road for about an hour but left the spot after being pacified by the police. They gave a police complaint and named eight persons, including three for criminal conspiracy,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The victim was arrested last year in a murder case and was out on bail on health grounds, the police said. The five persons named in the FIR for murder and rioting are Ashwini Singh, Vikas Singh, Sappu Gurjar, Amit Kumar alias Chuhiya and Aditya Kumar alias Vasu. The three named for criminal conspiracy are Ruby Singh, who is the wife of suspect Vikas, Dr Devendra Shiwach and Ashish Kumar, who is the husband of a local pradhan of Tibra village. “The victim has several cases against his name and had been to jail for killing a man named Dipendra Kumar alias Dippan. Akshay Kumar was granted bail in November on health grounds,” Jadaun added. The police said most of the suspects named in the FIR were from Dipendra’s family or were known to him. “Ruby is Dipendra’s sister and Vikas’ wife. Dipendra was murdered in April 2019 and since then Akshay had been in jail and came out on bail in November 2019. Earlier, Akshay and Dipendra were friends but became rivals after a dispute regarding a canteen that they ran together,” Jadaun added. Manju Siwach denied all charges against her husband and said that it was up to the police to conduct a free and fair probe. “I can only say that my husband’s name has been dragged unnecessarily into the incident. The victim’s family had brought him to our hospital and the on-duty doctor declared him brought dead. After that, my husband had a look at the patient but he was already dead. Out of nowhere, on Tuesday, the victim’s family named my husband in the case. I am sure that it is due to some political motives,” the MLA said. “One of the reasons I could think of is that after the last year’s murder case, Akshay’s family had approached us to pressure the police to lodge a counter FIR against Dipendra’s family. But we refused to interfere and to take any side. Now, I want the police to probe the ongoing case in a free and fair manner,” she added. Police on Wednesday said they had come across CCTV footage in which Ashwini is seen talking to the victim outside his house when an I-10 car arrived. “Thereafter a shooting took place and one of the assailants, Anurag Tyagi, sustained suspected accidental injuries to his abdomen. Ashwini took him in the I-10 car to a private hospital in Meerut where Tyagi is in critical state. Ashwini, Vikas, Ruby and others are on the run. We arrested Ashwini’s brother Rahul Chaudhary for providing shelter to the assailants. So far, we have got no evidence against the MLA’s husband,” Jadaun added. Police sources said that Akshay Kumar sustained about 7-8 gunshots fired from a close range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-gunned-down-in-modinagar-victim-s-family-names-mla-s-husband-in-conspiracy/story-Op7k10azSk3vHkOuZVbtKP.html
26-08-2020||City||TMC seals three private hospitals for operating illegally||Nine months after the Bombay high court’s order to seal three private hospitals operating illegally in Kalwa (East), the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) finally sealed them on Wednesday. The three hospitals did not have no-objection certificates (NOC) from the fire department nor NOC for biomedical waste disposal, informed a TMC health officer. In November 2019, the HC had passed an order to seal the three hospitals in Bhaskar Nagar and Waghoba Nagar in Kalwa. “A petition was filed by Amit Mishra and Tribhuvan Singh in 2018 against the three hospitals. The petitioners claimed that the hospitals did not have fire NOC; permission to process biomedical waste; the structures were illegal; the doctors were not well-qualified, and the hospitals were operating illegally. Based on this public interest litigation (PIL), the court asked us to investigate the hospitals,” said Dr Raju Murudkar, civic health officer.The corporation found some of the claims related to fire and biomedical waste to be true and informed the court. “We told the court accordingly, and in November, the court asked us to seal the hospitals if the norms were not followed. We had given time to these hospitals to file for fire NOC, and they had applied, however, the fire brigade rejected the applications as the hospitals were not fire safe. They also did not have any system to dispose of their biomedical waste,” said Murudkar.Thus, a decision to seal these hospitals was taken. “We were going to seal them earlier this year. However, due to the Covid situation, we did not have the required manpower. The civic commissioner now gave orders to seal them,” Murudkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-seals-three-private-hospitals-for-operating-illegally/story-alIhpvbWzq9vmRRKuRqc6O.html
26-08-2020||Noida||Forest department writes to police commissioner, seeks security for birders||In the wake of three wildlife photographers being robbed at gunpoint last week at the Dhanauri wetlands, the Gautam Budh Nagar Forest Department has written to the Noida police commissioner seeking security for birders.The letter, a copy of which was forwarded to the forest conservator and the regional director Meerut, oh which HT has seen a copy, asserts that a number of wildlife lovers and birders often visit the wetland and it’s important to have some security in the area for their sake.“Wetland Dhanauri in Gautam Budh Nagar is home to a large number of Sarus cranes. Due to this, birders, local residents and others often visit the area. It is therefore requested that you kindly instruct the Dankaur SHO to make proper security arrangements in the area so that birders can freely and fearlessly watch birds,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, while quoting media reports where birders claimed lack of security in the area.On August 24, three armed criminals on a motorcycle robbed two Noida-bases photographers of their camera which was worth Rs 5 lakh, while the duo was in their car. Following the incident, several birders had expressed shock stating that it would project the otherwise peaceful Dhanauri wetlands in a bad light. Meanwhile, police officers have said that they have already taken necessary steps to make security arrangements in the region. Officials said they were unaware about the importance of the wetlands or that it attracts many birders. “After the incident, we took necessary steps and deployed security personnel there. We were not aware that the wetlands attracted so many birders. It was only after the incident that we came to know about it. If necessary, we will also set up a police post in that area,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.Situated in Greater Noida, the Dhanauri wetlands are home to over 211 species of resident and migratory birds. It’s also believed to be one of the largest roosting and breeding ground of Sarus cranes in the region. The wetland has been proposed to be a Sarus crane sanctuary and a Ramsar site for which survey of over 101 hectares of the wetlands is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/forest-department-writes-to-police-commissioner-seeks-security-for-birders/story-GJLFgrl13V4St8eX0WljeL.html
26-08-2020||Noida||Fire reported at toy manufacturing factory in Noida, no one hurt||A fire broke out at a three-storeyed toy manufacturing factory in Noida Sector 63’s industrial area on Wednesday afternoon. No casualties were reported and the cause of the fire was not yet known. “We got information around 2.30 pm. The fire was already going strong. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot. It took 22 tenders to bring the fire under control,” Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said. Officials said the fire was reported by workers present in the factory located at D Block of Sector 63. “The fire has not been completely doused yet. It will take us all night to completely end it. The heat within the building is high and small fires keep popping up,” Singh said. The CFO said the manufacturing of toys involves a loot of wood and plastic, which fuelled the fire. “The cause and origin of the fire is unclear. The damage to property will be assessed to understand how much loss has been incurred. We were able to contain it to a single building and the nearby structures are safe,” Singh said. Police officials said a probe into the cause of the fire is under way and no formal complaint has been filed yet. “The cause of the fire is unclear and it took hours to bring it under control. The factory was operational when the fire broke out and the workers had first reported it. There were no injuries in the incident,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.Police said they heard through sources that a fire had been reported at the same factory in May 2017 but the owners have not confirmed it. The earlier fire had also been massive but there hadn’t been any casualties back then either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-reported-at-toy-manufacturing-factory-in-noida-no-one-hurt/story-kKUNkhIYJyMTZlDSNKghnM.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Railways, civic bodies consider staggered office timings to curb crowding in trains||Commuters who used to travel in packed suburban trains prior to the lockdown may get some relief once the Railways decides to resume local operations. The Railways is in talks with civic bodies in Mumbai city and the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to see if public and private offices can agree to implement staggered office timings. The move is aimed at reducing the crowds in trains, which is the major reason why the authorities have been reluctant to resume the suburban train operations that were shut in May.The Railways, along with municipal corporations in the MMR are working on creating specific office shift timings and tweaking local train timings to avoid overcrowding inside compartments and on the railway platforms. A plan on the implementation of staggering office and local train timings is being finalised.Local train services were cancelled from March 23 to the general public. A few train services were resumed on June 15 only for those working in essential services in the city. Identification of government and private offices in different wards, along with recording details of employees are being undertaken, and a database will be created, said Railway officials.“We are working alongside different municipal corporations for the introduction of shift timings for offices. After the mapping is completed, staggered office timings along with revised train timings will be implemented,” said GVL Satyakumar, divisional railway manager, Western Railway (WR).The IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry expressed support for the idea. “IMC will fully support any decision taken that looks at lives and livelihood in a balanced manner. Mumbai suburban trains are the economic lifeline of the city and must resume with due care in place,” said Rajiv Podar, president, IMC.The plan to introduce staggered office timings was first floated by former Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu during his tenure in 2015. Prabhu, a resident of Mumbai, was aware of the commuting problems of locals.He had multiple discussions with the state government on ways to reduce crowding in trains. Prabhu had also directed Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) to prepare a report on the staggering of work hours. The report was later submitted to the state government and suggested that organisations which have a less public interface, including back offices, IT, manufacturing, corporate and accountancy firms should encourage their employees to work from home. Offices could also stagger the weekly-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-civic-bodies-consider-staggered-office-timings-to-curb-crowding-in-trains/story-kOwmwskA5lOZZlA9YQsLOP.html
26-08-2020||Noida||Noida: Organic food company duped of ₹38L on pretext of Covid medicine development||A sector 58-based organic food company has alleged that it was duped of nearly Rs 38 lakh by a US-based firm on the pretext of procuring raw material for development of Covid medicine.The complaint was filed by officials of Elworld Agro and Organic Foods Private Limited located in Sector 58. They have alleged that they were contacted by a US-based firm for the import of Pictoria Oil for the development of Covid medication.“The first call came on August 14. They US firm alleged that they work for WHO and the Red Cross. The next call came on August 16 and then on August 18. One of them claimed to be a WHO representative posted in Delhi. They started communicating with our CMD for the import of raw materials,” said the complaint filed by the general manager of the company, Ram Kumar Mishra.The suspects then asked the company to purchase Pictoria Oil from another particular Indian company and supply it to them. Elworld Agro paid Rs 27.99 lakh to the above mentioned Indian company in multiple bank accounts.“They said that we should first send them a sample of one litre and once it is approved, they would take another 100 litres and transfer the money. Meanwhile, we were later asked for an additional Rs 10 lakh by the Indian company to ensure supply of oil on time, which we paid. On August 21, we were asked for an additional Rs 17 lakh. During this time, the payment instruction on the US company’s letterhead showed a figure different from what had been agreed on. The letterhead also showed that we had received payment, when we hadn’t. These immediately raised red flags,” said the complaint.Following this, a case was registered against three suspects, at the sector 58 police station under sections 420 and 406 of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 of the IT Act.Police officials said that despite the phone numbers seeming to be American, they could be local numbers being re-routed through a fake call centre.“The bank account has been traced to Maharashtra and the cyber cell is working on the case,” said Shavez Khan, station house officer, sector 58 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-organic-food-company-duped-of-38l-on-pretext-of-covid-medicine-development/story-ZcuQfCWEJqlxI3UaojfepM.html
26-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Fruit-seller bludgeoned to death over ₹2,500||Gurugram: A 32-year-old fruit seller was bludgeoned to death on Tuesday afternoon near the bus stand in Sector 14. Police have booked an acquaintance of the victim on charges of murder after a friend of the victim alleged that earlier this week the accused had allegedly threatened to kill the victim during a confrontation over settling a debt of Rs 2,500. According to the police, the victim has been identified as Bablu, from Bhiwani. Police said he sold fruits on a cart near the bus stand and often slept in the open at Mahabir Chowk. The accused, identified as Om Prakash alias Om, is also a fruit seller. Police said preliminary probe has revealed that at least four months ago, Om Prakash had allegedly borrowed Rs 2,500 from Bablu and Bablu’s friend Gaurav. A few days after borrowing the money, Om Prakash went to his hometown in Ludhiana, Punjab due to the lockdown. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said: “Ten days ago, Om Prakash returned to Gurugram and resumed work. On Saturday, Bablu and Gaurav demanded their money back and an argument ensued over the issue. In the alleged confrontation, Bablu slapped Om Prakash at least twice. Om Prakash picked up a brick and was about to hit Bablu when Gaurav intervened.” Police said at the time, Om Prakash allegedly threatened to kill both Bablu and Gaurav and left. On Tuesday, Bablu was found dead at Mahabir Chowk and the incident was reported to the police by a commuter. Police said he was identified late Tuesday and the statement of Gaurav was recorded. In the statement, Gaurav alleged that Om Prakash had murdered Bablu as he had vowed revenge earlier and threatened to kill them after he felt insulted. Police said the victim suffered severe head injuries and was hit by bricks. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The accused is at large and police is conducting raids to arrest him.” A case has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station on Wednesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-fruit-seller-bludgeoned-to-death-over-2-500/story-cYvGwTATQJyPsDKkRlOviM.html
26-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 19-yr-old DU student chases suspect who snatched her phone, gets him arrested||Showing unwavering determination, a 19-year-old Delhi University student nabbed a 24-year-old man who tried to loot her mobile phone in Vasundhara early Wednesday and fled. According to the police, the suspect was nabbed and arrested following a complaint registered at the Indirapuram police station.Aastha Singh, a resident of Sector 3 in Ghaziabad’s Vasundhara, was on her daily morning run when the suspect, around 6:30am, came to the Budh Chowk area and allegedly tried to snatch her mobile phone. Seeing no one around for help, Singh chased the suspect for about 500-600 metres and nabbed the man red handed.“He was running very fast after snatching my mobile phone and I decided to give chase. When I got near him, I pushed him and he fell down. There was a scuffle and the man fell down. I landed several blows on him and by that time, some locals came. A 12-year-old boy who was cycling nearby also came for help and picked up my mobile phone which broke down,” she said. Thereafter, Singh, the boy and two other locals brought the suspect to a nearby police post but no cops were present, she said. Thereafter, a call was made to the police emergency number and a PCR van arrived. “Before the PCR van arrived, the man fled from outside the police post and boarded an auto which was going towards Sahibabad. The boy told us that he saw the suspect boarding an auto. Thereafter the PCR van arrived and the two cops asked me to board the vehicle and we chased the auto for about a kilometre. Near Sahibabad, the suspect de-boarded the auto and ran towards an area with some shanties. But we traced him and he was arrested,” Singh added. The young student is pursuing her second year of graduation from Hindu College in Delhi. “I was not afraid of the snatcher and chased him with a thought that how could he take away my mobile phone just like that. I was not ready to let him go so easily. So I got into a scuffle with him and finally he fell down before we took him to the police post,” she added.The police said the suspect was identified as Mohammad Faizal who is from Sahibabad. “Based on the complaint by the woman, we have registered an FIR and the man is arrested. He is a resident of Sahibabad. With efforts made by her we finally got the man arrested. She had nabbed the suspect and thereafter a call was given to the PCR,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-19-yr-old-du-student-chases-suspect-who-snatched-her-phone-gets-him-arrested/story-VYdIT6JKHWF1v8AM5bmyPK.html
26-08-2020||Gurugram||Cyber City accident: Juvenile booked for drink driving||The police on Wednesday added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (for drink driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act to the FIR against a 16-year-old boy who was allegedly involved in the road accident that killed a 49-year-old motorcyclist, Alok Gupta, in Cyber City on Sunday morning. Police said the juvenile and his parents have joined the investigations and will be produced before the juvenile justice board (JJB) and a court respectively. Police said they have followed the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in 2014, where it has been directed that in offences involving punishment up to seven years’ imprisonment, the police may resort to arrests only when the same is necessary and the applicant does not cooperate in the investigations. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (east), said that they had sent a notice following which the family joined the investigation and are cooperating with the police. “If the applicant had not cooperated in the investigations, then we could have arrested them,” he said. Mohan said the offence is bailable so they did not apprehend the minor and have given direction to parents not to allow him to travel abroad or outstation without informing the police. “We will send him for counselling to the child welfare committee once his injuries heal,” he said. Police on Tuesday had recorded the statement of the two minor boys who were allegedly involved in the road accident that led to the death of Gupta. A case under sections 279 and 304A of Indian Penal Code was registered at DLF Phase 2 police station on Sunday. Gupta, a resident of BPTP Park Life in Sector 57, was on his way to Jewar in Greater Noida on Sunday morning, when a speeding MUV collided with his bike near Belvedere Towers in DLF Phase-2. Gupta was killed at the spot. He was accompanied by a friend, who was following him in another bike who took him and the two juveniles to a private hospital in an ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cyber-city-accident-juvenile-booked-for-drink-driving/story-4CBObzQatFEp3sJ0xdlJAK.html
26-08-2020||Gurugram||Orange alert issued for Gurugram as authorities brace for rain; over 4,000 cops on standby||With the regional meteorological centre (RMC) issuing an orange warning for the National Capital Region (NCR) from Wednesday till Friday, the authorities are scrambling resources to ensure the city is better prepared against flooding as compared to last week.On August 19 and 20, heavy rains had left at least seven underpasses and most parts of Gurugram heavily inundated.An orange warning indicates high intensity of rain for which disaster management authorities need to undertake requisite preparations to prevent calamities and flooding.In this regard, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Tuesday night issued an internal order to all staff members stating that “severe to heavy rain is predicted from tomorrow (Wednesday) to August 29; All officers to maintain station even during weekend.”Singh said he has directed all staff members to be on alert with necessary equipment to ensure response against possible waterlogging can be swift and the impact minimised.“Prior to the monsoon season, we had formulated various teams of officials to undertake counter waterlogging measures. To ensure there is no reduction in their strength, and if additional manpower is needed all staff members have also been directed to remain in the city this weekend. Further, they have been told to keep necessary machinery on-ready so that these can be deployed at waterlogged spots immediately and the impact is minimal,” said Singh.According to MCG officials, over 450 staff members, which would include contractors, would be on stand-by.On Monday, MCG, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), district administration, and traffic police officials had held a video-conference to discuss and decide upon the various measures that can be taken to prevent heavy waterlogging in the city.During the meeting, officials of both GMDA and MCG were directed to clean and desilt drains, and install motor pumps at 18 critical spots across the city, including 11 new ones which were found to be heavily waterlogged last week.“We have installed more than 60 motor pumps at these 18 spots. At each of them, drains had been cleaned prior to the monsoon. However, the volume of rain was so intense on two continuous days last week that the existing drainage lines couldn’t alone suffice. We have once again cleaned these to increase their maximum drainage capacity along with placing additional machinery,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, while also stressing that these are all “temporary and short-term” measures and that MCG is working on long-term solutions as well.These 18 spots include Golf Course Road, Narsinghpur, Hero Honda Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, sectors 39, 28, 15 Part-2, 31, 10A, Sushant Lok-1, and South City-1.GMDA chief engineer Pradeep Kumar said that similar directions, as the MCG, have been sent out to GMDA officials to not venture outside Gurugram on the weekend and remain on standby.Kumar further said that site inspections were carried out at Narsinghpur and Chakkarpur bandh on Wednesday to check their drainage measures, and if any augmentation was required.“Prior to last week’s rains we had placed 12 large capacity motor pumps at different parts of the city. Now we have added 10 more to parts such as Jwala Mill Road, Narsinghpur, Golf Course Road among others to ensure waterlogging is minimal,” said Kumar adding that over 60 GMDA officials have been directed to remain on standby for heavy rains.Gurugram police meanwhile held a meeting on Wednesday regarding flood preparedness with all station house officers (SHOs) to discuss the next plan of action and for assigning duties to officials on-ground.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that tasks and deployment of various police teams have already been shared with all teams and a roster has been prepared with the area in-charges.“All teams have undergone briefing and have been trained to tackle the situation and how to remove vehicles stuck in water or potholes, as well as how to use ropes to remove them. We will also be using the Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC) developed by the GMDA to monitor waterlogging and traffic jams for sending information to officials deployed at the affected spots. At least 4,250 police personnel are on standby and will be asked to reach the affected spot as soon as waterlogging begins,” said Rao.Rao said there is feed from nearly 350 CCTVs at the ICCC for keeping an eye on vehicular movement and to look out for water accumulation. Police said most of the important roads have been under surveillance and police teams have identified. “We are using wireless phones to pass on messages. The teams have been trained to coordinate between the ICC and on the spot so that there is no confusion and messages are shared promptly so that action can be taken immediately,” said Rao. At least 28 cars and 35 two-wheelers were removed in last week’s deluge with the help of cranes.The police commissioner said 32 traffic vulnerable points have been identified across the city and extra deployment has been done there to manage the traffic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/orange-alert-issued-for-gurugram-as-authorities-brace-for-rain-over-4-000-cops-on-standby/story-c8n1uB9MlWvCzvtwcvMyIP.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||CSMT, Churchgate railway stations to get automated control gates soon||In a pilot project to reduce overcrowding in suburban railway stations, the Central and Western Railway will be introducing automated control gates on two railway stations.The gates will be introduced in September at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Churchgate railway stations. The gates will be operated with the help of QR codes that will be given to essential services workers who are currently travelling by local trains. This move comes as both the Central and Western Railway are working on methods to introduce social distancing inside the train compartments. Wearing of facial masks could also become compulsory inside the compartments.“Access control is very crucial in the current situation. The control gates will be introduced as a pilot project. We will attempt to use QR code-based passes to access the gate. If successful, it will be introduced in other suburban railway stations,” said GVL Satyakumar, divisional railway manager, Western Railway.Railway officials said introduction of these gates would be helpful during limited operation of train services. “Implementation of controlled gates is possible now when there are less trains operating with low crowds. The study will further help determine how access control can be implemented once train services resume,” said a senior railway official.Transport experts have suggested the implementation of access control along with capacity reduction in trains, screening of passengers, location mapping of passengers as solutions for the resumption of local train services in the city.“It is very crucial to have crowd and access control inside railway stations and local train compartments,” said transport expert AV Shenoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/csmt-churchgate-railway-stations-to-get-automated-control-gates-soon/story-x9EBTUOviv4TaZucg6UF0M.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||NEET-UG aspirants concerned about distant exam centres||After weeks of delays, the National Testing Agency (NTA) started releasing admit cards to all National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test-Undergraduate (NEET-UG) aspirants on Wednesday. However, by evening, several students raised concerns over the allotment of exam centres, which in some cases are as far as 85km from their residences.A total of 2.3 lakh NEET-UG aspirants from the state will be appearing for the entrance exam on September 13.Most parents and students are worried about making it to their exam centres in time, especially with the lockdown affecting routine travel in several parts of the state. With trains still non-functional, many students will have to depend on road travel between their residence and the exam centre.“We stay in Jalgaon, and despite seeking an exam centre within the city, my son has been allotted a centre in Malkapur, almost 85km away. We are worried about the commute on the day of the exam,” said R Mhatre, the parent of an aspirant.Similarly, several students in Mumbai are worried about making it to their exam centres as train travel remains restricted to the public. “We reside in Thane, but the exam centre allotted is in Virar, almost 56km by road. Since the trains are non-functional, we will have to depend on a private vehicle. These days traffic is a worry, so we might have to look for a place to reside closer to the exam centre, for a day before the test,” said Archita Shetye, the parent of another medical aspirant.Experts highlighted that this is a common challenge faced by NEET aspirants annually. “When it comes to the common entrance test (CET), students have the choice of choosing sub-centres in Mumbai like Andheri, Bandra, Colaba, etc. In NEET, students are only allowed to choose the city and not the sub-centres,” said Subhash Joshi, owner of a city-based coaching institute for NEET aspirants.Parents and students are now trying to reach out to NTA officials, hoping for a change in their exam centres. However, a senior NTA official told HT that such changes might be difficult this year, especially since every centre will only allow a certain number of students to ensure social distancing during the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/neet-ug-aspirants-concerned-about-distant-exam-centres/story-e3o7auMPURRK6cKfY2ikGM.html
26-08-2020||Gurugram||Virus cases slowly spike again in Gurugram, 54 zones under containment||After a brief complacency inducing pause, the Covid-19 virus seems to be multiplying again in the district — at a rapid pace.Officials said several areas of the district have witnessed surging number of Covid-19 cases, with the number of containment zones shooting up to 54 on Tuesday from seven just a week ago.The administration said that the number of cases had spiralled in areas falling under Tigra, Patel Nagar, Laxman Vihar and Wazirabad urban primary health centres (PHC), most of which are densely populated. These areas continue to be among the worst-affected since the end of June, the officials said. On Tuesday, the district administration was forced to notify Jacobpura under Patel Nagar as a large outbreak region (LOR) and map out a plan to conduct at least 111 testing camps in these areas for the next 10 days. A large outbreak area is defined as localised increase in the incidence of Covid-19 case occurring within a defined geographical area. Data from August 1 till Wednesday (August 26) shows that Tigra PHC has reported almost 1,018 Covid cases followed by 674 in Patel Nagar, 625 in Wazirabad, 549 in Laxman Vihar, 526 in Sohna, 426 in Chanderlok, and 363 in Firoj Gandhi Colony. Other affected areas like Nathupur and Mullahera have 274 cases each. For the last two months, these areas have been continuously reporting highest Covid-19 cases, compared to other parts of the city. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that Jacobpura had to be declared as an LOR as more than 15 cases in a single day were detected from the area. “As per government guidelines, any area which reports more than 15 cases in a single day has to be declared as a LOR. All the 15 cases were reported from the same family. Just like any other containment zone, proper surveillance and contact tracing will be carried out in the area,” said Yadav. In containment zones, maximum precaution is to be exercised, including strict perimeter control, to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones — except for medical emergencies or supply of essential goods and services. However, as witnessed in the past and reported by HT, the implementation of containment zone rules are lax on the ground. According to Yadav, despite announcing a number of measures to curb the movement of people and enforce social distancing, the results have not been satisfactory in the worst-affected areas. “Cases are surging and citizens have adopted a callous approach towards basic preventive measures. Therefore, containment zones had to be increased. The parameter for defining the containment zone has been changed, to impose some restrictions,” said Yadav. The administration can define the boundary of a containment zone, as per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs while imposing lockdown norms.“Earlier containment zones were declared only if five cases were reported from the epicentre of the infection. Now, if three Covid-19 cases are being reported, we can declare an areas as a containment zone. Currently, the perimeter of the containment zone is 500 metres from the epicentre, which can be increased up to one kilometre if number of cases increases,” Yadav said.In June, the district health department, along with the district administration, has decided to reduce the perimeter of containment zones from 3 kilometres to 1 kilometre. Presently, a containment zone contains only a single lane or a particular floor of a tower from where cases have been reported and is sealed. The boundary of the containment zone in a residential area could be a mohalla or any lane in a congested area where a case has been reported. “It makes contact tracing, testing people with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) easier. Even house-to-house surveillance becomes specific,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/virus-cases-slowly-spike-again-in-gurugram-54-zones-under-containment/story-HRtErpIi18l2krpHLFyrIN.html
26-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad’s Covid experience: Lessons of June, July help reduce severity in August||Since the Covid-19 disease was first reported in Ghaziabad in March this year, June and July were the worst months in terms of severity of complications, rising cases and fatalities. August has been relatively lower pointing to better detection, isolation and treatment of cases.SeverityTo determine how severe the disease was, HT looks at the number of deaths in these months and referrals from lower care hospitals to higher care hospitals. In Uttar Pradesh, hospitals follow a three-tier system -- L-1 for mild cases (asymptomatic patients), L-2 for moderate cases and L-3 for critical patients who may require ventilator support. According to official records, till August 24, just over three out of four patients who were referred from mild care to higher care hospitals were made in June and July (78% of 217 patients). Of the patients referred to L-3, 161 patients were referred from L-2 facilities.A high referral rate points to many patients not being detected and treated early.Deaths too have been largely curtailed, according to official figures. Of the 67 deaths in the district, only three were in August while June had 51 deaths, and July suffered nine fatalities. Last week, the district’s fatality rate went below 1% for the first time since June.Infections, testingThe district health department officials said that the test positivity rate (TPR, which is the number of positive cases per 100 tests) was at an all time high in the month of June, by when it increased testing in the wake of the Union government relaxing several of the restrictions placed since March 22 lockdown to contain the virus. The much faster but less accurate antigen testing protocols too were deployed widely. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that a region with a comprehensive testing programme should have a TPR at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region.According to the figures of the district health department, the TPR in first 25 days of August has ranged between 4.21% to maximum of 4.7%. By comparison, June had almost consistently had a TPR of more than 5%, reaching a high of 7.54% on June 30. By July end, when it was about 4.8%, the district had brought it to “manageable levels”. Officials confident Till August 25, the district has also completed sampling of 180252 and has a positivity rate of about 4.22% which is a declining trend. “The two months of June and July were tough as number of cases and deaths spiked from what we saw earlier,” said Dr. NK Gupta, district chief medical officer. “From experience, we can say that the two months witnessed high viral load which led to complications in patients. Now, there is less severity. The situation now (as on August 24), only two of the total of 243 patients admitted to (10) private hospitals are on ventilator support.” Two severe months gave a reality check to the administration which swung into action to detect cases faster, establishing rapid response team and improving interaction with patients to monitor their health.“We enhanced contact tracing, focussed testing, surveillance and tracing of suspected cases to control infection. Presently, twice daily review meeting is held to assess daily situation. We have also stopped referrals to Meerut and have improved quality of treatment with high value medicines and equipment like high flow nasal cannula,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “We are monitoring hospitals and patients in home isolation daily. We are looking to keep the fatality rate below 1%.” Helping the administration is the state government’s decision earlier this month to allow home isolation of asymptomatic patients, which encouraged more people to be tested. The government also provided free medicines to treat the symptoms of the disease.Experts weigh inExperts say that Ghaziabad’s experience is similar to what was seen nationally-- effective measures brought down the growth rate, improved recoveries and prevented deaths. Now they have to watch out for complacency, they said.“If we got by figures, they indicate that things are under control. But the administration should not be complacent,” said Dr. Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “There are examples where the infection has declined and cropped up again. The testing, tracing and treatment should continue besides people taking up precautions like wearing of masks, hand washing and maintaining social distancing, among others.” “The severity or the virulent effect of the virus is low right now. There are people who get mild infection but are getting treated at home. The severity has definitely decreased in present month,” said Dr Deepak Verma from department of internal medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-s-covid-experience-lessons-of-june-july-help-reduce-severity-in-august/story-xpYsdq4oxAw6SypbAKH0OI.html
26-08-2020||City||Assault on tea vendor in Noida: SI suspended for dereliction of duty||Noida A sub-inspector of the Noida police was suspended on Wednesday for dereliction of duty, days after a tea vendor alleged that he was assaulted by two policemen. The incident had come to fore on Monday when a purported audio of the vendor, who runs a tea stall at Noida’s Atta market, was circulated on social media. In the audio, the victim, Durgesh, claimed that a sub-inspector and a constable from the Atta police post assaulted him on Saturday when he tried to open his shop. He had also alleged that the two cops demanded ₹5,000 from him as a bribe.A purported video of the alleged incident had also surfaced. In the video, the sub-inspector is seen assaulting the vendor, the police said.Taking cognizance of the matter, the Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner had ordered an inquiry which was carried out by Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1. “The cops in question had gone to the area for a raid to ensure that guidelines of the weekend lockdown were being followed. The vendor had kept his shop open beyond permitted time and the sub-inspector had brought him back to the police post. However, he was not booked for the violation which was a mistake on the part of the SI. This is why he was suspended for dereliction of duty. He was seen assaulting the victim in the video,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1. However, police officials said that a probe in the matter has not yet revealed the role of any other police personnel. “Even the allegations of extortion or any money being exchanged have not been proven yet,” said the DCP. The DCP also said that if any violations are found during the weekend lockdown, the department will immediately take action against offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assault-on-tea-vendor-in-noida-si-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/story-Nkh8iiQcFWwsrSaXRvdX2M.html
26-08-2020||City||NHAI suspends work on Sohna road project, contractor fined for inadequate safety measures||Gurugram Three days after the collapse of a concrete slab of an elevated corridor of the under-construction Sohna road, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Tuesday temporarily suspended work on the entire project, citing inadequate safety measures that make commuters vulnerable. The highways authority decided to stop the work for a week from August 25 after an inspection of the ₹1,300 crore project was conducted by NHAI officials and some independent consultants. The authority has also imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 per day for seven days on the contractor and directed it to put the safety measures in place immediately. Ashok Sharma, NHAI project director, said that work on the entire road project has been stopped to ensure seamless barricading is done in all the areas where construction is being carried out. “NHAI has also imposed a penalty on the contractor and directed that proper barricades are installed, traffic marshals deputed along the road and potholes repaired regularly,” Sharma said. In the letter to the contractor, Sharma stated that he had inspected the project and found the work vulnerable to the road users from the safety point of view and that’s why a notice was being issued to suspend the work. The letter also said that the contractor will have to ensure seamless barricading and in case of any loss to third party bear the cost as per the contract. A span, which had been cast and fixed between pier 10 and 11 opposite VIP Green condominium in the first week of August, collapsed with a loud bang on Saturday night. The incident led to questions being raised about the quality of construction and processes followed by the contractor Oriental Engineering.A senior official of Oriental Engineering, the contractor, said that they have already started barricading the stretches where construction is taking place and more traffic marshals will be deployed. “Around 50 men have already been deployed. We are taking all steps to ensure safety of commuters and workers,” he said on the condition of anonymity. The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project (from Rajiv Chowk to Sohna) has two parts. The first part includes an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk to a point beyond Badshahpur. The second part comprises the expansion of 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and will involve construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch. On August 22, three girders of the elevated section of the project had collapsed near Vipul Greens condominium, injuring two labourers.NHAI officials said that the four-member committee of technical experts that has been formed to probe the collapse will visit the project site on Thursday for an inspection. The committee comprises VL Patankar, former director general (road) in the ministry of road transport and highways and ex-member, NHAI, AK Srivastav, advisor, NHAI, and two eminent bridge experts -- PG Venkataram and Vinay Gupta. The committee has been asked to identify shortcomings to ascertain probable causes that led to the collapse. It has also been asked to revise methodology of pre-stressing and erection of spans, measures to ascertain quality of spans already mounted and recommend measures to prevent such incidents, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhai-suspends-work-on-sohna-road-project-contractor-fined-for-inadequate-safety-measures/story-udj58FKchCvP3CmVGbUF3K.html
26-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram traders protest weekend restrictions to close all non-essential shops and markets||Citing loss of customers and earnings , over 150 traders, and mall and shopkeeper associations from various parts of the city gathered at Galleria Market in DLF Phase 4 on Wednesday to protest the Haryana government’s decision to close all non-essential shops and markets as well as malls on weekends. The group together addressed a letter to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the district administration asking for the restrictions to be revoked. They also carried placards against the government and also shouted slogans against the same.On August 21, the Haryana government had ordered all public and private offices, shopping malls and markets, except those dealing with essential services, to close on Saturdays and Sundays. It did not restrict movement of people. It was meant to control the coronavirus disease Covid-19 after the government saw that people were not following social distancing and other health protocols.As per the traders’ letter, in both July and August they the low footfall in the markets meant there was enough space to ensure social distancing and other Covid-19 safety precautions. They argued that markets and malls were not centres for the spread of the coronavirus. The traders, mall and shopkeepers associations gathered at the Galleria Market, had shops located in areas such as DLF Phases 1-2-4, sector 46, Sushant Lok 1, MG Road, and Ambience Mall.“The decision of the Haryana government is completely incorrect. We were already adversely hit by the shutdown of non-essential shops during the lockdown, and subsequent low footfall upon reopening. Many shops had to close down as a result. The little sales we were getting after reopening, a majority of this have been on the weekends. Thus, the closing on Saturday’s and Sunday’s will lead to more shops closing down,” said Neeraj Yadav, president, Galleria Market Association.Mukesh Kumar, a trader in sector 46 market, said that a two-day restriction to stop the spread of coronavirus defied logic.“From a logical perspective, the closing of non-essential shops for two days is not going to stop or limit the spread of coronavirus. There needs to be at least two weeks of continuous closure, including restriction in movement, to have any effect. Since this is not the scenario, we feel this entire weekend closure makes little sense,” said Kumar.Sanjay Bakshi, a member of The Shopping Mall, Arjun Marg in DLF Phase 1, one of the organisers of the protest, said that with the growth of online retailers, amidst the coronavirus outbreak, the businesses of markets and malls was further hit, and any further restriction will result in the dipping of sales.“When we reopened after the lockdowns were eased, we realised that online retailers had got a strong foothold in our businesses, during the time we were closed. Some of our customers had switched their practice of purchasing and this was affecting our business. Amidst this growing competition with online retailers, thus, another part-closure will give them another opportunity to fill in and capture our customer base,” said Bakshi. Despite calls and text messages, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-traders-protest-weekend-restrictions-to-close-all-non-essential-shops-and-markets/story-OVrZTTDKlnKVfxBlEqtV0I.html
26-08-2020||City||12 lose battle to Covid in Ludhiana||There is no respite from increasing Covid cases in the city as 193 people tested positive for the virus, taking the number of cases to 9,219 on Wednesday. Besides, 12 persons lost their lives to the virus in the district, taking the death toll to 345.The active cases stand at 1,990. The youngest Covid-19 victim is a 5-year-old boy. Other fatalities include an 85-year-old man from Mohalla Vijay Nagar in Jagraon, a 73-year-old woman from Gurdev Nagar, a 65-year-old man from Anand Nagar Khanna, two 64-year-old men from Vishnupuri and Kuldip Nagar in Basti Jodhewal, a 60-year-old man from Sahnewal, a 57-year-old woman from New Aman Nagar, a 53-year-old woman from Sehar village, a 49-year-old from Sherpur village, a 47-year-old woman from Rajiv Gandhi Colony, a 42-year-old woman from Bachitter Nagar. Congress councillor from ward 82 Gagandeep alias Sunny Bhalla and his close aide cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu were among those who tested positive today. Soon after Congress leader confirmed that he tested positive Covid-19, his supporters started posting on his social media account wishing him a speedy recovery. Besides, Dr Damandeep Aggarwal, who was posted at PHC Manupur and currently on Covid duty tested positive along with her family members. Dr Akash Goel who had come in contact with Dr Aggarwal has been placed under home quarantine.Others who tested positive include 63 patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, 41 contacts of already positive patients, 27 patients referred from OPDs, four police personnel, 11 healthcare workers and a pregnant woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-lose-battle-to-covid-in-ludhiana/story-fCnPTADedzhURnXhQAtzMI.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vegetable prices soar in Chandigarh as heavy rain spoils produce||Heavy rain over the past two weeks has caused the prices of several vegetables to shoot up.While the jump is anywhere between 10 to 50% for most vegetables, the price of lady finger has doubled from Rs 25 to Rs 50 a kg.With further heavy rains predicted in the region by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and mandis unlikely to open anytime soon, the prices may rise further.“Not only locally grown vegetables like bottle gourd and cucumbers, many vegetables coming from Himachal Pradesh, such as tomatoes, cabbage and peas, have also been spoiled in the recent spells of rain. Short supply is causing the prices to go up,” UT market committee officials said.Explaining the plight of farmers, Prahlad SIngh Bhamia, who is based in Punjab’s Ferozepur district, said, “Farmers have been the worst hit due to shutting down of mandis. We didn’t plant enough crops due to uncertainty of sales. The recent rain only compounded the problem. It kept us from planting more vegetables and also spoiled the ripe ones.”Meanwhile, with the season for mangoes and pomegranates wrapping up, their prices have also spiked. Available for Rs 50-Rs 70 a kg two weeks ago, mangoes are being sold for up to Rs 130 a kg now, while the price of pomegranates has risen from Rs 120 to Rs 140 per kg. Market committee officials said both fruits may not be available in September, as their supply had decreased, which had led to the jump in prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vegetable-prices-soar-in-chandigarh-as-heavy-rain-spoils-produce/story-Z4osyOixXF8i2trBobbo0O.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Quarantine period of healthcare workers to be treated as ‘on duty’, says PGI director||The administration of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has directed all the heads and administrative officers that the quarantined period of doctors and health workers needs to be treated as ‘on duty’.PGI director Professor Jagat Ram said that a common order for the quarantine of healthcare workers has been issued following directions from the Centre.“If there is any difference in opinion of stakeholders, a common policy will be applicable,” he said.He added that healthcare workers are in the forefront of Covid management and one of the occupational hazards in the risk of exposure and contracting the virus and that advisory has already been issued on risk assessment and categorisation of doctors and other healthcare workers exposed to the infection and categorising them as high-risk and low-risk exposures.“Persons with high-risk exposure to the virus while performing Covid duty are required to undergo quarantine initially for one week only. Thereafter, taking the profile of such healthcare workers, a decision shall be taken by the institution to extend quarantine for a further period of one week. This quarantine has been prescribed in the larger public interest to thwart the spread of the virus.” he said in an order. While the ministry of health and family welfare in consultation with the department of personnel and training has decided that the quarantine period of doctors and health workers needs to be treated as ‘on duty’, which will also apply to PGI staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/quarantine-period-of-healthcare-workers-to-be-treated-as-on-duty-says-pgi-director/story-baM7lfINTf8Wq5iiV6o07N.html
26-08-2020||City||Ludhiana MC chief seeks report on dumping of untreated waste by dyeing units in sewer lines||Following the complaints of sewer water accumulation at Hira Nagar and Baba Deep Singh Nagar in ward number 21 due to ‘excess discharge from the dyeing units’ in municipal corporation (MC) sewer lines, MLA Sanjay Talwar and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal inspected the areas on Wednesday.As per the information, Sabharwal has sought a report from the ground staff of MC regarding the disposal of waste by the dyeing units. Also, the officials inspected the ongoing work of laying the sewer lines on Rahon road.MLA Talwar also asked Sabharwal to find a solution for the problem wherein the motors installed at Shingar cinema and Gaushala disposal points developed a snag and the contractor fails to replace the same within a set time period of time.Talwar said, “I have been raising objections over dumping of excess and untreated waste by owners of dyeing units in the MC sewer lines. Due to this, the residents of the concerned area face issues. MC chief has sought a report from the MC officials regarding the dumping of waste by dyeing units and he has also summoned the contractor.”Despite repeated attempts, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-seeks-report-on-dumping-of-untreated-waste-by-dyeing-units-in-mc-sewer-lines/story-ws0kjB6b3LOytMazjFxObL.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Man opens fire at Shalimar Bagh restaurant, cops probe extortion angle||Three men had a narrow escape in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh after an unidentified man opened fire at a restaurant on Sunday night, prompting the police to probe the extortion angle and the role of a jailed gangster, allegedly involved in more than 15 crimes — including extortion and murder. Police said that the incident was captured on CCTVs installed at the restaurant and adjacent shops. The footage shows a man with a white towel around his face whipping out a gun and firing towards the restaurant, where three men are seen sitting . The footage shows the man firing twice, while an aide stands behind him.After the firing, the duo flee on a bike, on which a third associate was waiting on the road, the footage shows. Another video footage shows that one of the bullets narrowly misses the three men sitting in the restaurant and smashes the glass window behind them. The three men immediately duck and take cover ,as a bullet whizzes past them and hits the glass window.When contacted over the phone, the restaurant owner refused to share details regarding the incident citing safety concerns. He, however, said, “I have lodged a case and I am satisfied with the police probe.”Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya confirmed that the firing incident took place around 9.30pm at a food outlet in Shalimar Bagh area. The owner of the restaurant was present at the outlet when the firing took place. The DCP, however, did not specify if the owner was among the three men who was targeted and survived the attack.DCP Arya said that a police team reached the spot soon after and during preliminary enquiry, the restaurant owner told them about an extortion demand of R2 lakh that he had received some days ago but had not reported to the police.“The owner told us that two men had come to his restaurant some days ago and asked him to speak to someone over the cellphone. The person on the call took the name of a jailed extortionist and demanded R2 lakh. The owner suspects that the firing could be connected with the extortion demand,” said the DCP.A case under Sections 387 (putting the person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Arms Act was registered at the Shalimar Bagh police station on the complaint of the food outlet’s owner.DCP Arya said that multiple teams have been formed to probe the case and nab the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-opens-fire-at-shalimar-bagh-restaurant-cops-probe-extortion-angle/story-qXT81j4NPsxGSiKL4QwdKK.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Biker mowed down by brick-laden truck in Maloya||A truck loaded with bricks ran over a 35-year-old motorcyclist near the government school in Maloya on Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Ramashankar of Jhujjarnagar in Mohali. He was a priest at a temple in Mohali’s Phase 6.Police said Ramashankar was on his way on his motorcycle. As he reached the Maloya-Jhujjar Nagar turn, a truck hit him from behind and ran over him. The truck driver fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind.An injured Ramashankar was rushed to GMSH, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead.A case under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Maloya police station and the truck has been impounded by the police.The deceased is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/biker-mowed-down-by-brick-laden-truck-in-maloya/story-YQiFouEdczJrMtQLAONTMO.html
26-08-2020||City||Mohali crosses 3K mark, sees 250% surge this month||The Covid-19 pandemic has hit yet another grim milestone in Punjab’s Mohali district, crossing the 3,000 mark on Wednesday. With 86 fresh cases surfacing from across the district, the total has reached 3,037. In August alone, 2,187 cases have been reported, leading to a 250% jump in infections this month.Also, three deaths were confirmed on Wednesday, taking the toll to 67. As many as 52 of these patients have died this month, with 20 from Dera Bassi subdivision, 17 from Mohali and 15 from Kharar.Among those who died on Wednesday there is a 62-year-old woman from Nayagaon, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The other two are men, aged 43 and 58, from Lalru and Kharar, respectively. They, too, had comorbid conditions. Amid the spike in infections and fatalities, recovery rate has fallen to 53% from the 72.5% recorded on July 1. The ratio of active cases has gone up from 26% to 43% in the same period.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said the rise in cases is due to extensive contact tracing, and most persons who become spreaders have travel history to other states. On the spur in deaths, he said, most of those who died had comorbid conditions, especially diabetes and hypertension.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “Taking cognisance of spur in deaths and cases in the district, we have directed all private hospitals to increase tertiary Covid-19 care bed capacity, especially for cormorbid patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-crosses-3k-mark-sees-250-surge-this-month/story-NCy1wraR3SYZyAjEXs6CIK.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid count crosses 400 mark for 1st time||With 425 fresh infections, the tricity’s daily Covid-19 count crossed the 400 mark for the first time on Wednesday. It was on August 22 that Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula had recorded the previous combined highest single-day spike of 355 cases. On Wednesday, their respective tally stood at 167, 86 and 172. While it was also the biggest single-day surge in Panchkula district, Mohali crossed the 3,000 mark and also reported three more fatalities. One death was also reported in Chandigarh, that of a 73-year-old man from Ram Darbar. It has taken the death toll to 41.He was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, acute kidney injury with respiratory failure and septic shock. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and died at Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday.Meanwhile, total infections stand at 3,376 while the number of active cases has reached 1,537.V-C office, admn block shut in PUAmong the new cases in Chandigarh, four are employees of Panjab University. Following this, several offices, including the vice-chancellor’s office building, administrative block and Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall, have been closed. They will reopen on August 31.The employees who tested positive worked in the accounts office, certificate section, examination section and the DUI office section.All officials, including deputy registrars, posted in these blocks have been asked to collect information on whether the staff under their charge came in contact with the employees who have tested positive.RLA office closed till August 31The Registering and Licensing Authority will remain closed from Thursday, as two of its staff members have tested Covid-19 positive.During this period, the office premises will be sanitised and the services will be resumed on August 31.Ten employees were tested after one of the employees came positive in the afternoon. All employees, over 50, will be tested. Meanwhile, UT administrator VPS Badnore in a review meeting on Wednesday advised the PGIMER director that if there are mild and stable cases in the dedicated Covid hospital, they could be shifted to other place, so that beds remain reserved for critical patients only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-count-crosses-400-mark-for-1st-time/story-HLeix5H9ERYHUCNfnDgygL.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer found murdered in Ludhiana||Panic gripped residents of Sidhwan Bet area in Ludhiana after the body of a 47-year-old farmer was found lying in the fields near Salempura village on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Kulwant Singh, a resident of Salempura. Based on the complaint of the victim’s brother, Harban Singh, a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons. The complainant said that him and his other brother, Hakam Singh, were returning home from the fields when they found the body of their third brother, Kulwant, lying in the field near their house. They raised an alarm and sounded the police. Inspector Rajesh Thakur, station house officer, Sidhwan Bet police sation, said sharp-edged weapons were used to kill the victim. He ruled out the possibility of robbery. “We have to get some vital clues and hopefully we will crack the case soon,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-found-murdered-in-ludhiana/story-DhgH4EuHltRdjjCOl82ZkJ.html
26-08-2020||City||Punjabi varsity appeals to teachers to end stir||Patiala Even as the Punjab government has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), banning gathering of over five persons, and also ordered complete ban on protests, as ways to tackle the covid-19 pandemic, teachers continued their protest outside Punjabi University vice-chancellor BS Ghuman’s residence and office on Wednesday. The teachers, under the banner of Punjabi University Teachers Union (PUTA) have been protesting outside the V-C’s residence for over 20 days. Another set of teachers, under the Joint Action Committee, are protesting outside his office over the poor financial condition of the university. The varsity has appealed to teachers to end the protest. “In view of the covid-19 situation, the Punjab government has imposed a complete ban on all kinds of social, political and religious gatherings, including protests and demonstrations,” said dean academic affairs GS Batra, who along with varsity registrar, Devinderpal Singh Sidhu, visited the protesting teachers. The university has already informed all employees and teachers about government orders on curbing covid-19. Vice-chancellor Ghuman said solutions would be found to meet the protesters’ demands. “Protesters should find out ways for solutions to their problems, through a dialogue process,” he added. PUTA secretary Gurnam Singh Virk said they were following guidelines, including social-distancing norms. “After government orders of the imposition of Section 144, only four teachers from PUTA went to protest outside the V-C residence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-varsity-appeals-to-teachers-to-end-stir/story-LUJZxDNNDIk6bkfRhVD52L.html
26-08-2020||City||Himachal logs two deaths, 167 fresh Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 167 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 5,321, officials said. Of the new cases, 58 were reported in Sirmaur, 29 in Solan, 16 in Bilaspur, 15 in Shimla, 13 in Chamba, 12 each in Kullu and Una, 11 in Kangra and one in Kinnaur. The death toll in Himachal reached 30 as two more patients succumbed to the contagion. A 45-year-old woman died at RPGMC, Tanda in Kangra district. Chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said the woman, who hailed from Palampur, was undergoing treatment for post surgical complication since August. “She tested positive for Covid-19 last Sunday and breathed her last on Wednesday morning,” he said. A 60-year-old man from Chamba town has also died due to Covid-19 in Amritsar. He was admitted at Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College on August 24. He was later shifted to Amritsar by family members. Active cases in the state stand at 1,428 and 3,810 people have recovered so far. The total number of tests conducted in the state are 2, 03,825. TWO DOCTORS INFECTED IN KANGRA In Kangra, two doctors have tested positive at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda. Six doctors have caught infection at RPGMC in three days. The medical college authorities have urged the regional and zonal hospitals not to refer patients to RPGMC at least for three-four days. Among other patients, two have no travel history. Three of a family have also tested positive. Among 58 people found infected in Sirmaur, maximum are from Paonta Sahib and Nahan. With this, the district’s tally of Covid-19 cases reached 700-mark on Wednesday. With 29 cases Solan’s tally has now reached 1,312. Of the 15 people found infected in Shimla district, eight are from capital city, six are primary contacts of Covid patients and two cases were detected in flu OPD. In Rohru, three people tested positive for the virus. Solan is the worst-hit district with 1,312 infections followed by Kangra at 728 and Sirmaur at 717. Hamirpur has 468 cases, Una (405), Mandi (391), Chamba (374), Shimla (287), Bilaspur (285), Kullu (270), Kinnaur (76) and Lahaul-Spiti (7).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-two-deaths-167-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-7pIaBcBw53ErRPdUvdlpOP.html
26-08-2020||City||Heroin smuggler Ganja held, narco-terror module busted||Chandigarh The Punjab Police on Wednesday said it had arrested a heroin smuggler Rajinder Singh Ganja to bust an international narco-terror racket with links to the banned Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF). Interrogation of Rajinder led to the arrest of his brother-in-law, Chirag Rathi from Muzaffarnagar, and Karamjit Singh, a police constable from Muktsar, currently posted as driver with deputy director, chief chemical examiner, Kharar, said director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta. He added that the racket had been traced to associates of now dead notorious terrorist Harmeet Singh aka PhD.The DGP added that Rajinder belonged to Jandiala Guru, Amritsar, and is reported to be a close associate of absconding notorious drug smuggler Navpreet Singh, aka, Nav from Wazir Bhullar village, Beas, Amritsar. Rajinder was apprehended from Zirakpur on August 19. A .32 bore pistol and four cartridges were recovered from the possession of Rajinder, with 530gm heroin seized later from his flat at Riverdale Aerovista, Zirakpur. A criminal case under the Arms and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered at a Mohali police station against Rajinder, who has several other FIRs registered against him in the state. He has also been involved in recent hawala transactions to the tune of Rs 12 crore, according to the police. Rajinder has told the police that he was associated in the distribution network of drug supply, arranged by Navpreet. The DGP added Rajinder used to receive consignments, mostly from Srinagar and Delhi, to distribute it further in the state. The funds generated out of drug business were sent back to Navpreet through hawala channels. In April 2020 too, Police Commissionerate, Amritsar, had arrested one Hizbul terrorist Hilal Ahmed Wagay when he came to collect drug money on the instructions of Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, a slain Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist. Among the major cases Rajinder was involved in was a 2019 FIR registered under sections of Arms Act and the NDPS Act at Tarsikka police station, district Amritsar (Rural), now under investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heroin-smuggler-ganja-held-narco-terror-module-busted/story-7IPDkn0WliHNcbGRf1DVUP.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider Punjab food commission chairman’s house allotment issue: HC tells Chandigarh administration||Quashing the order asking former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and Punjab State Food Commission chairperson DP Reddy to vacate his government-alloted accommodation, the Punjab and Haryana high court asked the UT administration to re-consider the matter. Reddy had moved the high court (HC) in 2019, challenging the UT administration’s notice asking him to handover the Sector-16 accommodation that was allotted to him while he was serving as an IAS officer with the Punjab government. Reddy had taken premature retirement the same day he was appointed Punjab State Food Commission chairperson in 2018. In 2019, he had made a representation before the UT administration requesting that he be allowed to retain the house. The request was declined and Reddy was asked to vacate the accommodation, following which he had sought judicial intervention. Now, the HC has quashed the order, in which he was given a week’s time to vacate the premises, and the house allotment committee has been asked to re-examine the issue within 15 days and make an allotment as per his entitlement. Till the time, status quo has been ordered.Reddy had argued that being a chairperson, he is entitled to a higher category house against what he was occupying. He had also questioned why he was being asked to first vacate the house and then seek allotment as it would result in undue hardship and harassment.The UT administration had told the court that the house allotted to him stood cancelled and he was no longer entitled to any government accommodation on account of his appointment and is only entitled to house-rent allowance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reconsider-punjab-food-commission-chairman-s-house-allotment-issue-hc-tells-chandigarh-administration/story-ZrnusyC09i9fXWIHHA2QLL.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Family in Covid-19 quarantine, thieves loot house in Mauli Jagran||Four persons broke into a locked house in Mauli Jagran, which belongs to a family who was in Covid-19 quarantine at a facility here, and decamped with jewellery.The accused have been arrested and have been identified as Sahil alias Lado, 19, Sagar, 20, Ajmat Ali,20 and Salu alias Shanu, 45, all residents of Mauli Jagran. Police have also recovered the stolen jewelry from their possession. The accused will be produced before a court on Thursday. A complaint was given by Rihan Ansari, of Mauli Jagran, who reported a theft at his sister’s house.Ansari told the police that his sister and her family were quarantined since August 15 after her daughter tested positive for Covid-19. He said that he often used to visit his sister’s house and on Tuesday, he found the lock of the gate broken and the entire house ransacked. He found that his sister’s jewellery and some documents were missing from the house. Based on his statement, a case under Sections 380 (theft) and 457 (lurking house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/family-in-covid-19-quarantine-thieves-loot-house-in-mauli-jagran/story-tVzE80YveeqBBcHwhx83ZJ.html
26-08-2020||City||Fire breaks out fire brigade office near railway station road in Ludhiana||Fire broke out at a room situated on the first floor of the fire brigade headquarters building on railway station road on Wednesday. A short circuit in the stabiliser of an air conditioner is said to have caused the fire. No one was injured in the incident. However, an air conditioner, a computer and some furniture were gutted in the fire.Panic gripped the municipal corporation (MC) office situated above the fire brigade building. The flames were doused in around 10 minutes after the fire brigade came to know about the incident. As per the information, the officials were sitting on the ground floor when a passerby apprised them about the smoke emanating out of a room situated on the first floor.One of the firefighters said that the incident took place when the room was empty. Sources said that the civic body has failed to get a fire NOC for the building where the office of the fire brigade and other MC offices are situated.Fire station officer, Shristi Nath said, “Some furniture and electronic devices have been damaged as it was a minor incident. The flames were controlled as soon as we came to know about the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-fire-brigade-office-near-railway-station-road-in-ludhiana/story-NELfj1mGp9qHdKdTlrgumI.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Smart City Mission: Ludhiana admn planning to renovate Lodhi fort||After giving a facelift to the iconic clock tower under Smart City Mission, the Ludhiana administration is now planning to renovate the Lodhi fort, which has been lying in shambles for decades, and has become a safe haven for anti-social elements. The proposal was floated by MLA Surinder Dawar, following which mayor Balkar Sandhu and deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma visited the fort on Wednesday after they flagged off mobile testing vans from the Daresi area. Established in the 15th century, Lodhi fort, also known as ‘purana qila’, is situated near Daresi and is said to be the last standing structure from the Lodhi dynasty. However, the fort is in a dilapidated state and a large section of the new generation is unaware of the existing qila. The authorities are mulling to develop it as a tourist spot.“The fort needs to be restored to its original glory as it is one of the historic places in the city and people should know about its history. I had also taken up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu in the past and he has shown a positive demeanour towards the project. It can be developed as a tourist spot,” MLA Dawar said.Despite attempts were made to reach mayor Balkar Sandhu, he was not available for comments. The over 500-year-old Lodhi Fort was constructed by Sikander Lodhi in the last decade of the 15th century in Ludhiana, which itself got its name from the Lodhi dynasty, and was formerly known as Lodhi-ana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/smart-city-mission-ludhiana-admn-planning-to-renovate-lodhi-fort/story-BQiwSUJLZPkzIo1gKp8zyO.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL imposes Rs 16- lakh fine for power violations in Ludhiana||To curb the menace of power thefts in Ludhiana, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials on Wednesday conducted raids in the city’s west division areas comprising Talwandi Kalan, Ashok Nagar, Bharti colony, Jalandhar Bypass, Jamalpur Lilly Kasabad and Kutbewal. The raids were conducted on the directions of A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL and DPS Grewal, director distribution. Chief engineer VPS Saini said that as many as 21 teams checked a total of 736 connections and imposed fines worth Rs 16 lakh, including 66 for power thefts and four for misuse of meters.Sanjeev Prabhakar, deputy chief engineer, west circle, Ludhiana, said teams also checked meters to ensure there is no tampering.Saini said PSPCL will continue to conduct systemic raids to curb the menace of power thefts in the city and stop unscrupulous practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pspcl-imposes-rs-16-lakh-fine-for-power-violations-in-ludhiana/story-lo3XNK5FYK4z0k9EKwAq6J.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||ASHA workers protest in Panchkula against Haryana govt over non-fulfilment of demands||: Hundreds of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, some accompanied by their infant children, protested against the Haryana government over non-fulfilment of demands for over six hours at the Housing Board light point in Panchkula on Wednesday.The protest was organised by Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Haryana, wherein ASHA workers from four districts – Panchkula, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Ambala raised a stir. As many as 2,000 ASHA workers have been protesting since August 7. “The Haryana government is mistreating the Corona warriors. ASHA workers are playing a crucial role in the fight against Covid-19, but our basic demands are not being met,” said Jai Bhagwan, general secretary, CITU, Haryana.One of the demands is that the ASHA workers, who are on Covid duty, should be given risk allowance of Rs 4,000 per month. “Their work is incentive based and the Haryana government was paying an additional 50% to what the central government was paying, but they stopped it. We want the Khattar government to reinstate the withdrawn 50% incentive. The central government pays Rs 1,000 per month to Covid warriors, and as promised, the Haryana government owes us its 50% (Rs 500 per month), which they are not paying,” Bhagwan said.They gathered in Panchkula at around 11am and started their march towards Vidhan Sabha at around 1pm. However, they were stopped at Housing Board light point by the police. Giving social distancing a miss, the workers continued the protest and sat in scorching heat shouting anti-government slogans. It also led to blocking of vehicular movement.“At 6.30pm, we had a meeting with the officer on special duty, Krishan Bedi, which lasted for an hour. He assured that as soon as chief minister Khattar recovers from the virus, we will be called for a meeting. We have decided to end the 20-day strike, but protests will continue,” said Surekha, general secretary, ASHA Workers Union, Haryana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asha-workers-protest-in-panchkula-against-haryana-govt-over-non-fulfilment-of-demands/story-jTdJKW2CsRm3ZwryxDiMVJ.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||All 33 booths auctioned off at fish and meat market in Chandigarh’s Sector 41||The Chandigarh MC on Wednesday auctioned off all 33 booths at the fish and meat market in Sector 41 on monthly license fee basis for five years. The civic body will finally generate revenue from market after 14 years.The MC fetched Rs 16.50 lakh as earnest money and will receive licence fee of approximately Rs 5.42 lakh per month against reserve price of Rs 3.88 lakh.Even when it reduced the monthly rental to Rs 10,000 from Rs 15,000 In a previous auction, there were no takers.In its previous attempts, the MC used the e-auction method, but didn’t succeed. This time, it conducted an open auction. Reserve price ranged from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month rental.The market was specifically constructed as a fish market in 2006 at cost of Rs 5 crore by the UT administration, and handed over to MC in 2009. But, later on, to attract more retailers to the market, it also allowed meat and poultry products to be sold in the market.Initially, the MC offered the shops at a price of Rs 60 lakh each. But, after it failed to get buyers, it decided to rent out the shops at Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 per month. But, the response was poor again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-33-booths-auctioned-off-at-fish-market-in-chandigarh-s-sector-41/story-tM1exg7jLG3rfi0P1203iM.html
26-08-2020||City||Multani disappearance case: HC adjourns hearing on Saini’s plea for August 28||Chandigarh A Punjab and Haryana high court bench on Wednesday adjourned hearing on the plea of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who approached the court seeking transfer of Balwant SIngh Multnai disappearance case to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The plea was taken up by the bench of justice Hari Pal Verma, but was adjourned observing that it be heard by the bench which took it up on August 19. The bench of justice Manoj Bajaj on that day had raised questions with regard to maintainability of plea.Mohali police registered a case against Saini and seven others on May 6 on a complaint from Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh. Multani had disappeared in 1991, during the probe launched to find out perpetrators of a terror attack on Saini. Now, murder charge has been invoked against Saini, who is out on bail. In the plea, Saini says the FIR is the result of malafide act for him launching probes against Congress leaders, their relatives to unearth big scams due to which he had become an eyesore for the political parties. He has demanded that FIR be quashed or probe transferred to the CBI.Meanwhile, Punjab Police too has approached the high court seeking cancellation of anticipatory bail to Saini. However, the case is yet to be listed for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-hc-adjourns-hearing-on-saini-s-plea-for-august-28/story-hDLjA8J6tSUlP4RQNMVtrI.html
26-08-2020||City||HC notice to Cong MLA, SBS Nagar DC, SSP over illegal mining||JALANDHAR Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice to Punjab government, deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of police of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Congress MLA from Balachaur Darshan Lal Mangupur and operators of two stone crushers — Siddhi Vinayak stone crusher and Guru Teg Bahadur Khalsa crusher — over the illegal mining issue. The next hearing has been fixed for September 2. The HC was hearing a plea filed by one Paramjit Singh of Rouri village in Balachaur sub-division, demanding directions to the state to check the plundering of natural resources in the foothills of Shivalik mountain range in Balachaur tehsil of SBS Nagar district for profiteering. The petitioner said illegal mining is going on in close vicinity of three schools and poses a threat to the lives of students as well as villagers. The petitioner further said the mining mainly takes place during the night hours. He said hundreds of trucks deployed by stone-crushers damage the village link roads and in July 2020, when the condition of mining sites worsened due to the rains, he gave a detailed representation to SBS Nagar deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of the police, but no action was taken. “Illegal mining is disrupting the ecosystems and wiping out the wildlife in different ways,” reads the petition.Earlier this month, the high court had also asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a probe into the collection of ‘royalty’ from trucks carrying mining material in Rupnagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-notice-to-cong-mla-sbs-nagar-dc-ssp-over-illegal-mining/story-f6jJmR0WgOtLXvVHACl4ZO.html
26-08-2020||City||Two Vaishno Devi pilgrims test positive for Covid-19||Two Vaishno Devi pilgrims from Jammu region have tested positive at Katra, officials said on Wednesday. “Two pilgrims— one from Akhnoor in Jammu district and another from Samba were found infected during the rapid antigen test at Katra. They have been quarantined at a facility in Panthal,” the official said. Despite rains, the pilgrimage remained unaffected on Wednesday. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar said, “Helicopter services have resumed and batter car service between Adh-Kuwari to Bhawan (sanctum sanctorum) also plied. However, cable car service from Bhawan to Bhairon Ghati was suspended as a precautionary measure due to rains.” The online registration and helicopter booking for the holy pilgrimage that started from Wednesday will continue till September 5. The Vaishno Devi pilgrimage resumed on August 16, nearly five months after it was suspended due to the pandemic. People above 60 years of age, children below 10, pregnant women and persons with co-morbidity have been advised by the shrine board to avoid the pilgrimage as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-vaishno-devi-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-D5QjBYDTV0M2qo4oWDbtDL.html
26-08-2020||City||Two IGMC interns suspended for ragging||Two doctors interning at Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital, were suspended on charges of ragging on Wednesday after they were accused of abusing, manhandling and beating up a third-year student. The victim, who was at the hostel to appear for his supplementary examinations, said around 11.30pm on Monday two of his seniors abused him and beat him up under the influence of alcohol near the hostel gate. The victim was accompanied by his batch mates and the incident was also recorded on CCTV camera. He said seniors had been harassing juniors for the last three years and that juniors were forced to make seniors’ assignment files.IGMC principal Rajneesh Parhania said the college had zero tolerance for ragging. “The matter has been handed over to the anti-ragging committee, which has submitted its report to the police. We have heard both parties, who are blaming each other for the incident.”Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Mohit Chawla confirmed the report and said the police were conducting an investigation. A case under Sections 323 (causing hurt) and 334 (causing hurt on provocation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Himachal Pradesh Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Ragging) Act, 2009, has been registered at the Lakkar Bazaar Police Station. Laws against ragging were made stricter after a 19-year-old first-year student Aman Kachroo was ragged and beaten to death by his four of his seniors in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda in Kangra district in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-igmc-interns-suspended-for-ragging/story-lSI7Y6lCZc2yb6L0KBBpeI.html
26-08-2020||City||Control of Vaishno Devi Shrine: HC issues notice to J&K, shrine board over Hindu Baridars plea||Pursuant upon a petition filed by Hindu Baridars, whose forefathers had the control over the Vaishno Devi Shrine, the high court on Wednesday issued notices to the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. Justice Javed Iqbal Wani issued notices to the UT of J&K and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board to reply within four weeks. The petition has been filed by Baridar Sangharsh Committee through its president Sham Singh and 54 others. “The notices have been issued to secretary law department of J&K administration and CEO Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Ji Shrine Board,” advocate Ankur Sharma said.The petitioners through the writ petition challenged the constitutional validity of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board Act, 1988, which took away the control of the shrine from the hands of Hindus (Baridars) and vested it in the hands of the government. “Apart from this they have also sought a complete handover of the management, administration and governance of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine and its endowments and all other properties to the Hindus (Baridars), in true letter and spirit of Article 26 of the Constitution of India,” he added. Alleging mismanagement by the government controlled shrine board, the petitioners have also sought conduct of external audit of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Ji Shrine funds since 1986 through a reputed audit firm or an audit institution which should be constitutional or statutory in nature. The petitioners via their counsel stressed upon enforcement of fundamental rights as guaranteed under Article 25 (2)(a), 26, 29, 14 and 31 A (b) of the Constitution of India.Advocate Sharma stressed that in all these decades, Hindu religious institutions in Jammu and Kashmir have been under the control of state and the ability of the Hindu community to administer its own institutions has been systematically clipped and pared down. “The state in brazen violation of Article 14 has exercised its authority only against Hindu temples,” he said. The holy shrine of Vaishno Devi was discovered and established by Baridars under the spiritual guidance of Pandit Shridhar Ji in 10th Century A.D. Pandit Shridhar used to live in village Hansali at the foothill of the Trikuta Mountains. This village is in close proximity to the present town of Katra. The discovery of the Shrine dates back to the age of Mahabharata. There is sufficient anecdotal evidence available in public domain validating the veracity of this fact, he added.The management, administration and governance of the holy cave shrine including right of offerings always remained with the Baridars before it was taken over by the state in 1986. The temple administration was taken over by the government allegedly on the grounds of mismanagement and maladministration. Citing other reasons of the petitioners, advocate Sharma said the state must maintain the same degree of distance from Hindu religious institutions as it does with Muslim and Christian institutions. “There is no sanction in the Constitution for the state’s imposition on Hindu religious institutions alone,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/control-of-vaishno-devi-shrine-hc-issues-notice-to-j-k-shrine-board-over-hindu-baridars-plea/story-RSnQyX81RKVcXvQytwGmzO.html
26-08-2020||City||Give all teachers opportunity to serve in district, tehsil headquarters: HC to Himachal govt||Taking strong exception to the practice of influential teachers forming a cartel to ensure postings in and around district and tehsil headquarters in Himachal Pradesh, the high court on Wednesday asked the state government to ensure that maximum number of teachers, especially those whose children are to appear in the board and professional courses examination, are given an opportunity to serve in the district and tehsil headquarters or wherever requisite infrastructure like adequate band width, facility of tuition are available.The division bench comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, passed these orders on a writ petition filed by lecturer Sheela Suryavanshi challenging her transfer from GSSS, Sanjauli to GSSS, Theog, alleging that she was transferred on the basis of Demi Official note obtained by respondent Rita Chauhan, that too, during the ban imposed by the state government on transfers.While hearing the case, the court observed that both the petitioner and respondent, despite holding a state cadre post, remained posted in and around Shimla only throughout their entire service and it could not have been possible without the active support of official respondents.The HC said there has been a spike in cases relating to transfer and majority of these pertain to the respondent department i.e. education department and it is for this reason that the court in an earlier writ petition, decided on March 18, had recommended the state government to implement online transfer in its departments, boards, corporations etc having over 500 employees by framing an online transfer policy on similar line as that of the adjoining state of Haryana.The court said granting indulgence to any of the parties in this case will be causing manifest injustice to other teachers who are desirous of serving in Shimla and other district and tehsil headquarters but have failed mainly because of the cartel formed by the influential teachers like the parties in the instant case.Disposing of the petition, the HC directed the respondent state to transfer both the petitioner and respondent outside their home districts within two weeks and ensure that it should be a meaningful transfer and not mere adjustment.The court has listed the matter for compliance on September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/give-all-teachers-opportunity-to-serve-in-district-tehsil-headquarters-hc-to-himachal-govt/story-de4XOrR4LyLT1CBIIMMz3O.html
26-08-2020||City||‘It’s our duty’: Karnal cops take lead in plasma donation||At Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College here, only 12 people have registered themselves for plasma donation and all of them are cops. After defeating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which they contracted in the line of duty, men in khaki from Karnal not only decided to donate his plasma for the treatment of the other infected patients, but also agreed to do it again in the next 15 days.Of these 12 policemen, seven have already donated their plasma and doctors claimed that these seven units (500ml each) of plasma can be used to treat 14 Covid-19 patients.The Haryana police department’s figures revealed that so far, 893 officials have got infected while on duty, while three of them succumbed to the virus. Currently, 273 police personnel are undergoing treatment and 336 of them are under isolation. WHAT MOTIVATED THEM TO COME FORWARDThese cops extended their support at the time when the Haryana government received a lukewarm response to its plasma donation call. Only 952 patients have so far donated their plasma at 14 plasma banks in the state despite the number of recovered patients going past 45,000 in Haryana.Karnal medical college blood bank in-charge Sachin Garg agreed that the response to plasma donation appeal was quite poor. “We need to encourage more people to come forward for plasma donation as this is the best available treatment for Covid-19.”He said 26 people were contacted for plasma donation. Twelve police officials were found fit for the donation and they got themselves registered voluntarily, Garg added. “I have donated my plasma voluntarily as I think it is our duty to serve the country at this crucial time. I did not face any problems post-donation. As per the doctor’s advice, I will again donate my plasma after 15 days,” said Devi Dayal, a head constable with the Karnal police. Another donor, who did not wish to be identified, said, “I am happy to learn that the plasma I donated could help two people. People should come forward to donate their plasma to help those in need.”Karnal SP Surender Bhoria said, “We are requesting our personnel, who have recovered from the disease, to donate their plasma. We have been getting a good response. Now, I would request more cops to contribute.”As per Kurukshetra SP Astha Modi, 35 cops in Kurukshetra were found infected till now. “But the number of recovered policemen is very low. However, we will motivate them to donate plasma,” she added.Mohit Kumar, a lab technician at Karnal’s plasma bank, said it takes only 30 minutes for donation. “We collect around 500ml plasma, which can be used for the treatment of two people. The donor can again donate after 15 days if he or she is fit,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-our-duty-karnal-cops-take-lead-in-plasma-donation/story-VHa6tKJF9LGlAnNg3abLaI.html
26-08-2020||City||1 dies, four hurt in Kullu road mishap||A person was killed and four others sustained injuries as a Tata Sumo plunged into a deep gorge in Malana area of Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district on Wednesday, police said. The deceased has been identified as Manish,17, while the injured are Rajesh,17, Amit,20, Rajesh,16, and Yogesh,19, all residents of Malana village. They were on their way to Jari village from Malana when the driver lost control over the vehicle near Nerang village, killing one person on the spot. The injured were rushed to Community Health Centre, Jari, from where they were referred to Regional Hospital, Kullu, for specialised treatment. SP Gaurav Singh said a case under Section 279, 337 and 304A of IPC has been registered against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-dies-four-hurt-in-kullu-road-mishap/story-5YgEYPdUqh5J5zw2PjaEoM.html
26-08-2020||Bangalore||How Bengaluru saw its Covid-19 success come undone||On June 9, an Indian health education minister posted an infographic on Twitter showing Covid-19 infections and deaths in the city of Bengaluru were running about half the rate in New Zealand, a country acclaimed globally for reining in the disease.The city — which has more than double the population of New Zealand — “stumps the Kiwis,” said the caption to the image posted by Sudhakar K., who is responsible for medical education in the southern state of Karnataka. Bengaluru, known to many as Bangalore, is the capital of the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHis tweet was liked and retweeted by thousands. But the celebration was short-lived.At the time, only about 450 cases of the novel coronavirus had been recorded among Bangalore’s population of more than 12.5 million, compared with more than 260,000 cases across India and about 1,150 in New Zealand.Thanks partly to a high-tech testing and tracing system monitored by masked officials on giant screens in a city “war room,” Bengaluru had contained the outbreak better than cities like Mumbai, which had tallied more than 100 times as many cases.Two and a half months on, Bengaluru, dubbed India’s Silicon Valley for its tech firms and startups, has reported more than 110,000 cases. Where its infections in early June rose by 25 a day on average, the rate is now more than 2,500. In New Zealand, the total caseload stood at 1,339 as of Aug. 25.Sudhakar did not respond to requests for comment, but his tweet remains online.Bengaluru’s early response was lauded by India’s government as a model, for its use of health surveys combined with efforts to tap tech expertise and cutting-edge software to analyse the spread of the disease.But after India eased a nationwide lockdown in early June, epidemiologists and government officials involved in the city’s response to the pandemic said they realised they had not planned enough. The experience illustrates the extent of the challenge faced by large cities across the globe, showing how rapidly an outbreak can snowball out of control.“The city had three to four months to plan for a surge in cases, but the city did not plan for the future. They mostly assumed that the lockdown implementation was sufficient,” said Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist advising the state of Karnataka.Curfew and contact-traceIn late March, India enforced one of the world’s strictest lockdowns. Karnataka state was ahead of that with its own measures.It collaborated with software lobby NASSCOM to mobilise 150 employees from half a dozen IT firms to feed 20,000 international traveller records into a central system every day. Karnataka conducted a mammoth health survey. More than 40,000 government health workers roamed the state in pink uniforms and masks, surveying nearly 16 million households.Residents submitted to a curfew that emptied parks, malls and the city’s notoriously clogged roads, and officials tapped companies such as Intel , Alphabet’s Google and Mumbai-based Fractal Analytics for expertise and tools to help trace, predict and control the spread.Many surrendered personal information: At thousands of drugstores, officials collected contact details for people who bought drugs like paracetamol, to keep tabs on their health.A federal government study shows Karnataka on average tested 47.4 contacts of every Covid-19-infected person between Jan. 22 and April 30, compared with the national average of six.‘That many people’But in June, lockdown restrictions eased. People flooded back to markets that sell fresh produce and flowers.Besides locals, officials say tens of thousands of travellers streamed in from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, many unwittingly bringing the virus. The neighbouring states have been the two worst hit by Covid-19 in India.“We were sandwiched between these two states which already had a very high viral load ... so we were bound to get affected,” said Pankaj Pandey, the health commissioner for Karnataka.An estimated 45,000 people from Maharashtra and another 20,000 from Tamil Nadu’s capital, Chennai, streamed into Bengaluru in June, he added.“In the initial phase, the case numbers in Bangalore were so few, that people all over the country felt Bangalore is the safest. That may also have caused people to ‘reverse-migrate’ back to Bangalore,” said one official involved in Bengaluru’s response.“We didn’t look at the inbound travellers as a major source of infections,” the official said. “We never anticipated that many people would come.”Officials from Bengaluru’s municipal body, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), did not respond to queries on whether it failed to address gaps in its modelling systems.But Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, a bureaucrat running the Bengaluru “war room” said easing lockdown complicated the city’s efforts.Since late June, Bengaluru has been sealing areas where cases jump, said Korlapati, noting this involves placing barricades at entry and exit points - in effect quarantining entire neighbourhoods.“Aggressive testing of contacts and home isolation is the way to contain the spread,” she said. “That is being taken very seriously and is being done right now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/how-bengaluru-saw-its-covid-19-success-come-undone/story-DFK7EwETVPOfMBT94ZWVkL.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Frontline workers become first plasma donors in Ludhiana||Frontline workers, who were infected in the line of duty, have also become the first people in the district to donate their plasma to aid treatment of critically-ill Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana. Ludhiana Special Branch assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dinesh Kumar and head constable Davinder Jeet Singh were the first to donate their plasma on Tuesday. Seven people, including five cops from Punjab and two healthcare workers affiliated with Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) have donated their plasma over the last two days. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said so far 298 cops had tested positive, of which 192 have recovered, and 104 are recovering. Two police officers, including ACP Anil Kohli, have died due to the virus.Similarly, 74 healthcare workers were infected in August, said district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh. Wish to payback society, says first plasma donor Davinder, who had contracted the infection in June, said, “Not many people get a chance to save other people’s lives and therefore, I was happy to donate my plasma and do something for society.” He suspects he contracted the infection when he came in contact with a man with fever and chills against whom a woman had filed a police complaint. “When I tested positive, I initially thought my life had come to an end. There was a lot of fear as ACP Anil Kohli had succumbed to the virus. However, I was more concerned about my family, especially my five-year-old son and my grandmother, both of whom fall in the vulnerable group,” said Davinder, who holds a masters degree in physical education. 53 cops willing to donate plasma Additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Rupinder Kaur Sra, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19, said around 50 cops are willing to donate their plasma. Sra said, “People in need of plasma can contact the police control room at 78370-18500. We have a list of 53 cops who have recovered from the disease and are willing to donate plasma.” Sra said around 6,000 patients had recovered so far. “Even if a few hundred of them decide to donate their plasma, it will go a long way in saving lives,” said Sra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/frontline-workers-become-first-plasma-donors-in-ludhiana/story-VTSnXuNMpec6tPeH2JzKmK.html
26-08-2020||City||Tarn Taran Cong chief quits party over ‘inaction’ in hooch tragedy||Blurb: Manjit Singh Ghasitpur said he has no right to remain in a party whose leaders are directly involved in illicit liquor tradeTARN TARAN Tarn Taran District Congress Committee (DCC) president Manjit Singh Ghasitpur resignedn from the post and the party on Wednesday over the government’s “inaction” in the recent hooch tragedy that killed 123 people.Ghasitpur, who had also fought 2007 assembly polls on the party’s ticket from Tarn Taran constituency, said “he has no right to remain in a party whose leaders are involved directly in the illicit liquor trade”. He also attacked the Amarinder Singh-led state government for “not fulfilling” the promises made to the people before the 2017 assembly election.Ghasitpur was appointed DCC chief in January 2019. His father Mukhtiar Singh Ghasitpur was a staunch leader of the party. From the sarpanch of Ghasitpur village, Mukhtiar rose to head the block samiti and served the party for several decades. After Mukhtiar’s killing in 1988, Manjit became active in the party and also served as a general secretary of the Punjab Youth Congress.“It has been nearly four years since we were voted to power. Amarinder Singh had taken an oath by taking Gutka Sahib in his hands to eradicate drugs in the state. But, ironically, our government couldn’t fulfil any of the promises in four years,” he said.He said smuggling of illicit liquor and drugs is still rampant. “Tarn Taran district was the worst affected in the hooch tragedy. I had recently talked to the Punjab president Sunil Jakhar and requested him to ensure prompt and strict action against drugs. It is shameful that some legislators of our party and their personal assistants are also involved in the illegal trade. The government didn’t take any action against the drug smugglers and those who sold and smuggled illicit liquor. Police are also sheltering the accused,” Manjit Said.Ghasitpur also said that he had sought time from Amarinder Singh for a meeting on hooch tragedy, but it was not given. “I am sad that the CM has no time for me. Tarn Taran district will be ruined if the illegal trade is not stopped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-cong-chief-quits-party-over-inaction-in-hooch-tragedy/story-lJTUFHXnsAkwSKOQtLWEWI.html
26-08-2020||Pune||MSRTC Pune division plans to increase number of buses, routes post Ganesh festival||Pune division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has been getting good response after starting services of the state transport buses on August 21, a day prior to the Ganesh festival. From 70 ST buses running on day 1 post-lockdown, the number has now reached 150 and buses are plying across the Pune division. Pune division is now gradually increasing the routes across the state and the number of buses while following all safety measures and social distancing norms at bus stands. “We are getting good response from passengers for all types of buses which started in Pune division. When we started the service on August 21, around 70 buses undertook a journey on various routes. As of today, we are plying more than 150 buses from the Pune division across the state. We will increased the number of buses and routes gradually. As the Ganesh festival is going on people will travel more after the Gauri visarjan day (day 5 of the festival). Once the festival ends, the number of passengers will also increase,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Yamini Joshi. Prior to the lockdown, daily 850 buses used to ply from the Pune MSRTC division across Maharashtra on an average. Majority of the buses would start from three major ST stands in Pune – Swargate ST stand, Wakdewadi ST stand (earlier it was at Shivajinagar) and Pune railway station ST stand. “We will be trying to reach our earlier daily count of 850 buses on the road. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have allowed occupation of only 22 seats per bus, so it affects us financially. Hence, we will be restarting routes as early as possible. We will be focussing on crowd-centric or revenue-generating routes like Kolhapur, Nashik, Aurangabad, Latur and Solapur. Once the people come to know that all types of buses are running on their regular routes, the passenger count will also increase and accordingly, the number of buses will increase,” added Joshi. Ashok Shewale, secretary of ST bus passengers’ group, Pune, said, “Lakhs of students come to Pune city for education and hundreds of youngsters come here in search of job opportunities. For them, the most affordable way of travelling are the MSRTC buses, as they can frequently travel to their villages and hometowns. Now with the ST buses plying, it has become easy for all of us to travel from Pune to other parts of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/msrtc-pune-division-plans-to-increase-number-of-buses-routes-post-ganesh-festival/story-MYRBSPhA5po3oLo2cgD3RO.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||20-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting minor||The Tardeo police on Monday arrested a 20-year-old for allegedly kidnapping and sexually assaulting a three-year-old girl at Mumbai Central bridge. The minor has been admitted to Sir JJ Hospital. According to police, the accused Kuldeep Gautam, a resident of Mumbai Central, kidnapped the minor on the night of August 24 while she was asleep, with her family. The accused then assaulted her, said Tardeo police officers. The minor’s mother in her complaint told police that in the morning when she did not find her child, she went searching for her, and found her in the same area. Her daughter was crying because of the injuries. “The minor is undergoing treatment at JJ Hospital. Following the mother’s complaint, we registered an offence.” “We scanned the CCTV camera footage of that area, and found the entire incident captured in it. We have identified the accused and arrested him,” said the officer. The accuses is booked under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code and sections 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-year-old-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-NtrITNzwUSLt4BqQT2KfjL.html
26-08-2020||City||19,510 students to appear in NEET from Punjab on Sept 13||Ludhiana In order to meet the social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of examination centres for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in Punjab has been increased from 22 to 34. The examination is scheduled for September 13 for which the national testing authority (NTA) has set up 10 centres in Bathinda, six each in Mohali and Amritsar, five in Jalandhar, four in Patiala and three in Ludhiana. As per authorities, 19,510 candidates from the state will appear in the NEET. The testing authority has also deputed five coordinators for smooth conduct of the exam. Over 15.9 lakh candidates are expected to appear in the entrance exam across country this year against 15.19 lakh in 2019. Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, has been appointed coordinator for Ludhiana. “We are ensuring that the centres are equipped with everything as per the instructions of the NTA. We are also conducting webinars with the centre superintendents so that the invigilators and staff on duty can be briefed regarding the instructions. In online meetings, the discussions will be held on how to ensure social distancing norms and other safety measures at the centres,” she said.As per the instructions of NTA, all staff members and candidates will be checked with thermo guns at the entry point and those having above normal body temperature or with Covid-19 symptoms will be isolated in a separate room. If a candidate’s temperature becomes normal in 15 minutes, he/she will be allowed to take the exam from the earmarked seats, else they will have to attempt the test from the isolation room. The authorities also released the NEET admit cards on Wednesday. The examination centres have been asked to prominently display Covid helpline number.As per the NTA instructions, a candidate will be allowed entry with mask on face, gloves on hand, transparent water bottle, small hand sanitiser and exam related documents (admit card/lD card).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-510-students-to-appear-in-neet-from-punjab-on-sept-13/story-tV385X7A6LfBgEV42dK3IO.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||36-year-old man arrested for robbery, assaulting senior citizen||A 36-year-old man, who recently lost his job due to the lockdown, was arrested on Tuesday for robbery and assault, by Kasturba Marg police. The man entered the house of a 68-year-old woman Narsamma Bandagaudu, a resident of Rajendra Nagar in Borivli (West) and attacked her with a sharp weapon. He then tried to escape with her gold chain. But her alert neighbours caught hold of the man identified as Bablu Gupta alias Shashi and handed him over to the police. Namdeo Shinde senior inspector from Kasturba Marg police station said,” Gupta was under depression due to financial crisis, because of which he and his wife had arguments.” On Tuesday evening at around 5.30pm, Bandagaudu was alone at home and her family members had gone to their relative’s house when Gupta entered the house and attacked her. Kasturba police arrested him under section 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of Indian Penal Code and section 37 (1) (a) and 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/36-year-old-man-arrested-for-robbery-assaulting-senior-citizen/story-FbW7Cw62TspslUeZwBxkWN.html
26-08-2020||City||ED files charge sheet against Brajesh Thakur in money laundering case||PATNAThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) Wednesday filed a charge sheet against Brajesh Thakur, who was earlier convicted in the Muzaffarpur shelter home case, and his family members and others before a special court in Patna in connection with a money laundering case. Besides seeking punishment to the accused for committing offence of money laundering, the ED has also prayed for confiscation of his attached assets worth Rs 8.50 crore in the form of movable and immovable properties in the name of him and his family members Kumari Asha, Rahul Anand, Manorama Devi and others. During its investigation, the ED found that Thakur and his family members misappropriated the fund or grant-in-aid to the tune of Rs 7.57 crore for his NGO, which was eventually used for acquiring movable and immovable properties, including payment of fees for his younger son Mehul Anand’s medical education. The ED had initiated investigation under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of two separate FIRs registered by Mahila Police Station, Muzaffarpur, and by CBI in Patna against Thakur and others for misappropriation of funds received from government and other agencies in the name of NGO Sewa Sankalp Ewam Vikas Samiti and its sister NGOs, where Thakur was the de facto owner.The Muzaffarpur shelter home run by NGO Sewa Sankalp Ewam Vikas Samiti had hit the headlines after it was found that its female inmates were sexually exploited for years with the connivance of Thakur and others.Earlier this year, Thakur and others were convicted in the case by a Delhi court, where the case was transferred from a court in Bihar on the orders of the Supreme Court.Thakur is currently lodged in a Delhi jail, where he serving his sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-files-charge-sheet-against-brajesh-thakur-in-money-laundering-case/story-rt85FY9rnIkkBBdiBI9XqI.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||23 Punjab MLAs have tested Covid-19 positive so far: CM||Chandigarh Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said that 23 of 117 MLAs in Punjab have thus far tested positive for Covid-19, including many who tested positive in the ongoing drive of the government to test all MLAs ahead of the one-day assembly session on August 28. Participating in the video-conference of non-NDA chief ministers with Congress national president Sonia Gandhi, Singh said that all MLAs have been asked to bring their Covid-negative report before entering the assembly to attend the session. It isn’t clear how many tested positive before this, how many have recovered, and how many tested positive in the latest round of testing. “If this is the state of legislators and ministers, one can only imagine how grave the situation is on the ground (in the state),” the chief minister added. Punjab assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh said legislators are still in the process of getting themselves tested at the district level or at Chandigarh ahead of the session and the total number of members found positive will be available by Thursday evening. A Cobid-19 negative report is required ahead of the session called to adhere to constitutional requirements. State rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa was the first minister to test positive for coronavirus but he has recovered and has been attending meetings. Last week, jails and co-operation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa tested positive as did state revenue minister Gurpreet Kangar and industries minister Sham Sunder Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-punjab-mlas-have-tested-positive-for-covid-19-so-far-cm/story-VZFBssPjZOJJ8wMfLKcCXL.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||St Stephens’ Math graduate bags title of world’s fastest human calculator||Any mention of Mathematics is often preceded by jitters. Nervous students try every trick in the book to evade taking up the subject and it is often seen as a necessary evil to pass grades. But Neelakantha Bhanu Prakash, a 20-year old graduate of Mathematics (Hons) from St Stephens College, is out to change this perception.Bhanu has become the fastest human calculator in the world after bagging the gold for India in the Mental Calculation World Championship at Mind Sports Olympiad. The event, held annually in London, saw virtual participation from 30 geniuses across 13 countries. “It feels that the efforts have paid off, but it’s also a lot of responsibility. There is a lot to do now,” he says. His tryst with maths began when he was five years old and had an accident. “Doctors said that I will be cognitively impaired if I didn’t keep working on these skills. So my mom brought me puzzles and that’s how I knew my inclination was there. I realised that calculations are something that I loved doing,” he shares. Growing up, he would practice for about 4-6 hours every day, but toned it down later. “There are other skill sets that I need to hone. If I was just a mathematics calculator and didn’t know how business worked or how policy worked, I wouldn’t be able to contribute anything at all,” says Bhanu who has 50 Limca Records and four world records to his name. Read: CBSE allows students who took basic math to pursue subject in classes 11-12 Not one to flaunt his skills, he never told his teachers or peers at the college the things he had undertaken. “They knew that I did something along the lines of calculations but I would just smile when they would ask me,” he says. Growing up a prodigy, was he ever asked to perform anything for relatives or neighbours? “It used to happen a lot when I was a kid, but after a time, even the people got tired. None of it is a surprise for them. In Delhi, I have posed as a magician and done shows at bars, without revealing that I have these records,” he says. Stressing on the need to promote the subject at a National level, he feels that films have played an important role in getting people’s attention. He says, “I am proud to say that Bollywood has successfully made it popular. My favourite movie on Math is The Man Who Knew Infinity (2016). The traction that I am getting now has been because this was preceded by all these films. Had it been anything else, or had the event not been called the Olympiad, this would not have happened.” Read: New math option helped govt school students score better in CBSE class 10 boards “Just like walking is good for the heart, math is for the brain. If we can convey this to people, then the fear for arithmetic will go away. Once these waves of fear go away, then it is a calm ocean,” he adds.When not doing calculations, Bhanu likes to read books, travel and play video games. “I am passionate about desserts and headed an ice-cream start-up in the past. I write codes and give business consultations. I like it when I am exhausted at the end of the day and sleep with a smile on my face because I have contributed something. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/st-stephens-math-graduate-bags-title-of-world-s-fastest-human-calculator/story-QmrzWNaafWF4tNyM5oUIeP.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Transgender booked for abetment of transman’s suicide in Pune||A transwoman and her husband were booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for driving another transgender to suicide. The deceased was identified Asavdhut Mohod (30). He was found dead in a house in Koyali area of Khed on August 6 around 12:30pm, according to the police. The booked duo was identified as Sanchita Jitendra Patil alias Sandeep Girhe, and Jitendra Patil, both residents of Shirur. Mohod left a suicide note that allegedly named the two accused in it. The police claim that Mohod accuses the two of mentally and physically torturing him. “He had 3-4 partners who worked with him. In the note he has mentioned that the accused kept demanding money from him. The claims in the letter will be investigated,” said sub inspector Sachin Chavan of Alandi police station who is investigating the case. Harihar Suresh Mohod (32), the deceased’s brother and resident of Bhatukali in Amravati, lodged the police complaint. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/transgender-booked-for-abetment-of-transman-s-suicide/story-vehrLnlaeMNWntz0V6prUM.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Two minors apprehended for murder of 17-year-old in Pune||Two minor boys were apprehended by the Pune police late on Tuesday night for the murder of another minor boy. The deceased Ayan Ghanpure (17) was killed in a drunken brawl near a canal in Ghorpadi area on Tuesday evening. They were sitting near the canal in a group when a fight broke out, according to primary information provided by the police. “We are probing the reason for attack. The victim and accused are known to each other. We are recording the statements of the deceased’s family members,” said sub-inspector S Shelke of Wanowrie police station. The minor was attacked with sharp weapons and thrown into the canal located near Empress Garden. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-minors-apprehended-for-murder-of-17-year-old-in-pune/story-dJ37y4xItarjb3P9YCKuyL.html
26-08-2020||Pune||DY Patil hospital, 10 others get PCMC show-cause notices||A committee led by N Ashok Babu joint commissioner (income tax department) has given a show-cause notice to 11 hospitals in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) for charging patients more than the rates fixed by the state government. Pune divisional commissioner has appointed this committee and they are on duty since July 27. “Since July 27, we visited 11 hospitals and we have given show-cause notices to all. The hospitals include Aditya Birla hospital, DY Patil hospital, Gunjkar hospital, Ayush hospital, Sterling hospital, Lokmanya hospital, Accord hospital, Citi Care hospital, Star hospital, Jeevan Jyoti hospital and Life Point hospital,” said N Ashok Babu, joint commissioner, income tax department. The DY Patil hospital was given the notice on Monday. A committee visited the DY Patil hospital and Aditya Birla hospital twice before giving them show-cause notices. “We have served a show-cause notice to DY Patil hospital yesterday (Monday) and they have been told to reply within 48 hours. Gunjakar and Sterling hospital have not replied to our show cause notices so far,” said Babu. There were two types of violations by the hospitals – one was a violation of charging higher rates from patients and the other was of not following regular procedures in the hospital. Among the 11 hospitals, the committee has asked for a refund of more than 20 lakhs. “I have also told the PCMC to take strict action against Jeevan Jyoti hospital, Divine Hospital, Citi Care Hospital as they have violated all government norms” added Babu. The DY Patil hospital was not available for comment. The committee will continue visiting hospitals where there are Covid patients. At least 842 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and nine deaths were recorded on Tuesday, according to the state health department. This takes the total Covid progressive positive cases count to 41,999 and the death toll to 766 in PCMC. Helpline for Patients Email: medicalbillaudit@pcmcindia.gov.in and medical@pcmcindia.gov.in Phone: 8888006666. PCMC residents who find private hospitals are charging extra for Covid-19 treatment can send their complaint to the above mentioned numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dy-patil-hospital-10-others-get-pcmc-show-cause-notices/story-3ECpwicGXFT4PcCFfGr7tK.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital administers Covid vaccine to volunteers||Pune’s Bharati Vidyapeeth medical college, hospital and research centre will be the first in the country to administer ‘Covidshield’ vaccine in volunteers. The vaccine has been developed by Oxford University in partnership with Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca and Pune based Serum Institute of India. The result of phase two clinical trials will determine the further course of action with regards to this vaccine which is the frontrunner vaccine candidate. Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth medical college, hospital and research centre said, “We have asked for about 300-350 vials of the Covishield vaccine being manufactured by Pune based Serum Institute of India.” The vials arrived on Tuesday evening at the hospital at its Katraj campus. “Once the vials arrive, we will check the temperature logs of the vaccine. We have also called about five volunteers who will be tested for Covid and presence of antibodies on Wednesday morning. The eligibility criteria is that the person must be aged between 18-99 years without any comorbidities. Also, he or she has to be tested negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 and tests negative for the antibodies of the virus. So, the person must not be currently or previously infected with Covid. Among the five volunteers, whoever is deemed fit for the vaccination process will be vaccinated. They will be kept under a close check and after a week the next batch of volunteers will be vaccinated,” said Lalwani. Dr Lalwani added, “We have got approval for first 100 patients and after that we will wait for a week as per the guideline prescribed by the drugs controller general of India and then the rest of the volunteers would be administered the drugs based on the analysis of the vaccine and its impact.” Among the five volunteers, whoever tests negative for the virus and Covid-19 antibodies will be administered the vaccine on Wednesday. The volunteers will be called on a daily basis to check for symptoms including nausea, fever and other symptoms. During the trials, the hospital will be responsible for data collections and also lookout for any symptoms or reactions that the volunteers experience due to the vaccine. The hospital was earlier also part of Serum Institute’s research to determine if the recombinant Bacille Calmette-Guerian (BCG) vaccine can boost immunity to fight against the Covid-19 virus which was a six-month study. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at hospital said the human candidates will be injected with vaccine doses between 12noon to 2pm on Wednesday. Besides Bharati hospital’s research centre, three other hospital’s research centres have signed up for this trial, including government-run Sassoon hospital, King Edward Memorial hospital and Jehangir hospital in Pune. However, this is the first ‘Covidshield’ shot to be administered to volunteers, according to doctors at Bharati hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bharati-vidyapeeth-hospital-administers-covid-vaccine-to-volunteers/story-PkmcvG0Mh4L2AKKr5jRKYJ.html
26-08-2020||City||Jai Ram dedicates development projects worth ₹170 crore for Chintpurni assembly segment||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth ₹ 170 crore in Chintpurni assembly segment area of Una district through video conferencing on Wednesday.The CM dedicated 220 KV Electric Sub Centre Nehrian constructed at a cost of ₹ 63 crore; 33 KV Sub Station Chakk Saray built at a cost of ₹ 5 crore and Lift Water Supply Scheme for Polian Prohitan, Rapoh Missran, Akrot and Behar Jaswan built at a cost of ₹3.8 crores.Other major projects inaugurated include ₹ 9.51 crore earthen embankment with crated apron, stone pitching on both sides of Bhaira Community Health Centre building at Dhusara, which was built at a cost of ₹2.24 crore.The CM also laid foundation stones of ITI building Chintpurni at Nehriana water supply scheme under Jal Jeevan Mission for leftout households in Amb Block, several roads and other schemes.He said people of Chintpurni assembly segment had contributed ₹ 16 lakh towards the CM Covid Fund and also prepared and distributed about 28,000 face masks. “The state government has notified Amb as nagar panchayat keeping in view demand of the people of the area,” he added. He said the Jan Manch and Chief Minister Helpline-1100 had ensured speedy redressal of public grievances. “Over 2.78 lakh free gas connections have been provided to eligible families of Himachal Pradesh under the Grihani Suvidha Yojna,” the CM said.“Under Him Care Scheme, till date, over 1 lakh people have been provided financial assistance worth ₹ 91.43 crore for treatment. Though Covid-19 cases were on the rise in Himachal but the state government was fully prepared to tackle any situation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-dedicates-development-projects-worth-170-crore-for-chintpurni-assembly-segment/story-THVUR8LDmROrM9YCKNJBZN.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM for filing review petition in Supreme Court on NEET, JEE||Chandigarh: With just days to go for the NEET and JEE exams for admission to medical and engineering colleges being conducted amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday directed state advocate general Atul Nanda to coordinate with his counterparts in other opposition-ruled states for filing a collective review petition in the Supreme Court, seeking deferment of the exams. Amarinder gave the direction after a virtual meeting convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with the chief ministers of seven opposition-ruled states to discuss this and other issues of common concern, including delay in GST compensation release and the farm ordinances by the Centre, according to an official release. “There is no time to seek time from the Prime Minister to discuss the issue. Let us all get together to move the Supreme Court for postponement of the exams, which are threatening the lives of lakhs of students,” he said in response to a suggestion in this regard. Pointing out that world over, exams were being held online, the Punjab chief minister suggested that JEE/NEET and other professional exams could also be held online and there was no need to put the students at risk. STATES NOT CONSULTED ON NEP: CAPT Referring to the New Education Policy, Amarinder said that it was thrust on the states without consultation. He said his government would be setting up a committee soon to assess the impact of the New Education Policy on the state’s education system and finances. “Every state has its own system, which the Government of India failed to take into account before announcing the policy,” he said. On the issue of mandatory final term exams for colleges/universities, he said the University Grants Commission (UGC) had failed to take cognisance of his government’s concerns. “How can we have exams with Covid projected to peak in the state in September?” he said, adding that “I also want students to take exams and pass too, but how can I do this in the midst of the crisis?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-for-filing-review-petition-in-supreme-court-on-neet-jee/story-tXqj6iAwNKY4hf7Rd3P6IM.html
26-08-2020||Patna||Nine-year-old girl found murdered, rape suspected||A minor (9) girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Bihar’s Gopalganj district on Tuesday evening. The incident occurred around 130 kilometres from the state capital Patna in a village, which is close to the Uttar Pradesh (UP) border and is marooned due to Bihar’s annual flood woes.Police said that the minor’s body was found stuffed in a gunny bag in a steel box from a prime suspect’s house. The body was recovered from the house of the suspected accused Jaikishor Shah that is located in the district’s Bakhraur village under the jurisdiction of Sidhwalia police station and about 200 metres from the victim’s place. Manoj Tiwari, superintendent of police (SP), Gopalganj, said the suspected accused Shah has fled his native village after the incident. “We are trying to arrest the accused. We hope to make a breakthrough soon,” said the SP.Preliminary investigation suggested that the minor was strangled to death, as her neck bore injury marks, he added. The victim’s relatives said she had gone to a house in the neighbourhood around 3 pm on Tuesday to play with a friend. The family members informed the police after she did not return home on time.The worried family members along with fellow villagers started looking for her in the neighbourhood and stumbled upon Shah’s house that was locked from outside. They suspected foul play and broke into the house. Soon, they noticed a steel box with blood stains. They opened the box and found her body stuffed in a gunny bag. The victim’s father has alleged that Shah, an alcoholic, is the prime suspect for his daughter’s rape and murder.“We have registered a case under Section 376 (rape), and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, against Shah and others,” said Ranjit Paswan, station house officer (SHO), Sidhwalia police station.Earlier on June 15, a class IX student was gang raped and murdered in Gopalganj district. The incident had occurred under the jurisdiction of Barauli police station area in the district. Later, two youths were arrested in connection with the gang rape and murder of the teen ager. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nine-year-old-girl-found-murdered-rape-suspected/story-3WZcuYVdUXuJqXZNH1flIP.html
26-08-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP to form committee to strengthen cadre at grassroots level||The ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to form a working committee to strengthen the party at the grassroots level in Uttarakhand as part of its preparations for the 2022 assembly elections, functionaries aware of the matter said.The issue was discussed at a core committee meeting of the party. BJP’s joint secretary Shiv Prakash, state unit secretary Shyam Jajoo, and Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat, and chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat were among those who attended the meeting.“At the meeting Jajoo and Prakash gave directions for forming the committee...Bhagat said that it will be done by August 31,” said a BJP office-bearer, who did not wish to be named.Expansion of the state Cabinet was also discussed at the meeting and at least two more ministers were likely to be included in it.“As the prerogative on this lies with Rawat, he said that he will take a decision on it after discussing the matter with Union home minister and former national president Amit Shah,” said the leader.The leader added it was decided by the party leadership to hold core committee meetings in the state every month in which both Jajoo and Prakash will also be present. “It will be to prepare the ground for preparations for 2022 state assembly elections.”Bhagat said both the tasks of forming the committee and Cabinet expansion will be completed soon.“As far as the 2022 polls are concerned, we have started our preparations for it by asking our members to make people aware of the policies of both the Central and state governments on various important issues,” said Bhagat.“We have also asked the leaders to counter the Opposition’s attacks aggressively with proper facts, figures and rationale.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-to-form-committee-to-strengthen-cadre-at-grassroots-level/story-RnDQsr3p2Bw8Khly2aOvAP.html
26-08-2020||Pune||PMC to increase artificial tanks amidst demand to open visarjan ghats||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) after learning lessons from the Ganpati visarjan on Sunday, has now decided to increase the number of artificial tanks for the next visarjan days during the ongoing Ganeshotsav. An urgent meeting was called on Tuesday by PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar with all ward officers to plan and make arrangements of the immersion days ahead. Currently, there are 30 artificial tanks in the city which will be increased to 45 by PMC for the 5th, 7th and 10th day of visarjan. Also, it has been appealed to all city corporators to make arrangements for artificial tanks in their own wards as per the need of the public. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane and other senior officials were also present for this meeting. “On Sunday which was the first visarjan day, 679 Ganpati idols were immersed in artificial tanks in Pune city and 610 idols were donated at various idol donation centres. Last year, on this day only 15,000 idols were immersed in the tanks which mean more than 14,000 citizens have immersed their idols at home. So looking at the response we have planned to increase the number of tanks to 45 in the city. A review of the current situation of tanks and arrangements was taken in today’s meeting,” said Mohol. “On the 5th, 7th and 10th day of Ganeshotsav, the number of idols for immersion is high. On the last day itself, around 3.5 lakh idols are immersed across the city and if this number is taken into consideration, there will be a huge crowd that would come on the road for immersion. So our request and appeal to Punekars is that they should immerse their idols at home and the necessary things like ammonium bicarbonate will be provided to them on the ward office level. This will certainly help to prevent the spread of virus during the crisis situation in Pune.” said Rasane. Meanwhile, there has been a demand to open up the visarjan ghats for the public and make necessary safety arrangements for those people who want to immerse idols in the river.“If PMC is making arrangements for artificial tanks then they should also make safety arrangements at the visarjan ghats too. People are ready to follow all safety measures and social distancing norms and willing to immerse their Ganpati as per tradition in the river. PMC cannot force and suppress the religious sentiments of the public by telling them to immerse idols only at home or in the tanks. There were incidents of people riskily going to the riverside to immerse their idols on Sunday. If something happens to them will PMC take responsibility?” asked Sunil Ghanwat, Maharashtra state spokesperson of Hindu Janjagruti Samiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-increase-artificial-tanks-amidst-demand-to-open-visarjan-ghats/story-3oGctKAqz3DbhFWKxHGqaP.html
26-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Woman, 10-month-old die in house collapse, 10 rescued||A woman and a 10-month-old baby died while 10 persons were rescued from the debris of a two-storey building that collapsed in Dewas city, 153 kilometres southwest of Bhopal, on Tuesday evening. The rescue work came to an end on Wednesday morning after the recovery of the two bodies, said administrative officers. Of the 10, nine persons, including Baskar B, 55, Aksha, 16, Aafia, 9, Anjum, 39, Alfez, 15, Aneesha, 13, Shareen, 21, Shabana, 40, and another family member, were rescued within two hours of the incident. But to rescue the remaining three, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) joined the local administration team engaged in the rescue operation. The rescue operation lasted for over 14 hours. Only one of the three—Rehan,15—could be rescued alive after 10 hours, while the bodies of Simran, 23, and 10-month-old Ahil were recovered on Wednesday morning, said deputy superintendent of police Kiran Sharma. The injured persons were rushed to the district hospital, officials said. The house was owned by Zakir Sheikh, an auto-rickshaw driver. The families of Zakir and his three brothers resided in the house reconstructed about five years ago, the district administration said. The male members of the family were out of the house when it collapsed. Dewas municipal corporation commissioner Vishal Singh Chauhan said, “Prima facie, it appears to be a case of faulty design. The building was constructed just five years ago. An inquiry has been ordered in the matter.” Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan condoled the family and announced a compensation of Rs 8.95 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-woman-10-month-old-die-in-house-collapse-10-rescued/story-pdmt793HHEvXtFLiUmQ3bP.html
26-08-2020||City||CPI M protests against anti-people policies of Centre, HP govt||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday staged a statewide protest against anti-people policies of the central and Himachal Pradesh government.The party demanded ₹7,500 per month to families who do not come under purview of income tax, 10kg ration to each person who are out of the purview of income tax till next six months, increase in scope of rural employment and work for at least 200 days with more daily wages. Besides, the CPI (M) also demanded new rules for unemployed people in urban areas and work for urban people, benefits for labourers to be restored, expenditure on public health to be increased by at least 3% of GDP, removing Essential Commodities Act, abolishing amendments in labour laws, stopping privatisation of government companies and industries, amount collected in PM Cares Fund to be given to state government, providing lump sum financial assistance from National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) to those who lost their lives during the pandemic among others.The party said the state government should roll back the hike in bus fare, electricity charges, water charges and other taxes immediately.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said the state and central government are increasing financial burden on the people through their policies instead of providing relief during the pandemic.He said ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi led central government has come into power, unemployment and agricultural crisis in the country has increased as the government has been implementing neoliberal policies. “Even during the pandemic, the Centre and state government are busy spreading communal hatred and selling government properties and companies like banks, airports, railways to big corporate houses,” he added.The CPI (M) has warned to intensify the movement if their demands are not fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-protests-against-anti-people-policies-of-centre-hp-govt/story-jdUeU4A3Yy6JvnlC674odP.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Restoring faith in humanity||Coronavirus has left an impact on everyone’s life. With India entering the sixth month of living with the ‘new normal’, the situation remains stagnant. Maharashtra, one of the worst-hit states of India has been battling the pandemic since the beginning. Many have reached out to help one another, however, Mauris Noronha’s efforts since March has been noteworthy. A businessman by profession and a philanthropist by passion, Noronha, a resident of Borivali’s IC Colony has dedicated himself to the task of caring for society’s most vulnerable segments.What started as help that he extended to his society members comprising of 120 odd families, from the time the lockdown began, he has provided essential supplies and provisions to a lot of needy individuals in every corner of Mumbai. “From Cuffe Parade to Virar and stretching as far north in Palghar, Ahmednagar, Shirdi, Pune and Nasik, we have supplied essentials everywhere,” says Noronha.As the impact of the lockdown on society’s weakest sections became apparent, Noronha has made it his mission to reach out to as many in need as possible, drawing solely from his savings that he was accumulating to migrate to the USA. In addition, he was also planning to clear his housing loan, which has now been postponed. “I initiated a door-to-door campaign in the worst-hit slums of Mumbai. We initially focused on Borivali and Dahisar, and my team personally visited zero-income families in these areas with daily and weekly deliveries of food supplies. By April, this initiative had provided vital rations to lakhs of individuals across an approximate of 35,000 households and more than 2 lakh individuals,” he shares. Working throughout the day, Noronha has also begun to extend his aid in other ways. “We have started to distribute vital medical supplies and protective equipment to ambulance staffers and auto-rickshaw drivers in the region and helped stranded migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar navigate the bureaucratic requirements necessary to return to their homes,” he adds.Through his efforts and without taking any donations from anybody, Noronha has stepped up for the people in these difficult times.One can reach out to Noronha on Facebook and Instagram to seek support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restoring-faith-in-humanity/story-TPdG5qMq4HmF5pVreUxGtK.html
26-08-2020||Noida||Fire at toy factory in Noida controlled, officials try to ascertain reason||A fire broke out at a toy manufacturing factory in Sector 63 of Noida, in Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday.The incident was reported at around 3 pm, an official from the local Phase 3 police station said.Twenty fire engines were at the spot and they controlled the blaze, news agency ANI reported. “The fire has been controlled on the ground floor of the wooden toy-making factory. The reason behind the fire has not been ascertained yet,” said Naresh Singh, fire station officer.Police personnel are also at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-at-toy-factory-in-noida-firefighters-try-to-control-blaze/story-9KCnn1QszjKMOCaWCa8TjO.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: As Delhi witnesses marginal rise in infections, Mumbai sees lowest daily count||Delhi after reporting a slide in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases has started to witness an uptick once again and there has been a dip in the infection tally in Mumbai, which once was the worst-hit city in the country, according to government data.After witnessing a drop in Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks, infections in Delhi have started rising again. The Capital recorded 1,544 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Tuesday, the highest single-day increase in infections in the city in 40 days, according to official data.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Meanwhile, Mumbai saw the lowest daily count of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as it recorded 587 fresh infections. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region that had been witnessing a surge in coronavirus disease cases, is showing a sign of recovery. So far, India has recorded 3,234,474 Covid-19 cases, including 59,449 deaths. India reported its first Covid-19 fatality in mid-March and over 22,000 deaths have been recorded in August so far.Fluctuating numbersDelhi was the first major Covid-19 hotspot in the country to have successfully controlled the outbreak last month. On August 1, the city recorded 1,118 fresh cases while for the next three days, the number of infections reported in a single-day stayed below the 1,000-mark.Also read: As Covid-19 cases rise in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal says testing will be doubledFrom August 5 to August 9, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases again stayed above the 1,000-mark only to come down to 707 on August 10. Three days between August 11 and August 22 saw less than 1,000 fresh cases being reported -- August 13 (956), August 16 (652), and August 17 (787).Co-incidentally, the number of tests conducted on the days the capital recorded cases below 1,000 were below the average 20,000 tests which are being conducted on a daily basis, according to data.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage There has been a steady increase in the positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive. Around 7.8% of tests came back positive for Covid-19 according to Tuesday’s bulletin. This pushes the seven-day average of positivity rate to 7.5%, the highest since July 19, or 37 days ago. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, however, said on Wednesday the number of Covid-19 cases has marginally increased in the national capital, adding that the situation is under control.Lowest daily countMumbai has been recording a significant dip in Covid-19 cases and fatalities for the last two days. With just 587 cases, Mumbai reported the lowest count in the last couple of months on Tuesday. There are 17,938 active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai now, according to a health official.The total number of Covid-19 cases increased to 137,678 in the county’s financial capital, including 17,931 active cases, 111,967 recovered cases and 7,474 deaths, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Moreover, Dharavi, which saw a rising number of infections, reported 12 new cases on Tuesday. With this, the number of cases in Asia’s biggest sum area rose to 2,725 including 2,375 discharges and 90 active cases, the civic body added.In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, barring Navi Mumbai with 302 Covid-19 cases, all the other districts reported less than 300 cases. Mumbai’s recovery rate was steady at 81% and the doubling rate increased to 88 days.Meanwhile, with more than 10,000 fresh cases, Maharashtra’s tally crossed seven lakh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as its recovery rate continued to rise steadily.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-as-delhi-witnesses-marginal-rise-in-infections-mumbai-sees-lowest-daily-count/story-UAJMogTB5slrY5KSne1DyH.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Annual Manimahesh Yatra comes to symbolic end with priests performing rituals, taking holy dip||The annual pilgrimage to the glacier-fed Manimahesh Lake in tribal Bharmour valley of Chamba district in Himachal Pradesh has concluded with only priests performing the rituals and taking the holy dip. Manimahesh Yatra, which began on August 12, was held symbolically this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. A handful of devotees and priests were allowed at the lake at the start of the yatra, which was not open for the public this time in view of the social distancing norms. Bharmour additional district magistrate (ADM) Prithi Paul Singh said that only 60 people, mainly priests were allowed at the lake on the concluding day on Tuesday. He said that the priests had reached the lake on Monday with the holy mace of Lord Shiva. “The yatra concluded with priests performing the rituals of crossing the lake and then taking a holy dip,” Singh said. No commercial activities were allowed this year. However, facility for the stay of priests was set up and a rescue team was also deployed. Last year, more than 3 lakh people had visited the holy lake. This year the number was not more than 100. TREK OF FAITH Every year, pilgrims trek to the oval-shaped lake, located at a height of 13,500ft above sea level, to catch a glimpse of Mount Kailash, believed to be the abode of Lord Shiva, and offer prayers. The uphill journey starts from Hadsar, a hamlet located about 12km from Bharmour town that serves as a base camp of the annual pilgrimage. Lord Shiva is the presiding deity of this pilgrimage. A rock formation in the shape of a Shivling on Kailash is considered to be the manifestation of Lord Shiva. The snowfield at the base of the mountain is called Shiva’s Chaugan. Mount Kailash is considered invincible. No one has so far been able to scale this peak. Manimahesh is approached from different routes. Pilgrims from Lahaul-Spiti come through Kugti pass. Some from Kangra and Mandi come via Kawarsi or Jalsu passes. The easiest route is from Chamba and runs through Bharmour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/annual-manimahesh-yatra-comes-to-symbolic-end-with-priests-performing-rituals-taking-holy-dip/story-Q2TTEYiwcXFtWuVNS1eyCL.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Woman staffer allegedly jumps to death from NDMC building||A woman staffer with the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) allegedly jumped to her death from the 11th floor of the civic body’s headquarters in Palika Kendra near Connaught Place on Wednesday morning, Delhi Police said.Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (New Delhi), Delhi Police, said though no suicide note was recovered, her family members said that she was undergoing treatment for mental illness at the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) in the national capital.The woman was identified as a helper, who was employed by the civil engineering department and attached to the civic body’s architecture department.The police said that a preliminary probe has revealed that she arrived at the building at around 9:45 am, collected the keys to her department from the counter, visited a room, kept her hand bag on a table, removed her sandals and a little later jumped from the 11th floor. She was rushed to the Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital by the NDMC staff, but was declared brought dead on arrival.She is survived by her husband and two children. “Inquest proceedings have been initiated. So far, no foul play is suspected,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-staffer-allegedly-jumps-to-death-from-ndmc-building/story-JJABwYK8tfbt54SQdebBtO.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Murder convict who jumped furlough arrested after 40 days||Mumbai Police has arrested a murder case convict, who was on the run for over 40 days after jumping his furlough. The convict has been identified as Tushar Mahesh Saujani, a resident of Kandivali (East) in Mumbai.Assistant police inspector Raviraj Jadhav said that Saujani, 45, was convicted for life for murdering his minor daughter in 2016 by a sessions court, Vasai, in November 2018 . “He claimed he didn’t intend to kill her and that it was an accident. Saujani was staying at his brother’s place and was arrested from the Kandivli area. He has been booked again under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code,” Jadhav said.Saujani was lodged at Amravati prison following his conviction.On June 20, Saujani was allowed to go on a furlough that was sanctioned by the office of deputy inspector-general (DIG) of police (east region), Nagpur. Saujani was staying with Omprakash Joshi, who had given his surety, at Trivedi Sangam CHS, Hanuman Nagar, Kandivli (East).Saujani was slated to return to the jail on July 12, but he played truant. Amravati jail officials alerted Samta Nagar police authorities about him going missing and the latter started a search for the absconding convict.He was arrested on Monday and the following day a local court sent him to Thane jail, said Raju Kasbe, senior inspector, Samta Nagar police station.Soon, Amravati jail authorities will take Saujani’s custody. Amravati jail superintendent will conduct an investigation and prepare a report about his offence.He may be blacklisted from the prison’s maafi system, which ensures speedy reform of a prisoner by legally awarding h/him remission, as an incentive on the basis of good behaviour.“He is unlikely to get the monthly seven-day (annually 84-days) remission that a prisoner gets while serving a sentence because he is guilty of flouting the rules. He will be deprived of the 30-day AGCR (Annual Good Conduct Report) remission. Altogether, he stands to lose his annual 114-day remission. His name is also likely to be deleted from the maafi register that keeps a record of every inmate’s remission,” said a DIG-rank official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/murder-convict-who-jumped-furlough-arrested-after-40-days/story-v4gsnBUVZ3ovAwJlYH2klL.html
26-08-2020||Lucknow||Increase daily Covid-19 tests to 1.50 lakh, says CM Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday expressed satisfaction over daily 1.46 lakh novel coronavirus tests being done in Uttar Pradesh and issued directions for increasing the capacity to 1.50 lakh per day. In a meeting with senior officials, Adityanath said there was a need to think “two steps ahead” to effectively check the coronavirus spread. He said 1.46 lakh tests were done in the state on Tuesday and it should be increased to 1.50 lakh per day, adding that testing plays the most important role in controlling the infection. Work on enhancing the testing capacity should be continued, he said. The chief minister said it was because of the strategy adopted by the government that the fatality rate in the state was “much less” than elsewhere in the country and the world. He stressed on adopting an effective strategy for bringing the fatality rate to its lowest. There is a need for more studies and researches to understand the nature of the virus. There is a need for a detailed study on medical treatment of the patients who have recovered from the virus as this would help in formulating the strategy ahead, Adityanath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/increase-daily-covid-19-tests-to-1-50-lakh-says-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-7H1tR3xvvxRhU8bCrvZTmM.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||HC refuses to entertain plea against ICAI’s decision to transfer money to PM CARES Fund||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the decision of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to transfer Rs 15 crore to the PM CARES Fund.A division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan heard the matter through video conferencing and while refusing to entertain the plea, said how a PIL can be filed when the members of ICAI were not aggrieved by the transfer of funds.The court later asked the petitioner Navneet Chaturvedi to either withdraw the matter or face dismissal with cost, so the counsel for the petitioner then decided to withdraw the plea and the court dismissed it as withdrawn.The petition claimed that the decision was taken by the ICAI on a request made by the then Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs.If the members of ICAI are not opposing the decision of contribution towards the PM Cares fund, then what are the grounds for a PIL, the bench said while raising contention of the petitioner.Earlier, the Delhi High Court had rejected a PIL seeking directions to bring the PM CARES fund under the ambit of Right to Information (RTI) Act for more transparency. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-icai-s-decision-to-transfer-money-to-pm-cares-fund/story-126hiES2qae624xZ1pNJkO.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||SC disposes of plea seeking payment of salary to doctors, healthcare workers||The Supreme Court Wednesday disposed of a plea seeking payment of salary to doctors and healthcare workers on the ground that the Delhi High Court was already seized of the matter.A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the high court had already taken suo motu cognizance of multiple media reports about the non payment of salary.“In light of the suo motu proceedings being taken up by the Delhi High Court, we dispose of the plea with liberty to petitioner to raise issues, if any before the Delhi High Court,” the bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, said.The top court also noted that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has started paying salary to doctors.Senior Advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for the petitioner, raised the issue of ASHA Workers who have not been paid salaries.The court, however, said the issue does not fall within the purview of the petition before it.The bench was hearing a plea of Arushi Jain, a private doctor, questioning the Centre’s May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors.Jain had also alleged in her plea that front line healthcare workers engaged in the fight against Covid-19 are not being paid salaries or their wages are being cut or delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-disposes-of-plea-seeking-payment-of-salary-to-doctors-healthcare-workers/story-jlQIvym0S6VQoRDrnhE1RI.html
26-08-2020||Kolkata||‘Smile is the beginning of love’: Mamata Banerjee remembers Mother Teresa on her 110th birth anniversary||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday paid tribute to Mother Teresa on her 110th birth anniversary. Special prayers were organised at multiple places in the state including the capital city of Kolkata and Siliguri’s Pradhan Nagar. “Let us always meet each other with a smile, for the smile is the beginning of love,” Banerjee tweeted.Mother Teresa, who was born in a family of ethnic Albanians in Skopje in 1910, left home at the age of 18 to join the Sisters of Loreto in Ireland’s Rathfarnham with the hopes of becoming a missionary. "Let us always meet each other with a smile, for the smile is the beginning of love."Fondly remembering Mother Teresa (Saint Teresa of Calcutta) on her birth anniversaryShe moved to British India in the late 1920s and started teaching history and geography for a decade and a half at the St Mary’s High School in Calcutta, as the city was known then. Soon, she realised that helping those who belonged to the unfortunate sections of the society was her calling and decided to leave the church in 1948. Two years later, she founded the Roman Catholic religious congregation which is now referred to as the Missionaries of Charity. #WestBengal: A homage prayer was offered in front of #MotherTeresa's tomb at The Mother House Of the Missionaries Of Charity in Kolkata today, on the occasion of her 110th birth anniversary. pic.twitter.com/E3wJ2cTwamShe had a long association with West Bengal. Whether it was educating the poor children and providing them food and healthcare despite the lack of financial resources, Mother Teresa had always helped those in Bengal and across India who felt they were ignored and considered a liability.She was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 “for work undertaken in the struggle to overcome poverty and distress, which also constitutes a threat to peace”. Mother Teresa refused to accept the prize money worth $192,000 and insisted that the amount should be spent on helping the needy in India.She was declared as the patron saint of the Archdiocese of Calcutta in 2017 by the Vatican for her selfless service towards helping the underprivileged in the city.(With inputs from ANI )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/smile-is-the-beginning-of-love-mamata-banerjee-remembers-mother-theresa-on-her-110th-birth-anniversary/story-jjRb65VRWApKQTrcTijAgP.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Double the number of Covid tests in Delhi, orders Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that he issued directions to double the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests in the national capital within a week following a spike in the viral outbreak cases being recorded since August 17.Delhi recorded 1,544 and 1,693 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. The CM said he gave directions to strengthen enforcement of rules such as wearing of masks in public places and strict adherence to social distancing norms in a bid to keep the raging contagion at bay.He said that the Delhi government would provide pulse oximetres and oxygen concentrators, if needed, to Covid-19 patients after they recover from their viral infection. Several cases were reported, where Covid-19 patients continue to suffer from respiratory complications even after they had tested negative for SARS-CoV-2, which caused the disease, he added. “For nearly one and a half months now, the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is under control. But, since August 17, Covid-19 cases have been on an upswing. On Wednesday’s health bulletin, Delhi recorded 1,693 new Covid-19 cases. While on Tuesday, 1,544 new Covid-19 cases were recorded,” said the CM while addressing media persons on Wednesday afternoon via a video-conference.“However, other parametres are in good shape. For instance, the death rate is low. The case fatality rate (CFR) has come down to 1.4% and continues to be among the best in the country. We have adequate hospital beds as well. At present, there are 14,130 hospital beds, of which 10,448 beds are still lying vacant. The recovery rate is good. The the home isolation model is also doing well. No Covid-19 patient has died during home isolation since July 14,” Kejriwal said.Tuesday’s 1,544 new Covid-19 cases reflected the highest single-day spike in the viral outbreak in Delhi in 40 days. The surge comes at a time, when the state government has urged the Centre to resume Metro Rail services in the national capital region (NCR) that have been suspended since end-March in a bid to contain the pandemic.“Today, we held a meeting, where I issued directions asking for the number of Covid-19 tests be doubled within a week. At present, we are conducting 20,000 Covid-19 tests a day. It will be 40,000 from next week. Our strategy remains the same – test and isolate,” said Kejriwal while urging the public to get themselves tested for the pathogen, if they feel the mildest of influenza-like symptoms.A senior government clarified that the CM referred to both real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests as part of the state government’s aggressive daily testing mechanism.Soon, the Delhi government is likely to formulate a way to ensure a proportionate increase in both types of tests.“We have noticed another trend. Covid-19 patients are developing respiratory problems after their recovery. There have been a few instances of death as well. We have decided that Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals after their recovery would now be given pulse oximetres for a certain period. Oxygen concentrators will be sent to them in case their oxygen levels drop at any point in time,” the CM said.Covid-19 patients under home isolation already get pulse oximetres. The provision to request for oxygen concentrators would also be available for them. In each revenue district, the district magistrates (DMs) are the custodians of the oxygen concentrators, said an official in the chief minister’s office (CMO).Kejriwal said that he also directed the authorities to strengthen enforcement of rules. “People should wear masks and maintain social distancing. Confidence is good, but it should not lead to complacency at any cost. We hope nobody is penalised. In case a person gets fined, that person must understand that it is for a greater good,” the CM added.Earlier on Wednesday morning, the CM had called a meeting with health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and senior health department officials.Dr Lalit Kant, the former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), welcomed the Delhi government’s strategy. “Covid-19 cases are going up in Delhi. At this stage, the government must go for aggressive testing, isolate infected people and strengthen its surveillance mechanism. The public should always wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and follow respiratory etiquettes. There is no room for complacency,” said Dr Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/double-the-number-of-covid-tests-in-delhi-orders-kejriwal/story-bwN6z7j85fzi6Lo3pfYChL.html
26-08-2020||Patna||Seven fell into river as bridge collapsed in Bihar||A 200-feet- long bridge known as Bardia Bridge over Bakra river in Bihar’s Araria district collapsed on Tuesday afternoon resulting in at least seven people falling into the river. The state disaster response force (SDRF) team is carrying out search operations.The 20 -year-old bridge near Udahat under Mahalgaon police station of the district was closed for traffic for the last few months, however, pedestrians and cyclists were allowed to use it to cross over. The accident took place when a tractor carrying some people and a cyclist were crossing the bridge on Tuesday. Araria sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Pushkar Kumar said, “Though the SDRF team is carrying on the search operation, no one has come forward to complain that a near or dear one was drowned or missing. Eyewitnesses’ accounts suggest that all the people were either rescued by local divers or they managed to swim to safety.” The police officer confirmed that the dilapidated bridge was closed for passage.Also Read: Nitish Kumar’s virtual mega rally for Bihar polls set for September 6Jokihat circle officer Ashok Kumar, said, “The police on duty had stopped the tractor from crossing over the bridge but the driver didn’t stop.” He added, “All the people who had fallen into the river however swam to safety.”A police official said another person who was filming the mishap had also fallen into the river and he later told police that all the people had managed to swim to safety.A new bridge is under construction by the side of the collapsed bridge and it is likely to be made operational soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/seven-fell-into-river-as-bridge-collapsed-in-bihar/story-hHbMrddF6Q49BmTF3MM3aL.html
26-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 1,056 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||As many as 1,056 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths were reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday, said State Health Department in a bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the bulletin, the total number of cases now stands at 32,174 including 10,077 active cases, 21,750 recoveries and 347 deaths.So far 60,0,322 samples were tested including 14,503 on Tuesday, said the bulletin.According to the Union Ministry of Health, India reports 31,67,324 cases including 7,04,348 active cases and 24,04,585 patients cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-1-056-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths/story-Nzu6YVgfWuPy9aa4lHif8M.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Congress MLA Pargat Singh, AAP legislator Pandori test positive for Covid-19 ahead of Punjab assembly session||Jalandhar/Ludhiana/Patiala: The Congress MLA from Jalandhar cantonment, Pargat Singh, and Aam Aadmi Party Mehal Kalan legislator Kulwant Singh Pandori tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Hockey Olympian Pargat Singh is the second MLA from Jalandhar district who has tested positive for coronavirus infection after the Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Nakodar, Gurpratap Singh Wadala, did so on Tuesday evening. Pargat Singh said that he is asymptomatic and not facing any health problems at present. He is in home isolation. Wadala, who has also isolated himself at home, is symptomatic. He urged all those who came in contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested for coronavirus. Cabinet minister Sunder Sham Arora, who is the MLA from neighbouring Hoshiarpur, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. PANDORI SECOND PUNJAB AAP MLA TO TEST POSITIVEKulwant Singh Pandori, 46, is the second AAP legislator to have contracted the infection. AAP MLA Manjit Singh Bilaspur of Nihal Singh Wala constituency had tested positive on Tuesday.Barnala civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said Pandori developed Covid-19 symptoms on Tuesday following which his samples were taken. “Though Pandori is in home isolation, he may be shifted to hospital for further treatment. We are in touch with him,” he said.Dr Singh said the department has initiated contact tracing so that those who came in contact with the AAP MLA from Mehal Kalan in Barnala district can be tested accordingly.Meanwhile, Punjab legislators are undergoing the Covid test ahead of the Vidhan Sabha session on Friday. It is mandatory for the MLAs to get their test done before attending the one-day session. AMRIK SINGH DHILLON TO SKIP SESSIONMeanwhile, Samrala Congress MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon has said that he will not be attending the Vidhan Sabha proceedings on Friday. Referring to a message from Speaker Rana KP Singh asking all those suffering or those who have suffered from virus not to attend the assembly proceedings, Dhillon, who suffered from Covid-19 a month ago, said that he will skip the session as a precautionary measure .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-mla-pargat-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-session/story-Ft1CUe8rjbdg2928rcHhEJ.html
26-08-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur cops survey city’s beggars, find 2 post-graduate and 3 graduates||There are two postgraduates and three graduates among the 1,162 beggars in Jaipur city and they are willing to earn a livelihood with dignity if given an opportunity, said a survey conducted by the city police. The survey claims that 825 of these beggars are illiterate while 39 are literate and other 193 have gone to school. The five beggars to have earned at least a post graduate degree are located in Ramniwas Bagh, C-Scheme and the Walled City. While one is a post graduate in arts, another has a post graduate degree in commerce and three have graduated in arts. Two out of the five are between the age group of 50 and 55, two are between 32 and 35 years of age and the fifth beggar is 65-years-old. The survey was conducted with an aim to make Jaipur city free of beggars by imparting them necessary skills where possible; and introducing others to un-skilled professions. The five beggars with college education said they were ready to work at hotels, construction sites and in other un-skilled avenues. “I am from Jhunjhunu and I did my graduation 25-years-ago from a government college. I came to Jaipur to find a job but I didn’t find one. Things got difficult for me in the city. For many days I had nothing to eat and no place to sleep. I had nobody in the family, so I was forced to beg in front of others on the streets for my survival,” said one of the graduate beggars. He said he will be obliged if given an opportunity to earn his bread with dignity and pride. “I am open to any work or job, from a labourer to any other work like cleaning, hotel staff etc. I only expect a decent return through which I can buy my butter and bread and pay rent to live. Everybody wants to live a dignified life and we would be thankful to the administration if they do that,” the beggar said. 419 of the surveyed beggars in the city echoed the sentiment and said they didn’t want to beg but didn’t have any other work, 27 of them said they wanted to study. The survey also revealed that 119 beggars live in Kotwali police station area, 180 in Ashok Nagar, 85 in Moti Dungri, 58 in Lalkothi, 64 in Sindhi Camp, 39, in Gandhi Nagar, 37 each in Brahmpuri and Shastri Nagar, 46 in Pratap Nagar and rest in other parts of the city. Also Read: Jharkhand launching food security scheme for 15 lakh people uncovered under NFSAWhile 809 of these beggars are from Rajasthan, 95 are from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Madhya Pradesh, 45 from Bihar, 37 from West Bengal, 25 from Gujarat, 15 from Maharashtra and the rest from other parts of the country. A gender wise break-up puts the number of male beggars at 939 and females at 223. On the health front, 898 beggars were found to be fit, 150 are specially-abled, 18 are suffering from asthma, 06 from tuberculosis, one from cancer and the rest had minor diseases. Narendra Dahima, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), administration, who was also the project incharge said the survey was completed in the month of May. “The aim of the survey was to identify the beggars in the city and to form a strategy for their rehabilitation and at the same time to find if there was an involvement of some organised gang behind them,” said Dahima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-s-list-of-beggars-has-3-graduates-2-postgraduates-and-they-want-life-of-dignity/story-HCTOL34ZygnrL2ulI7T0hK.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||HC quashes rape case on complainant’s request, fines her||The Bombay high court has directed a woman to pay Rs 25,000 fine for filing a false rape complaint against her boyfriend as it struck down the case following her petition saying she did not wish to proceed with it any further.A division bench of justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht on Tuesday directed her to pay the amount to the Maharashtra Police Welfare Fund within four weeks and to produce a receipt of the deposit within six weeks.The complainant moved the high court seeking quashing of the criminal proceeding four months after police booked the boyfriend in March on the basis of her complaint.Her lawyer pointed out that though she was in a consensual relationship with the accused, she cooked up the rape story to save herself from the wrath of her family, especially her elder sister, and under their pressure lodged the police complaint. He submitted the woman did not want to pursue the criminal proceeding and urged the court to quash the first information report (FIR) against the boyfriend.Additional public prosecutor, Aruna Pai, opposed the prayer and requested the court to impose a fine on the petitioner if at all the court was inclined to quash the FIR.The bench accepted the prosecutor’s request. It said the claim of the petitioner that the complaint was filed under pressure could not be accepted. The bench agreed to quash the FIR as the woman did not want to pursue the case any further but on the condition of making a contribution to the welfare fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-quashes-rape-case-on-complainant-s-request-fines-her/story-XA8bKdqUwF2pX1zmVBWCoL.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases rise in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal says testing will be doubled||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that the state government will double the testing for Covid-19 infection in the national capital. The announcement came as Delhi recorded a spike in the number of new cases of the coronavirus disease.“Delhi has seen a marginal rise in the number of cases in the last few days, though other numbers are in control. In the coming days, we will double the testing for the coronavirus testing,” Kejriwal said at a press conference.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe chief minister said that currently, 20,000 tests are being done in Delhi which will be increased to 40,000 per day.“It is good that the people of Delhi have become confident, but it shouldn’t lead to complacency. People should always wear masks,” he added. Kejriwal further said that the government will provide pulse oxymetre and oxygen concentrators to households.Watch l ‘Will conduct 40,000 tests per day’: Arvind Kejriwal on Covid crisis in Delhi He once again appealed to the people to not shy away from getting tested. “It is very important to keep yourself and others in your vicinity safe. If you feel there are symptoms of Covid-19, get yourself tested. If you don’t do this, you will unnecessarily put others at risk,” said Kejriwal.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,544 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase in infections in the city in 40 days.After witnessing a drop in cases in the past few weeks, infections in Delhi have started rising again, with experts warning against complacency, which, they said, may cause a resurgence of the outbreak.At the end of June, the city was reporting over 3,400 cases every day at an average, which then dropped in the 900s in the first week of August. In the last week, Delhi has added 1,333 cases every day on average – the highest the weekly case trajectory has touched since July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-says-testing-will-be-doubled/story-HBVs7pus1GcFipkrxN8a5O.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Raigad building collapse toll rises to 16; final search on||The toll from the building collapse at Mahad in Maharashtra’s Raigad district went up to 16 on Wednesday as all the missing people were accounted for with the recovery of the last body from the debris, rescuers said.The rescuers pulled out alive Mehrunissa Abdul Kazi, 60, and four-year-old boy Mohammad Bangi, whose two sisters and mother were found dead, from the rubble of the building. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officials said the boy was rescued after 19 hours and Kazi after 27 hours of the collapse on Monday. They added nine people were found alive while bodies of 16 men, women, and children were recovered from the site.NDRF public relations officer Sachinand Gawade said they were carrying out a final search to ensure that no body is buried although the administration said all missing people have been traced.The Mahad police on Tuesday booked five people, including the builder of the building, for the collapse. According to the First Information Report filed in the case, the building had 40 flats and was constructed in 2013 after a two-year construction.District collector Nidhi Chaudhari said most residents ran out of the building as it started trembling. She added, as a result, most survived. Chaudhari said around 95 people lived in the building and 75 of them managed to run away when the structure came crashing down.Maharashtra rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of those who died and Rs 50,000 for those injured.His ministerial colleague, Eknath Shinde, visited the site and directed the police to act against all those responsible for the collapse. “We will not spare anyone responsible for the building collapse. Information is being gathered on whether the structural audit of this building was conducted or not.”District guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said a committee will be formed to probe the incident. “The committee will probe how and why this happened. At the same time, the structural audit will be carried out of other buildings to prevent similar incidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raigad-building-collapse-toll-rises-to-16-final-search-on/story-fgCnOvgE07gbr6mMdABPXJ.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Khosla ka Ghosla, real-life edition: 65-year-old held for property fraud||A senior citizen (65) was arrested for his alleged involvement in his bid to sell a plot of land in south-west Delhi’s Dwarka while using forged documents. His alleged crime has an uncanny resemblance with the 2006 Bollywood flick Khosla Ka Ghosla.Delhi Police explained the arrested accused Abhay Veer Batra’s modus operandi. Batra would grab an unoccupied piece of land, forge documents to show the property in his name and then use the papers to either compel the actual owner to strike a deal or sell off the plot to him at a throwaway price, said RP Meena, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (Dwarka), Delhi Police. Batra’s criminal act has echoes of Khosla Ka Ghosla, where a greedy property dealer had used fake documents to grab the land of an unsuspecting common man, whose role was essayed by actor Anupam Kher in the film, said the police. However, there was a primary difference between the reel and the real. In the film, Kher’s family had staged an elaborate drama to deceive the usurper and got back their plot, but in reality it was the Delhi Police that cracked the case. Batra has been accused of 17 similar cases of cheating and fraud registered against him since 1999. Most of the cases were filed in areas in west Delhi such as Hari Nagar, Janakpuri, Vikaspuri, and Nangloi. He has also been charged for a similar offence in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj. Batra’s luck ran out, when he got busted in the latest case.On June, 2019, his latest victim, Kishore Chand Aggarwal, visited Dwarka (North) police station. “Aggarwal told us that he was the owner of a 209-square metre plot in Sector 13, Dwarka. But he had come to know from property dealers that another man was trying to sell the property by an illegal possession over his plot,” said ADCP Meena. Aggarwal had found about the illegal occupation of his property upon a visit to the plot, where he saw building materials were lying scattered in a bid to erect a boundary wall around the land, said Meena. “Our preliminary probe revealed that a man named Batra was trying to sell the plot. Prima facie, it is a crime because both the parties were producing documents to claim an ownership of the property. We registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy,” he said. Soon, the police verified the authenticity of the documents of both the parties. Aggarwal’s documents showed that he had purchased the property from its previous owner through a sales deed on August 3, 2004. “Batra’s documents showed that he had purchased the property from a woman through a general power of attorney (GPA) and a sale agreement on January 7, 2004. The documents showed that the woman had bought the land from its previous owner,” said the ADCP. The police visited the previous owner of the plot and allegedly confirmed that he had sold the property to Aggarwal. “He identified Aggarwal’s signatures on the documents and said he didn’t know the woman in question,” said Meena.Later, though the police tried to trace the woman, who was mentioned as the owner of the plot in Batra’s documents, she turned out to be a fictitious character.“Batra had forged all the documents related to Aggarwal’s plot ,” said the ADCP. Batra, who lives in Hari Nagar with his family, was arrested last Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/khosla-ka-ghosla-real-life-edition-65-year-old-held-for-property-fraud/story-tZbJXpuVnli7AHJilHQHgP.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Yamuna continues to flow near warning level in Delhi||On Wednesday morning, the water level of the river Yamuna at Delhi’s Old Railway Bridge was recorded at 203.78 metres. The warning level is 204.50 metres. This was after 13,433 cusec water was released from Haryana’s Hathni Kund Barrage in the Yamuna around 8am. However, this is still lower than Monday’s level of 204.38 metres, the first time this year it was recorded close to the warning mark. Officials in the Delhi government’s Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC) department said that the level recorded Wednesday is below the warning mark at present and is likely to remain so unless a higher volume of water is released. “Water is released into the barrage every four hours. On a regular basis, only 350 cusecs of water is released. During the monsoon, because of the higher volume of water in the barrage coupled with rainfall in the hilly regions, more water is released, which leads to a surge in the Yamuna. It takes about 36 to 72 hours for the released water to reach Delhi. We are continuously monitoring the water levels,” said Sanjeev Kumar, SDM (Preet Vihar) and officer-in-charge, Flood Control. Last year, Haryana had released over eight lakh cusecs of water in a day, after which the water level breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres. Kumar said that preparations are already underway in case a higher volume of water is released and evacuation operations need to be launched. “We have identified locations for pitching tents. Besides, since social distancing is the norm during the Covid-19 pandemic, we have also identified schools where people can be moved with enough space to maintain physical distance,” said Kumar.Delhi had witnessed major floods in 1978 when the water level in the Yamuna rose to its highest-ever level, recorded at 207.49 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yamuna-continues-to-flow-near-warming-level-in-delhi/story-hZCdkT2uYsIoMUFIUXDAdP.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Yamuna continues to flow near warning level in Delhi; water level likely to increase further||The Yamuna was flowing close to the warning mark in Delhi on Wednesday morning and is likely to swell further with more water being released into it from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana, officials said.  The water level was recorded at 203.78 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 8 am. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 13,433 cusec at 8 am from the Hathnikund barrage, an official of the irrigation and flood control department said. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litre per second.The water level was recorded at 203.98 metres at 6 pm on Tuesday, precariously close to the warning level of 204.50 metres, according to the official. The river had swelled to 204.38 metres on Monday, which was just a metre below the danger mark of 205.33 metres.“The flow rate was 36,557 cusec at 5 pm on Tuesday, the maximum in the last 24 hours. The water level is likely to increase in the next 48 hours,” he said. The water discharged from the barrage — which provides drinking water to Delhi — usually takes 72 hours to reach the capital.Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas.Last year, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 meter-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters.The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas.Also read: IMD forecasts moderate to heavy rain in Delhi starting todayDelhi’s water minister Satyendar Jain had Monday said the government was ready to deal with any flood-like situation.The India Meteorological Department has also warned of “heavy to very heavy” rainfall in northwest India, which is likely to increase water levels of the river.“Heavy to very rainfall is likely in northwest India over the next three to four days due to the northward shifting of the monsoon through,” Kudeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/yamuna-continues-to-flow-near-warning-level-in-delhi-water-level-likely-to-increase-further/story-9YjaKD3pfvMtNN6eufTZwM.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||12-year-old Mumbai boy tracks missing mobile phones||Mansoor Nasir Shaikh, 12, had not used a smartphone until about four months back. He started using a laptop only two months ago when his school switched to online classes because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The boy was immediately hooked on the gadgets so much so that he learnt tracking lost mobile phones by reading about the technique to do so on the internet much to the surprise of his parents, constables Nasir Shaikh and Rehana Shaikh. The parents came to know about Mansoor’s ability to locate lost phones when he tracked his cousin’s phone after she had left it in a taxi while travelling from Mumbai Central to Mahim on August 19.Mansoor began working on tracking the phone as he overheard his aunt seeking his mother’s help in finding it. He immediately contacted his cousin, Muskan Bagwan, and took her phone’s unique International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number and began tracking it. Within 35 minutes, he located the phone worth Rs 27,000 to an area in Mumbai’s Malad. Mansoor zeroed on the location of the phone and asked his mother’s friends, Archana Bhosale and Madhavi Bhosale, who live in Malad to locate the taxi. But by the time they reached the spot, the taxi had moved from Malad to Goregaon.Archana spotted the cab parked near Oberoi Mall and it matched with the description that Muskan had given, said Nasir Shaikh. But the driver had by then left the cab after parking it, he added. Mansoor then remotely locked the phone and sent a message which reflected on the screen of the phone saying: “I am a policeman and this is my daughter’s mobile phone.” Nasir said he did this to scare the cab driver, and also to prevent personal photos or videos from being misused. “And also to ensure if some other person finds it, he or she may return it to the actual owner,” said Nasir Shaikh.The next day Nasir Shaikh went to Goregaon with his niece and recovered the lost phone.“The cab driver, who was in his 60s, told us that he had planned to hand over the phone to a taxi union’s office in Mumbai Central. He did not even know how to use a smartphone. The driver was not lying so we did not make any complaint and allowed to go him,” Nasir Shaikh said.Mansoor had come across the hidden mobile tracking system of his phone while exploring its applications. “I then thoroughly read about it on the internet and learnt how to use it. The system is generally hidden in the phone and people are not aware of it. It uses the IMEI number of the device, a phone user’s email ID and password,” he said. “The system tracks the email and the device through IMEI and GPS. The system can be enabled by putting a phone’s details in it and once enabled the system gives control to the owner to active ringtone mode from vibration mode, lock the phone’s screen remotely and post an emergency message on the mobile’s screen.”Mansoor said stories of people like slain Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Ashok Kamte, who was killed in 26/11 Mumbai terrorist attacks, inspire him. “I heard his stories from my parents and read about him on the internet. I want to become an IPS officer like him.”Mansoor has also demonstrated his mobile tracking skills to Mumbai cyber police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-year-old-mumbai-boy-tracks-missing-mobile-phones/story-HK9BbZFxQ06Mg3CUimvizN.html
26-08-2020||Lucknow||Tracking dogs Boss, Raja to the rescue of Prayagraj police||When the Prayagraj police lost tracking dog Smarty a few months back, they began looking for a suitable alternative and inducted Raja and Boss into the force. Both followed a special routine and training and exercise schedule but Raja has already left a mark and helped the police solve two cases in a short time. Also read: Don’t allow processions in public, says YogiOn August 23, one Jitendra was killed by his brother, Chhotu, who later committed suicide by jumping before a train. But police were unable to trace Chhotu’s body. When Raja was taken to the crime scene, he sniffed Chhotu’s slipper and then straight away ran towards the tracks where Chhotu’s body was lying.Earlier on June 2, one Irfan and his wife, Husna, were killed and their bodies were buried by their kin. Raja was called to Irfan’s residence in the Mehandauri area, where he sniffed some blood spots and reached the house of Irfan’s brother Rizwan. The dog pulled out a blood-stained shirt of Rizwan’s son, Shiraz. Police detained Shiraz, who confessed to his involvement in the murders.Police dog squad in-charge Santosh Kumar said of the two tracking dogs, Raja is exceptional. “Both follow a special routine which includes training sessions and exercise. Their diet includes milk, eggs, and meat.”Kumar said they were impressed with Raja’s extraordinary ability to sniff clues and leading them to the suspects.Tracking dogs have heightened olfactory ability to detect, recognise, and follow specific scents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/boss-raja-the-new-star-of-prayagraj-police/story-LcFplIZrzSy2FJLYwVIYaO.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi couple arrested, foster son apprehended for conning pedestrians||The Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested a couple and apprehended their 13-year-old foster son for allegedly conning pedestrians, mostly elderly women, and tricking them into exchanging their ornaments with bundles of fake currency notes.The trio was wanted in three cases of cheating that were registered at the Rajouri Garden police station in west Delhi between March 11 and August 9. The arrested couple has been identified as Raju alias Mango (28) and his wife Poonam (24). Raju has been involved in 19 crimes, mostly cheating and robbery, the police said.The police explained the trio’s modus operandi. Each member of the family was assigned a specific task to execute the crime. Initially, they would identify a potential target, which in 90% of the cases were elderly women, and kept a tab on their daily routine, the police said. Then, the couple would send their foster son to strike up a conversation with their potential target. The child would show a bundle of currency notes wrapped in a newspaper and tied with a thread and tell the person that he had stolen the money from his employer’s home, the official said.“The child would trick the person into believing his cock-and-bull story. He would make an offer to exchange the currency notes against some other items. Soon, Poonam would arrive at the spot and join the conversation pretending to be a stranger and showing her eagerness to finalise the deal with the child. She would estimate that the value of the bundle of the currency notes to be almost double the worth of the jewellery that the person is wearing,” said the official.Later, Poonam would plead helplessness citing that she did not have ornaments of that worth and would convince the potential target not to miss out on the lucrative exchange offer.Typically, Raju would make his presence felt and trick the potential target to cut a deal. The target would figure out that s/he was conned only after opening the bundle of currency notes. White papers were put between a couple of currency notes on both sides, the police said.According to an investigating officer (IO), who spoke on condition of anonymity, multiple teams of Delhi Police were working on the three cases. An analysis of the footage of 70 closed-circuit TV (CCTV) cameras related to the crime scenes showed that the suspects in all the cases were the same, he said.“We activated our network of informers and one of them helped us identify the suspects. On Monday, we caught the trio, while they were busy swindling another person at Khyala,” the IO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-couple-arrested-foster-son-apprehended-for-conning-pedestrians/story-X8mZoOaO7j5v2umpSZhtHJ.html
26-08-2020||Lucknow||Yogi: Don’t allow processions, religious functions in public||Uttar Pradesh (UP) Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed police officials to ensure that there was no violation of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) safety protocol and no processions and religious or cultural functions should be allowed in public. Speaking at a late night video conference, the CM ordered that those police personnel, who hobnob with criminals be identified and stern action be taken against them. “Seize firearm licences of those (police personnel) who engage in criminal acts,” he ordered. He directed the officials to keep a strict watch against those, who spread rumours and mischief on social media. He also reiterated his government’s “zero tolerance” policy towards crime and criminals. “Act against top 10 criminals at the district level as well as top 10 criminals listed at the police station level. Strengthen the beat system and stress on foot patrolling,” he said. The CM ordered effective action against cattle smugglers, illicit liquor manufacturers and sellers and those who exploit or ill-treat the poor, the members of the Scheduled Caste (SC) and the Scheduled Tribe (ST), women and children. “It must be ensured that anti-Romeo squads remain vigilant,” he said. The CM directed officials to ensure availability of fertilisers and ordered that those engaging in their hoarding or black marketing should be arrested. The CM also took feedback about the Covid-19 situation from the district magistrates (DMs) of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Ballia, Basti, Bareilly, and Jhansi. He asked DMs and chief medical officers (CMOs) to carry out surveillance, contact tracing, door-to-door surveys for Covid-19 testing. He said the state government had been working on formulating a strategy to check the spread of the pandemic in UP. He said that monitoring committees should be reactivated and the number of beds should be increased in all Covid-19 hospitals. Covid-19 patients’ attendants should regularly inform about their health condition, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-don-t-allow-processions-religious-functions-in-public/story-972Ep1qqC8kWLvpYHw5uPJ.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon session of Haryana assembly lasts barely three hours in shadow of Covid-19||Chandigarh:The monsoon session of the Haryana assembly lasted barely three hours on Wednesday afternoon before the House was adjourned sine die. Marred by walkouts by opposition members, the curtailed session, which began at 2pm, was held in the absence of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is the leader of the House, and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta as both of them are undergoing treatment for Covid-19.The session was originally scheduled to have two sittings, one each on Wednesday and Thursday, but the duration was cut to a few hours after the business advisory committee (BAC) of the assembly met in the morning.Deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa presided over the session that began with the leader of opposition and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda from the Congress and state home minister Anil Vij reading out the obituary references. Hooda and Vij were part of the business advisory committee besides deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala from the Jannayak Janata Party and parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal of the BJP.Soon after Gangwa apprised the House of the business advisory committee’s decision to only table the replies of questions and the calling attention motion instead of verbal replies, Congress MLAs Kuldeep Vats and BB Batra opposed the move.Vij asked the Congress MLAs to respect the decision of the committee in which the Congress Legislature Party leader represented them. Hooda reiterated that only important bills and supplementary estimates should be laid in the House and the remaining business, including adjournment and calling attention motions, should be kept pending for the next sitting of the assembly whenever it is convened.Question hour was waived with no discussion on the calling attention motions. Only written replies got tabled for listed questions.Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal interrupted the proceedings, demanding that higher education examinations should be put off in public interest, a point Hooda backed, saying the issue raised by her was valid.Kanwar Pal, who is also the state education minister, said that the Khattar-led BJP government will make appropriate arrangements to ensure exams are held smoothly. “We don’t want these students to get labelled as corona degree holders,” the minister said.He went on to take a dig at Hooda, saying Congress MLAs were interrupting and not adhering to the business advisory committee’s decision of which the CLP leader is a part. “You are not speaking against the government but against your own leader,” he told the Congress leaders.Earlier Hooda interacted with Khattar, who is hospitalised in Gurgaon for treatment of coronavirus infection, and assured him of a truncated session amid the Covid-19 pandemic.LONE INLD LEADER’S OBJECTIONIndian National Lok Dal MLA Abhay Chautala was not impressed. He said that he was not satisfied with the written statement tabled by the government in the two calling attention motions submitted by him.He said that the government did not invite him or any independent legislator for the business advisory committee meeting. “Are you the only ones running the assembly? What about lone MLAs like me?” he said.“No one is dying of coronavirus here. Why can’t we have a discussion on corruption issues? Why did you call us from so far when all you wanted was a shortened session?” said Chautala, who had requested of a calling attention motion on the issue of registries.Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma opposed the move to shut down shops on weekends to check the spread of coronavirus. LAND REGISTRATION AMENDMENT BILL TABLED The bill to undo a 2017 amendment in the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act was tabled in the House. The amendment has watered down Section 7-A of the Act. The stipulations in Section 7-A pertain to grant of a no objection certificate (NoC) by the town and country planning department before registration of land in notified urban areas.The amendment bill was tabled in view of large-scale violations in the registration of sale deeds of properties without obtaining NoCs in notified urban areas in Gurugram district.Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said that there should be no ban on the registration of sale deeds.Rohtak MLA BB Batra said that new stipulations brought by this amendment pertaining to Section 7-A of the Act needed a relook. “ Please review the definition of vacant land under Section 7-A,” Hooda said, supporting Batra.Some Congress MLAs walked out over the tabling the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (amendment) Bill. The Haryana appropriation bill was the final legislative business of the day tabled in the House by the parliamentary affairs minister after which the assembly was adjourned sine die.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-session-of-haryana-assembly-begins-today-likely-to-be-one-day-affair/story-0gdEBWahevYoLAY64FnG2N.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal calls for Covid-19 assessment meeting||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called for a meeting on Wednesday morning because of a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital, a government official said.“The CM has called for an assessment meeting at 11 am because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. The meeting will be attended by the health minister (Satyendar Jain), chief secretary (Vijay Dev) and all the senior officials of the state health department,” said the official.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 1,544 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the viral outbreak in the national capital in 40 days, according to official data. The spike in daily Covid-19 cases is a worrying statistic, as the state government is pressing for the resumption of the Metro Rail services in the national capital that have been suspended since end-March. Experts have warned the Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government against complacency, which, they said, could lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-calls-for-covid-19-assessment-meeting/story-vkCG3KtX2KaHtKk9wQhevM.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Amid Covid-19 outbreak in Mumbai, a dip in swine flu cases this year compared to 2019||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak in Mumbai, the first cases of which were reported over five months ago, the number of fresh cases of H1N1 swine flu virus has gone down in the first eight months of 2020 compared to 2019. Mumbai has reported 42 cases of swine flu between January to August 2020 compared to 432 cases during the same period in 2019, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data.According to BMC officials, several factors contributed to the fall in the number of cases, of which one is the infection pattern, and another is extra hygiene precautions citizens are taking owing to the spread of Covid-19. In 2019, Mumbai recorded a total of 451 swine flu cases and five deaths. In comparison to this, 42 cases have been reported until August 25, 2020 with zero deaths, according to BMC.Until February 2020, Mumbai saw 21 cases of swine flu, and the remaining 21 cases of swine flu were reported from March 1 to August 25, 2020, amid the Covid-19 outbreak. However, BMC has said the data from the last five years indicates a pattern—cases increase one year and decrease the next.For example, in 2015 over 3,000 cases of swine flu were reported, followed by three in 2016, 995 in 2017, 25 in 2018 and 451 in 2019. In terms of deaths due to swine flu, in July and August 2020, Mumbai recorded zero cases of swine flu compared to 159 cases and two deaths being reported during the same period in 2019.Dr Mangala Gomare, the executive health officer of BMC, said, “There have not been many swine flu cases this year, and in July and August till now there has not been a single case. There are a lot of reasons for low cases of swine flu, but what is different is that this year people are not moving like earlier, which could be a reason for a dip.”Dr Gomare added, “Also, the main reason could be citizens taking respiratory precautions. Further, hand and general hygiene are better.”The first few cases of swine flu appeared in India in 2009; it was declared a pandemic at that time by the World Health Organization (WHO). Swine flu is caused by the H1N1 virus, and is a strain of an influenza virus that generally originates in pigs, but spreads primarily from person to person.The primary symptoms of swine flu include fever, lethargy, headache, cough, sore throat and nausea. While most people recover within a week, people with low immunity and chronic diseases can face severe symptoms. However, in case of swine flu, unlike Covid-19, a vaccine is available and lakhs of citizens countrywide have been given the vaccine.On the decline of swine flu cases, Dr Om Srivastava, infectious diseases expert and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said, “This is the nature of the virus. We cannot predict the exact reason, but the annual peak for swine flu starts from mid-August, so we still need to wait and see before reading much into this. However, cases going down in general is a good thing.”Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 587 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday and 35 new deaths, taking the total to 1,37,683 cases and 7,477 deaths. Till now 1,11,962 patients have recovered in the city and the mortality rate of Mumbai stands at 5.43%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-covid-19-outbreak-in-mumbai-a-dip-in-swine-flu-cases-this-year-compared-to-2019/story-TWyKRQhxORslWeUEdNL8VJ.html
26-08-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says UP has reduced vector-borne diseases mortality rate by 95% since 2016||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Tuesday night that better inter-department coordination would make the state health mission more successful. He said an example to prove this was the effectiveness of the state in controlling vector-borne diseases through well-coordinated efforts among various departments. Yogi said that compared to 2016, the state registered 95% less mortality rate for vector-borne diseases. He asked the inter-departmental meetings related to health every three months and working committee meetings every six months. Chairing a review meeting of the state health mission at his official residence, Yogi asked the ministers concerned for a monthly review of programmes under the state health mission. He instructed that the data related to all the programmes under the mission must be regularly updated and technology must be used for better management of data.Also Read: UP Cong chief detained on his way to meet kin of murdered journalist“Also arrange for daily data collection as it would help in effective review and analysis of the progress of various programmes,” Yogi said. He also asked the ministers and officers concerned to re-start the ‘Arogya Melas’. State health minister Jaipratap Singh presented a report on the health mission’s objectives and progress of various schemes and programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-says-up-has-reduced-vector-borne-diseases-mortality-rate-by-95-since-2016/story-5pqmVWcfLDCFYtuthQbgWO.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Orange warning for Delhi; Odisha sees extremely heavy rain||The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi has issued an orange warning for Delhi today. An orange warning implies that disaster management authorities should be prepared to avert any rain related disasters or flooding.RMC has said light to moderate thundershowers are likely in Delhi towards evening or night. There is likely to be minor traffic disruption and water accumulation in low lying areas, RMC said in its impact-based bulletin for Delhi on Tuesday evening.Heavy to very heavy rains are likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and over Uttar Pradesh also from August 26 to 28.Odisha has already started recording extremely heavy rain. The highest values are being recorded at Champua (Keonjhargarh) - 21 cm, Boudh - 20.8 cm, Marshaghai (Kendrapada) - 23.4 cm, since yesterday.The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active and is very likely to remain active during next 2-3 days. In addition, there is a convergence of strong lower level southwesterly winds from Arabian Sea over northwest India till August 28. A well-marked low pressure area is also lying over North Bay of Bengal which is moving west-northwestwards across Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, north Chhattisgarh and later towards Uttar Pradesh in the next five days.Also Read: IMD forecasts moderate to heavy rain in Delhi starting todayDue to these favourable conditions, widespread to very heavy rain is very likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand till August 28; over Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and West Rajasthan during August 26 to 28 and over east Rajasthan on August 28 and 29.Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Chhattisgarh on August 27. IMD has said localised flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpasses mainly in urban areas of the above region, disruption of traffic, mudslides are likely in parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh during the period.Also Read: Mumbai got highest August rain since 1983, says IMD Widespread and heavy rain is also very likely over northwest India till August 28, IMD’s Tuesday evening bulletin said.Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 7% excess with 4% excess over east and northeast India; 14% deficiency over northwest India; 15% excess over central India; and 24% excess over south peninsula.In August the entire country has recorded 22.6% excess rain; 5.2% deficiency over northwest India; 18% deficiency over east and northeast India; 50% excess over central India and 51.5% excess over south Peninsula according to data with India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/orange-warning-for-delhi-odisha-and-chhattisgarh-also-on-alert-for-extremely-heavy-rain/story-3qvwVQBDK9F9eRrEhwTK8O.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||IMD forecasts moderate to heavy rain in Delhi starting today||New Delhi: The national capital is likely to expect another moderate to heavy rain spell starting Wednesday.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that intense monsoon showers are expected in many parts of north-west India, including Delhi, between August 26 and 28. Some parts of the city have already started experiencing light intermittent rain on Wednesday morning.“The monsoon trough is shifting northwards and will stay very close to Delhi-NCR between August 25 and August 28. Under its influence, the convergence of lower-level easterlies from the Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from the Arabian Sea will take place over north-west India. One or two spells of moderate rain accompanied thunderstorm is likely to hit Delhi between August 26 to August 28,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said.Also Read: Heavy rain forecast in Chandigarh till Friday“As a result, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over north-west India till August 28,” the IMD said in its Tuesday bulletin.Also Read: Mumbai got highest August rain since 1983, says IMDThe monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active and lying south of its normal position and is likely to remain active for the next two or three days, the IMD said. In addition, there is a convergence of lower level south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea over north-west India till August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/imd-forecasts-moderate-to-heavy-rain-in-delhi-starting-today/story-RPRnl1P99Mlk4zzDWHptHI.html
26-08-2020||Lucknow||UP Cong chief detained on his way to meet kin of murdered journalist||Uttar Pradesh police has detained state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu while he was on his way from Raebareli to Ballia to meet family members of journalist Ratan Singh who was shot dead in Phephna village on Monday.Earlier in the day, journalists and locals of Ballia held a protest against killing of Singh. He was shot dead allegedly at the residence of the village head.A case has been registered against 10 accused. One police personnel has also been suspended in connection with the case.As per the police, three prime accused have been arrested in connection with the killing, “Three prime accused have been arrested from the spot. Search for the other accused is underway. Although the deceased was a journalist the incident does not involve anything related to journalism. It is about the land dispute between two parties,” said Subhash Chandra Dubey, DIG Azamgarh.Ballia’s Superintendent of Police Devendra Nath said, “He was shot dead at the residence of the village head. It is said that they had some old dispute. The investigation is underway.”However, Vinod Singh, father of the deceased, claimed that there was no dispute at all and added that “a false report has been given to higher-ups in Balia police by Sasmoli police in charge. My son was called on a false pretext. The spot where the murder took place is barely 20 steps away from the police station.”Uttar Pradesh Minister Anand Swarup Shukla visited the district hospital where the victim was taken in the morning today. “A journalist has been brutally murdered and we are taking this issue seriously. Will request Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to increase compensation and give a job to his wife,” the Minister said while speaking to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cong-chief-detained-on-his-way-to-meet-kin-of-murdered-journalist/story-BmD5BEDFsBswsFeQLz1c9L.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal tests positive for Covid-19 hours before assembly session begins||Chandigarh: Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal tested positive for Covid-19, making him the eighth legislator of the ruling BJP in the state to contract the coronavirus infection. In a tweet on Wednesday, Dalal said that he had got himself tested three days ago and the report was negative. However, he got another test done later, in which he tested positive The minister said that he has isolated himself at home and appealed to all those who had come in his contact to get themselves examined. The announcement came hours before the monsoon session of the Haryana assembly gets underway in Chandigarh. KHATTAR’S CONDITION STABLE On Monday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were also found to be infected with the virus. Khattar is admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta hospital, and is in a stable condition. Bhupeshwar Dayal, the officer on special duty with the Haryana chief minister, tweeted that he has also tested positive for Covid-19. Karnal BJP MP Sanjay Bhatia and the party MLA from Gharaunda Harvinder Kalyan have also tweeted that they had tested positive for coronavirus. Kalyan too had got himself tested three days ago and the report was negative. But after developing symptoms, he got himself tested again and the report returned positive on Sunday evening. Besides Bhatia, the BJP MPs from the state who were infected with Covid-19 earlier are Brijendra Singh and Nayab Singh Saini, representing Hisar and Kurukshetra, respectively. Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the eve of the assembly’s monsoon session in Chandigarh. BJP MLAs Lakshman Napa, Ram Kumar Kashyap and Aseem Goel have also tested positive as have six assembly staffers, officials said. Earlier, the Speaker had made it mandatory for anyone entering the assembly complex for the monsoon session to show a Covid-19 negative certificate, which should not be older than three days. This was done on health minister Anil Vij’s suggestion. SOCIAL DISTANCING IN HOUSE The seating arrangement in the House has also been changed to ensure social distancing, officials said. The Haryana assembly has a strength of 90 members. One seat fell vacant after the death of opposition Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April. The state has seen nearly 57,000 Covid-19 cases and more than 600 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-agriculture-minister-jp-dalal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-hours-before-assembly-session-begins/story-7uCL87Dvvlx9QCaE7JT5BM.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain forecast in seven districts of Himachal Pradesh today||Shimla/Dharamshala: The meteorological department has issued severe weather warning in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday with at least seven districts likely to be affected. An orange warning has been issued for Kangra, Sirmaur and Bilaspur and yellow warning for Una, Hamirpur, Mandi and Solan. The orange weather warning denotes heavy to very heavy rainfall and seeks people to stay alert, while the yellow one warns them to watch and stay updated. Yellow warnings have also been issued for the middle and lower hills of the state for August 27 and 28. Manmohan Singh from the state meteorological department said rain will continue till August 31. On Tuesday, Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district received the state’s heaviest downpour (100mm of rain), followed by Kangra (56mm), Mandi (25mm), Nahan (19mm), Dharamshala (16.8mm), Palampur (14.4mm), Paonta Sahib (11.4mm), Solan (11mm), Dalhousie (10mm), and Bilaspur and Kufri (4mm each). 20% DEFICIT RAINFALL THIS SEASON The total rainfall in Himachal Pradesh from June 1 till date has been below normal by 20% with 11 districts receiving deficit or scanty rainfall, said the seasonal weather report of the Shimla meteorological centre. In July, the state got 28% deficit rainfall and in August so far, the rainfall has been 8% below normal. The state received 479.8mm of rains against a normal scale of 599 mm of rainfall. Only Bilaspur district got 23% excess rainfall, recording 823.6mm rain against a normal of 671mm. Lahaul and Spiti district has the highest deficit of 71%, receiving only 68mm of rainfall so far. Normal rainfall in the tribal district would be 286mm. Chamba and Kinnaur districts recorded a deficit of 54% and 40% below normal rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-forecast-in-seven-districts-of-himachal-pradesh-today/story-oo2FBkGS7k2sAQQxqIC3uL.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Menstrual hygiene: PM’s speech motivates social workers to debunk myths better||When the words ‘menstrual hygiene’ were recently heard from the Red Fort as part of Prime Minister’s Independence Day speech, it was surely a first. And this has given a new shot of energy to the social workers who had been working for the cause of menstrual hygiene for years, as they notice a visible change coming through in people’s mindset.  Our @PMOIndia talking about sanitary pads in his Independence Day speech today is true progress...made menstruation a mainstream topic. Also kudos to the government who has so far distributed sanitary pads to about 5 crore women at Re. 1 👏“When PM addressed the issue to the nation from the bigger podium, it certainly gave an impetus to the cause, and has started helping us in destigmatising period talk,” says Anchal Sharma, founder of an NGO Meals of Happiness sharing how this move is aiding the NGOs who have been working in this regard. She adds, “PM Modi is the only PM who spoke about menstrual hygiene on such an important day. It shows that the health of half of the population (the female population) of India is officially a national issue! And menstrual health is not a topic to be shoved inside black polythene. Now, it has definitely started normalising menstrual health discussions... When someone like him talks about it, it infuses renewed life and energy in people like me, who have been trying to normalise people about it. Ab ghar-ghar discuss hoga, dabi awaz mei nahi, khulke!”Sharma, who has been serving meals to the underprivileged in Delhi-NCR, and has also taken up the cause of menstrual hygiene, adds, “In the present time (of pandemic), it’s difficult for many to even get two square meals a day; buying sanitary pads has become an unthinkable luxury. So, we decided to help women have menstrual hygiene by offering them free sanitary pads. PM’s motivational speech has pumped us to do more since only 36% women have access to sanitary pads, and millions are still forced to use husk or dirty clothes. And it’s proven that poor menstrual hygiene can lead to fatal infections, urinalysis tract infection and even cervical cancer.” Delhi-based Anurag Chauhan who has been trying to spread awareness about periods through Break The Bloody Taboo campaign, says, “I want to thank PM for striking up a conversation on this topic, which is till date many a times not even discussed inside with family in a living room... Once I was in Chomu village of Rajasthan, to address a female gathering about this subject. And one of the ladies, must be in her 60s asked me if I also menstruate! Initially, I thought she’s making fun of me, but soon I realised that she was serious, and was shocked to hear her say, ‘Kya pata jaise main chupati hun, vo bhi chupate ho’. Imagine the level of unawareness on this topic in women like her who are married and have kids... So when a man, and that too the PM of this country talks about periods on I-Day, it not just boosts our morale but also helps us spread more awareness.” Chauhan runs an NGO, Humans for Humanity and the campaign is one his projects. A similar sentiment is echoed by a social worker Lalitha Yadav, who provides basic hygiene utilities to sex workers and underprivileged in GB Road and Najafgarh, as part of a Delhi-based NGO, Society for Participatory Integrated Development (SPID). “When a prominent figure like the PM addresses the nation on subject like periods, it does create an impact! There are a lot of stigmas attached with it, especially among the males. Now, whenever we will address the issue among our audience, we happily take reference of Modiji’s speech and this helps us take the conversation ahead,” she says sharing how just a mention has set the ball rolling. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/menstrual-hygiene-pm-s-speech-motivates-social-workers-to-debunk-myths-better/story-DFyFWpPfW5mwMODhGR0MsM.html
26-08-2020||City||Son-in-law held for Navi Mumbai woman’s murder||A day after the body of a 45-year-old woman, with her throat slit, was found at her home in Navi Mumbai, the Taloja police on Tuesday arrested her 28-year-old son-in-law for the murder. The accused committed the crime because he was upset over the fact that his pregnant wife visited her mother regularly, said the police. The victim, Rekha Sharma, was found dead at her second-floor Taloja apartment in sector 11. The accused, Praful Siyali, works as an electrical technician married Sharma’s younger daughter two years ago and the couple stayed at Taloja phase-2 and was expecting their first child. Based on preliminary investigation, police said Siyali arrived at Sharma’s house shortly after her husband left for work in the morning. He wore a raincoat and covered his face to prevent getting captured in the building’s CCTV cameras. When the police went through the CCTV footage of the people who visited the building around the time of the murder, they were surprised to find a person wearing a raincoat as it was not raining at the time. After initial rounds of inquiry with the family members, and rummaging through the call detail records, the police suspected Siyali’s role in the murder. Once the police confirmed that Siyali was the main wearing the raincoat, the police arrested him. “Along with technical analysis and CCTV footage, we zeroed down the accused and arrested him on Tuesday. We are investigating the case further to put together the sequence of events and to recover the murder weapon,” said senior inspector Kashinath Chavan from Taloja police station. On Monday, Siyali’s wife tried calling Sharma on phone after 10am, but after she did not answer the calls, the couple went to the victim’s house. “Sharma used to often insult Siyali. His wife had been regularly visiting Sharma in the since a while and it irked the accused. He asked his wife not to visit her mother’s house but when she did not agree to it, he decided to kill Sharma,” said inspector Raju Adagle from Taloja police station. Siyali’s wife also used to spend Sundays at her mother’s house, which further angered him, said police officers. Siyali has been booked for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced before a magistrate court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-in-law-held-for-navi-mumbai-woman-s-murder/story-WfyJkaM7XNuT8bW2DwkChO.html
26-08-2020||City||KU datesheet out, 1.20 lakh final year students to take exam from home||Starting September 10, over 1.20 lakh final year students of graduate and post-graduate courses at Kurukshetra University (KU) will be appearing in their exams from home.As per information, the KU management has issued a datesheet for the exams as per the University Grants Commission guidelines. Examination for UG courses will begin from September 10 and PG courses it will be held from September 15.The university has issued the mode and schedule of examinations for all UG and PG final year students, including regular, private, correspondence and re-appear students of even semester.Vice-chancellor Dr Nita Khanna said the decision was taken keeping in view the prevailing condition of Covid-19 pandemic and the safety of students.The exam will be based on 50% syllabus and students will be given three hours, including one hour for the downloading of question paper and uploading of the answer sheets on the official website of the university and their concerned colleges.KU public relations director Brajesh Sawhney said the question papers will be uploaded on the university website at 10am and the students will be given a link to download the question paper from their homes. They will have to upload their answersheets on the same link. The students can reach their chairperson, directors or principals through email if they face any problem.EXAMS BEGIN AT REWARI’S IGUThe examination for final year students began at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) in Rewari’s Mirpur on Tuesday amid coronavirus scare. The exams were conducted in two shifts while following the safety guidelines.University vice-chancellor S K Gakhar visited the examination centres and talked to students about their opinion on the continuation of the exams.“The students want the exams to continue and there is no chance of further delay. Social distancing rules were strictly followed during the examination. All the candidates were thermal-screened at the entry. For each shift, the centres were sanitised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ku-datesheet-out-1-20-lakh-final-year-students-to-take-exam-from-home/story-cCaPjtoB5cLpjiEt7GfPgJ.html
26-08-2020||City||‘Staged’ abduction case: Newlywed woman testifies against kidnappers in court||A day after being allegedly kidnapped at gunpoint by car-borne miscreants in Kalanaur here, police produced the newlywed woman before a court here on Tuesday.Though the police had earlier said that the woman concocted her own abduction with the help of her lover and his friends, she testified against her kidnappers.Rohtak police spokesperson Sunny Lora said, “We have conducted her medical examination and a report is awaited. The woman is in the police custody and her abductors are still at large. We have recovered the Safari car which was snatched by the accused at gunpoint when the couple was travelling to Bhiwani just two hours post-wedding.”Meham DSP Shamsher Singh Dahiya and Kalanaur SHO Sohan Lal, who are investigating the case, did not respond to calls and text messages.A senior police officer requesting anonymity said the woman while recording her statement said one of the abductors used to stalk her on her way to school, while the main accused had also tried to misbehave with her. She said a village panchayat was also held in this regard where the accused’s parents had assured that their son would not repeat the misacts.“We are investigating whether the bride is 18 years old or not,” the officer added.The woman comes from a poor Dalit family, while the miscreants belong to the upper caste.However, her parents alleged that they had given a police complaint against the main accused a few months back after he tried to misbehave with their daughter. “The police did not take any action so later a compromise was struck in the village panchayat. Had the police acted in time, it wouldn’t have come to this,” they added.Meanwhile, the groom’s family is waiting for the outcome of the investigation. “If she was in fact abducted, we will accept her. Else, it would be difficult for us to take her in. We are tensed right now and waiting for police action,” a relative of the groom said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staged-abduction-case-newlywed-woman-testifies-against-kidnappers-in-court/story-ga9FYBwOvYApf1QIKxFINL.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus claims 10 more lives in Haryana||Ten people succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday in Haryana, which logged 1,148 new cases, pushing the state’s infection tally to 56,608. Among the new patients were transport minister Mool Chand Sharma, BJP MP from Karnal Sanjay Bhatia and BJP MLA from Gharaunda Harvinder Kalyan. According to the health bulletin, four people on Tuesday died in Kaithal, two in Faridabad and one each in Fatehabad, Panchkula, Karnal and Ambala. The state’s death toll on Tuesday stood at 623 (440 men and 183 women). Until Tuesday evening, the state had crossed one-million mark in total samples sent for testing. As many as 1,091 patients recovered on Tuesday, taking the number of those cured of Covid in Haryana to 46,496. There were 9,489 active Covid-19 cases in the state, whose doubling rate improved to 33 days. Faridabad again recorded the highest 132 cases, followed by Rewari (129) and Gurugram (114). In Sonepat, 46 fresh cases were reported, while Ambala saw 71 infections, Rohtak 72, Panipat 109, Karnal 80, Hisar 74, Palwal 7, Panchkula 20, Mahendergarh 12, Jhajjar 8, Bhiwani 13, Kurukshetra 52, Nuh 3, Sirsa 70, Yamunanagar 31, Fatehabad 34, Kaithal 51, and Jind 32. As per the local reports, Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma also tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Two deaths in PanipatThough the health bulletin didn’t mention their deaths, two people lost their lives to Covid-19 in Panipat on Tuesday, taking the district’s death toll to 41. The deceased were a 45-year-old man from Noorwala village and another 64-year-old man from Panipat City. They were also suffering from other ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-claims-10-more-lives-in-haryana/story-kc7KnZRFlvj0wwrYDG1zNK.html
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana monsoon session begins under Covid shadow today, may be cut short||The Haryana Vidhan Sabha session that begins on Wednesday could be wrapped up in a single sitting due to the lurking threat of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa indicated on Tuesday. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, transport minister Mool Chand Sharma, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators — Aseem Goyal (Ambala City), Laxman Napa (Ratia), Harvinder Kalyan (Gharaunda) and Ram Kumar Kashyap (Indri) — have tested positive for coronavirus ahead of the session scheduled for 2pm on August 26. Khattar is undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. The monsoon session is being convened to meet the constitutional requirement of holding a session within six months of the previous session and to introduce some bills. “Due to the pandemic, some MLAs have also suggested to limit the house proceedings to one day. Due to the prevailing circumstances, the MLAs are reluctant to stay back overnight here,” said Gangwa, who will preside over the assembly proceedings in speaker Gupta’s absence. The final decision about the duration of the session, Gangwa said, will be taken by the business advisory committee (BAC) that will meet before the session on Wednesday. According to deputy speaker, Covid-19 test reports of all other MLAs, who will attend the session, was negative. In the 90-member house, one seat is vacant. The monsoon session will begin under strict social distancing protocols. The house has been sanitised twice and the MLAs will be seated in the audience gallery and the speaker’s gallery, maintaining physical distance. While only one MLA will sit on a bench as against two earlier, the speaker’s as well as visitors’ galleries have been converted into a sitting place for the legislators. Visitors will not be allowed to watch the assembly proceedings this time. The house was first sanitised on Saturday and the exercise was repeated on Tuesday evening. The deputy speaker said 365 employees and officers of the Vidhan Sabha had undergone Covid test, six of whom tested positive. Gangwa said 187 questions were received from MLAs, besides 30 calling attention motions, one private bill and four adjournment motions that were under considerations. He said among the 10 bills likely to be introduced in the house was a bill to reserve 50% seats for women in panchayati raj institutions. Hooda interacts with KhattarLeader of the opposition in Haryana assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who had an interaction with Khattar, said he could consider the plea for a shortened session in view of the Covid-19 situation. “However, it all depends on the quantum of legislative business. The number of adjournment motions, calling attention motions and bills tabled will be a factor in deciding the duration of the session,” Hooda said. The Congress has submitted four adjournment motions and 10 calling attention motions. Deputy speaker Gangwa said 40 starred questions have been taken up for the question hour. However, all starred questions have been converted into unstarred questions. A reply to an unstarred question is merely tabled in the house, not expressed verbally.Two calling attention motions raised by INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala on the issue of registries and infant mortality rate have been accepted and others are under consideration. Hooda, meanwhile, said the adjournment motion will be brought by the Congress to discuss three new farm ordinances. Another adjournment motion will also be brought to demand a discussion on the registry and the liquor scam. “We will also bring an adjournment motion in the House to discuss the issue of sacked physical training instructors,” he said. Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT Neeraj Sharma said he has also submitted two calling attention motions regarding the retrenchment of employees by an earth moving equipment company and on the fresh weekend restrictions imposed by the state government entailing closure of shops. Private sector job quota, ‘right to recall’ bills to be tabled in assembly: DushyantChandigarh Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said theirs will be the first state where villagers will have the power to recall panchayat members for not doing their duties.He said a bill in this regard will be tabled in the assembly on Wednesday. He said a bill to reserve 50% seats for women in panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) will also be tabled in the assembly.Dushyant said he will also table a bill to give 75% reservation to local candidates in private sector jobs in the house. An ordinance in this regard approved by the cabinet has been reserved by the governor for the consideration of the president. The bill will also be sent to the President.Citing an example, he said many a time a sarpanch is accused of misusing his post and people want him removed. “In this scenario, the right to recall law will give power to people to remove him,” he added.Dushyant said the bill to reserve 50% posts for women in PRIs will open new doors for the women of rural areas in politics. Similarly, a bill to provide 8% reservation to BC -A in PRIs will be presented in the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-monsoon-session-begins-under-covid-shadow-today-may-be-cut-short/story-AanElkW3NfQ80MfIBLcNyH.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Gandhi family is Congress’s Aadhar card; Rahul can lead his party: Sanjay Raut||A day after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) met in the shadow of a letter written by 23 senior figures questioning the current situation pertaining to the party leadership, Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut backed Rahul Gandhi’s leadership abilities and said that Gandhi family is the “Aadhar card” of the Congress party”. Raut also said that no one outside the Gandhi family can lead the party. “The Gandhi family is the Aadhaar card of the Congress party. Be it Soniaji [Gandhi], Priyanka Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. The demand for a non-Gandhi leading a party is not appropriate. As of today, I don’t see a leader outside the family who can lead the party,” said Raut, while speaking to media persons on Tuesday. The Rajya Sabha member also said that the Congress continues to be the principal opposition in the country and has workers in almost every village of the country. Raut further stated that the party should end their internal differences and rise as an opposition.The Sena leader praised Rahul Gandhi for his leadership role as the party president in the past. “Rahul Gandhi led the party well in the past. The Congress won the Assembly polls in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh under his leadership. After the defeat in Lok Sabha [polls], he walked away from the post of the Congress president… But even today, Rahul Gandhi has the ability to lead the Congress,” said the Sena MP.Meanwhile, responding to Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Vijay Wadettiwar’s comments stating that if Rahul Gandhi takes over the reins of the party and directs the state Congress to leave the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, the party would do so, Raut said, “Well, Rahul Gandhi has no such wish; Wadettiwar thinks so. We have good interactions with Rahul Gandhi. The Congress ministers know the reason behind having a coalition government in Maharashtra. And Rahul Gandhi is also of the opinion that this government should run effectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gandhi-family-is-congress-s-aadhar-card-rahul-can-lead-his-party-sanjay-raut/story-aJcqnsBIIrrFB7HTItAxjN.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||First-year junior college admissions: Give vacant minority quota seats to other minorities before surrendering them, institutes in Maharashtra told||Seats in junior colleges, reserved for students belonging to minority categories that remain vacant, have to be offered to students from any other minority category before they can be surrendered for open category students, a circular by the directorate of state secondary and higher education stated on Tuesday. The circular said directed minority junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan region, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amaravati and Nagpur zones to adhere to this rule, first introduced in 2014 by the department of minority affairs. While the rule has been in place in degree colleges, it is being implemented in junior colleges only now, said an official from the education department. As per this rule, if any seats reserved for religious minority students are vacant after the third and the final round of admissions, they should be allotted to students belonging to any other religious minorities on merit. If the college is still unable to fill the minority seats, they need to be allotted to students belonging to linguistic minorities. The same process needs to be followed for linguistic minority seats. Such colleges need not reserve seats for backward classes Minority junior colleges can reserve up to 50% of their seats for a religious or linguistic minority. For instance, HR and Jai Hind Colleges are Sindhi linguistic minority colleges. If seats reserved for the Sindhi-speaking community remain unfilled, they will be allotted to students from another linguistic minority such as Tamil or Gujarati. If seats still remain vacant after that, those will be allotted to a religious minority candidate. In Mumbai, there are 3.2 lakh total seats, of which 86,905 are reserved under minority quota, 2,071 under in-house quota and 16,037 under management quota. The zero round for quota admissions was held up to August 22 and so far only 9,811 minority quota seats have been filled. A total of 7,027 candidates have been admitted to in-house quota and 751 in management quota. Quota admissions are currently underway and will end on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-vacant-minority-quota-seats-to-other-minorities-before-surrendering-them-first-year-junior-colleges-in-maharashtra-told/story-SHJg9dgrWRK7YesD2ogJ4I.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: CBI summons 2 Mumbai Police officers||On Day 5 of its probe into the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput , the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday summoned two Mumbai Police officers, inspector Bhushan Belnekar and sub-inspector Vaibhav Jagtap, for questioning. While Belnekar was probing the case before it was transferred to CBI, Jagtap was present at Cooper Hospital during the post mortem of the actor’s body, said sources from Mumbai Police. Belnekar and Jagtap are in quarantine after they were tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago. “Belnekar was discharged from hospital a few days ago. But his reports came positive again and he is in quarantine,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named. Sources said the CBI is likely to summon senior police officers too in the case. Meanwhile. the central agency continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, domestic help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani, chartered accountant Sandeep Shridhar and house manager Samuel Miranda at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East). On Monday, the CBI team questioned employees of Waterstone Resort in Andheri (East), where Rajput spent two months last year. The same afternoon, the team also visited Cooper Hospital and met the doctors who conducted the autopsy. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14 and a case of accidental death was registered by Mumbai Police. The post-mortem report concluded Rajput died by suicide. The probe into Rajput’s death was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court on August 19, after the court upheld the validity of a first information report (FIR) lodged by Bihar Police in response to a complaint filed in Patna by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-cbi-summons-2-mumbai-police-officers/story-wE4Q7XhijRpWOlRcShlBjL.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai got highest August rain since 1983, says IMD||With 1,044 mm rain between August 1 and August 25, the city has received its highest August rainfall this year since 1983 and recorded the second-highest monthly rain since 1959, as per data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Tuesday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 1,044 mm rain so far in August, crossing the August 2010 rain record of 1036.5mm. In August 1983, Mumbai had recorded 1,243.8mm while the all-time highest August rain of 1,254mm was recorded in 1958. The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, has recorded its highest August rain since 1991, with 934.1mm. During August 1990, it had recorded 1,041.2mm rain in the entire month, while the all-time high was recorded in August 1983 (1,187.6mm). Between 8.30am on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday, the suburbs recorded 13.4 mm rain while 1.8mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai. So far, the excess rain has been 64% and 63% for Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai respectively. Maharashtra has recorded 17% excess rain this monsoon. Mumbai is 57.6 mm short of the 3,000mm mark this season, with 2,942.4 mm rain between June 1 and August 25. The monsoon is expected to continue into September. “After no low pressure weather system formed over Bay of Bengal in July, five well-marked systems were witnessed in August. Combined with this, recurring occurrence of a mid-tropospheric circulation over south Gujarat and north Konkan coast simultaneously led to active monsoon conditions for Mumbai,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD. The city surpassed 50% of its August average of rain (585.2mm) in the first four days of the month, with 293mm rain. The bulk of this (271mm) was recorded over 28 hours between August 3 and August 4. The monthly mean rain mark was crossed on August 9. In July, Mumbai witnessed its highest monthly rain (1,502.7 mm) since 1944, when IMD began collating readings. However, June saw the lowest monthly rain in five years after monsoon onset was declared on June 14. The city recorded 395mm rain, against the monthly average of 493.1mm. “The monsoon trough was active over central and north India for most of August, resulting in good rain for the west coast and interior Maharashtra. This helped bring all the lakes to optimum levels,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B). He said Mumbai may witness a few heavy spells in September. “The break phase with subdued rain for the last six days in August is needed. By the first week of September, active rain will be back for Mumbai, owing to weak La Nina [cold ocean temperatures in the equatorial Pacific, which is opposite to El Niño] likely to emerge during September. This will result in slightly above-normal rain,” said Balasubramanian. IMD has predicted occasional spells of light to moderate rain till the end of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-got-highest-august-rain-since-1983-says-imd/story-eD0URmpkv5UCnDhaaBBwBK.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud: Bombay HC directs jail authorities to get Rakesh Wadhawan admitted to KEM Hospital in 48 hours||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused the request to transfer Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoter Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan to a private hospital. Instead, the superintendent of Arthur Road Jail has been directed to send Wadhawan to KEM Hospital within 48 hours. Wadhawan is an accused in the case of fraud at Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank and suffering from cancer. Last week, a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had directed jail authorities to transfer Wadhawan to a civic-run hospital after Wadhawan submitted a plea to be admitted to a private medical facility to undergo a colonoscopy and endoscopy. Wadhawan then moved HC with his plea. A division bench of justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht said on Tuesday that Wadhawan should be taken to KEM Hospital for tests and treatment within 48 hours. The bench has directed the civic-run hospital to carry out the necessary medical tests within a week. Wadhawan’s counsel, senior advocate Amit Desai, said Wadhawan’s health is deteriorating and as a patient of colon cancer, he has been in and out of hospital for the past six months. Desai urged the court to allow Wadhawan be admitted to a private hospital as KEM Hospital has not been able to conduct an endoscopy and colonoscopy on him so far, despite court orders. HC, however, refused to accede to the request. The same bench also gave the Enforcement Directorate (ED) three days to provide a copy to Wadhawan of its complaint and other documents against him and the other accused in the case filed by the ED. Wadhawan is among the accused in the case of fraud at PMC Bank, registered by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) on September 30, 2019. An audit conducted by the Reserve Bank of India uncovered 44 loan accounts at PMC Bank that were used to carry out a fraud of Rs. 7,457.49 crore, most of which went to HDIL. The bank had created 21,049 fictitious accounts to ensure its master data tallied with loan disbursal of Rs. 7,457.49 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-bombay-hc-directs-jail-authorities-to-get-rakesh-wadhawan-admitted-to-kem-hospital-in-48-hours/story-mlpL7mfXemRJT6Z5ZL0ayI.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||All legislators to take RT-PCR tests ahead of monsoon session||Amid the Covid pandemic, the Maharashtra government has decided to conduct RT-PCR tests of all legislators for the monsoon session, starting September 7. Only those with a negative report will be allowed to attend the session, which will be conducted following social distancing norms. In a first, legislators will also be seen sitting in galleries reserved for visitors and students. After being deferred twice, the business advisory committee (BAC) of the state legislature approved a session of two days, from the usual two-three weeks. Legislators can attend the proceedings, but amid several restrictions, officials said. The first condition is to get the RT-PCR test done on September 6. “We have decided to follow all social distancing norms while holding the proceedings. Seating arrangement of the legislators is going to be changed and some will be made to sit in galleries reserved for students and visitors,” said an official from the state legislature. All of them will be provided a kit with a face shield, mask, hand gloves, sanitiser, etc. Further, their personal secretaries will not be allowed to enter the legislature building. Separate arrangements will be made on the premises for their secretaries and drivers. However, one secretary from the staff of each minister will be allowed to enter the building, the official said. Legislators having co-morbidities will be asked to decide whether they want to attend the proceedings or not. Group leaders have been asked to speak with these legislators, he added. “Earlier, there were plans to conduct online session. The session is now only for two days, so it makes no sense to hold a hybrid session,” said another official. A hybrid session allows legislators to attend the proceedings through video-conferencing, even using their smartphones. Supplementary demands and seven bills will be tabled during the session apart from appropriation bill and unstarred questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-legislators-to-take-rt-pcr-tests-ahead-of-monsoon-session/story-O3u82c8lEQ0L5e3i0P0olI.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||HC allows first wife and daughter of cop who died of Covid, to file compensation claim||After the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday was informed by the first wife and daughter of a Maharashtra railway police force police personnel, who succumbed to Covid-19 in May, that they were not aware of his second family and required time to counter the family’s claims to the compensation due to him, the court granted the first wife and her daughter two days and asked them to bring a lawyer. The court also indicated that as per past judgments, the legacy of a policeman could be shared by three people including the first wife and daughter, and the daughter from the second wife. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition of a 21-year-old woman, the policeman’s second daughter, seeking equal and proportionate distribution of the compensation and dues accruing in the name of her deceased father, was informed by advocate Prerak Sharma that as per court orders the first wife and daughter were appearing in person. The policeman’s daughter from his first wife said he used to reside with her and her mother continuously and also made a statement on record that neither she nor her mother knew of the existence of the second wife and daughter. Though Sharma informed the court that the second wife’s daughter had posted information about herself and had referred to the policemen as her father on the Facebook page of his first daughter, the latter refuted the claim. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the first wife and daughter to file their counter claims through an affidavit in reply to the petition within two days and also directed them to hire a lawyer to represent them. The bench also directed the state government to deposit the compensation amount with the court within a week and posted the hearing on Thursday. On the request of additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan, the court allowed the authorities to withhold the gratuity amount accruing in the name of the deceased policeman and not deposit it in court. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pradeep Chavan of west zone said that the compensation amount from the police welfare fund and other outstanding dues of the deceased policeman would be deposited in the court within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-first-wife-and-daughter-of-cop-who-died-of-covid-to-file-compensation-claim/story-6Hny2wh6EVcJQOmkX4WboN.html
26-08-2020||City||101,715 patients recovered in Thane district so far||More than 1 lakh Covid-19 patients have now recovered in Thane district, taking the recovery rate of the district to 81.85%. The number of cases in rural and urban areas has seen a decline since the start of this month. As on Tuesday, 101,715 patients had recovered, according to data released by the state government. Thane district has reported 124,261 cases of Covid-19 so far, of which 1.01 lakh patients have recovered. At present, there are 18,921 active cases in the district. The daily case count in the district in July was 1,000 to 1,500; this figure has decreased to 700 to 800 cases in August. On Tuesday, 762 new cases were reported from Thane district.Rajesh Narvekar, Thane district collector, claimed that early detection and the new discharge policy are the reason for the increase in recoveries. “We have managed to decrease cases in some of the cities like Thane, Bhiwandi and Ulhasnagar across the district, while the situation in other areas is also improving. This has been possible due to early detection of cases through extensive tracking, early identification, isolation at fever clinics and increase in testing,” said Narvekar. Early this month, Thane started a district-level patient management system, to manage the surplus hospital beds available and ensure no patients are left without beds. “Earlier, most patients who tested positive in private labs used to get admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital on their own. Those patients who required these beds were devoid of them, leading to delay in treatment. Now, we assess the condition of each patient and only then allot them beds in the hospital,” added Narvekar. This, he said has improved the recovery rate as critical patients receive prompt treatment. While cases have reduced in cities like Thane, Bhiwandi and Ulhasnagar, Kalyan- Dombivli and Navi Mumbai are still a cause for concern as daily cases in these cities are still between 250 and 450. “We did not have city-based laboratories in these two cities earlier, which led to delays in getting test results. The results were submitted after two to three days, by which time the infected persons would have infected several more. We now have testing labs in these cities, and we have increased the daily testing capacity. Results are delivered in a day, leading to quick isolation. We are confident that cases here will decrease too,” Narvekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/101-715-patients-recovered-in-thane-district-so-far/story-T4F14TK2WERkI1gVSsZR8M.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Sero-survey: BMC starts second round in Mumbai’s 3 wards||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday began the second phase of sero-survey in the city, as part of which blood samples of 5,840 individuals from slums and non-slum areas from three civic wards will be collected. The study will mostly be concluded by the end of this week. The civic body, along with NITI-Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), conducted the first serological survey in July among 6,936 people living in the same three wards—M-West (Tilaknagar and Chembur), F-North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R-North (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar). Of the 4,234 individuals randomly surveyed in slums, 56.5% had Covid-19 antibodies. In non-slum or residential areas, of the 2,702 examined, only 419 came positive, showing 15.5% prevalence of antibodies. BMC needs to conduct the second study in the same wards within a month to gauge the spread of the virus among the population. Under the sero-survey, a group of individuals undergo blood tests to detect the presence of Immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibodies. IgG antibodies are produced by the body’s immune system on being exposed to a virus. A sero-survey helps identify individuals who were previously infected with the virus and silently recovered. Dr Sandeep Juneja, one of the researchers from TIFR who was part of the study, said, “Many people who have contracted the infection are asymptomatic, so through this survey, we can understand to what extent the virus has spread in Mumbai. We need two sets of data to make the comparison. With the conclusion of the second survey, we can compare the data of the first study with the latter one. This will help us know if the spread of the virus has been controlled or flattened.” The second study will cover 3,700 individuals in slums and 2,140 in non-slum areas. Till Tuesday afternoon, the volunteers have met 68% of their target by collecting samples from 3,976 individuals living in slums and non-slum areas. As HT reported earlier, in the first survey, only 20% of people residing in non-slum areas cooperated with the volunteers. “For over 10 days, we sensitised people in different societies and buildings in the same three wards, so they cooperate with us. We have taken contacts of people who are keen on participating in the survey, which is helping us collect samples quicker without much resistance,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “If things go as planned, we will conclude the survey by this weekend,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sero-survey-bmc-starts-second-round-in-mumbai-s-3-wards/story-YeRh0YvevHLjAa0ETqQoRJ.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Ajit must respond to Congress legislators’ claims over funds: Sena||In a move to corner Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar on the issue of unequal distribution of development funds, the Shiv Sena, in an editorial in Saamana, said the state finance minister must respond to the allegations of Congress legislators. In the past, Shiv Sena legislators have voiced their disappointment to chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray over unavailability of funds for their constituencies. They have alleged that NCP legislators get priority over legislators from the two other parties. Speaking to the media, Sena MP and Saamana editor Sanjay Raut told reporters that although Pawar is the finance minister, the three parties within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi can sit together to resolve the issue. Raut said that earlier Thorat and senior Congress minister Ashok Chavan have spoken to the chief minister about the distribution of funds. “Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat called me and said that Congress MLAs are unhappy with unequal distribution of funds. He said it is important that funds are distributed equally as this is a three-party government. I think the stand he has taken is appropriate. At the end of the day, when a legislator develops his constituency, it leads to the development of the state…,” Raut told reporters. In an editorial in Saamana, the party had said, “Congress leaders say that the NCP gets more importance in the government and that the NCP has taken more of the development funds. What do we say on this? Finance minister Ajit Pawar alone can respond to these allegations.” Meanwhile, Congress’s Jalna MLA Kailash Gorantyal threatened to go on a hunger strike over constituency development funds. He has claimed that he has the support of 10 other Congress legislators, who he has not named. However, Pawar reportedly spoke to Gorantyal on Tuesday and the legislator has decided to call off his protest. The Sena also took a dim view of the 11 Congress legislators from Maharashtra protesting against the government and said that it is akin to raising questions against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, who supported to form the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ajit-must-respond-to-congress-legislators-claims-over-funds-sena/story-GdXMDZqUhgJTua0O8w8T9J.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records only 587 cases; BMC says tech issue||The city has reported 587 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, its lowest daily figure in the past 105 days since May 12, when Mumbai’s daily count was 426. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) clarified in its daily evening media bulletin on Tuesday, that the low number of cases is due to a “technical issue” on the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) website. “Complete case data is not available today, it will be uploaded tomorrow,” the bulletin mentioned.“[The numbers are] based on information received from various hospitals and data uploaded on the ICMR portal by certified labs/Covid portal of GOI (Government of India) by district,” said the civic body, adding that the data is subject to change after scrutiny and an ongoing verification process. As of Tuesday, the total Covid count for Mumbai was 137,683, of which 17,938 are active cases. Mumbai also reported 35 new deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the toll to 7,477. The case fatality rate in Mumbai is 5.4% and the recovery rate is 81%.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “We should wait and watch before coming to any inference. We cannot be complacent and should never lower our guard.” On August 24, Mumbai conducted 5,960 Covid-19 tests, lower than the average daily of 8,000-9,000.“We are conducting 8,000 to 9,000 tests every day. BMC is trying hard to make it to 12,000 to 14,000 tests daily, but unfortunately, people are not coming forward to get tested. Around 80% of the people are asymptomatic, and the number of symptomatic people has reduced,” said Chahal.Of the 35 deaths on Tuesday, 27 patients had comorbidities; 22 were men and 13 were women; seven deaths were of patients between the ages of 40 and 60 years, and 28 victims were above 60 years of age.The overall growth rate of Mumbai is 0.79%, and the doubling rate is 88 days. As of Tuesday, there are 599 active containment zones and 5,936 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-only-587-cases-bmc-says-tech-issue/story-5hWKLEvz4JLU6RKbOUzckO.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||At 351 Covid cases, Maharashtra Police see sharpest 24-hour spike||The Maharashtra police department has recorded 351 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, making it the highest single-day spike within the force since the lockdown began in March. Additionally, three more policemen succumbed to the virus, taking the toll within the force to 142.According to police, with these 351 new cases, the total number of infected policemen stands at 14,067, as of Monday. Of this, 11,356 have recovered and 2,569 are currently undergoing treatment at various Covid facilities.The police department also recorded three Covid fatalities from Nashik City, Pune Rural and Ahmednagar district, confirmed Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order).Sunil Narayan Shinde, a 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to Ambad police station, was admitted to Government Medical College, Nashik and succumbed during treatment on Monday evening.In the second fatality case, 47-year-old head constable Santosh Prakash Shelke died of Covid-19 on Monday. Shelke was attached to Ahmednagar Police and was undergoing treatment at Anand Hospital since August 19.The third fatality was reported from the Pune Rural Police. Assistant sub-inspector Ramchandra Eknath Bhilare, 56, attached to Bhor police station, succumbed to the virus on Saturday. He was receiving treatment at the Dinanath Mangeshkar Hospital.So far, 142 policemen have died of Covid-19 in the state police force. In Mumbai Police alone, over 4,500 policemen have been infected by the coronavirus, and 62 have died as a result. The state government is giving ₹50 lakh as compensation and a government job to one member of the families of the deceased policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-351-covid-cases-maharashtra-police-see-sharpest-24-hour-spike/story-FAd2qvBnIN6CmWJAc89SlJ.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Few takers for medical posts in Ratnagiri: State to HC||The state, in its reply to a petition in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions for urgent filling of vacant posts of medical officers and health workers in Ratnagiri, has said that while some posts have been filled, a majority of them remain vacant as there are few takers.In its affidavit, the government further said that it had initiated the process of recruitment. However, it would take time as it involved verification of documents submitted and other formalities. Hence, it was not possible to fulfill the prayers of the petitioner immediately.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Khalil Wasta, a fisherman from Ratnagiri, was informed by advocate Rakesh Bhatkar that with the commencement of Ganeshotsav, Ratnagiri could see a surge in Covid cases as many people would return to their hometowns to celebrate the festival. Bhatkar submitted that as many posts of medical officers and health workers were vacant in the civil hospital, it would be difficult to treat residents in the event of a spike in Covid cases, as those persons returning home were reaching there from Covid hot spots like Pune and Mumbai. Responding to the directions of the court in an earlier hearing, wherein the state was asked to submit the measures it was taking to address the issues the state, through additional government pleader Reena Salunkhe, submitted an affidavit which stated that additional medical officers and health workers had been dispatched to Ratnagiri for the festival period.The affidavit by Dr Sadhana M Tayde, director, commissioner of health services, informed that the Ratnagiri Civil Hospital was a 200-bed hospital, and the process of filling up posts was ongoing. It further stated that 59 appointment orders were issued after a December 2018 advertisement; 32 joined, including 15 MBBS doctors and one general surgeon. However, the affidavit pointed out that later, 27 candidates resigned, and as of now, there are only four MBBS and 22 specialist doctors at the hospital.Similarly, in response to a July 2019 advertisement, 108 appointment orders were issued, and 71 joined, of which 37 candidates resigned later. In response to a May 2020 advertisement, 53 medical and para-medical staff were appointed, but only 26 joined.The affidavit further stated that the latest advertisement of July 2020, has received fewer applications. Completing the recruitment process would take time, which the court accepted. When Bhatkar objected and said that the initiatives were insufficient and sought an update on the actual number of medical officers and health workers who had reached Ratnagiri, the court asked the state to submit the details and posted the matter for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/few-takers-for-medical-posts-in-ratnagiri-state-to-hc/story-rNO82wtULVW8UbPFn37iTK.html
26-08-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid tally crosses 700K; city sees 587 cases, lowest since May 12, due to tech glitch||Maharashtra on Tuesday went past 700,000 Covid-19 cases, 170 days after the first infection, with 10,425 more patients taking the tally to 703, 823. The latest 100,000 cases took only eight days. The state took 96 days for the first 100,000, 22 for the second, 14 for the third, 11 for the fourth, 10 for fifth and ninth for the tally to move from 500,000 to 600,000.Meanwhile, Mumbai, which was the country’s worst-hit city in the initial stage of the outbreak, has reported its lowest daily caseload after 105 days. The city reported 587 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 137,683. Mumbai had reported 426 cases on May 12. The fewer number of cases, however, is owing to the technical glitches it faced with the ICMR website, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has clarified. The city has, however, witnessed a fall in fatalities over the past four days, as it reported 121 deaths at a daily rate of 30 fatalities, against the daily average of 45 in August. The city reported 1,124 deaths between August 1 and 25. The state reported 329 new fatalities on Tuesday, taking the toll to 22,794 at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.24%. Of them, 241 deaths were reported in past 48 hours, 44 in the past week and remaining 44 were from the period before it. Pune district reported the highest fatalities at 58, of which 36 were in Pune city, 13 in rural parts of the district and nine in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Kolhapur district saw 37 fatalities, while Mumbai and Raigad rural reported 35 fatalities each. Nagpur and Aurangabad districts reported 24 and 21 fatalities each. Pune district remained on the top even in daily infections, by reporting 2,528 cases in the past 24 hours. Of them, 1,228 were in Pune city, 458 in rural Pune and 842 in Pimpri-Chichwad. Nashik and Aurangabad cities, too, continued to be top contributors in daily infections with 675 and 605 cases respectively on Tuesday. The total of recovered patients reached 514,790 after 12,300 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 73.14%, against national rate of 75.27%. Maharashtra has 165,921 active patients. Maharashtra has 12,53,273 patients under home quarantine, while 33,668 are institutionally quarantined. 61,423 tests were performed in the state in 24 hours at a positivity rate of 16.97%.While cities like Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Aurangabad have succeeded in bringing down the number of new cases over the past few weeks, state authorities have been treading very cautiously. The authorities are wary of the resurgence owing to the festive season if due precautions are not taken. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the district and civic administrations to be more vigilant to avoid any new surge due to festivals and monsoon-related ailments. The state authorities are not happy with the pace the contacts are being traced and tracked in the districts and civic bodies where the cases are more. “The only effective way to stop the spread and emergence of new cases is aggressive tracing, testing of the contacts, where we are lagging badly. The fatigue the healthcare system is facing over the last six months could be one of the reasons for it, but it should be intensified. In some parts of the state, the health infrastructure is poor, which is leading to more deaths,” said an official from the health department.Dr Avinash Supe, former dean of Mumbai-based KEM hospital and member of the state committee appointed to recommend steps to curb the spread, said that in Mumbai and MMR, the rise has been controlled well. “There could be a couple of months more, when we can expect the downward trend. We have controlled it in Mumbai with weekly cases coming down to 6500 from 10,500 cases in May. Similarly the situation in MMR is under control, but its spreading peripherally, and the trend is expected to be witnessed at least for next two months. The emergence of the second wave of the infection depends on how carefully it sustains during the festive season,” he said.Dr Supe said that strengthening of public health, supporting therapy and care of the elderly, and comorbid patients is the 3-point mantra that could help the authorities to keep the spread under check. Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, past national president of Indian Medical Association has attributed high fatality rate to the poor health infrastructure. “Besides the issues with the tracing and tracking, the poor infrastructure in mofussil and rural areas is one of the reasons for the high number of cases and deaths. In districts like Dhule and Nandurbar, the turnaround time for the test report in more than 2 days. The spread is now more in the rural areas where the infrastructure is in a shambles. Fear among the people for the treatment is another reason for the high rate of fatalities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-tally-crosses-700k-city-sees-587-cases-lowest-since-may-12-due-to-tech-glitch/story-THzXrE5EXdWINbPJrTWd1J.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi assembly panel to probe Facebook ‘inaction’ on hate speech, bias charges||The Delhi assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony will seek an investigation into Facebook to determine whether the way the social media company polices content is biased, if it threatens India’s democratic processes, and if its alleged inaction on purported hate speech contributed to the communal violence in the Capital earlier this year, its members said on Tuesday.The decision was taken following a meeting in which multiple experts and journalists who have looked at the issue offered their assessment. The matter is being examined after the panel, according to its members, received multiple complaints accusing the US-based company of acting in a partisan manner and not doing enough to remove hateful content. On August 14, the Wall Street Journal reported that some Facebook executives purportedly bent rules to shield individuals from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who made posts qualifying as hate speech. The company denied the allegations.“After the detailed examination of the witnesses, the committee has been posed with extremely useful and significant insights on the issue at hand which must be delved into meticulously… The witnesses also affirmed that a free and fair investigation must be conducted by independent investigating agencies to painstakingly investigate the alleged inaction of the Facebook in curbing the hateful content and palpably inflammatory content, with a view to ascertain if there was any complicity of Facebook officials in the alleged deliberate inaction,” said a statement by the committee chaired by Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha.According to one of the members of the committee, the panel could seek a probe into three specific aspects: if Facebook content had a role in the Delhi riots and whether it acted in time to remove these; if there was any collusion between Facebook India officials and members of the BJP; and if Facebook poses a threat to free and fair elections in the country. The leader of opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri denied there was collusion between the BJP and Facebook. “Facebook has never supported the BJP. The Aam Aadmi Party leaders have no business here. They have a majority in the assembly. They are taking advantage of it through the peace committee and they are making a political issue out of nothing just to hide their own failures in governance and Covid-19 management,” he said. “As far as hate speeches are concerned, no BJP leader has indulged in hate speech. When it comes to the Delhi riots, the Delhi Police is investigating the matter. Interestingly, a leader of the AAP (Tahir Hussain) is among the accused. The party should rather cooperate in the ongoing probe instead of indulging in gimmicks,” said Bidhuri, the BJP MLA from Badarpur.The WSJ report stated that Facebook officials, especially its top public policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, allegedly cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India, despite them being internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence. The two expert witnesses present in Tuesday’s meeting of the committee were Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, a journalist who has co-authored a book titled ‘The Real Face of Facebook in India’ and Nikhil Pahwa, a journalist with Medianama. “Eventually, the committee will submit the report of the legislative enquiry to Speaker Ram Niwas Goel. The speaker can forward the report to the police for a case to be filed or send it to the Election Commission,” Chadha added.The statement issued earlier reiterated the assembly will summon Facebook officials. “Hence, the committee will soon issue notices to top officials of Facebook with a view to examine them on record. The committee aims at redressing the issue at the earliest, therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion.”The company did not respond to emails from HT seeking a comment on the committee’s position. Facebook India head Ajit Mohan on Friday issued a statement saying the company is an “open, transparent and non-partisan platform”. The BJP has rejected the allegations and said that social media companies such as Facebook crack down harder on right wing content. The party’s IT cell head said the company removed 700 pages last year and has not reinstated them since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-panel-to-probe-facebook-inaction-on-hate-speech-bias-charges/story-7N8RiHHpmADx5mxoot85vL.html
26-08-2020||Noida||3 killed after vehicle rams divider on Yamuna Expressway near Delhi||Three people, including driver and a minor child, were killed and 16 were injured when a passenger vehicle crashed into the divider on Tuesday afternoon on 165-kilometre long Yamuna Expressway connecting Agra with Noida.“The accident took place at 60 Milestone under Naujheel police station of Mathura around 1pm on Tuesday. There were as many as 19 people travelling in the vehicle. Three of them died on the spot while 16 others were injured,” informed Shirish Chand, superintendent of police, Mathura (Rural Area). “The driver was killed in the accident when the vehicle rammed the divider. The injured have been admitted to Kailash Hospital and those in serious condition are admitted at Nayati Hospital,” the SP said. The people were travelling from different cities of Bihar to Sirsa in Haryana. The bodies were stuck in the damaged vehicle and villagers from the nearby area gathered to assist in the rescue operation. “Exact reasons are yet to be found but the driver sleeping at the wheel cannot be ruled out,” the SP added. “Efforts are being made to identify the deceased and injured but the prime focus was on arranging treatment for the people in critical condition,” said the officer. Dead bodies were sent for post mortem in Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-killed-after-vehicle-rams-divider-on-yamuna-expressway-near-delhi/story-Gf88Iu3nR9GGsKRcxA960L.html
26-08-2020||Gurugram||Cyber City accident: Cops record statements of minors, book parents||The police on Tuesday recorded the statement of the two minor boys allegedly involved in the road accident that led to the death of a 49-year-old motorcyclist, Alok Gupta, in Cyber City on Sunday morning. The police said that the juvenile, who was behind the wheel, has been identified. He allegedly told them that he was driving at a high speed and lost control over the wheel, following which the car hit the median and turned turtle several times before hitting Gupta.Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (East), said that police will produce the boy before the child welfare committee (CWC) on Wednesday and later before the juvenile justice board (JJB). “The juvenile have been booked under section 304A (causing death by negligence). It’s a bailable offence,” he said adding the doctors have confirmed that they were in inebriated state when admitted to the hospital. The police said they are waiting for the blood sample report based on which a section will be added to the FIR. After the crash, both the boys were allegedly taken out of the car by two passersby, who are also the eyewitnesses in the case. They were taken to the hospital in the same ambulance as the deceased motorcyclist. The two were discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. “The minor has told the police that they had gone to a friend’s house for a night party in Sector 67 and were partying till early morning. Parents of the host were also present in the house but had fallen asleep, while they kept partying and consumed alcohol. They left the friend’s house in a borrowed car around 4.30 am and were driving in Cyber City when they met with an accident,” he said. The juveniles are students of classes 11 and 12 in a private school of the city. The police, however, refused to either name or reveal the ages of the minors. However, they have collected their identification cards and have confirmed that they are minors. The police said the parents of the boy also recorded their statements and they are conducting investigation. They have been booked under sections 279 and 304A of the Motor Vehicles Act on Tuesday evening, after their statements were recorded. Mohan said the car belongs to another friend’s father, and is registered in Faridabad. Mihika Wahi Gupta, wife of the deceased, said they would fight for justice to ensure the culprit is punished for his negligent driving. “The police should add more sections to the FIR now as the suspect himself has revealed that he was in an inebriated state and was illegally driving,” she said. Anurag Gupta, brother of the deceased, said if the boy behind the wheels gets the benefit of being a juvenile, they will ensure he is tried as an adult in the juvenile justice board and gets the maximum punishment for the damage he has caused to his brother’s family. “We will fight to get justice and will not let him get away by being a minor,” he said. The family will move a petition once police produce the boy before the juvenile justice board. “The police have not informed us with the updates on the case. We want to check the documents with the police before they file the charge sheet,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cyber-city-accident-cops-record-statements-of-minors-book-parents/story-Ta6Zh1zkt9WJhjxoe1fwWL.html
26-08-2020||City||From Corona monster being defeated by docs to masks for dolls, team Bappa joins the fight||After defeating the coronavirus in the first week of August, 19 members of a Kalyan family decided to pay tribute to the Covid warriors through their Ganpati decorations.The 20 members of the Yadav family resides in the same building in Durghadi area of Kalyan, of which 19 tested positive for Covid-19 last month. All of them recovered by the first week of August. Touched by the efforts of the doctors, nurses and other Covid warriors, the family decided to honour them innovatively. Using paper, cardboard and toys, the family made a corona monster who is defeated by the nurses, doctors and policemen, who are at the forefront during the Covid-19 situation.Deepak Yadav, 36, along with his brother-in-law decorated the Ganpati mandap based on his experiences during the lockdown. He said, “We were worried about the elders in our family when almost all of us tested positive. The doctors and nurses helped us get through this difficult situation. Hence, the theme of decoration is based on them this year.”“The police personnel were feeding those who did not have food and the clean-up marshals sanitised each nook and corner of the city. They also have a prime spot in our theme. Actor Sonu Sood helped stranded labourers in reaching their hometowns. We have shown him as a superhero through our decoration,” said Yadav.Similarly, Niharika Singh, 11 and Mahi Singh, 9, residents of Manpada, decided to give out a message of taking precautions to reduce your chances of contracting the virus. Niharika said, “We used our dolls and craft materials to create a hospital scene, where a girl is being treated for Covid. We have also shown another girl wearing a mask, using sanitiser and drinking hot water. We have put up placards giving out general information about Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-corona-monster-being-defeated-by-docs-to-masks-for-dolls-team-bappa-joins-the-fight/story-bAJMD3AXyX7mfaOV8h5tFK.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Businessman, son held for assaulting cops||A 53-year-old businessman, his 21-year-old son and another person were arrested for allegedly assaulting police officials at south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park (CR Park) police station following a fight the three had with the owner and driver of an SUV over a collision between their vehicles on Monday night, police said. The three persons were booked for rash driving and assaulting policemen on duty, a case regarding which was registered under Sections 279, 186, 353, 332 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The accident and the assault took place around 9.30 pm on Monday at a market near I-block in CR Park, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police control room received a call regarding an accident in CR Park area after which an inspector and three policemen reached the spot and found two vehicles – an SUV and a hatchback – in a damaged condition.Two occupants of the hatchback, the businessman’s son and his friend of the same age, were allegedly assaulting the driver of the BMW and arguing with an elderly man sitting inside the SUV. When some people tried to intervene, the two men hurled abuses on them and asked them to stay away, a police officer associated with the case said.“When the four policemen tried to intervene, the two men began assaulting them. They tore their uniform. In the meantime, the businessman arrived in his car and allegedly joined them in assaulting the policemen and the SUV driver and misbehaved with the public,” said the officer, requesting not to be named.Reinforcements were sent to bring the matter under their control. Both parties were taken to the police station, where the trio allegedly created a commotion, slapped police personnel and fought with them, DCP Thakur said.“We registered a case arrested the three men. Their cars, including the damaged BMW, were impounded,” the DCP said. The complaint was filed on the SUV owner’s complaint.HT could not contact the arrested businessman and his son for their version of the incident.DCP Thakur said the businessman manufactures railway track clips while son and his friend are studying at a private institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/businessman-son-held-for-assaulting-cops/story-hgOw3wtePbZHUQohGv1edI.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||DMRC, CISF say they are ready for Metro’s reopening||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) are planning a series of measures to be put in place when the Metro resumes operation. People familiar with the matter had indicated on Monday that the government may allow the resumption of Metro services after over five months in September, when the fourth phase of a plan to restart businesses and activities restricted in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) kicks in.Some of the measures planned by the DMRC includes the use of smart cards for contactless and cashless travel, thermal scanning at entry points, earmarking designated spots for passengers to stand while waiting for trains or at customer service counters, use of face masks among others. The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application is likely to be mandatory.But the guidelines for operations will be finalised once the Union ministry of home affairs allow Metro operations and issue necessary guidelines. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “We shall follow all guidelines set by the government in this regard.” The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which is in charge of security at the transit stations, said that the basic arrangements are in place and they are ready to resume operations as and when directed.With a majority of commercial activities being allowed in the city, people have been facing problems while commuting due to inadequate public transport and the restriction on the number of passengers who can travel in a public bus at a given point of time. With nearly six million passenger journeys daily, the Metro is the transport lifeline of Delhi and National Capital Region. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently urged the Centre to resume Metro in the national capital. Speaking at a webinar with traders last week, Kejriwal said, “People of Delhi have been requesting us to start metro services. We have taken this up with the central government on several occasions. We have urged the Centre to explore the possibility of resuming metro services in Delhi while keeping it prohibited in other states as of now. Delhi is a special case because we have the covid situation under control.”From the moment a person enters the metro station to the end of the journey, there are a series of measures which DMRC and CISF have planned to ensure social distancing. Movement in MetroThe travel time is likely to increase as the DMRC plans to increase the stoppage time at each station to ensure social distancing when passengers board or de-board a train. Also, crowding inside the train will not be allowed. The current stoppage time at each station is 10-20 seconds which Dayal said “will suitably be increased to ensure comfortable boarding/ deboarding”.As per the measures announced by the DMRC in March this year, just days before the nationwide lockdown was announced, trains will skip crowded stations and its frequency will be altered. This was suggested to ensure social distancing. But the norms, which come into force from March 23, couldn’t be implemented as Metro operations were shut from March 22. DMRC has put stickers on alternate seats in all its trains that have to be left vacant. It has also put markings on the floors at the platform and near customer service or ticketing counters so that people don’t crowd and maintain a distance of one meter. The temperature inside trains is likely to be maintained at 26 degrees Celsius.The Metro also plans to conduct thermal scanning of passengers and wearing a mask will be mandatory within the station premises. Even if the Centre allows Metro operations, the decision whether the interstate Metro movement will be allowed or not will be taken by the state governments of Delhi and neighbouring states. While there is no restriction on movement in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have lockdown during weekends.Dayal said the DMRC will abide by the guidelines set by the government.Frisking and securityAn officer familiar with the arrangements, who wished not to be named, said as per the tentative protocol as of now, the number of entry and exit gates to be opened at each station will depend on the footfall. “As precautionary measures, the moment a person enters the station a CISF personnel will check their temperature using a thermal scanner. Only those with normal temperature will be allowed access. The CISF personnel manning the door frame metal detectors will also mandatorily wear a face shield, face mask and gloves,” a senior CISF officer said.Before their frisking, the passengers will be asked to take out all metallic items he’s carrying in his pockets, the officer said.The CISF personnel have been directed to make sure the handheld metal detector shall not touch the passenger. Another officer said these protocols are tentative and subject to change as directed by the government.Earlier this month the CISF staff posted in the DMRC unit had been directed to be prepared to resume services at a short notice. They had been asked by their seniors to mobilise force and ensure that metal detectors and other equipment such as X-ray scanners are kept at the ready.Directions included ensuring the availability of enough face shields, gloves and other protective equipment as need be to enforce social distancing and safe frisking of passengers.Experts voice concernsWhile community medicine expert Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department at Safdarjung hospital, said that it is about time to start the services as people are facing inconvenience, other medical experts advise caution.Dr Kishore said, “People are using their own vehicles which is causing air and sound pollution. People will use the Metro but should follow all the necessary precautions such as the use of face masks, social distancing, etc.”Pointing to the rise in the number of cases and the positivity rate, some experts also called for deferring opening of Metro. “How will social distancing be ensured at stations? Currently, a lot of people from neighbouring areas are not able to come to Delhi as Metro operations are closed. Starting it would only allow more movement of people and increase the chances of infection,” said Dr PK Sharma, epidemiologist and former medical health officer with the New Delhi Municipal Council. Dayal said, “Adequate manpower will be deployed to ensure the smooth resumption of services. Alternate seating will be allowed inside the trains. We would also request our passengers to cooperate with us and follow all social distancing norms while travelling.”As per the second serological survey, 28% of Delhi’s population has been exposed to Covid-19. “This means that nearly 2/3 of the population is still unexposed. The positivity rate is already on a rise and if you create opportunities for people to mingle, then it will increase the chances of transmission of the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-cisf-say-they-are-ready-for-metro-s-reopening/story-nxRm1V6AOtJ4GWDDYE0I4I.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Last week, Delhi recorded rainfall enough to meet 13 per cent of its water demand: CSE||Just a seven-day spell of rain in the national capital, between August 13 and August 19, produced enough wastewater to meet nearly 13% of the city’s daily water demand, analysis by an environmental think tank has found, highlighting the need potential for groundwater recharge.The analysis, by the Centre for Science and Environment, showed that in those seven days, Delhi received nearly 118.4 millimetres of rainfall —143% more than the average. Such a heavy spell can produce around 87,000 million litres of water, the analysis showed. Sushmita Sengupta, programme manager (water programme), CSE, said the demand for water in Delhi was estimated to be 2,765 million litres per day, or 644,225 million litres (at a rate of 175 litres per capita per day) annually. “The volume of rainwater generated in the past week, calculated by multiplying the area by the rainfall received and the co-efficient of the rainwater run-off, was almost 13% of the city’s total daily water demand. This was estimated taking into account 18.8 million population of Delhi (according to the 2011 census) and 1,483 square kilometres area,” Sengupta explained. Using a tehsil-wise assessment of groundwater resources by the Central Ground Water Board (CGBW), CSE also said the total annual groundwater recharge of Delhi was assessed to be 320 million cubic metres (mcm), with annual extractable groundwater resources at 300mcm. Sengupta implored that such heavy rainfall be used to recharge the city’s groundwater table. To this effect, she added, stormwater drains that carry rainwater should be clean and managed well. “The urban water bodies are the main recharge points in a city — they act like sponges. They can absorb flash floods as well as recharge groundwater. While rooftop rainwater harvesting systems are very important, they are only dropping in a bucket. We need to harvest water from all our green spaces,” she said. In a 2015 order, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) made it mandatory to ensure that no government project, including flyovers and bridges, be approved until they have a provision of rainwater harvesting systems. At present, there are 544 rainwater harvesting systems installed in Delhi Jal Board buildings, 1305 in government buildings, 3,675 in schools and colleges and 1,869 systems in private buildings. Sumukhi Venkat, a social activist who has worked extensively with the governments of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to promote rainwater recharge methods, said heavily concretised cities were a primary factor behind rainwater going to waste. “Delhi’s data shows that comparatively deeper water levels are only found in south and southwest districts, but as we come into central, northern and eastern parts, the groundwater levels get shallower. When rainwater falls on a concrete ground, it essentially goes to waste. With more concrete based development, we are only reducing open spaces where soil can absorb rainwater and help regain water,” Venkat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/last-week-delhi-recorded-rainfall-enough-to-meet-13-of-its-water-demand-cse/story-t2emsksfrhhjH1oEVJKoPM.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi, north-west India to see intense rain from August 26-28, says IMD||Intense monsoon showers are expected in many parts of north-west India, including Delhi, between August 26 and 28, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tuesday.The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active and lying south of its normal position and is likely to remain active for the next two or three days, the IMD said. In addition, there is a convergence of lower level south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea over north-west India till August 28. “The Monsoon trough is shifting northwards and will stay very close to Delhi-NCR between August 25 and August 28. Under its influence, the convergence of lower-level easterlies from the Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from the Arabian Sea will take place over north-west India. One or two spells of moderate rain accompanied thunderstorm is likely to hit Delhi between August 26 to August 28,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD, said.“As a result, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over north-west India till August 28,” the IMD said in its Tuesday bulletin.In its severe weather warning, the IMD has said that along with heavy rain, moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Rajasthan, east Madhya Pradesh, and Vidarbha, among others, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.The low-pressure system over north Bay of Bengal is likely to move west-north-west over the next four to five days. Under its influence, widespread and very heavy rain is very likely in Odisha, the Gangetic West Bengal, and Jharkhand till August 28; and over Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and West Rajasthan between August 26 and 28. Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely in Odisha on August 25 and 26 and in Chhattisgarh on August 27.In the past two days, many parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan had seen extremely severe rain. Abdasa and Naliya in Kutch each recorded 22cm of rain while Gondal, Bhanbad and Lakhpat in Kutch recorded 16 to 18cm of rain on Monday. Kadi and Umerpada in Gujarat recorded 33 and 26cm of rain, respectively. Nine persons died in the heavy rain, while 1,900 people were shifted to safer places in Gujarat on Monday, according to a report by PTI.On Monday, 24 stations (15 in Bihar, four in Uttar Pradesh, two in Assam, one each in Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal) are in severe flood situation. Twenty-four of 45 storage dams in the country are at over 90% storage capacity.Delhi only has a 6% deficiency while north-west India has 14% deficiency in monsoon rain since June 1. Rain within -19% and +19% category during monsoon season is considered to be in the normal category.Monsoon rain since June 1 over the country is 8% excess with 5% excess over east and north-east India; 14% deficient over north-west India; 14% surplus over central India; and 25% surplus over the south peninsula.Last week, the national capital had received three days of heavy rain, which left the city’s roads inundated causing long snarls on several arterial roads. On Thursday, Delhi recorded the heaviest spell of rain this season, with its Aya Nagar observatory receiving as much as 122.8mm of rain in just 24 hours, which according to IMD is “most likely” the highest rainfall recorded in Delhi in over a decade. Rainfall between 64.5 – 115.5mm is considered “heavy” rain, while a reading between 115.6 – 204.4mm is considered “very heavy” rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-north-west-india-to-see-intense-rain-from-aug-26-28-says-imd/story-bzLpRfT2lq8nhD9SJIqCzO.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt job portal evokes keen interest, more than 1 million register||Nearly 15% job seekers registered on a Delhi government portal launched a month ago have postgraduate degrees. Around 35% are university graduates, data shared by Delhi government showed.As of Tuesday, at least 1,053,356 people had registered themselves on the government portal – aptly titled Rozgar Bazar – for 808,582 job posts that had been advertised, government data said.Of the total number of active job seekers, 152,722 had post-graduate degrees, 70,892 had post-graduate diplomas and 369,793 had bachelor’s degrees. The government, said a senior official, is currently compiling a list of job-seekers who have had prior work experience along with those who are freshers.The job portal was launched with the primary aim of helping people who lost their jobs during the lockdown. However, it is open for all and anyone can get themselves registered. So, the registered job seekers include freshers as well as people with work experience who may have been unemployed from before the lockdown or those who are looking out for better opportunities, the government official said.So far, employers have either hired people or shortlisted candidates for more than 1.1 million jobs, which were posted in the portal, said the senior official, adding that the highest job openings happen to be in fields of marketing and sales, back office and data entry along with customer support.Among job seekers, data entry, teaching, customer support, business development and accounts are the most sought-after fields, said the official.“The fact that there are so many academically qualified people among job seekers, suggests that people are in distress. It shows the importance of having a job portal like this. The portal offers a great diversity of jobs – from accountants, salesmen, telecallers to employers looking for chefs, who specialise in certain cuisines, and photographers,” said Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the dialogue and development commission of Delhi, which acts as an advisor to the Delhi government.Shah further said, “For people who are graduating this year, this portal can be a big opportunity. Under the current circumstances, there is not much hope for campus placements. The portal has also been of great help for people with experience who were looking for better work opportunities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-job-portal-evokes-keen-interest-more-than-1-million-register/story-NGOUdxED5AGFjExx5JtpjJ.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Pune reports 1,204 fresh Covid-19 cases, 44 deaths on Tuesday||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday reported 1,204 fresh positive cases and 44 deaths taking the total progressive case count in the city to and the death toll to 2,077. Meanwhile, the state health department reported 1,228 fresh Covid-19 cases in the city which took the progressive positive count to 91,485. As per state data, 36 new deaths took the death toll to 2,381. Currently, there are 14,723 active cases of which 796 are in critical care with 483 on ventilator and 313 in ICU without ventilator. Also, 2,648 are undergoing oxygen treatment. The city also saw 1,123 people being discharged after they were declared as cured taking the total count of recovered patients to 68,900 in the city. Details of the deaths include 17 reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), three from Poona hospital, two each from Surya Sahyadri hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), Sahyadri hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani and Vinod hospital and one each from Symbiosis hospital, Pulse hospital, Kasturba hospital, Morya hospital, Dalvi hospital, Tarachand hospital, Jeevan Jyoti hospital, AICTS hospital, Naidu hospital, Sardar Vallabhai Patel and Ruby Hall Clinic. Also, 14 deaths were reported from city hospitals of those residing outside PMC limits including eight from SGH, two from DMH and one death each from Shree hospital, Jeevan Jyoti hospital, Bharati hospital and Ruby Hall clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-1-204-fresh-covid-19-cases-44-deaths-on-tuesday/story-2HI8HMohUxPwhc7vrEftqO.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Land acquisition: Proposals for Purandar airport, Pune-Nashik rly line projects to be ready in a week, says Rao||PUNE: The fund required by the district administration for land acquisition for proposed Purandar international airport and railway line between Pune and Nashik is Rs6,000 crore and Rs1,300 crore respectively, according to the district officials. Following Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar’s instruction, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh conducted a review meeting on Tuesday. Rao said, “We are proposing four options for land acquisition. Administration would prepare a detailed land acquisition plan for both international airport and railway line and submitted to the guardian minister by weekend. If necessary, the proposal would be submitted before a high-power state-level committee for approval.” “The Pune-Nashik railway work could start soon as four proposals for land acquisition in Haveli taluka of Pune district have been received. The Pune-Nashik railway line is passing through four talukas of Pune district. The total land required for the plan is 1,470 hectares with 575 hectares falling under Pune district. Administration would start a land survey soon and identify details of the land required for the railway,” he said. The senior official said that surveys related to airport plan are already completed and approved. Airport plan For the proposed Purandar international airport in Pune district, land falling under seven villages — Pargaon, Ekhatpur, Munjwadi, Kumbharvalan, Udachiwadi, Vanpuri and Khanavadi —has been earmarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-acquisition-proposals-for-purandar-airport-and-pune-nashik-rly-line-projects-to-be-ready-in-a-week-rao/story-aPvONIny3qKPfl2hSzSvWO.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||No fines in Delhi for driving with expired driving licence, RC till December 31||People driving with an expired licence or a vehicle registration certificate will not be prosecuted in Delhi till December 31 as the state transport department has issued orders to its regional transport offices (RTOs) to not process any application for renewal of such documents in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and in light of the Centre extending their validity till the end of the year.The directive comes a day after the ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) issued an advisory to all state governments to further extend the deadline for renewal of transport documents. This is the third such extension after earlier advisories on March 30 and June 9.Senior transport officials, however, clarified that the exempted expired documents do not include pollution under control (PUC) certificates.“We request people not to queue up at RTOs in Delhi unless one has to get a learner’s or permanent licence. The ministry has extended the validity of fitness, permits, licences, registration or other documents under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 till December 31, 2020,” a transport official said on condition of anonymity.Normally, driving without a valid licence attracts a penalty of Rs 5,000 as per the MV Act.Unlike other government agencies such as SDM offices that are generally witnessing a low turnout of people, the state transport department said it is burdened with a deluge of queries regarding driving licences, fitness certificates and permit renewals.Services such as making a DL now entail a long wait, which can drag as much as up to two months in RTOs such as Rohini, Sarai Kale Khan and Dwarka. At the Sarai Kale Khan RTO, for example, one of the busiest in Delhi, as many as 250 driving tests used to be conducted on its semi-automatic driving test tracks every day during pre-Covid times. Now, only around 80 tests are conducted there on a single day. The number of online tests for a learners’ licence has come down to 50.“Due to social distancing norms, which cannot be compromised with, we have capped the number of daily driving tests being conducted at every regional transport office (RTO). Hence, the demand is naturally much higher. We are trying to make people aware of the Central government’s latest relaxed rule for expired transport documents. So, there is no need to panic and come to the RTO for renewal as of now,” said a second senior transport official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fines-in-delhi-for-driving-with-expired-driving-licence-rc-till-december-31/story-vizNyeCoWzzkrfQ0rmPfXN.html
26-08-2020||Delhi||BJP launches mega drive against mosquito-borne diseases, AAP says drama||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led municipal corporations of Delhi, with an eye on the 2022 civic body elections, on Tuesday launched a mega campaign to create awareness about dengue and other mosquito-borne diseases, a move that triggered a war of words with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Delhi’s ruling party termed the campaign as “drama” and accused the civic bodies of purchasing anti-larvae chemicals at a higher rate of Rs 3,256 per kg, compared to the Rs 2,500 per kg paid by other municipal corporations for chemicals of similar quality, a charge the BJP denied outright.With municipal elections scheduled in 2022, the BJP, which is ruling the three corporations since 2007, has put its entire state machinery behind the campaign as it hopes to win a fourth consecutive term. A similar campaign launched by the AAP government had led to a tussle between the two parties last year. As part of the 10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute” (10 for 10 weeks at 10 am) campaign last August to tackle dengue, chikungunya and other vector-borne diseases in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had urged the public to check their residences every Sunday for mosquito breeding. Several celebrities had lent support to the campaign.Leaving nothing to chance and looking for a head start this time, the BJP asked its senior leaders, including all seven members of Parliament, and MLAs, to participate in the month-long campaign.On Tuesday, north corporation mayor Jai Prakash and BJP national vice-president Shyam Jaju participated in a drive at Flagstaff Road, where the Chief Minister’s residence is located. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and SDMC mayor Anamika Mithilesh started the campaign from the Civic Centre, the headquarters of the north and south Delhi municipal corporations. Taking pot shots at AAP’s 2019 campaign, the Delhi BJP chief said, “Municipalities here do not work for 10 minutes but round the clock to control the spread of dengue and other vector-borne diseases. We are committed to keeping the city people healthy and safe. Our DBC (domestic breeding checkers) workers will visit households to spray anti-larvae medicines and health department officials will conduct a written assessment of mosquito breeding in every household.”Launching the campaign at Flagstaff Road, Jai Prakash said, “It was the municipal corporations that did everything to control dengue and chikungunya. We were doing the work on the ground but the government took credit. They hijacked it. This time we are set not only to take measures to control dengue, chikungunya and malaria, but also to spread awareness among masses. The public should know that the MCDs are working for them tirelessly.” The Delhi government’s campaign last year had led to a political fight between the two parties. While the BJP had accused the ruling party of taking credit from municipal officials, AAP had accused the BJP of trying to negate the Delhi government’s campaign to combat dengue by “politicising the seasonal disease”.Jai Prakash said the importance of this year’s campaign could be gauged from the fact that all seven MPs, BJP MLAs and the state BJP leadership would take part and “convey the message” to the masses.BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Meenakshi Lekhi and Hans Raj Hans led the campaigns at Civil Lines, Karol Bagh and Narela, respectively.Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak described the BJP’s move as “drama”, saying a similar campaign for cleaning garbage yielded no results. “This campaign is nothing but a drama. It is also a way to make money. The MCDs had in July last year purchased the chemical sprayed on mosquito larvae at a price of Rs 3256.8 per kg. The same drug was bought by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation for Rs 2,500 per kg. Where this money has gone? It’s a scam. They don’t have money to pay their teachers and doctors but buy things on higher rates,” Pathak alleged.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta refuted Pathak’s claims. “These are baseless allegations. They are in the habit of making such allegations to tarnish the image of MCDs and BJP leaders,” Gupta said.Speaking on the political row, Sanjay Kumar, director, Centre for the Studies of Developing Societies (CSDS), said it looks like a “healthy competition” on an issue that concerns the common man. He, however, said the BJP’s move of putting its entire machinery behind the campaign reveals an element of politics in it.“Kejriwal’s campaign against dengue last year resonated well with the public so the BJP is trying to pick up the public concern issue early this time before AAP. It is good that instead of doing politics by blaming MLAs or party leaders, the BJP has picked up an issue that concerns the people,” Kumar said.Mosquito-borne diseases are a major health issue in Delhi. According to civic records, in 2015, as many as 15,867 dengue cases were reported and 60 people lost their lives. The number of dengue cases in 2019 was controlled at 2,036 and two deaths were reported.This year, according to civic records, 51 cases of dengue, 28 cases of chikungunya and 53 cases of malaria have been reported till August 22. No deaths have been recorded yet.The AAP has also started its preparations for the civic polls. According to AAP functionaries, the party is strengthening its workforce on the ground and started cornering the BJP-ruled municipalities on issues such as corruption, laxity of work, and sanitation, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-launches-mega-drive-against-mosquito-borne-diseases-aap-says-drama/story-JazzmDRnJELJG4UfRnUDFI.html
26-08-2020||City||Sonu Sood, PHDCCI chairman is giving away smartphones to students studying at Morni village||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood along with PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) chairman Karan Gilhotra on Tuesday decided to distribute smartphones to students of Government Senior Secondary School at Morni’s Koti village, who did not have access to smartphones or laptops to attend online classes. Both addressed the students in a virtual event after delivering smartphones.Sonu Sood and Gilhotra have initiated a drive to facilitate the online education of underprivileged students.The campaign started on Tuesday in Morni, a remote town in Haryana, where students were given smartphones.School’s principal, Pawan Jain, said, “There are about 190 students in the school and about 20% do not have a smartphone. Some students have to travel miles to reach out to other students who have smartphones. In the first batch, 40 students will get smartphones.” Addressing the students at the virtual event, Karan Gilhotra, said, “When we came to know that some students in Morni have to travel miles to access a smartphone, we were taken aback and could not wait to help these kids.”Sonu Sood said, “I am happy that we could do our bit to help these students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sonu-sood-phdcci-chairman-is-giving-away-smartphones-to-students-studying-at-morni-village/story-w06tnH5HvFV7taGccm3WDI.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Medical oxygen demand sees three-fold rise in a month: Pune administration||The Pune district reviewed the oxygen supply in the city after the demand of medical oxygen increased three fold within a month. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Wednesday undertook a meeting with medical oxygen suppliers and retailers to ensure that there is a smooth supply in the district. Rao said, “Oxygen is key for Covid-19 treatment and many critical patients require it. The demand for medical oxygen increased more than three times in a month. In June and July, the demand for oxygen had been 42 metric tonnes per day which has now shot up to 135 metric tonnes per day in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.”“With the boost in medical infrastructure and beds due to the jumbo Covid-19 facilities, the requirement of oxygen is also increasing. We received some complaints as well regarding oxygen supply, but they were related to transportation and unavailability of the cylinders,” Rao added.The divisional commissioner appointed the food and drug commissioner as the nodal officer to monitor the smooth oxygen supply in Pune district. The food and drug administration will monitor the prices of oxygen regularly.Rao said, “We warned oxygen suppliers that there should be no artificial shortage in the future even if there is no price hike. If the oxygen suppliers create an artificial price hike, then, action will be taken against them under the Essential Commodities Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/medical-oxygen-demand-sees-three-fold-rise-in-a-month-pune-administration/story-42hDCOcte4674OUzv6uJJK.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Mahad building collapse: Despite warning no action was taken, say local residents||Even as the Raigad police filed an FIR against five persons for the Mahad building collapse, residents in the area claimed that had action been taken earlier, lives would have been saved. Shakeel Kalsekar, a resident of another building in the area, said, “My close friends stayed in the building which was constructed near the floodline. Every monsoon, water accumulated till the waist. The residents had informed the builder that the foundation had become weak. The builders promised help, but did nothing. There is complete negligence on the part of the builder and the civic body which did not audit the structure.”Police said that they are probing the allegations. Raigad SP Anil Paraskar said, “We have been talking to neighbours and others who know the issue well. Their statements will be recorded and an expert opinion is being taken. We have already lodged an FIR in the case and the said angle of a weak pillar and negligence will be proved.”Muzammil Ubhare lost three members of his family in the collapse. He said, “We demand a complete inquiry into this serious lapse and want strict action in the case.”Despite repeated attempts, developer Farooq Kazi could not be contacted. The FIR filed by Mahad police have named five persons identified as Farooq Kazi, a developer; Gaurav Shah, architect; Bahubali Dhamane, RCC consultant; Deepak Jhisand, former Mahad municipal council chief and Shashikant Dighe, junior construction inspector at Mahad municipal council. Mujib Lore, a social worker from the area, said “The building was made of substandard material and its foundations had become weak, but still the builders did not pay any heed to the residents’ requests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-warning-no-action-was-taken-say-local-residents/story-Jx2WaoCb9o24kdchDnJPkI.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Mahad building collapse: Alert residents, empathetic neighbours, save lives||The alertness, and empathy, showed by residents in and around Tariq Garden, the building that collapsed in Mahad on Monday, saved many lives.Irfan Jogilkar, a resident of Tariq Garden, had just returned home when his nine-year-old daughter said, “The building is trembling”. “Initially, I did not take it seriously. However, after few seconds I ran out of my flat and started banging on doors of others on the fifth and fourth floor. I appealed people to come out. Several other residents, by this time, also realised that building is tilting,” said Joglikar.Due to the alert sounded, many came out immediately from the building, which has 40 flats housing 95 people. However, some people stayed behind to collect their belongings and lost their lives as a result, said Joglikar. Another resident Mujahid Musa Shaikh was engaged in relief operations.Shaikh, who stays in a neighbouring society, said, “I saw the pillars collapsing and and raised an alarm to which people responded. I got some senior citizens out in time. One of my close friends may lose both his legs as doctors have suggested amputation. I saw some people who went back to their flats to fetch jewellery.” When the building collapsed, most people had just returned home from work. Had the incident happened later in the evening, or at night, many more lives would have been lost, residents said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alert-residents-empathetic-neighbours-save-lives-in-mahad/story-l9lmMTeFoJLolNajFCd4PK.html
26-08-2020||Pune||Mahad building collapse: FIR against developer, architect, three others||A day after a five-storied building collapsed in Mahad town of Raigad district, some 170km from Mumbai, police have booked five persons on various charges, including culpable homicide not amounting murder. According to Raigad district superintendent of police Anil Paraskar, a first information report (FIR) was registered on Tuesday at Mahad city police station against a builder and four others, including an architect, RCC consultant and two civic officials. No arrest was made till late evening in the case. According to FIR, the builder along with architect and the RCC consultant were responsible for constructing the building using inferior material and without proper attention. The FIR also charged two civic officials of issuing a completion certificate without properly inspecting the site. The Navi Mumbai-based developer had constructed the building in partnership with a local land owner based on 50:50 profit sharing formula, said police officials. Those booked by the police have been identified as Farooq Kazi, developer; Gaurav Shah, architect; Bahubali Dhamane, RCC consultant; Deepak Jhisand, former Mahad Municipal council chief and Shashikant Dighe, junior construction inspector at Mahad municipal council. Despite repeated attempts all five named in the FIR remained uncontactable. They have been booked under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting murder); 304-A (causing death by negligence); 337 and 338 (causing hurt to any person; and 34 (criminal act carried out by several persons with common intention). The Tariq garden building with 40 flats was constructed in two years in 2013, following which people started living there, according to the FIR. Paraskar said 95 people were living in the building when it collapsed. “Of the 95 persons, 75 managed to came out while NDRF was able to pull out 11 bodies till 4 pm,” Paraskar said.Those who died in the incident include six men and five women. Maharashtra minister for urban development Eknath Shinde, who visited the building site, said orders have been issued to police to act against all those responsible for the incident. “We will not spare anyone responsible for the building collapse. Information is being gathered on whether structural audit of this building was conducted or not.” District guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said a committee will be formed to probe the entire incident. “The committee will probe how and why this happened. At the same time, a structural audit will be carried out of other buildings to prevent similar incidents,” Tatkare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahad-building-collapse-fir-against-developer-architect-three-others/story-d4zk7S6S8xGGRKdcWf2IGK.html
26-08-2020||World||Court: School transgender bathroom policy unconstitutional||A federal appeals court ruled Wednesday that a Virginia school board’s transgender bathroom ban is unconstitutional and discriminated against a transgender male student who was barred from using the boys bathrooms in his high school.The ruling is a victory for transgender rights advocates and Gavin Grimm, a former student at Gloucester High School who was required to use restrooms that corresponded with his biological sex — female — or private bathrooms.A three-judge panel of the Richmond-based 4th US Circuit Court of Appeals found that the Gloucester County School Board violated Grimm’s constitutional rights when it banned him from using the boys bathrooms.The panel upheld a decision from a federal judge in Norfolk who ruled last year that Grimm’s rights were violated under the US Constitution’s equal protection clause as well as under Title IX, a federal civil rights law that protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities that receive federal financial assistance.Grimm’s lawsuit became a federal test case when it was supported by the administration of then-President Barack Obama. It was scheduled to go before the U.S. Supreme Court in 2017, but the high court hearing was canceled after President Donald Trump rescinded an Obama-era directive that students can choose bathrooms corresponding with their gender identity.During arguments before the 4th Circuit in May, Grimm’s lawyer said the board treated Grimm differently than other students when it required him to use separate but unequal facilities — either bathrooms that corresponded with his biological sex — female — or private bathrooms.“They were stigmatizing and humiliating,” said Joshua Block, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union.Grimm began transitioning from female to male while he was a student at Gloucester High School, located in a mostly rural area about 60 miles (95 kilometers) east of Richmond. He had chest reconstruction surgery and hormone therapy. In 2016, when he was in 12th grade, he obtained a Virginia court order and Virginia birth certificate declaring his sex as male.David Corrigan, a lawyer for the school board, argued that the law protects against discrimination based on sex, not gender identity.Grimm, now 21, graduated in 2017. He now lives in California and is an activist for transgender rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/court-school-transgender-bathroom-policy-unconstitutional/story-dY1pfFimL9gcNKVT6X0uKM.html
26-08-2020||World||Mike Pence speech to involve veterans in rebuttal to athlete protests||Vice President Mike Pence’s speech at the Republican National Convention on Wednesday will involve combat veterans in a display of patriotism -- imagery intended at least in part as criticism of professional athletes who kneel during the national anthem.The scene, to be staged at historic Fort McHenry outside Baltimore, according to people familiar with the matter, promises to unfold as another example of President Donald Trump’s efforts to use the country’s cultural and racial divisions for political gain.The people asked not to be identified because the involvement of the veterans is intended as a surprise for viewers.Pence will deliver the keynote address on the convention’s third night, a spotlight moment before a national television audience for a vice president believed to have White House ambitions of his own.Trump and Pence have each denounced professional athletes -- mainly Black football players -- who kneel during the National Anthem to protest police brutality. Pence said he left an Indianapolis Colts game early in 2017 because some players kneeled during the anthem, and Trump has urged NFL owners to bench or fire players who protest, at one point referring to them as “son of a bitch.”The NFL initially discouraged the protests, adopting a policy in 2018 that players who didn’t want to stand during the anthem should stay in the locker room. But like many corporations, the league has moved rapidly to embrace the Black Lives Matter movement since the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis police custody in May.NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell issued an apology in June “for not listening to NFL players earlier” and encouraged future peaceful protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-speech-to-involve-veterans-in-rebuttal-to-athlete-protests/story-XdHaApomCxhHHkn86He4jK.html
26-08-2020||World||2 people shot to death during protest over Kenosha shooting||Two people were shot to death and another was wounded during a third night of protests in Kenosha over the police shooting of a Black man, Jacob Blake, and authorities Wednesday hunted for a possible vigilante seen on cellphone video opening fire in the middle of the street with a rifle.The gunfire was reported just before midnight, and Sheriff David Beth said one victim was shot in the head and another in the chest, the Milwaukee Journal Sentine l reported. The third victim’s wounds were not believed to life-threatening.He said that investigators had reviewed footage of what happened and that he was confident a man would be arrested soon.Beth told the Journal Sentinel that armed people had been patrolling the city’s streets in recent nights, but he did not know if the gunman was among them.Also read: Cops, protesters clash for 3rd night over black man’s shooting in Wisconsin’s Kenosha“They’re a militia,” Beth said. “They’re like a vigilante group.” Cellphone video of at least two of the shootings that was posted online shows what appears to be a white man with a semi-automatic rifle jogging down the middle of a street as a crowd and some police officers follow him. Someone in the crowd can be heard asking, “What did he do?” and another person responds that the man had shot someone.The man with the gun stumbles and falls, and as he is approached by people in the crowd, he fires three or four shots from a seated position, hitting at least two people, including one who falls over and another who stumbles away to cries of “Medic! Medic!” A witness, Julio Rosas, 24, said that when the gunman stumbled and fell, “two people jumped onto him and there was a struggle for control of his rifle. At that point during the struggle, he just began to fire multiple rounds and that dispersed people near him.” “The rifle was being jerked around in all directions while it was being fired,” Rosas said.In the cellphone footage, as the crowd scatters, the gunman stands up and continues walking down the street as police cars arrive. The man puts up his hands and walks toward the squad cars, with someone in the crowd yelling at police that the man had just shot someone, but several of the cars drive past him toward the people who had been shot.Protester Devin Scott told the Chicago Tribune that he witnessed one of the shootings.“We were all chanting ‘Black lives matter’ at the gas station and then we heard, boom, boom, and I told my friend, `’That’s not fireworks,’” said Scott, 19. “And then this guy with this huge gun runs by us in the middle of the street and people are yelling, ‘He shot someone! He shot someone!’ And everyone is trying to fight the guy, chasing him and then he started shooting again.” Scott said he cradled one of the lifeless victims in his arms, and a woman started performing CPR, but “I don’t think he made it.” At a news conference earlier Tuesday, Ben Crump, the lawyer for Blake’s family, said that Blake was shot multiple times by police on Sunday and that it would “take a miracle” for him to walk again. He called for the officer who opened fire to be arrested and for the others involved to lose their jobs.The shooting of Blake — apparently while three of his children looked on — was captured on cellphone video and ignited new protests over racial injustice in the US just three months after the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police touched off a wider reckoning on race.Kenosha police have said little about what happened, other than that they were responding to a domestic dispute. They have not said why the officers opened fire or whether Blake was armed, and they have not disclosed the race of three officers who were on the scene.The 29-year-old Blake underwent surgery Tuesday, according to Crump, who added that the bullets severed his spinal cord and shattered his vertebrae. Another attorney said there was also severe damage to organs.Blake’s father, also named Jacob Blake, told the Chicago Sun-Times that his son had eight holes in his body. At a news conference, he said police shot his son “seven times, seven times, like he didn’t matter.” “But my son matters. He’s a human being and he matters,” he said.Blake’s mother, Julia Jackson, told CBS “This Morning” in an interview that aired Wednesday that she feels as if she is in a “bad dream” and that it felt “unreal” that her son’s name has been added to the list of Black people who were shot by police.“Never in a million years did I think we would be here in this place. Him being alive is just a miracle in itself,” she said.During the latest round of unrest Tuesday, police fired tear gas for the third straight night to disperse protesters who had gathered outside Kenosha’s courthouse, where some shook a protective fence and threw water bottles and fireworks at officers lined up behind it.On Tuesday, before the two deadly shootings, Kenosha County Board sent a letter to Democratic Gov. Tony Evers requesting that at least 2,000 more National Guard troops be sent. Evers initially dispatched 150 troops on Monday and increased that to 250 on Tuesday.Evers did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday.On Monday night, crowds destroyed dozens of buildings and set more than 30 fires downtown.“Our county is under attack. Our businesses are under attack. Our homes are under attack. Our local law enforcement agencies need additional support to help bring civility back to our community,” the county board leaders wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-people-shot-to-death-during-protest-over-kenosha-shooting/story-Zkg1Alxu0AW5TgXQjNRvgJ.html
26-08-2020||World||North Korea’s Kim issues warning on Covid-19 as health speculation swirls||North Korean state media on Wednesday showed leader Kim Jong Un at a meeting of a top committee issuing warnings about the coronavirus and a looming typhoon, following international speculation over his state of health.Kim’s comments come amid conjecture over his condition after South Korea’s spy agency said he had delegated some authority to his sister Kim Yo Jong to relieve his “governance stress”.A former aide to late South Korean president Kim Dae-jung even said on Facebook he thought the North’s leader was in a coma, though with no apparent evidence.But Kim presided over a meeting Tuesday of a top committee of the ruling Workers’ Party, the official KCNA news agency reported, where he assessed “defects in the state emergency anti-epidemic work for checking the inroads of the malignant virus”.The impoverished North -- whose crumbling health system would struggle to cope with a major virus outbreak -- has not confirmed a single case of the disease that has swept the world since first emerging in neighbouring China.Pictures in the Rodong Sinmun newspaper showed Kim addressing the meeting, wearing a white suit and in one image apparently smoking a cigarette. Kim addressed “some shortcomings” in the preventive efforts and called for stronger measures to eliminate “defects”, KCNA said.Last month Pyongyang imposed a lockdown on the city of Kaesong, close to the border with the South, claiming a defector who had returned was suspected of carrying the virus. The restrictions were lifted earlier this month and the infection was never confirmed.The meeting also discussed emergency measures to prevent crop damage or casualties from Typhoon Bavi, which is forecast to hit the country this week.There have been days of heavy rain across parts of North Korea, which is vulnerable to flooding as many mountains and hills have long been stripped of vegetation, allowing water to flow downhill unchecked.Kim laid out tasks for various departments, saying thoroughly preventing casualties and crop damage was “crucial”, KCNA reported.Several analysts have played down suggestions that Kim’s health is deteriorating and Seoul’s intelligence agency has a mixed record with its past pronouncements on developments in the North.Earlier this year Kim was absent from public view for nearly three weeks, missing a key celebration in April for the birthday of his grandfather, the North’s founder -- the most important day in the country’s political calendar -- prompting widespread questions over his condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-issues-warning-on-covid-19-as-health-speculation-swirls/story-BkGVo1zxkL5FY5NPnWTehN.html
26-08-2020||World||‘Polishing the gun’: China, US tensions raise Taiwan conflict fears||Numerous Chinese and US military exercises, Taiwan missiles tracking Chinese fighters and plummeting China-US ties make for a heady cocktail of tension that is raising fears of conflict touched off by a crisis over Taiwan.In the last three weeks, China has announced four separate exercises along its coast, from the Bohai Gulf in the north to the East and Yellow Seas and South China Sea, along with other exercises it said were aimed at “the current security situation across the Taiwan Strait”.Meanwhile Taiwan, claimed by China as its “sacred” territory, said its surface-to-air missiles had tracked approaching Chinese fighters - details Taiwan does not normally give - as US Health Secretary Alex Azar was visiting the island this month.Addressing the Chinese exercises, Taiwan’s defence ministry said on Tuesday the closer Chinese jets get to the island the “more actively” Taipei would respond, though it would “not escalate conflict” nor “trigger an incident”.The United States sent another warship through the Taiwan Strait this month, a few days after a US carrier group conducted an exercise in the disputed South China Sea, and this week China complained a US spy plane had observed Chinese live-fire exercises.Chinese military expert Ni Lexiong, a retired professor at the Shanghai University of Political Science and Law, said it was very rare and possibly the first time multiple Chinese exercises were taking place at the same time.“By simultaneously conducting drills in the three seas, it means China is testing its ability to fight enemies coming from three directions at the same time - for example from Taiwan, from Japan and from the US from the south,” he said.“Historically, frequent drills are a clear predictor of war.”‘Dismay and concern’ Taiwan-based security and diplomatic sources say the chances of “firing off a shot while polishing the gun” - a Chinese saying for an accidental encounter setting off a broader conflict - are rising mainly because of increased US and Chinese military activity in the region.“Neither side wants to start a conflict. The fundamentals have not changed much,” said a Western diplomat looking into military activities across the Taiwan Strait. “But the frequent activities do increase the chances of an accidental conflict,” the diplomat said.China’s defence ministry and its Taiwan Affairs Office did not respond to requests for comment, and neither did the Pentagon nor US State Department.China’s foreign ministry said in statement sent to Reuters: “We have the determination and capability to stop any activities aimed at separating Taiwan from China”. A senior US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that China was becoming more assertive and more aggressive in the region and there was concern its military could miscalculate, leading to unexpected consequences.     “This is an issue that is broader than Taiwan and broader than just the United States,” the official said.“I would argue that there are many like-minded countries in the region that are viewing with dismay and increasing concern the trend lines coming out of Beijing.”To the last soldier The Trump administration has been taking an escalating array of measures against China in the run-up to the U.S. presidential election, adding to the uncertainty.A hypothetical scenario spelled out in a recent essay by James Winnefeld, a former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Michael Morrell, former acting director of the Central Intelligence Agency, has made the rounds in Taiwan security circles. In their suggested sequence of events, set out in the Proceedings of the US Naval Institute, a disputed US election gives China the opportunity to move on Taiwan while Washington and the world are distracted. In Taiwan, President Tsai Ing-wen has responded to the tension with pledges to defend the island.She and her government have denounced as scaremongering and kowtowing to Beijing a campaign this month by former president Ma Ying-jeou, who held a landmark meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2015, to warn that Taiwan is courting disaster by needling China and would not last long in a war.Still, Taiwan has been keen to show its teeth. Its defence ministry this month issued two slickly produced videos showing missiles being fired and F-16s in the air to demonstrate their resolve to defend the island.“Dare to fight, and fight to the last soldier,” the ministry said in a caption for the latest video, released on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polishing-the-gun-china-us-tensions-raise-taiwan-conflict-fears/story-VbsGRGh6qt7B0ZyrF9gJON.html
26-08-2020||World||US blacklists 24 Chinese firms, individuals for South China Sea work||The United States announced sanctions and restrictions on 24 Chinese companies and associated officials Wednesday for taking part in building artificial islands in disputed waters in the South China Sea.“Since 2013, the PRC has used its state-owned enterprises to dredge and reclaim more than 3,000 acres on disputed features in the South China Sea, destabilizing the region, trampling on the sovereign rights of its neighbors, and causing untold environmental devastation,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-blacklists-24-chinese-firms-individuals-for-south-china-sea-work/story-Bpc2GzeXIEBzUnICXKHnSM.html
26-08-2020||World||Australian Covid-19 vaccine shows promising results in animal trials: Report||A Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed by Australia’s University of Queensland has shown “positive” results against the novel coronavirus in preclinical tests, raising hopes for its potential effectiveness and manufacturability, the varsity said on Wednesday. According to the yet-to-be published findings, the vaccine combined with the Seqirus MF59 adjuvant, provided protection against virus reproduction in hamster models, and reduced lung inflammation, following exposure to the virus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Associate Professor Keith Chappell, who is the project co-leader, has reported to the International Society for Vaccines on the data from animal trials conducted by Viroclinics-DDL in the Netherlands, according to a statement. “The neutralising immune response created by our molecular clamp vaccine in animal models was better than the average level of antibodies found in patients who have recovered from COVID-19,” Chappell said. “It also induces a strong T-cell response and showed strong results when it came to data relating to manufacturability,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  The researchers noted that one of the big challenges in the development of vaccines is the ability to produce them at sufficient scale for widespread use. They said the phase 1 study being conducted in Queensland is progressing well and assuming the study demonstrates adequate safety and immune responses, data should be available in time to commence the required large-scale efficacy study before the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-covid-19-vaccine-shows-promising-results-in-animal-trials-report/story-xlSaxMg7MeTLk4bvy4uV7N.html
26-08-2020||World||US spy planes fly into China airspace during drills for 2nd day in a row||The US military aircraft’s intrusion into Chinese airspace during live-fire military exercises was “blatant provocation” and could lead to “misjudgments and accidents”, China has said even as a second US reconnaissance aircraft is said to have flown over the South China Sea on Wednesday.A day after an US U-2 high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft flew into Chinese air space during live-fire exercises by the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) northern theatre command, an US RC-135S reconnaissance aircraft on Wednesday flew near a separate and ongoing PLA drill in the South China Sea.The US aircraft crossed the Bashi Channel from the east, headed southwest into the South China Sea, and returned on the same route, the Beijing-based think tank, South China Sea Probing Initiative (SCSPI), said on Wednesday.“It came near an ongoing PLA exercise in waters off Hainan Island’s southeast coast,” Chinese state media reported, quoting the SCSPI.Both the Chinese foreign and defence ministries have lashed out at the US for sending spy planes into mainland airspace during military drills; the foreign ministry has lodged a formal protest.Wu Qian, a defence ministry spokesperson, said the trespass severely affected China’s normal military exercises and training activities.It violated the rules of behaviour for air and maritime safety between China and the US, as well as relevant international practices, Wu said.“The US action could easily have resulted in misjudgments and even accidents,” Wu said, adding it was a blatant act of provocation.Chinese state media reported that the PLA has shot down at least five U-2 aircraft in the past as they trespassed into mainland airspace.The Chinese PLA is currently conducting separate military exercises in three different seas, in itself a rare case of simultaneous drills.“By simultaneously conducting drills in the three seas, it means China is testing its ability to fight enemies coming from three directions at the same time - for example from Taiwan, from Japan and from the US from the south,” Chinese military expert Ni Lexiong, a retired professor at the Shanghai University of Political Science and Law, told Reuters.In late July, an US anti-submarine warplane had come within 100 km from Shanghai in eastern China in the backdrop of the tit-for-tat closure of consulates carried out the week before.The latest round of military tension adds to the deteriorating bilateral ties between the two countries with Beijing and Washington already at loggerheads over related South China Sea disputes and arms sales to Taiwan besides the Hong Kong security bill, the condition of minorities in Xinjiang, and the origin of the coronavirus and the ongoing trade war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/military-tension-up-as-us-planes-intrude-into-china-airspace-during-drills/story-HYy2s6nnU59dZHf1vpeH0H.html
26-08-2020||World||Berlin bans weekend protests against anti-coronavirus measures||Authorities in Berlin on Wednesday banned several protests planned for the weekend against coronavirus pandemic measures. The protests have drawn support from the German far right.Officials said that those protesting would likely have breached rules on social distancing designed to stop the spread of the virus. Germany has seen an upswing in infections in recent weeks and the government is considering whether to impose fresh restrictions again.Authorities in the capital cited a rally against Covid-19 restrictions on August 1 during which participants ignored mask-wearing and distancing rules and other conditions imposed on the protest.Berlin’s top security official, Andreas Geisel, welcomed the decision.“We need to weigh the basic right of freedom of assembly against the sanctity of life,” he said in a statement. “We chose life.” Geisel said police would act to stop any large gathering of people and indicated that authorities wouldn’t tolerate a tent camp that protesters have erected near the German parliament.“I’m not prepared to accept that Berlin is abused a second time as a stage for corona deniers ... and right-wing extremists,” he said.Numerous leading figures in the country’s far-right scene, including members of the Alternative for Germany party, had announced they would participate in rallies in Berlin on Saturday.The party’s leader in the Berlin state assembly, Georg Pazderski, criticized the decision to ban the protests, calling it disproportionate and unjustified.The protest ban can be appealed in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/berlin-bans-weekend-protests-against-anti-coronavirus-measures/story-xW5AuMmSKpmaSlrVXzf83N.html
26-08-2020||World||Mike Pompeo to have closed-door meetings with royal family in Bahrain, UAE’s top officials||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will hold closed-door meetings Wednesday with Bahrain’s royal family and top officials in the United Arab Emirates amid the Trump administration’s push for Arab nations to recognize Israel.Pompeo already traveled to Israel and Sudan on this trip through the Mideast, one that included him offering a recorded message in Jerusalem supporting President Donald Trump’s reelection campaign for the Republican National Convention. That speech cast aside his own advice to American diplomats to be apolitical and bulldozed a long tradition of non-partisanship by previous secretaries of state.In Manama, Pompeo is expected to meet with King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa and his son, Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa. The State Department has not offered any word on what Pompeo will bring up during the meeting, though it comes after a U.S.-brokered deal announced Aug. 13 saw the United Arab Emirates and Israel open diplomatic relations.Bahrain, a small island nation just off the coast of Saudi Arabia in the Persian Gulf, has a historic Jewish community. The kingdom has slowly encouraged ties to Israel, with two U.S.-based rabbis in 2017 saying King Hamad himself promoted the idea of ending the boycott of Israel by Arab nations. That boycott had been in place to offer Palestinians support in their efforts to form an independent state.Bahrain is also home to the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet and remains a close security partner of the U.S. Pompeo arrived there Tuesday night and met Bahrain Foreign Minister Abdullatif bin Rashid al-Zayani, wearing an American-flag-colored face mask amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Later on Wednesday, Pompeo is expected in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the seven-sheikhdom federation of the UAE. There, he will speak with his Emirati counterpart and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-to-have-closed-door-meetings-with-royal-family-in-bahrain-uae-s-top-officials/story-zCmp5lRJnzPgOILmigdivM.html
26-08-2020||World||Chinese envoy says Australia betrayed China for US on Covid-19||A senior Chinese diplomat on Wednesday likened Australia’s call for an inquiry into the coronavirus pandemic to the betrayal of Roman dictator Julius Caesar in a Shakespearean tragedy for the benefit of the United States.Wang Xining, the Chinese Embassy in Australia’s deputy head of mission and its second-in-charge, spoke at the National Press Club about Australia’s call for an independent inquiry into the origins of and international responses to the pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe call has been blamed for a major deterioration in bilateral relations that has resulted in the Chinese government refusing to take phone calls from Australian ministers and disruptions to Australian exports including beef.The Australian call came “when the United States government was trying all out to blame China for their failure to control the spread of the disease and ... shirk responsibility,” Wang said.In describing Australia’s action, Wang quoted the play “Julius Caesar” from a scene in which the dictator realizes that his friend Marcus Junius Brutus is among the assassins who are about to knife him.“It is approximately identical to Julius Caesar in his final day when he saw Brutus approaching him: Et tu, Brute?,” Wang said, using a Latin phrase meaning “And you, Brutus?”The World Health Assembly, the governing structure of the World Health Organization, has since endorsed a global investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 outbreak. Wang said that probe had an “entirely different origin” from the Australian proposal.Also read: China protests US spy plane watching live fire military drillsChina has maintained ministerial contacts with the United States as well as governments of other countries that supported Australia’s pandemic stance, including Japan, Germany and France.Wang denied China was singling out Australia for special treatment by freezing out ministers to send a message to other middle-powers not to speak out.“I think it’s a very lopsided interpretation of what happened between us,” Wang told reporters.He declined to say whether he thought Chinese-Australian relations would improve after the U.S. presidential election, saying Chinese comment on another country’s election would equate to interference in that nation’s internal affairs.China respects Australia’s strategy alliance with the United States, Wang said.“To have an ally is not a problem,” he said. “The problem is whether you target a third party with the strength of an alliance.”“If we find any tendency to use the strength of an alliance to strike China down, or press China down — what currently some of the U.S. politicians are doing — then we will express clearly our opposition and our position,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-envoy-says-australia-betrayed-china-for-us-on-covid-19/story-PKD1fPX8G1UpFtWnpiQnSI.html
26-08-2020||World||Melania Trump made harsh comments about Ivanka, US President, claims book||At a time when Donald Trump is looking to get re-elected for a second term as US President, a new book threatens to add a roadblock in the way.The book has been written by US first lady Melania Trump’s friend and staffer Stephanie Winston Wolkoff. It is titled ‘Melania & Me: The Rise and Fall of My Friendship with the First Lady’.Among the explosive claims made by Wolkoff in the memoir are the negative and harsh comments made by the first lady against Trump and his adult children. The comments were reportedly caught on tape by her.She claims in the book that Melania Trump was once furious at Ivanka for obstructions as she tried to appoint a new chief of staff, a number of publications reported.There are incidents of remarks against President Trump too, but those have not been made public. However, a journalist tweeted about the book and the claims made in it.“In her book, Stephanie Winston Wolkoff quotes the First Lady making disparaging remarks about Ivanka Trump and some of the president’s other adult children. She even makes some negative remarks about her husband, President Trump,” Yashar Ali said in a series of tweets on the topic. 4. I'm told that Wolkoff says in her book that most of Mrs. Trump's disparaging comments about the Trump family were reserved for Ivanka Trump. Again, multiple sources confirmed to me that Wolkoff taped some of her conversations with the first ladyhttps://t.co/XV45pvQkX6“It’s unclear what Wolkoff says that Mrs. Trump said about her family but I do know that the disparaging remarks are in the book and that Wolkoff taped conversations with Mrs. Trump without her knowing,” Ali further said. 5. Wolkoff's book comes out next Tuesday and is entitled "Melania and Me: The Rise and Fall of My Friendship with the First Lady." Wolkoff was friends with the First Lady for over a decade before they had a falling out over the Inaugural Committee https://t.co/4Dcrq29lodWolkoff was with Melania Trump for a decade before a fallout over allegations of financial irregularities in one of the events organised by her.The book is scheduled to be released on September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/melania-trump-made-harsh-comments-about-ivanka-us-president-claims-book/story-hu5wCI0ZKOIoSWz0gEpVNN.html
26-08-2020||World||Two Hong Kong opposition lawmakers arrested over anti-govt protests in 2019||Two prominent Hong Kong opposition lawmakers were among more than a dozen people arrested on Wednesday in a police operation focused on last year’s huge protests, part of a widening crackdown against the city’s democracy camp.Lam Cheuk-ting and Ted Hui were detained after early-morning raids on their homes, according to their political party and the police.Opposition figures decried the arrests, which add to a mounting toll of prosecutions targeting Beijing’s critics in the restless financial hub.“This is out-and-out political persecution,” James To, a veteran lawyer and member of the Democratic Party, told reporters after the arrests.A police source told AFP that 16 people -- including Lam and Hui -- were arrested during Wednesday’s operation, which focused on protests in July last year.Both are minority pro-democracy lawmakers in the city’s partially elected legislature and vocal critics of both Beijing and the Hong Kong government.A post on Lam’s Facebook page said he was arrested “on suspicion of participating in rioting on July 21” last year.That day, Lam and dozens of pro-democracy protesters were beaten by a gang of government supporters, some with “triad” organised crime links, in the town of Yuen Long.Police were late to arrive on the scene and were also filmed allowing some of the armed attackers to leave -- scenes that sent already swirling distrust of the force skyrocketing and helped fuel further months of protests.Lam was also charged with “conspiring to damage property and obstruction of justice outside Tuen Mun police station on July 6 last year”, the statement said.No reconciliation Hui’s office released video footage of his arrest where officers said they were charging him with attempted obstruction of justice, access to a computer with criminal or dishonest intent and criminal damage.He was later led from his house in handcuffs. The party said his charges also stemmed from a protest on July 6 last year.Police said a press conference would be held later in the day.Beginning in early June 2019, Hong Kong was hit by seven straight months of huge and often violent pro-democracy protests in which more than 9,000 people were arrested.The popular unrest upended the city’s reputation for stability and sparked a crackdown by China that has gathered pace this year.In late June, Beijing imposed a sweeping new security law, tightening Communist Party control over the semi-autonomous city and ending the legal firewall between the two territories.Certain political views such as advocating independence or greater autonomy for Hong Kong became illegal overnight and arrests have followed.In response to the law, many Western nations ended extradition agreements with Hong Kong. The United States has placed sanctions on some Chinese and Hong Kong officials and declared the business hub no longer sufficiently autonomous from the authoritarian mainland.The democracy protests died down at the start of 2020 thanks to mass arrests and anti-coronavirus restrictions.City leader Carrie Lam began the year vowing to heal divisions.But police have since arrested dozens of prominent pro-democracy figures on a slew of charges related to the rallies, with the courts now filled with hearings and trials.Authorities have denied allegations the investigations are politically motivated.Wu Chi-wai, chairman of the Democratic Party, said the latest arrests would do little to heal divisions.“The government is wielding the legal system and the police force to suppress dissenting voices within society and create a chilling effect instead of trying to reconcile confrontation and polarisation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-hong-kong-opposition-lawmakers-arrested-over-anti-govt-protests-in-2019/story-lQvHIO2Zhaw6uoWpNGKagO.html
26-08-2020||World||Cops, protesters clash for 3rd night over black man’s shooting in Wisconsin’s Kenosha||Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse protesters during a third night of unrest in this southeastern Wisconsin city following the shooting of a Black man whose attorney said he was paralyzed after being shot multiple times by police.A group of protesters walked toward a fence that was put in place Tuesday around the courthouse and started shaking it. Police behind it moved toward protesters as some threw water bottles and fireworks over the fence. Armoured vehicles then rolled in and tear gas was fired into the crowd.When police ordered protesters to disperse, the crowd responded by chanting “Black lives matter.” Police then fired rubber bullets.Jacob Blake, the man shot by police responding to a domestic disturbance on Sunday, is paralyzed, and it will “take a miracle” for him to walk again, his family’s attorney said Tuesday, while calling for the officer who opened fire to be arrested and others involved to lose their jobs.The shooting of Blake on Sunday in Kenosha — apparently in the back while three of his children looked on — was captured on cellphone video and ignited new protests over racial injustice in several cities, some of which have devolved into unrest. It came just three months after the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police touched off a wider reckoning on race.“They shot my son seven times, seven times, like he didn’t matter,” said Blake’s father, who is also named Jacob Blake and who spoke to reporters alongside other family members and lawyers. “But my son matters. He’s a human being and he matters.” The 29-year-old was in surgery, said attorney Ben Crump, adding that the bullets severed Blake’s spinal cord and shattered his vertebrae. Another attorney said there was also severe damage to organs.“It’s going to take a miracle for Jacob Blake Jr. to ever walk again,” Crump said.The legal team plans to file a civil lawsuit against the police department over the shooting. Police have said little about what happened, other than that they were responding to a domestic dispute. The officers involved have not been named. The Wisconsin Department of Justice is investigating.After a night during which protests devolved into unrest, Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers had called for calm Tuesday, while also declaring a state of emergency under which he doubled the National Guard deployment in Kenosha from 125 to 250. The night before crowds destroyed dozens of buildings and set more than 30 fires in the city’s downtown.“We cannot allow the cycle of systemic racism and injustice to continue,” said Evers, who is facing mounting pressure from Republicans over his handling of the unrest. “We also cannot continue going down this path of damage and destruction.” Blake’s mother, Julia Jackson, said the damage in Kenosha does not reflect what her family wants and that, if her son could see it, he would be “very unpleased.” She said that the first thing her son said to her when she saw him was he was sorry.“He said, ‘I don’t want to be a burden on you guys,’“ Jackson said. “’I want to be with my children, and I don’t think I’ll walk again.’” Three of the younger Blake’s sons — aged 3, 5 and 8 — were in the car at the time of the shooting, Crump said. It was the 8-year-old’s birthday, he added.The man who said he made the cellphone video of the shooting, 22-year-old Raysean White, said he saw Blake scuffling with three officers and heard them yell, “Drop the knife! Drop the knife!” before the gunfire erupted. He said he didn’t see a knife in Blake’s hands.In the footage, Blake walks from the sidewalk around the front of his SUV to his driver-side door as officers follow him with their guns drawn and shout at him. As Blake opens the door and leans into the SUV, an officer grabs his shirt from behind and opens fire. Seven shots can be heard, though it isn’t clear how many struck Blake or how many officers fired.Blake’s father told the Chicago Sun-Times that his son had eight holes in his body.Anger over the shooting has spilled into the streets of Kenosha and other cities, including Los Angeles, Wisconsin’s capital of Madison and in Minneapolis, the epicenter of the Black Lives Matter movement this summer following Floyd’s death.Hundreds of protesters defied an 8 p.m. curfew Monday night, massing in downtown Kenosha, where they were met by a wall of law enforcement officers, including members of the Wisconsin National Guard.Some clashed with officers and vandalized businesses. There were 34 fires associated with the unrest, with 30 businesses destroyed or damaged along with an unknown number of residences, Kenosha Fire Chief Charles Leipzig told the Kenosha News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cops-protesters-clash-for-3rd-night-over-black-man-s-shooting-in-wisconsin-s-kenosha/story-vzORByfPqT88y7D0ojDx6L.html
26-08-2020||World||Covid-19: South Korea urges striking doctors to return to work||Health officials in South Korea called on thousands of striking doctors to return to work as the country counted its 13th straight day of triple-digit daily jumps in coronavirus cases.Health minister Park Neung-hoo cited the growing virus crisis while issuing back-to-work orders for doctors in the greater capital area who had joined physicians in other parts of the country for a three-day strike starting Wednesday to protest government plans to boost the number of medical students. Doctors’ groups say such measures would worsen what’s already a cut-throat market.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSouth Korea’s Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention reported 320 newly confirmed cases of Covid-19, including 237 from the densely populated Seoul metropolitan region, which has been the center of a viral resurgence in recent weeks. Health workers have struggled to stem transmissions linked to various places and groups, including churches, schools, restaurants and door-to-door salespeople.Park’s ministry said more than 2,000 medical facilities nationwide had reported their intentions to close for Wednesday after doctors’ groups, including the Korean Medical Association and the Korean Intern Resident Association, expressed dissatisfaction over their negotiations with government officials.Park said doctors who refuse to return to work could possibly have their licenses suspended or revoked, or even face a prison term of less than 3 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-south-korea-urges-striking-doctors-to-return-to-work/story-LF2wjM6XzJuWveRge9TlZI.html
26-08-2020||World||Melania Trump addresses racial unrest, Covid-19 on Night 2 of convention||US First Lady Melania Trump acknowledged the devastating consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic on families and businesses in an address on the second night of the Republican convention in sharp contrast to President Donald Trump and his surrogate’s dismissive impatience with it.She struck a generally different note from speakers that preceded her, as also those on Monday. Unlike them, she sought to address the recent racial unrest with a unifying call, for instance. Her husband and his surrogates have used the protests to stoke fears about lawlessness and chaos.“I want to acknowledge the fact that since March, our lives have changed dramatically,” the first lady said, addressing at the outset an issue that had been largely ignored by other speakers. “I know many people are anxious and some feel helpless. I want you to know you are not alone.”She pledged her husband was committed to finding a vaccine. “Donald will not rest” till then, she said.Notably, she went with the widely used name “Covid-19” for the epidemic and not “China Virus” or the “China Plague” or the “Kung Flu” that the president has preferred.The First Lady also addressed anti-race protests for what they were, without portraying them as a harbinger of lawlessness by “radical left” Democrats that will follow under Joe Biden, if he was elected president, as had been done by a string of speakers before her. “I urge people to come together, in a civil manner, so we can work and live up to our standard American ideals,” she said. “I also ask people to stop the violence and looting being done in the name of justice. Never judge anyone based on the colour of their skin.”Speaking from the newly renovated Rose Garden of the White House, the First Lady also sought to portray her husband, who sat among socially distanced audience, as a straight-talker. “Whether you like it or not, you always know what he’s thinking,” she said.Melania Trump, who was the third member of the president’s family to address the convention on Tuesday after adult children Tiffany Trump and Eric Trump, delivered the most important speech of the night, one that earned her the grudging respect even of some Democrats, who have rarely had a good word for her husband.The focus of Night 2 of the convention — labelled the “Land of Opportunity” — was on the Trump administration’s economic successes before the Covid-19 epidemic hit the country and the recent signs of recovery; foreign policy achievements such as the recent Israel-UAE accord, aggressive steps towards China and Iran; and appealing to women voters.But it was also a day that President Trump and his senior aides faced a string criticism for deploying tools of federal government in his re-election bid, such as hosting a naturalization ceremony for immigrants at the White House, and grating presidential pardon to a former felon.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was criticised for bucking a decades-old practice of not addressing a political convention as secretary of state, observed by both parties. He spoke of the administration’s foreign policy through a pre-recorded video from Jerusalem, a venue chosen tactically as a reminder of administration recognising the city as Israel’s capital.In the pre-recorded message from Jerusalem, Pompeo offered a quick summary of the administration key foreign policy moves, such as China. “In China, he has pulled back the curtain on the predatory aggression of the Chinese Communist Party,” Pompeo said and proceeded to mention the president’s attempts to hold China accountable for the Covid-19 epidemic, punishing or evicting spies and ending “ridiculously unfair trade deals”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/melania-trump-addresses-racial-unrest-covid-19-on-night-2-of-convention/story-f8wJt49b98eASKma8MBFrN.html
26-08-2020||World||Hurricane Laura poses biggest storm threat to US oil output in 15 years||The US energy industry on Tuesday was preparing for a major hurricane strike, cutting crude production at a rate approaching the level of 2005’s Hurricane Katrina and halting oil refining at plants along the Texas-Louisiana coast.Officials in the two states ordered hundreds of thousands of coastal residents to flee inland as Hurricane Laura strengthened and forecasters predicted it would become a major hurricane with sustained, 115 mile per hour (185 kph) winds. At least a 10-foot (3-meter) storm surge will likely hit the upper Texas coast later this week, said Chris Kerr, a meteorologist at agriculture, energy and weather data provider DTN. He said rapid intensification could even produce a devastating Category 4 hurricane.Oil producers on Tuesday had evacuated 310 offshore facilities and shut 1.56 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude output, 84% of Gulf of Mexico’s offshore production, near the 90% outage that Katrina brought 15 years ago. The storm will make landfall by early Thursday in an area that accounts for more than 45% of total US petroleum refining capacity and 17% of oil production, according to the Energy Information Administration. Refiners that produce gasoline and diesel fuel were taking steps to halt nine facilities that process nearly 2.9 million bpd of oil, 14.6% of the US total capacity, according to Reuters tallies. The impact on refineries so far is less than Hurricane Harvey, whose drenching rains took down nearly one quarter of US refining capacity three years ago. US gasoline futures have jumped as much as 10% since Friday, while crude benchmarks settled at a five-month high on Tuesday due to the shutdowns.“There will be a significant storm surge from Galveston (Texas) to the Sabine River,” an area encompassing some of the region’s largest refineries, said DTN’s Kerr. “There are ideal conditions in central and west Gulf for rapid intensification.”Officials in Texas and Louisiana called for mandatory evacuations affecting half a million people. Residents from areas of Houston east to Orange, Texas, should flee the area and seek shelter inland, Texas officials said. Cheniere Energy Inc, the largest US exporter of liquefied natural gas, evacuated staff and suspended operations at its Sabine Pass LNG export terminal on the Texas/Louisiana border. Motiva Enterprises, Total SA and Valero Energy began cutting operations at their Port Arthur, Texas, refineries, according to people familiar with the matter. Total, Motiva and Valero confirmed the shutdowns, and a Valero spokeswoman said it also was reviewing the risks to its Texas City, plant southeast of Houston. Citgo Petroleum was halting operations at its 418,000 bpd refinery in Lake Charles, Louisiana, and Chevron shut gasoline production at its 112,000 bpd Pasadena, Texas, refinery, spokespeople said. Exxon Mobil Corp began shutting production at its large Beaumont, Texas, refinery and reduced output at its Baytown, Texas, plant ahead of a possible shutdown.Exxon confirmed it was initiating a shutdown at Beaumont and was preparing for possible severe weather at its Baytown refinery and chemical complex, a spokesman said. If the Baytown plant fully halts processing, total shutdowns along the coast would hit 2.89 million bpd. Marathon Petroleum declined to comment on the status of its 585,000 bpd plant in Texas City, the second largest refinery in the United States after Motiva’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-laura-poses-biggest-storm-threat-to-us-oil-output-in-15-years/story-j5k1JrlQ5pYKkTgHRKdEGM.html
26-08-2020||World||China protests US spy plane watching live fire military drills||China has lodged “stern representations” with the United States, accusing it of sending a US U-2 reconnaissance plane into a no-fly zone over Chinese live-fire military drills on Tuesday, further ratcheting up tensions between Beijing and Washington.China has long denounced US surveillance activities, while the United States has complained of “unsafe” intercepts by Chinese aircraft. While such missions happen regularly, for China to talk about them publicly is unusual.China’s Defence Ministry said the U-2 flew without permission over a no-fly zone in the northern military region where live fire drills were taking place, “seriously interfering in normal exercise activities”.This could easily have caused a misunderstanding or misjudgement or an “unexpected incident”, the ministry added.“It was an act of naked provocation, and China is resolutely opposed to it, and have already lodged stern representations with the US side.”In a statement, the US military said a U-2 flight was conducted in the Indo-Pacific region and it was “within the accepted international rules and regulations governing aircraft flights.”“Pacific Air Forces personnel will continue to fly and operate anywhere international law allows, at the time and tempo of our choosing,” the US military said in the statement.The U-2 aircraft can fly at over 70,000 feet and carry out reconnaissance activity from afar and would not necessarily have had to enter a no-fly zone.While China did not say exactly where the incident took place, it is currently carrying out drills in the Bohai Sea. Other exercises are also happening in the Yellow Sea and South China Sea.“China demands the US side immediately stop this kind of provocative behaviour and take actual steps to safeguard peace and stability in the region,” the ministry added.Relations between Washington and Beijing have worsened over everything from trade and human rights to what the United States sees as aggressive moves by China’s armed forces, especially in the disputed South China Sea and around Chinese-claimed Taiwan.In April 2001, an intercept of a US spy plane by a Chinese fighter jet resulted in a collision that killed the Chinese pilot and forced the American plane to make an emergency landing at a base on the southern Chinese island of Hainan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-protests-us-spy-plane-watching-live-fire-military-drills/story-AC3uzIUlP0dQMk8WsuMVRN.html
26-08-2020||World||‘Anything can happen’: Weather helps California firefighters, for now||Over 14,000 firefighters from half a dozen states carved out containment lines around some of the largest wildfires in California history on Tuesday, helped by cooler temperatures.Using bulldozers and hand tools, crews scraped fire breaks into the earth to block flames from around 24 major blazes sparked by dry lightning during a record heat wave. The worst fires, now the second and third largest in state history, burned in the greater San Francisco Bay Area and 136,000 people remained under evacuation orders.Higher humidity and gentler winds helped firefighters get a grip on the fires, but temperatures and winds were expected to pick up in coming days. “The weather has really cooperated with us. We are steadily getting a trickle of new resources in,” Cal Fire Operations Chief Mark Brunton said of a blaze north of Santa Cruz. Four people were still missing after the fire known as the CZU Lightning Complex destroyed 330 homes and other structures, Santa Cruz County Sheriff Chief Deputy Chris Clark told reporters.Some authorities blamed climate change for the fire in an area of coastal rainforests that do not normally burn.Since the dry-lightning siege began Aug. 15 over 650 fires have torched more than 1.25 million acres (505,860 hectares) in California, an area larger than the Grand Canyon.At least seven people have died and over 1,400 homes and other structures have been destroyed, with losses possibly rising to over 3,000 structures, Cal Fire Assistant Deputy Director Daniel Berlant said in an online briefing.Livestock owners evacuated animals to the county fairgrounds in Santa Rosa to protect them from a monster fire burning in hills 20 miles to the east. “If we get strong winds from an unexpected direction anything can happen,” said Kathleen Haase, 45, a farmer from Guerneville who evacuated 200 goats after three of her neighbors lost their homes. Firefighters cut a containment line around a third of the fire dubbed the LNU Lightning Complex, which is the third largest in state history at over 350,000 acres.To the south, containment ticked up to 15% on the state’s largest fire, in hills 10 miles east of San Jose. Thousands returned to homes in Santa Clara County as some evacuation orders were lifted around the fire known as the SCU Lightning complex. Smoke from fires created unhealthy air quality for a large swath of Northern California, with many San Francisco residents staying indoors.Governor Gavin Newsom on Monday said California was facing “a different climate” after record temperatures siphoned off moisture from storms to create dry-lightning.The state’s five largest wildfires have burned in the last three years, the largest of which was the Mendocino Complex fire in 2018 which blackened 459,123 acres.A two to three degree Fahrenheit rise in average temperatures, combined with insect infestations, have created more dead trees and parched brush that act as kindling to supercharge fires that have long burned in California, according to bioclimatologists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anything-can-happen-weather-helps-california-firefighters-for-now/story-efMhrtjKAMc10hBeTOuREO.html
26-08-2020||World||Takeaways from Day Two of the Republican National Convention||First lady Melania Trump and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo lead an array of Americans making the case at the Republican National Convention on Tuesday for re-electing President Donald Trump over Democrat Joe Biden in November. Here is a takeaway from Tuesday’s program: Alternate historyLarry Kudlow, Trump’s top economic adviser, had a simple goal in his address on Tuesday night: Convince viewers that the American economy had sprung back to life again – even if it hasn’t.A strong economy was the Republican president’s biggest asset coming into the campaign, but the coronavirus pandemic sank that narrative. On Tuesday, Kudlow spoke as if the pandemic had passed and that all was well again, arguing that Trump had “successfully fought” the outbreak.There was no mention of jobless claims climbing past the 1 million mark last week, the unemployment rate remaining above 10%, or consumer confidence hitting a six-year low. Nor was there mention of the millions who lost jobless benefits after Congress was unable to agree on an extension of relief programs, or talk of the more than 177,000 US deaths from the pandemic.Most notably, Kudlow was speaking from his Connecticut home, not from Washington or the Republican convention site in Charlotte, North Carolina – a reminder that the virus remains with us.Controversial speakersOn a night when Melania Trump is scheduled to give her signature address of the 2020 campaign from the White House in a bid to appeal to suburban women voters, two other women who were on the convention speaking schedule may have done that cause no favours.Abby Johnson, an anti-abortion advocate, and Mary Ann Mendoza, a fierce critic of illegal immigration whose son was killed by a drunk driver who was in the country illegally, were to speak back-to-back at the convention from an auditorium in Washington. Both have courted controversy.But the Trump campaign said Mendoza was pulled from the schedule after tweeting a link on Tuesday to a lengthy anti-Semitic conspiracy thread. She apologized on Twitter, saying: “That does not reflect my feelings or personal thoughts whatsoever.”Johnson, who has a biracial son among her eight children, said in a YouTube video in June after the police killing of George Floyd, an unarmed Black man in Minneapolis, that when her son is grown, police officers would have to be more careful around him, the Daily Beast reported.“Statistically, my brown son is more likely to commit a violent offense over my white sons,” she said, despite studies showing systemic biases in the criminal justice system that disproportionately punish Black men.Johnson has also said on Twitter than she supports “household voting” – in which each household has a single vote, potentially denying a woman an individual vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/takeaways-from-day-two-of-the-republican-national-convention/story-GBT1ZfQg4RbNGx9LQHYvjO.html
26-08-2020||World||Could US regulators authorise a Covid-19 vaccine before the election?||US President Donald Trump has said a vaccine for the novel coronavirus could be available before the November 3 presidential election, sooner than most experts anticipate.A Covid-19 vaccine as early as October could become a reality if drugmakers deliver on optimistic timelines for completing large, late-stage clinical trials and regulators allow for its use prior to a full review and approval.HOW CAN U.S. REGULATORS SPEED UP AVAILABILITY OF A VACCINE?The US Food and Drug Administration can greenlight medical products during public health emergencies by issuing an emergency use authorization (EUA) before all the data are in to complete a formal review.The FDA has issued EUAs for many Covid-19 tests and for a few treatments. On Sunday, the FDA authorized on an emergency basis the use blood plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients as a treatment. The FDA commissioner later corrected data he cited at a news conference that significantly overstated the treatment’s known ability to save lives.EUA’s are not typically used for vaccines intended for healthy people to prevent infection. That presents a higher bar for approval than treatments for people with life-threatening disease. Nevertheless, the FDA in June released EUA guidance for Covid-19 vaccines. Once it grants an EUA, the agency eventually must issue a formal marketing approval or revoke emergency authorization. HOW MUCH TIME COULD AN EUA SAVE?Typical FDA approval reviews take eight months or longer, with a priority review shaving off a couple of months. But the agency has moved quickly during past public health crises. During the 2009 H1N1 swine flu pandemic, it only took two months to get an approved vaccine, but those were based on existing seasonal flu vaccines. An EUA for a vaccine using a new approach might only save a few weeks, some experts say. The FDA would still need substantial data, said Dr. Kathryn Edwards, former chairwoman of the FDA’s vaccine advisory committee and scientific director at the Vanderbilt Vaccine Research Program.“What they do seem to be telling us is that once you show that your vaccine works ... that might be a time when an EUA may be used” before the paperwork is completed, said Filip Dubovsky, chief medical officer of vaccine maker Novavax IncIS IT RISKY TO USE AN EUA FOR VACCINES?The U.S. government decided against an EUA for the H1N1 vaccine after a survey found 64% of Americans would not take it if it had not gone through the formal approval process.Consumer rights watchdog Public Citizen urged regulators not to use an EUA for Covid-19 vaccines, which it says could create the appearance of a rushed review. The FDA and other U.S. health experts say there must be sufficient safety and efficacy data before a vaccine is authorized for public use.“I certainly would not recommend nor would I ever allow myself to be injected with a vaccine that has not been thoroughly vetted and approved by the FDA,” said former FDA associate commissioner Dr. Peter Pitts, president of the Center for Medicine in the Public Interest.COULD TRUMP PRESSURE THE FDA TO ISSUE AN EUA WITHOUT SUFFICIENT DATA?Trump, without citing evidence, on Saturday accused “deep state” elements in the FDA of holding up vaccines and treatments in order to undermine his reelection prospects.FDA Commissioner Stephan Hahn has denied that assertion. Peter Marks, one of the FDA’s top drug reviewers, told Reuters he would resign if he felt the agency was pressured to approve a vaccine before it was ready.Dr. Jesse Goodman of Georgetown University, a former FDA chief scientist, said a vaccine EUA could undermine public confidence in the agency. He cited pressure around hydroxychloroquine, a treatment pushed by Trump and others in his administration, which received an EUA that was later revoked when data showed a lack of efficacy and safety issues.“We’re certainly seeing a situation where norms are not being respected government-wide,” Goodman said.WHICH DRUGMAKERS HAVE A SHOT AT A VIABLE VACCINE BEFORE THE ELECTION?AstraZeneca Plc
26-08-2020||World||Kim Jong Un calls for prevention efforts against coronavirus, looming typhoon: Reports||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has called for prevention efforts against the novel coronavirus and a typhoon, state news agency KCNA said on Wednesday.An enlarged meeting of the politburo of the Workers Party took place amid a pandemic that is putting additional pressure on the North Korean economy, battered by recent border closures and flood damage.The meeting assessed “some defects in the state emergency anti-epidemic work for checking the inroads of the malignant virus”, KCNA said in a statement.North Korea has not reported any confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus, but Kim said last month that the virus “could be said to have entered” the country and imposed a lockdown after a man was reported to have symptoms. Later test results on the man were inconclusive, according to the World Health Organisation.Kim had this month lifted a three-week lockdown in the city of Kaesong after a suspected case of the coronavirus there.The meeting discussed state emergency measures on preventing crop damage and casualties from Typhoon Bavi, which is expected to hit the country within days, KCNA reported. Heavy rain and flooding have raised concern about food supplies in the isolated country.The ruling party had said it will hold a congress next year to decide a new five-year plan, after a party meeting noted serious delays in improving the national economy and living standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-calls-for-prevention-efforts-against-coronavirus-looming-typhoon-reports/story-elZs2viZ89ibHDE7EYecKL.html
26-08-2020||World||Losses from China overseas takeover binge are piling up fast||Chinese buyers have not only stopped snapping up iconic overseas assets, the coronavirus pandemic is ravaging the targets of deals that defined a headier era.Whereas some prolific acquirers such as HNA Group Co. and Anbang Insurance Group Co. began falling into disarray before the recent crisis, the impact on investments in sectors hit hardest by the outbreak means healthier owners are now feeling the pain.Conglomerate Fosun International Ltd. could soon see its 2015 investment in Cirque du Soleil Entertainment Group wiped out, while PizzaExpress, owned by private equity firm Hony Capital, said this month it’s likely to hand control of the British chain to creditors. Baggage handler Swissport International AG is also negotiating with investors over a rescue that could see HNA exit the cash-strapped firm it bought in 2015, Bloomberg News has reported. HNA is also among Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. shareholders set to lose everything after the airline collapsed in April.“Some of the Chinese overseas investments that have recently imploded are legacy acquisitions from the debt-fueled deal spree in the years before 2018,” Lars Aagaard, head of mergers and acquisitions and financial sponsors for Asia Pacific at Barclays Plc based in Hong Kong, said in a phone interview.Even Chinese companies’ pre-Covid attempts to extricate themselves from investments are being tripped up by the pandemic.Dajia Insurance Group, the heir to troubled insurer Anbang, found itself suddenly without a buyer for a $5.8 billion portfolio of US luxury hotels when the virus struck. South Korea’s Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. did not consummate a deal agreed last fall by the April 17 deadline, prompting Dajia to sue. Mirae told the courts that hotel shutdowns caused by the Covid-19 virus are among its reasons why it canceled the transaction.To be sure, businesses in sectors such as transportation, tourism and hospitality are facing extreme challenges regardless of whether the owner is Chinese or someone else, Aagaard said.At $15.1 billion, the volume of Chinese outbound M&A so far this year represents a 25% drop from a year earlier and a far cry from the peak in 2016, when China National Chemical Corp. agreed to buy Swiss agrichemical maker Syngenta AG for $43 billion, according to Bloomberg data.The pandemic is not the only factor explaining the plunge in dealmaking activity. India, Australia and the European Union have increased scrutiny on foreign investment in moves widely viewed as targeting Chinese buyers. Tensions between Washington and Beijing have seen sanctions imposed on officials in China and Hong Kong over human rights issues, adding uncertainty for Chinese companies operating overseas.China Mengniu Dairy Co. on Tuesday scrapped its plans to buy Kirin Holdings Co.’s Australian beverage unit after being told the deal would likely be blocked, amid increasingly strained relations between Canberra and Beijing.“The great uncertainties in the relationship between China and the U.S. have inevitably made Chinese investors more cautious with their cross-border deals,” said Eric Liu, Shanghai-based managing partner of Zhao Sheng Law Firm. “While we do not see any indication of Chinese investors stopping ‘going abroad’, it is completely understandable that they need time to assess.”They may be cautious, but they are not completely averse. Earlier this month, China Three Gorges Corp. agreed to buy 13 Spanish solar park assets owned by X-Elio Energy SL, a renewable energy company co-owned by Brookfield Renewable Partners LP and private equity firm KKR & Co. The deal could become one of the few Chinese acquisitions in Europe this year.Barclays’ Aagaard sees continued Chinese interest in future outbound deals, though focused more on deals that complement buyers’ core businesses.“The desire to do selective and strategic acquisitions overseas is still there, especially in sectors such as power, infrastructure and utilities, technology and consumer,” Aagaard said. “Chinese companies, both private and state-owned enterprises, are now taking a much more sophisticated approach both as buyers and also as owners of businesses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/losses-from-china-overseas-takeover-binge-are-piling-up-fast/story-D7N3yj7QPjGDE3nzDkuIYI.html
26-08-2020||World||Wisconsin governor declares emergency after police shooting of Jacob Blake||Wisconsin’s governor declared a state of emergency Tuesday after some protesters vandalized businesses and set dozens of buildings on fire in a city where police shot a Black man multiple times, apparently in the back in view of his children.The shooting of Jacob Blake on Sunday in Kenosha was captured on cellphone video and ignited new protests over racial injustice in several cities, just three months after the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police touched off a wider reckoning on race.Blake’s father, also named Jacob Blake, told the Chicago Sun-Times that his son is paralyzed from the waist down and has “eight holes” in his body. The elder Blake said he didn’t know if his son’s paralysis was permanent.Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers called for protesters to be peaceful, while also saying the National Guard presence would be doubled from 125 to 250 in Kenosha after crowds destroyed dozens of buildings and set more than 30 fires on Monday night.“We cannot allow the cycle of systemic racism and injustice to continue,” said Evers, who is facing mounting pressure from Republicans over his handling of the unrest that has followed the shooting. “We also cannot continue going down this path of damage and destruction.”Blake’s father said that he learned Sunday night that officers had shot his 29-year-old son and shortly thereafter he watched the video, which appears to show his son being shot in the back.“I want to put my hand on my son’s cheek and kiss him on his forehead, and then I’ll be OK,” the father, who was traveling from North Carolina to Milwaukee, where his son is being treated, told the newspaper. “I’ll kiss him with my mask. The first thing I want to do is touch my son.”Three of the younger Blake’s sons — aged 3, 5 and 8 — were in the car at the time of the shooting, according to Ben Crump, a civil rights attorney representing the family. Crump scheduled a Tuesday afternoon news conference in Kenosha with Blake’s family members to address the shooting.Police in Kenosha have released almost no information about the shooting, beyond saying the officers were responding to a domestic dispute when they encountered Blake. The Wisconsin Department of Justice is leading the investigation, which is expected to take several weeks. The officers were placed on administrative leave, which is standard practice in such cases.The father has not returned multiple messages left by The Associated Press. He is slated to speak at a March on Washington commemoration on Friday organized by the Rev. Al Sharpton. His father and the victim’s grandfather, Jacob Blake Sr., was a prominent minister and civil rights leader in the Chicago area in the 1960s.The man who said he made the cellphone video of the shooting, 22-year-old Raysean White, said he saw Blake scuffling with three officers and heard them yell, “Drop the knife! Drop the knife!” before the gunfire erupted. He said he didn’t see a knife in Blake’s hands.In the footage, Blake walks from the sidewalk around the front of his SUV to his driver-side door as officers follow him with their guns drawn and shout at him. As Blake opens the door and leans into the SUV, an officer grabs his shirt from behind and opens fire while Blake has his back turned. Seven shots can be heard, though it isn’t clear how many struck Blake or how many officers fired.Since the shooting, anger has spilled into the streets of Kenosha and other cities, including Los Angeles, Wisconsin’s capital of Madison and in Minneapolis, the epicenter of the Black Lives Matter movement this summer following Floyd’s death.Hundreds of protesters defied an 8 p.m. curfew Monday night, massing in downtown Kenosha, where they were met by a wall of law enforcement officers, including 125 members of the Wisconsin National Guard.Some clashed with officers and vandalized businesses. There were 34 fires associated with the unrest, with 30 businesses destroyed or damaged along with an unknown number of residences, Kenosha Fire Chief Charles Leipzig told the Kenosha News.One of the buildings destroyed was the Wisconsin Department of Corrections’ probation and parole office. Most staff had already transitioned to working remotely, and all essential operations are continuing, said department spokeswoman Anna Neal.A city block was cordoned off Tuesday so officials could survey damage. Smoke filled the air and visibility was low as firefighters used water cannons on still smoldering buildings.“Nobody deserves this,” said Pat Oertle, owner of Computer Adventure. Computers were stolen, and the store was “destroyed,” she said.“This accomplishes nothing,” Oertle said. “This is not justice that they’re looking for.”US Sen. Ron Johnson and US Rep. Bryan Steil, both Republicans, called on the governor to do more to quell the unrest. Steil said he would request federal assistance if necessary.A Wisconsin state lawmaker said Evers, who is white, and Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes, who is Black, encouraged violence with their comments after the shooting.“They did not call for peace. They did not encourage calm,” Republican state Sen. Howard Marklein said. “They did encourage people to jump to conclusions and take negative action.”Evers continued to call for protesters to be peaceful.“Please do not allow the actions of a few distract us from the work we must do together to demand justice, equity, and accountability,” he said.In Madison, about 500 protesters marched to the state Capitol on Monday night, and some broke windows, stole from stores and sprayed graffiti along the way. Police used tear gas and pepper spray on the crowds and six people were arrested, according to Madison police.In Minneapolis, 11 were arrested after breaking windows at the county jail on Monday night. One police officer suffered a broken hand in an altercation with demonstrators, the sheriff’s department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/governor-declares-emergency-after-police-shooting-of-blake/story-LPBT5n0DUTAruJMNxTWC4L.html
26-08-2020||World||Alphabet’s Google appoints DeLaine Prado as new general counsel||Alphabet Inc.’s Google appointed Halimah DeLaine Prado, a company veteran and one of the technology giant’s most senior Black executives, as general counsel.DeLaine Prado’s promotion will likely be welcomed by Black employees at the company who have been pushing for more diversity. Earlier this year, Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai committed to increase leadership representation of underrepresented groups by 30% by 2025. Google’s 2019 diversity report said 2.6% of Google’s leaders were Black.Google hasn’t had a general counsel since 2018, when Kent Walker was promoted to senior vice president of global affairs, a position responsible for responding to the swell of regulatory and privacy-related issues the company has faced in recent years. DeLaine Prado will report to Walker.“Google has been my home for nearly 14 years, allowing me to work on some of the most complex and important legal issues of the digital age with a world-class legal team,” she said in a statement. “I am excited for this new opportunity and I cannot wait to get started.”DeLaine Prado was most recently a vice president in the legal department, where she ran a global legal team that advised on Google products including Ads, Search, Cloud, Hardware, Platforms & Ecosystems, and YouTube.“Halimah has been a trusted counselor and exceptional leader,” Walker said in a statement. “She is uniquely qualified to lead the Legal Department at this critical moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alphabet-s-google-appoints-delaine-prado-as-new-general-counsel/story-JWb2j02gpvKI4dOULik8CO.html
26-08-2020||World||Covid-19: KFC suspends ‘Its Finger Lickin’ Good’ slogan amid pandemic||Don’t lick your fingers!That’s what Kentucky Fried Chicken signaled to customers Monday as the company suspended its “It’s Finger Lickin’ Good” tagline after 64 years, deeming it “the most inappropriate slogan for 2020” amid the coronavirus pandemic.The suspension will affect the slogan’s use in global advertising “for a little while,” the company said in a statement.“We find ourselves in a unique situation — having an iconic slogan that doesn’t quite fit in the current environment,” said Catherine Tan-Gillespie, the company’s global chief marketing officer.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s coronavirus safety measures calls for people to avoid touching their eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands to reduce exposure to the virus.For now, the company, which is a subsidiary of Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum! Brands, is telling fans not to worry.“The slogan will be back,” the statement said. “Just when the time is right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-kfc-suspends-its-finger-lickin-good-slogan-amid-pandemic/story-DFu9ChN83XYPN5UMAoy5HJ.html
26-08-2020||World||‘Sabotage effort to exit grey list’: Imran Khan stings Oppn for defeating FATF-linked bills||Prime Minister Imran Khan, who has lately gone on an overdrive to dodge the global dirty money watchdog’s blacklist, on Tuesday suffered a huge setback when Pakistan’s Senate defeated two legislations that were seen to be critical to efforts to get his country off the hook at the next Financial Action Task Force review.Khan announced the defeat of the two legislations on Twitter, delivering his sharpest takedown of opposition leaders who he tweeted, were trying to save their “corrupt money” and “sabotage Pak efforts to exit FATF grey list”.“Opposition tries to hide behind facade of democracy to protect their loot & plunder. To blackmail for NRO (National Reconciliation Ordinance) by defanging NAB (National Accountability Bureau, they would even have Pak put on FATF black list to destroy nation’s economy & increase poverty,” Imran Khan said.Pakistan had last returned to the FATF ‘grey list’ in June 2018 when the anti-terror funding watchdog found deficiencies in Islamabad’s money laundering and anti-terror funding laws and their implementation. Over the last one week, Khan has enacted laws and designated over 100 people as terrorists to evade the blacklist at the next FATF review expected in October.Also Read: Biggest pressure from FATF, says NSA Ajit Doval on Pakistan attempt to avoid blacklistKhan’s government had been able to get the two legislations - Anti-Money Laundering (Second Amendment) Bill and the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) Waqf Properties Bill - cleared by Pakistan’s lower house after a heated debate that mostly centered around the role of the National Accountability Bureau.But the twin legislations appeared to have hit a roadblock in the Senate. Opposition tries to hide behind facade of democracy to protect their loot & plunder. To blackmail for NRO by defanging NAB, they would even have Pak put on FATF black list to destroy nation's economy & increase poverty. They keep threatening to bring down govt unless given NRO.An upset Khan turned to Twitter, venting against the opposition leaders. Khan said the opposition leaders were looking for an immunity deal like the one offered by ex-President Pervez Musharraf back in 2007.The 2007 legislation, National Reconciliation Ordinance, was a controversial law promulgated by General Musharraf as part of a deal with Pakistan Peoples Party’s Benazir Bhutto. It allowed amnesty from legal action to politicians, political workers and bureaucrats accused of wrongdoing between January 1986 and October 1999. It was quashed by Supreme Court Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry soon after. Gen Musharraf sacked the chief justice, a move that plunged the country into a political and judicial crisis. Khan, who accused the opposition of threatening to pull down his government unless given a similar immunity deal, said he would not give in.“Let me make clear: No matter what happens, my govt will not allow any NRO as it would be betrayal of nation’s trust in holding plunderers of public wealth accountable. Musharraf gave NROs to the 2 pol ldrs which quadrupled our debt & destroyed economy. There will be no more NROs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sabotage-pak-effort-to-exit-grey-list-imran-khan-stings-oppn-for-defeating-fatf-linked-bills/story-NNNz6WQ0UQkTfhCUkUWKZP.html
26-08-2020||World||Covid-19 antibodies fade rapidly, raising risk of lost immunity||Recovering from Covid-19 may not offer much protection from future infections for those with only a mild case, according to a report that suggests caution regarding so-called herd immunity as well as vaccine durability.The correspondence in the New England Journal of Medicine outlined an analysis of antibodies taken from the blood of 34 patients who had recovered after suffering mainly mild symptoms that didn’t require intensive care. Just two needed supplemental oxygen and received an HIV medication, and none were on a ventilator or getting Gilead Sciences Inc.’s remdesivir.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe first analysis was done on antibodies taken an average of 37 days after symptoms began, with a second after about 86 days, or less than three months. The researchers found that antibody levels fell quickly, with a half-life of about 73 days between the two time frames. The loss of antibodies occurred more quickly than with SARS, an earlier type of coronavirus infection.The antibody response is being closely studied by scientists worldwide for indications of how long-lasting immunity may be. While there’s little evidence to suggest reinfections are broadly occurring, health experts have yet to pin down specifics. The latest findings raise concern that protection from reinfection may not last long in those with mild symptoms, which accounts for the majority of cases.Further studies will be needed “to define a quantitative protection threshold and rate of decline of antiviral antibodies beyond 90 days,” according to the researchers led by F. Javier Ibarrondo, from the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California Los Angeles. The brief report was in the form of a correspondence published in the journal.While the protective role of antibodies against infection isn’t fully understood, they are generally considered a good representation of some protection against infection in general, according to the report.A recent study from King’s College London showed that the level of antibodies may drop to a degree that makes them undetectable as soon as three months after infection. However, the body also mounts other forms of immunity responses, including from so-called T-cells, which appear to play a role in protecting against reinfection with Covid-19.In Sweden, the nation’s top health authority said on Tuesday that people who have had the virus are likely to be immune for at least six months after being infected, whether they’ve developed antibodies or not. In new guidance, the Swedish Public Health Agency said it’s now considered safe for individuals who’ve been infected to come into contact with people in high-risk groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-antibodies-fade-rapidly-raising-risk-of-lost-immunity/story-8juXTn2qIZf3sRummDy0RM.html
26-08-2020||India||This ‘Yamraj’ saves lives by ferrying people across flooded streams||Known locally as ‘Yamraj’, the God of Death, according to Hindu mythology, this Uttarakhand man saves lives of people from being washed away in flooded mountain rivulets in Pithoragarh district of the Himalyan state. The man, 50, whose real name is Diwani Ram, has been working towards safely helping people cross rivulets since the age of 14 in the remote Bangapani area of Pithoragarh district. Due to heavy rainfall, many times bridges over the rivulets that connect villages or roads get washed away due to rise in water levels or sudden flash floods. “When the rivulet Jaulagar swells during monsoon it becomes difficult to cross it as it has no Pukka bridge on it. Voluntarily, I started helping people to cross the flooded rivulets as my forefathers had also done the same for three generations in our family,” said Ram. Ram won the last panchayat elections to become the gram pradhan of his village Siling in Baram region because of his philanthropic work. “Due to lack of a permanent bridge over a swollen rivulet in Bangapani, people are not able to reach the main market or sub-divisional offices. This monsoon also, I, along with my team, have helped over 500 villagers from Talla Johar and Talla Darma villages to cross the flooded rivulet,” he added. When asked if he charges people for his work during monsoons, Ram said, “I do it only for helping people. I earn a living by working as a blacksmith. Sometimes, the youth working in the army whom I have helped to cross a river or rivulet come to meet me with a box of sweets as a ‘thank you’ to me, which I think is the biggest reward for my work.” Ram claims that in the past 36 years, he has helped over 18,000 people to cross flooded rivulets in the Bangapani sub-division of Pithoragarh district. On why he is named ‘Yamraj’, when he works to save lives, he said, “I once had a male buffalo and used to ride that for work at times. Since then people started calling me Yamraj. People can call me whatever they want, what matters is that they love and respect me for my work.” Umesh Dhami, a social worker and gram Pradhan of Madarama village in Pithoragarh, said, Diwani Ram is doing such an appreciable work by helping villagers cross swollen rivulets. “His family has been doing this work for the past three generations. The entire region of Munsiyari, Bangapani and some parts of Dharchula get flooded every monsoon with connecting bridges getting washed away often. Against this backdrop, his work is exemplary and unique,” he said. People in the area have acknowledged his services by electing him as Pradhan of Siling village, said Dhami. Anil Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dharchula area of Pithoragarh, said, “The work that Ram is doing is very helpful for people here and is highly appreciated by the locals. During monsoons, it is common for rivers and rivulets to swell in the mountains. In the Bangapani region, there has been more than normal rainfall this year. However, all connecting bridges and roads have been repaired in the area”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-yamraj-saves-lives-by-ferrying-people-across-flooded-streams/story-pDzgmdtOaLh2Xb5ytAjalI.html
26-08-2020||India||Narcotics bureau files FIR against Rhea, five others||MumbaiThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) registered an FIR on Wednesday against deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi, and one Gaurav Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Pyschotropic Substances Act. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) have already registered cases to probe the actor’s death. The narcotics FIR was filed after the Enforcement Directorate sent a letter to the NCB asking the agency to join the investigation. NCB director Rakesh Asthana confirmed that an FIR was registered, saying, “We received a letter from the ED on Tuesday evening stating that during their probe into financial aspects they found that drugs were supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and the people involved will be questioned.” The NCB has been roped in by the ED to probe if drugs were supplied to Chakraborty and Rajput. ED officials said during their questioning of Saha, Chakraborty’s talent manager, they found a conversation between the two about drugs. However, none of the three agencies provided any details of the drug in question or whether it was consumed by any of the people involved in the case. Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her lifetime ever. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” The ED has again called Saha to its south Mumbai office for questioning. Meanwhile, on the sixth day of its probe, the CBI continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, and roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani.Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically.Section 20 of the NDPS Act invoked in the case prescribes punishment for anyone who cultivates, produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-state, exports inter-state or uses cannabis. Section 20 (ii) (a) states that a person found with small quantity can be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term up to six months, or with fine, which may extend to Rs 10,000 or with both. Section 20 (ii) (b) prescribes rigorous imprisonment which may extend to 10 years and with a fine which may extend to Rs 1 lakh when a person is found with cannabis which is lesser in quantity than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity. Section 20 (ii) (c) prescribes a punishment for commercial quantity where a person can be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment which shall not be less than 10 years and may extend to 20 years and shall be liable for a fine not less than Rs 1 lakh which may extend to Rs 2 lakh.The case, which initially triggered a raging debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers), has taken more serious twists with charges of, first, money-laundering and, now, drug peddling brought in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-bureau-files-fir-against-rhea-five-others/story-zb57i3XFN57WupZIQpW3QL.html
26-08-2020||India||Kerala secretariat fire: Test for Vijayan govt as opposition steps up pressure||A minor fire that gutted ‘important’ files and furniture at the Kerala secretariat on Tuesday was doused in 40 minutes but it was enough to flare up the whole state which witnessed a series of protests, tear-gas shelling, baton charging and sit-ins. Unmindful of Covid-19 protocol, many district headquarters turned a battle ground on Wednesday after protestors clashed with the police injuring many. While opposition parties alleged the fire was deliberate to destroy key evidence in the sensational gold smuggling case, the ruling party put up a brave face saying it was a mere accident and some parties were adding politics to it. The police first information report says many files were destroyed but government and senior officers swear those were not important ones and had nothing to do with the smuggling case. Both they do agree many files were destroyed but the lingering question is whether they were important or not. Many questions, however, remain unanswered-- why it happened at the protocol office a week after its officers were summoned by the National Investigation Agency, why they delayed CCTV visuals to the NIA and how reinforcements were delayed during the accident are some of them. The government which is in the shadow of gold smuggling after the exit of the CM’s powerful secretary M Sivasankar will have to answer many tricky posers. The general administration department (GAD), where the protocol office falls, said gutted files relate to the government guest house bookings and ministers ‘swearing-in details. But nobody is willing to believe GAD secretary P Hani’s claims. At the same tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran claimed e-filing was there but later the government admitted e-filing was not complete in all departments. Some also say backup files are there but their explanations are as ambiguous as their claims-- insiders said files which destroyed have no back up. But a section of the employees allege that it was a well planned and executed fire and important files dealing with the exemption certificates in UAE consular office, tour itinerary and travel history of some controversial bureaucrats and ministers were destroyed. They say the room in which the fire originated was closed for the last two days after one of the employees tested Covid-19 positive. And they also allege that the secretariat has a small fire unit and it was missing in action and officials waited for reinforcement to arrive from outside. They also question the suspicious movement of some government trade union leaders on the premises. According to the FIR the fire started from a fan after overheating and its remains fell on curtains and later spread to an ‘alimirah’ where files were kept. While the government congratulated Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta who is said to have avoided a major flare up at the seat of power, the opposition was not amused. It said his role was mysterious and he was in a hurry to keep out the media and politicians from the scene. When asked about this he refused to comment saying investigation was on. The government is also planning to book BJP state president K Surendran who was among the first to reach the spot. It views his presence at the secretariat as a breach of security. Two inquiries are in place now-- one led by the police and other by the disaster management secretary. But it is a fact that the fire is turning into another major embarrassment for the state government. “Many IAS officers’ names also cropped up during the investigation. You don’t need an in-depth inquiry to find out it was an orchestrated one. There are chances of more such manmade fires. We want the NIA to take custody of the remaining important files,” said N K Premachandran, RSP MP from Kollam. After meeting Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Tuesday UDF leaders sent another written submission seeking his intervention on Wednesday. Some officials say video clippings of smuggling accused Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair with some officials of the GAD department were doing the rounds on social media for the last few days. There are reports that Suresh was a frequent visitor to the GAD department and she religiously invited officials for important functions at the consulate and after every foreign trip she allegedly gifted them with latest mobile phones and other gadgets. “When CCTV visuals were sought the government said they were destroyed in lightening. Later it said some of them can be retrieved. CM’s office knew everything about Swapna and Co. Now they are desperately destroying evidence. We hope NIA will reach them soon,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said both Congress and BJP have aligned to unseat a democratically-elected government. Now all eyes are on the NIA how it will respond to the latest incident and what it will do in pending notice for CCTV visuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-secretariat-fire-test-for-vijayan-govt-as-opposition-steps-up-pressure/story-hjvdQSEJtuI72kFMM8CyVI.html
26-08-2020||India||Trust to advertise seeking donations to build Ram temple in Ayodhya||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will soon issue advertisements requesting people to donate for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the trust’s general secretary Champat Rai said. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, people from all across the country are donating for construction of the temple.People are transferring money directly into two bank accounts of the Trust operating from State Bank of India’s main branch in Ayodhya. “Now, the trust is in a position to advertise in all prominent newspapers of all languages across the country, requesting people to donate for construction of the Ram temple,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust.“The quarter-page advertisement will have all details of the two bank accounts (in SBI), including bar code of the bank. This will help people donate easily to the trust,” Rai added. On the issue of some Non Resident Indians (NRIs) wanting to contribute to total construction work of the Ram temple, Rai said: “First, let people of this country contribute (for the Ram temple), then we will think about it.” Till August, the Trust had received around Rs 30 crore donation through online transfers to its two bank accounts. “Devotees are making online donations daily. A large number of devotees have donated Rs 5 lakh (each). Online transfers of Rs 1 lakh (each) are in abundance. There are a large number of donations of a small amount,” Champat Rai had said earlier. 12 old temples to be demolishedAround 12 old temples on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus will be demolished to pave way for construction of the temple. “Before construction of the Ram temple starts, some temples in the Ram Janmabhoomi campus will be demolished to pave way for construction of the Ram temple,” said Champat Rai.“Temples like Sita Rasoi, around 250 years old and in a dilapidated condition, Anand Bhawan, Ram Khajana and Manas Bhawan, among others, will be demolished,” said Rai. However, the deities of these temples will be preserved and installed in temples which will be constructed alongside the main Ram temple at Ram Janmabhoomi, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-to-advertise-seeking-donations-to-build-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-Fn6YnhFrtHSZrrSfeWR97O.html
26-08-2020||India||Indian software engineer becomes US citizen in rare ceremony at White House hosted by Trump||President Donald Trump has presided over a rare naturalisation ceremony at the White House where five immigrants, including a software developer from India, were sworn in as American citizens, as the US leader welcomed them to the “magnificent nation” that is comprised of every race, religion and colour.  Trump hosted the naturalisation ceremony at the White House and the video of the ceremony was played during the second night of the Republican National Convention on Tuesday.Immigrants from five countries - India, Bolivia, Lebanon, Sudan and Ghana, stood in a line during the ceremony in the White House. With their right hand raised and a US flag in their left hand, they were administered the Oath of Allegiance by Acting United States Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf, while Trump looked on. Sudha Sundari Narayanan, a software developer from India, was among those sworn in as American citizens.Also read: 5 ways Joe Biden’s presidency will affect US immigration policy“Today America rejoices as we welcome five absolutely incredible new members into our great American family. You are now fellow citizens of the greatest nation on the face of God’s Earth. Congratulations,” Trump said.Trump said the newly sworn-in American citizens followed the rules, obeyed the laws, learned the nation’s history, embraced American values and proved themselves to be men and women of the highest integrity.“It’s not so easy. You went through a lot and we appreciate you being here with us today. You’ve earned the most prized treasured, cherished and priceless possession anywhere in the world. It’s called American citizenship. There is no higher honour and no greater privilege,” Trump said adding that it is an honour for him to be their President. Later, Trump read out the names and a few details of the five new citizens.Trump said Narayanan is a “phenomenal success”, born in India, who came to the United States 13 years ago. “Sudha is a talented software developer and she and her husband are raising two beautiful, wonderful children ‘the apples of your life’. Thank you very much and congratulations. Fantastic job.” Trump handed Narayanan, who was wearing a bright coral pink sari, her Certificate of Citizenship.In his remarks, Trump congratulated the new citizens and said it is his honour to be with them. He added that with the rights and freedoms each of them now enjoy as citizens, there is no dream beyond their wildest reach because Americans can do anything.“Today you have also accepted the profound duties and responsibilities that come with American citizenship. By swearing the Oath of Allegiance, each of you has entered a sacred and unbreakable covenant with our nation.” Trump said the five new citizens have pledged their “undying loyalty” to the American people, the American Constitution and the American way of life. “The history and heritage of the United States are now yours to preserve and pass down to the next generation. Our culture, our traditions and our values are now yours to uphold and live by.” He added that the US Bill of Rights is “now yours to support, protect, and defend. As citizens, you’re now stewards of this magnificent nation, a family comprised of every race, colour, religion, creed, united by the bonds of love.” The United States Bill of Rights comprises the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution.  First Lady Melania Trump also recalled her immigrant journey in the US. During her address at the Rose Garden, she said she arrived in the US when she was 26 years old, adding that living and working in the land of opportunity was a dream come true for her.“But I wanted more. I wanted to be a citizen. After 10 years of paperwork and patience, I studied for the test in 2006 and became an American citizen. As an immigrant and a very independent woman, I understand what a privilege it is to live here and to enjoy the freedoms and opportunities that we have,” she said. Immigration featured in addresses during the second night of the convention. Florida Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nuñez said that as the daughter of Cuban immigrants, her story began in 1959, before “I was born, when my parents’ dreams of a prosperous life became a nightmare. Chaos spread quickly when Fidel Castro took control of Cuba.” Trump’s son Eric Trump said Democratic Presidential nominee Joe Biden “has pledged to stop border wall construction and give amnesty and healthcare to all illegal immigrants.”  Immigration has been a very critical agenda of the Trump campaign and his presidency, with Trump asserting throughout that as the American President he will ensure job security and safety for American citizens first. As job losses mounted and the American economy suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Trump ordered some stringent immigration restrictions, including suspending the H1B visas, which is popular among Indian IT professionals, along with other foreign work visas for the rest of the year.Trump has said the step was essential to help millions of Americans who have lost their jobs due to the current economic crisis. Indian IT workers form the majority of H1B visa holders in the US and have to wait decades for Green Cards due to a huge backlog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-software-engineer-becomes-us-citizen-in-rare-ceremony-at-white-house-hosted-by-trump/story-vhhB2gPnPR2K9aTbOiqsFI.html
26-08-2020||India||Karnataka Cong accuses Yediyurappa’s son Vijayendra of being ‘super CM’, corruption||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M Lakshman on Wednesday alleged that chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s second son BY Vijayendra was acting as a ‘super CM’ of the state and had indulged in corruption running into several thousand crores. Vijayendra is currently a vice president in the Karnataka BJP unit while his elder brother Raghavendra represents the Shivamogga Lok Sabha constituencyAddressing a press conference at Congress Bhavan in Mysore, Lakshman said that even BJP MLAs themselves had written to the party high command complaining of the high handed ways of Vijayendra and how he was indulging in corruption by interfering in government transfers, awarding of tenders and purchases made.Lakshman released what he claimed was a letter written by seven BJP MLAs themselves to the party high command saying that if things continued like this the party would lose the next elections. Mentioning Vijayendra’s alleged corrupt ways, they accused him of being responsible for Yediyurappa being briefly jailed in 2011. The Congress spokesperson said, “A coterie of 31 people from Vijayendra’s close circle are controlling and running the state government. Yediyurappa is in a helpless situation and his son is the Super CM of the state.”Congress also claimed that it has more evidence of the alleged corruption of Vijayendra and said audio-video evidence would be released in Delhi next month. Congress district president Vijay Kumar and city unit chief R Murthy were also present at the press conference.Responding to the allegations, Vijayendra took to Twitter and denied the charges. Vijayendra wrote, “Congress is an expert in storytelling and naked lies. Targeting me in Mysore, laughable allegations have been made against me. This is nothing but allegations made due to political conspiracy and with bad intentions. I am not the one to run away showing my back to such false allegations. They will not dent my spirit.” (Translated from Kannada).A BJP spokesperson refused to comment further saying, “Vijayendra is the vice president of the state BJP and he has already given his reaction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cong-accuses-yediyurappa-s-son-vijayendra-of-being-super-cm-corruption/story-NL09PrshiIFb7J74USJbVP.html
26-08-2020||India||Parliamentary committee business not to be leaked: Venkaiah Naidu to MPs||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu has written to heads of Parliamentary committees to ensure that proceedings of the committees related to the subject matters or legislative bills under their consideration and examination are not leaked to the media. In the letter, Naidu has asked committee chairpersons to urge the members of their respective committees to strictly adhere to the existing provisions and directions related to confidentiality and refrain from divulging information to the media till the reports are presented to the House. Pointing out that the proceedings are confidential, the Rajya Sabha chairperson has said it is not permissible for a member of the committee or anyone who has access to its proceedings to communicate directly or indirectly to the media any information regarding its proceedings, including any part of the report for any conclusion arrived at by the committee, finally over tentatively, before the report has been presented to the house. “Such actions tantamount to breach of privilege of the house,” the letter said.Parliamentary committees are mandated to undertake detailed scrutiny of legislative proposals of the government that are not found feasible for Parliament to do so in transaction of its day to day business for various reasons. The committees also study in great detail various subjects chosen by them in a non-partisan manner.On Tuesday, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also asked the chairpersons of House panels to not take up any matter that is sub judice or is related to national security, and to ensure confidentiality of the proceedings.The Speaker drew the attention of the chairpersons to Direction 55 of ‘Directions by the Speaker’, which says “the proceedings of a Committee shall be treated as confidential and it shall not be permissible for a member of the Committee or anyone who has access to its proceedings to communicate, directly or indirectly, to the press any information regarding its proceedings including its report or any conclusions arrived at, finally or tentatively, before the report has been presented to the House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-business-not-to-be-leaked-venkaiah-naidu-to-mps/story-FhhZpN0g3BnCJnWt7j5YzK.html
26-08-2020||India||Cyber police stations to be set up in each range headquarters of Chhattisgarh||To deal effectively with increasing cyber crime in the state, Chhattisgarh police has planned to set up five cyber police stations at each range headquarters. According to the Chhattisgarh police records; there has been an increase in the reporting of cybercrime over the years. In 2019, a total of 237 offences were registered while 255 offences have already been registered till July of 2020. The new cyber police stations will not only help the department in building capacity to tackle cyber crimes but will also help in strengthening cyber infrastructure, senior police officials said. “These newly notified police stations will start functioning as soon as the state government sanctions the required new (technical) posts. Currently, cyber cells are functional in each district headquarters,” said senior IPS officer and in-charge of police planning and traffic, RK Vij. “Cyber criminals have been found mostly to use social engineering tools, like, fraudulently asking bank account holders to reveal their credit/debit cards details, alluring online users to deposit some amount or provide bank details to withdraw award/lottery money, blocking of Aadhaar card etc. Unfortunately, people fall into their trap despite various warnings issued by banks and the police department and people lose their money in no time,” Vij said. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh police’s technical section has already issued some standard operation procedures (SOPs) which assist the field staff in investigating various cyber crimes, including online pornography and financial fraud. The technical cyber forensic lab of Police Headquarters (PHQ) is also the state nodal agency to co-ordinate with the Cyber Division of the Ministry of Home Affairs and NCRB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-police-stations-to-be-set-up-in-each-range-headquarters-of-chhattisgarh/story-tzOSoW3ElEaGHGHCA5hAUM.html
26-08-2020||India||Upset over police attacks, Nagaland doctors observe 24-hour strike||Health services across Nagaland remained affected on Wednesday due to a 24-hour complete shutdown declared by doctors in the state in protest against police atrocities against them. All medical services in government and private hospitals across the state except emergency services were affected by the shutdown called by Nagaland In-Service Doctors’ Association (NIDA) from 6 am on Wednesday till 6 am Thursday.“All the emergency services are functioning and indoor patients in hospitals are being taken care of. Things will come back to normal from Thursday morning,” said Dr Vizolie Suokhrie, principal director, health and family welfare, Nagaland. Doctors in Nagaland are upset and angry at alleged attacks by security personnel on three doctors since April this year with the last incident taking place on August 21. “In spite of the barbaric assault by erring police personnel on Dr Nosezol Sezo on April 3 at Dimapur and Dr Mongshithung on April 17 at Wokha, NIDA as a matured organization has refrained from taking any drastic action, keeping in mind the sacred responsibility of public health as its top priority,” NIDA said in a release issued on Monday. “The brutal attack on Dr Atoka Wotsa on the night of August 21 by some Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) personnel goes to show that the concerned authority has not taken any corrective measures in disciplining its personnel,” the released signed by NIDA president Dr Ritu Thurr and secretary Dr Ahu Shekhose added. The association expressed confidence in the state government’s assurance to expedite inquiry into the attacks within four days and requested to implement the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020, which was promulgated on April 22 in the state. Following the attack on Dr Wotsa, the state government had constituted a three-member inquiry committee on August 23 and directed it to submit its report within seven days. Nagaland has recorded 3778 cases of Covid-19 till Wednesday with 8 deaths and 2611 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upset-over-police-attacks-nagaland-doctors-observe-24-hour-strike/story-32nNT2TqbL4ozmDg8yIESI.html
26-08-2020||India||Expert panel to help DRDO prepare for futuristic battles, defence needs||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has set up an expert panel to review the charter of its laboratories and minimise the overlap of technologies they are working on at a time when self-reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy has constituted the five-member committee under the chairmanship of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi director V Ramagopal Rao and asked the panel to submit its report within 45 days, according to a government letter dated August 24 reviewed by Hindustan Times.The mandate given to the expert panel includes suggesting measures to provide a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India Movement) and cut dependence on imported weapons and systems, the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity. According to the letter, the terms of reference of the committee are to study and review the charter of duties of all DRDO labs, to redefine the charter of duties on the basis of current and futuristic defence and battlefield needs and to minimise the overlap of technologies amongst the labs. The other members of the committee are Indian Air Force deputy chief Air Marshal Sandeep Singh, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre director S Somanath, Instruments Research & Development Establishment (a Dehradun-based DRDO lab) director Benjamin Lionel and Director General-Naval Systems and Materials Samir V Kamath. The chairman of the committee may co-opt subject specialists as invitees to specific meetings, the letter said. This is a long overdue review and the committee needs to critically, and clinically, analyse the work of the 57 DRDO labs since their inception vis-a-vis their outputs that have seen deployment with the armed forces, and not just their theoretical claims, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “Money for R&D is scarce and must be used judiciously if the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan is to move forward,” Bahadur said. The August 24 letter came on a day the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved the extension of DRDO chief Reddy’s term by two years with effect from August 26. He was appointed to the post two years ago. Before that, Reddy was the scientific adviser to the defence minister, a charge he was given in June 2015. From mini unmanned aerial vehicles to fire detection systems and bullet proof vehicles to tank transporters, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has come out with a list of 108 systems and sub-systems that it will help the Indian industry design and develop to strengthen the local defence ecosystem. A DRDO delegation met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday and briefed him on the 108 defence items identified for local production by the industry to achieve self-reliance in the defence sector. It will also allow the DRDO to sharpen its focus on advanced technologies, the defence ministry said. Several steps have been taken in the past to make the DRDO more competitive and accountable. These include decentralising the DRDO’s management by merging its labs to form seven clusters based on technology domains such as missiles, electronic warfare, radars, aerial vehicles and underwater weapons. The recommendations made by the P Rama Rao Committee in February 2008 — the DRDO’s first external review — formed the bedrock of the roadmap for restructuring the R&D body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-to-help-drdo-prepare-for-futuristic-battles-defence-needs/story-f6lwjovvH8F7unNO8XmgZM.html
26-08-2020||India||India formally writes to UN on Pakistan’s false claim of making statement in Security Council||India has formally written to the United Nations about Pakistan’s false claim of making a statement in a Security Council meeting on terrorism, which was not open to non-Council members. India on Monday exposed Pakistan’s litany of lies it peddled in the UN after Islamabad’s UN envoy claimed to have given a statement in the Security Council meeting that was not open to non-members of the 15-nation UN body. India has now formally written to the UN and put on record about Pakistan’s claim that it had made a statement in the Council, which is false. India on Monday had put out a strong point-by-point rebuttal of the remarks that Pakistan said it made to the Security Council meeting. The Pakistan Mission falsely claimed that its UN envoy Munir Akram had given a statement at the Security Council debate on Report of the Secretary General on Threats to International Peace and Security posed by Terrorism Actions. However, the Security Council meeting on threats to international peace and security was not open to non-members of the Council. A photograph of the meeting tweeted by the German Mission to the UN showed only envoys of the 15 Security Council members participating in the meeting. Pakistan is not a member of the Council. “We have seen a statement put out by the Pakistan Mission to the UN, claiming that these remarks were made by the Permanent Representative of Pakistan at the UN Security Council. “We fail to comprehend where exactly did the Permanent Representative of Pakistan make his statement since the Security Council session today was not open to non-members. Be that as it may, the five big lies of Pakistan lies exposed,” India’s Permanent Mission to the UN had said. Calling out Pakistan’s lie that it has been a target of cross-border terrorism for decades, India had said “a lie repeated a hundred times will not become truth. The biggest sponsor of cross-border terrorism against India now tries to masquerade itself as a victim of terrorism by India,” India’s Mission to the UN had said on Monday. On Akram’s claim that Pakistan has decimated al-Qaeda from the region, India said perhaps the Permanent Representative of Pakistan is “not aware that Osama bin Laden was hiding in their own country in plain sight, and it is the US forces which got him inside Pakistan. Nor have they heard their Prime Minister refer to Osama bin Laden as a martyr.” Giving a strong rebuttal to Pakistan’s lies, New Delhi termed Pakistan’s claim that India has hired terrorists as mercenaries to hit them as “laughable”. “Coming from a country which is a known sponsor of cross-border terrorism which has made the world suffer due to its actions, this claim is nothing short of being preposterous!”, India said, adding that Pakistan is home to the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN and many of the sanctioned terrorists and entities continue to operate with impunity inside Pakistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan himself had admitted at the General Assembly last year about the presence of 40,000-50,000 terrorists inside Pakistan. Laying bare another lie by Pakistan about Indian nationals in the 1267 al-Qaeda Sanctions List of the UN Security Council, India said the Sanctions List is “public and the world can see none of these individuals are in it. The 1267 Committee works on the basis of evidence and not random accusations thrown in to divert their time and attention,” India said in response to a lie made by Pakistan that it has submitted names of some Indians to be proscribed under the Sanctions List. In a strong response to Islamabad raking up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in the remarks it falsely said Akram gave to the Council, India said Pakistan makes “ridiculous assertions” about internal affairs of India. “This is a country whose minority population has dropped drastically from 1947 to what it is today, which is just about 3 per cent, which is nothing short of systemic cleansing. This is in addition to false allegations about India’s sovereign actions in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which are for the welfare of the people,” India said. PTI YAS PMS AKJ PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-formally-writes-to-un-on-pakistan-s-false-claim-of-making-statement-in-security-council/story-jfFWalZGZ3ZlyKDFbD2RgK.html
26-08-2020||India||‘Can’t have one nation-one political party system’: Mamata after seven CMs meet||India seems to be moving towards a one nation-one political party system, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee quipped on Wednesday afternoon, minutes after conducting a virtual meeting of chief ministers from seven non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states. “Let us forget which party is ruling a particular state. To save democracy, we have to unite,” Banerjee said without naming the BJP, her main threat in poll-bound Bengal. She alleged that the Centre is taking policy decisions unilaterally and thrusting those on the states without consultation. “All the chief ministers complained that they are facing intimidation. Central (probe) agencies are being used. The states are being financially deprived,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat after the meeting. Banerjee and Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi jointly convened the meeting which went on for two hours. Significantly, Gandhi asked Banerjee to conduct it. Though the demand for postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) was the primary cause, the meeting’s agenda went far beyond. Gandhi, who opened the discussion, said the states were facing a lot of problems because of the policies of the Centre. She referred to the rise in fuel prices, arrears in the states’ share of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), disinvestment in public sector enterprises, privatisation of airports and several other issues. Besides Banerjee, others who took part in the meeting were Uddhav Thackeray from Maharashtra, Amarinder Singh from Punjab, Hemant Soren from Jharkhand, Bhupesh Baghel from Chhattisgarh, V Narayanasamy from Puducherry and Ashok Gehlot from Rajasthan. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not attend. This was the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic started that chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states spoke out against Central policies from a common platform. Asked by the media whether the meeting was a precursor to a united movement for bargaining with the Centre, Banerjee said, “Words such as blackmailing or bargaining do not apply here. We are talking about the problems of the common man. It’s been a long time since we got our share of the GST that is collected from the state. We are not getting financial aid for combating the Covid-19 pandemic.” “The Centre is disinvesting shares in public sector units at random but we are not supposed to talk about the interests of the people. The role of the states and the Centre in our federal structure has been clearly defined by the Constitution. Under the current circumstances, a conflict between the Centre and the states is inevitable. That will be harmful. We don’t want it. Only strong states can make a strong Centre. Let us work for a united India,” said Banerjee. During the meeting, Soren said, “These days the opposition appears to have become weak. We have to take a stand.”In her reply, Banerjee said, “Yes, we must raise our voice. Otherwise other political parties will not exist.” Reacting to this, Sonia Gandhi said, “I agree.” The BJP Bengal unit said Wednesday’s exercise was an attempt by the Congress to find a proxy fighter. “The Congress is in the doldrums and Sonia Gandhi needs people to fight her war. Banerjee stepped in because she is afraid of losing the 2021 assembly polls. It is because of the election that she is showing concern for the students,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. Political columnist Suvashis Maitra said, “The Congress is now in a position where Sonia Gandhi will need people like Banerjee who were once faces of the party but left because they were disgruntled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-have-one-nation-one-political-party-system-mamata-after-seven-cms-meet/story-3QcBt3Dr6gJnBaqE82dejJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Money put in Pakistan bank accounts of JeM commander before Pulwama blast: NIA||Mohammed Umar Farooq, the nephew of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, had received Rs 10 lakh in his bank accounts in Pakistan to execute the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed in February last year, the NIA has said in its chargesheet.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe has shown that Rs 10 lakh in Pakistani currency was credited into three accounts of Farooq, the main accused in the suicide attack case who was later killed in an encounter with security forces, in Allied Bank and Mezaan Bank in that country days before the incident, officials said.They said the money was deposited by top leadership of the terror group JeM between January and February 2019.Also read: The proof of PulwamaThe terrorists had spent around Rs six lakh on procurement of explosives and the Maruti Eeco car used in the attack, the NIA said in its chargesheet filed on Tuesday before a special court in Jammu.A major chunk of the fund, about Rs 2.80 lakh, was used to procure around 200 kilograms of explosives including ammonium nitrate to trigger a massive car-laden IED attack on the CRPF convoy moving from Jammu to Srinagar on February 14, 2019, they said.The 200 kilograms of explosives comprised of a lethal concoction of RDX brought from Pakistan, gelatin sticks procured by Mudasir Ahmad, four kilograms of Aluminium powder bought on Amazon by accused Wazi Ul Islam and Calcium Ammonium Nitrate. The IED was fitted into the Eeco car in two containers weighing 160 kilogram and 40 kilograms to trigger the blast, the NIA said.Charge sheeted accused Shakir Bashir allegedly collected the explosives -- RDX, Gelatin sticks, Aluminium power and Calcium-Ammonium Nitrate -- and stocked them at his house for making the IED, the agency said.The terrorists had spent another Rs 2.5 lakh on purchasing and modifying the car to be used in the attack which was also parked in the front-yard of Shakir Bashir’s house, it said.Some money was spent on miscellaneous expenses too, which included purchase of containers for fabricating the Improvised Explosive Devices, officials said.  The NIA probe has shown three bank accounts of Farooq, the main perpetrator, who received the money from January 2019 till February of the same year. The agency had filed a 13,800-page chargesheet against 19 accused persons in an NIA Special Court at Jammu in connection with last year’s terrorist attack on the CRPF convoy at Lethpura, Pulwama, they said.Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist Adil Ahmad Dar, who was driving the car laden with explosives, had rammed it into the convoy killing 40 CRPF personnel and grievously injuring eight others.  “The investigation has revealed that Pulwama attack was a result of well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based leadership of terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammad. The JeM leaders have been sending their cadres to the terrorist training camps of Al-Qaida-Taliban-JeM and Haqqani-JeM in Afghanistan for receiving training in explosives and other terrorist tactics,” the NIA said in the chargesheet.  The agency said the main accused Umar Farooq was trained in Afghanistan for explosives. He visited Afghanistan in 2016-17 and had infiltrated into India through the International Border at Jammu-Samba Sector in April, 2018, it said.Farooq took over as the Jaish-e-Mohammad Commander of Pulwama.  “Accused Shakir Bashir, Insha Jan, Peer Tariq Ahmad Shah and Bilal Ahmad Kuchey provided all logistics and harboured the JeM terrorists in their houses,” the NIA has said.Bashir allegedly did reconnaissance of the movement and deployment of security forces on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway.  A propaganda video clip of Mohammad Umar Farooq, Sameer Dar and Adil Dar was allegedly prepared at Insha Jan’s house which was released immediately after the suicide attack, it said.The terrorists had prepared the car for the attack by fitting it with the IED on February 6, 2019 but suspended their nefarious plans because of heavy snowfall which led to closing of the National Highway for vehicular movement, the agency said.They attacked the convoy on February 14, 2019, when the National Highway reopened, they said.Bashir drove Adil Ahmad Dar till the National Highway, after which Dar drove the car and carried out the blast, it alleged.Damage to the tune of Rs 32.90 lakh was caused to public property, the probe agency said.The NIA found that JeM leadership consisting of Masood Azhar, Rouf Asgar and Ammar Alvi alias Chacha alias Chota Masood handled the operation by continuously giving directions and guidance to the Pakistani JeM infiltrators before and after the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-put-in-pakistan-bank-accounts-of-jem-commander-before-pulwama-blast-nia/story-N22wPJaLcqZiNwT1FjMLDO.html
26-08-2020||India||SG Tushar Mehta refuses permission to prosecute Swara Bhasker for criminal contempt||Solicitor General of India (SG), Tushar Mehta on Wednesday declined permission for initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the Supreme Court and its 2019 judgment in the Ayodhya dispute.Mehta said in his letter to the petitioner, one Usha Shetty from Karnataka that the Attorney General for India (AG), KK Venugopal had earlier rejected a similar request by Shetty and hence the request made to the SG is misconceived.“The AG, on August 21, has declined to provide his consent for the reasons stated in the reply of the AG. Considering the fact that the AG has already declined to grant his consent, the present request made to me is misconceived,” Mehta said in his letter to Shetty.Bhasker had, on February 1, said that the Supreme Court acknowledged the illegality of the demolition of Babri Masjid in its November 2019 judgment and yet rewarded the perpetrators who brought down the mosque by handing over the land to them.The plea seeking initiation of a criminal contempt case against Bhasker, which was filed by Shetty on August 17, was initially placed before AG for his consent to list the matter before the court.As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of the AG or SG is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual.After the AG declined permission, Shetty’s lawyers had approached the SG.The November 9 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya dispute, which was delivered by a bench headed by former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, had awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site to Ram Lalla Virajman, the child deity. The bench had also ordered that 5 acres of land at an alternative site should be granted to Muslims for construction of a new mosque.The top court had, interestingly, acknowledged the existence of a valid mosque at the disputed site and had expressly stated that the acts of Hindus in placing idols inside the mosque in 1949 and destruction of the mosque in 1992 were illegal.Bhasker had, on February 1, attended a panel discussion organized by NGO Mumbai Collective on the topic ‘Artists against Communalism’. During the discussion, Bhasker, as alleged by the petitioner, made the following statement:“We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states in a judgment that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.”Shetty submitted that the statement by Bhaskar is derogatory and intended to scandalize the Supreme Court. It is not merely a cheap stunt for publicity but a deliberate attempt to incite masses to “resist and revolt against the apex court”, she added.“The statement intends to incite feeling of no confidence amongst public with respect to the proceedings of the Supreme Court. It amounts to criminal contempt,” the petition said.Venugopal in his response to the petitioner said that Bhasker’s statement on Ayodhya judgment “appeared to be a factual statement” and reflected her perception of the incident.Regarding Bhasker’s statement about courts not believing in the Constitution, the AG said that it is a vague and general statement not related to any particular court and cannot be taken seriously.Venugopal had recently urged the Supreme Court not to punish activist lawyer, Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court in relation to his tweets against the Supreme Court and current Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. The top court is yet to pronounce its judgment in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sg-tushar-mehta-refuses-permission-to-prosecute-swara-bhasker-for-criminal-contempt/story-HG1S11JU7ZEMAO9U4q8ScJ.html
26-08-2020||India||BJP to bank on PM Modi’s development plank to fight TMC in Bengal polls||To take on the Mamata Banerjee government in the state assembly polls next year, the BJP will rely on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “development agenda” as a poll plank, said persons aware of the details. Even though the party has started a concerted campaign to highlight what it alleges is the “misrule” of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government; the party has opted to proceed with PM Modi as the face of the election. This is not the first time that the BJP has refrained from naming the chief ministerial candidate; though in states where it seeks re-election it usually prefers leading with the incumbent as it did in Madhya Pradesh with Shivraj Singh Chouhan and in Haryana with Manohar Lal Khattar. A senior party functionary in the state said, it is too soon to suggest a CM candidate and the party will leave it to the leadership in Delhi to take a call on the issue. “The focus right now is the misrule and the governance failures of the TMC. Party cadres have been instructed to create awareness across the state about the benefits they will stand to gain if the BJP forms government. A scheme like Ayushman Bharat that has changed the healthcare delivery is not allowed in Bengal, there is widespread violence and lack of development,” the functionary said. While the BJP is resting its hopes on PM Modi’s popularity with the masses to help them wade through the choppy waters of electioneering in the state where the party has traditionally found little support, there are concerns about the cohesion in the party unit itself. Differences between state unit leaders have surfaced and the national leadership has had to intervene more than once. More recently, statements made by state in charge Kailash Vijayvargiya that the state unit will contest under the leadership of Modi were perceived as a snub to former governor of Meghalaya Tathagata Roy, who has expressed his desire to re-join the party as a full-time worker. “There are many claimants to the CM’s post and there are differences between the party unit chief Dilip Ghosh and some of the team members. The central leadership has had to step in to bury differences,” said the functionary quoted above. Roy, who had earlier served as the governor of Tripura and the party president of the West Bengal unit, has been vocal about joining the party full time after his gubernatorial term came to an end this month. He however said that while he is eager to serve the party in the state of West Bengal he leaves it to the party high command to choose the role in which he can contribute. “It is not for me to decide what role I should have in the party since I am just about to enter the party. It is for the party leadership, the president and the observers to decide. But what I have made plain is that I am prepared to shoulder any responsibility that the party gives me. I will turn 75 next month and if the party holds that I am too old for any kind of active post so be it. If the party decides that I am physically fit then also so be it. Meanwhile, there is enough scope for me to work in the party in different capacities,” Roy said. He also brushed aside claims that differences have surfaced in the state unit ever since he expressed his intention to join the party. “There is no party in the country which is free from any kind of internal differences and different parties manage them in different ways. For instance, the communists keep it under wraps and you get to know it only when the party splits. The Congress handles it by allowing everyone to say anything at the public forum. You find five different people saying five different things in the media. The Trinamool Congress handles it by throwing bombs at each other. As opposed to that we have internal dissensions too but we handle them well by arguing among ourselves, by talking it through and ultimately by the Central leadership. What we do is the most civilised way of handling internal dissensions,” he said. Roy and other state leaders said not announcing a CM candidate will have no adverse impact on the party’s performance at the polls to pick a new 249-member assembly Abhay Deshpande, a political commentator, said not naming a CM candidate in states where the party is not seeking re-election is a strategy.“They have been strategically consistent in not naming a chief ministerial candidate in states where they are not seeking re-election to avoid infighting in the party and also to rule out trouble with allies. For instance, in 2004 they never projected Devendra Fadnavis as a CM in Maharashtra but when they sought re-election, Fadnavis was the face of the party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-bank-on-pm-modi-s-development-plank-to-take-on-tmc-in-bengal-polls/story-pTpH2fUG2mVoF8LtA4jt9M.html
26-08-2020||India||Sri Lanka to have ‘India first’ approach for security policy, says foreign secretary Colombage||President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has made it clear that Sri Lanka’s strategic security policy will have an “India first” approach though Colombo remains open to dealing with other key players for economic development, the country’s new foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage has said. Colombage, a retired admiral who commanded Sri Lanka’s navy during 2012-14 and is perceived as close to Rajapaksa, made the remarks in two interviews to the media. He also said Rajapaksa’s administration has adopted a posture of neutrality in its dealings with key powers at the regional and global level as Sri Lanka cannot become a “staging area” for any country to do “anything against another country – especially...India”. “Very categorically, the president has stated that we have a strategic security-wise ‘India first’ policy because we cannot be, we should not be, we can’t afford to be a strategic security threat for India, period,” Colombage said in an interview to Derana 24 news channel that aired on August 20. “We can’t be and we don’t have to be [a security threat to India]. They are a very big power, [the] fastest developing major economy in 2018, 1.34 billion people, a 7,500-km coastline, it’s a huge country. We need to benefit from India,” he added. Colombage made similar remarks in an interview with the Daily Mirror newspaper, pointing out Sri Lanka is “between two economic giants”. He added: “That is why the president mentioned that as far as strategic security is concerned, Sri Lanka will always have an India-first approach. That means Sri Lanka will not do anything harmful to India’s strategic security interests.” However, he said Rajapaksa had made it clear to India’s leadership that Sri Lanka cannot depend on any one country for economic development. “We are open to anyone. We know China is one country willing to invest and develop. They have the capacity to do it. We have to benefit from it. We have to balance,” he told the Daily Mirror. Colombage also told the news channel: “Even to India...very firmly, the president has said, you are my first priority in so far as security is concerned but I have to deal with other players for my economic prosperity.” Colombage, who was appointed foreign secretary on August 14 and previously served as additional secretary to the president for foreign relations, also said the Sri Lankan government will not hand over total control of strategic national assets to a foreign power following the experience with Hambantota port, which was given to China Merchant Port Holding for 99 years. “Now in that deal, roughly...about 85% of that project’s stakes are for China Merchant Port Holding and only 15% for Sri Lanka. We will do everything so that no one can use our country against another country but then giving total control for a long period, of majority 85% is a very high stake,” he told the news channel. In future ventures, Sri Lanka will retain a 51% stake in any project with foreign investment, he said. Colombage told the Daily Mirror that China understands Sri Lanka’s position and “is pushing for commercial things”. He added, “China also understands it isn’t ethical to push Sri Lanka beyond a certain point that is worrisome to India.” He also told the daily that in 2015, India feared “we had moved towards China too much”, and that India, Japan and the US considered it was wrong for Sri Lanka to give Hambantota port on lease to a Chinese firm. “We actually made India jittery during the period between 2015 and 2019. But India is comfortable with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa,” he added. The Modi government has focussed on improving ties with Rajapaksa’s administration. Modi was the first world leader to congratulate Rajapaksa even before the final results of Sri Lanka’s parliamentary elections were declared earlier this month, after his Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party took an unassailable lead. Last month, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and officials said Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion was also being considered. When Rajapaksa visited India last November, just 10 days after becoming president, New Delhi announced a $400-million line of credit to boost infrastructure and development, and offered another $50 million to fight terrorism and enhance intelligence gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lanka-to-have-india-first-approach-for-security-policy-says-foreign-secretary-colombage/story-RXHgJlYecIxu5JzOtQJy1L.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Railways cite poor progress by contractors, delays on DFC after concerns raised by PMO and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways cite poor progress by contractors, delays on DFC after concerns raised by PMOFollowing concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC), Railways has cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order in Uttar Pradesh and delays in construction by Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab governments. Read more Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio gets nod for sub-sea cable gateway in BengalTelecom giant Reliance Jio would be coming up with a cable landing station in West Bengal that would increase the state’s connectivity with European and Asian countries and attract investment, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Read more Despite opposition concern, Education ministry moves to conduct NEET, JEE examsEven as pressure piled from several states and opposition parties about the wisdom to conduct the NEET and JEE exams in September, the Union Education ministry and the National Testing Agency (NTA) continued working towards what would be the biggest entrance tests to take place during an epidemic. Read more IPL 2020 | ‘Skipper Virat Kohli can tap into Aaron Finch’s experience’, says RCB director Mike HessonCoping with anxiety after the long break due to Covid-19 will be the challenge for players as Royal Challengers Bangalore resume quest for their first IPL title, say head coach Simon Katich and Hesson.Read more Diljit Dosanjh’s day was made after watching this 62-year-old woman’s bhangra on his song G.O.A.T. WatchDiljit Dosanjh’s title track from his music album G.O.A.T. seems to be making everyone get up and get their bhangra on. Just a few days ago, a video of a group of women in Switzerland grooving to the song caught the singer and actor’s attention. Read moreRhea Kapoor uses star power to help small businesses get back on track amid coronavirus pandemicIn late June, Rhea decided to use her star power for the better and launched “The Good Influencer Project” to help those small business who had been affected on account of the coronavirus pandemic, and ensuing lockdown. Read more Samsung Galaxy M31s to be available on Amazon once again starting August 27The Samsung Galaxy M31s will be on Amazon India at a price of ₹19,499 for the 6GB RAM and 128GB memory variant and ₹21,499 for the 8GB RAM and 128GB memory variant. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-xx-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jOoDglp08DQAxHWovVX32H.html
26-08-2020||India||Railways cite poor progress by contractors, delays, on DFC after concerns raised by PMO||Following concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC), one of the largest rail infrastructure projects, Railways has cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order in Uttar Pradesh and delays in construction by Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab governments. According to officials aware of the development, railways has identified delays in both the Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors and revised the completion target to 2022.Railways’ project implementing arm the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) in an internal report reviewed by HT, has cited slow progress of Road over Bridge (ROB) approaches by Uttar Pradesh (total 46 ROBs out of which only 3 have been completed, 30 in progress and work on 13 is yet to start). It has also pointed towards law and order issues in Meerut, Muzzafarnagar and Saharanpur District as an area of concern for the delay in the Eastern corridor. It also pointed slow progress in construction of ROBs in Haryana and Punjab.In the Western Corridor, DFCCIL also mentioned slow progress by the Gujarat government citing “slow acquisition of land for approaches”.DFCCIL in its observation identified delays by the following contractors: GMR group, Alstom, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, TPL-Aldesa a joint venture, Hitachi and Texmaco rail & engineering limited. Railways have citied “inadequate mobilization” as one of the reasons for delays, followed by “slow pace of work” by the contractors and cash flow issues.“The project is monitored on a weekly basis now. Another meeting is scheduled to be chaired by MR next Monday with all stake holders. Railways would listen to all. If contractors are unhappy we can’t be happy, idea is to take all with you. However, Railways will not tolerate any slippages in timelines of the contracted works. Action would be taken against any entity causing delay in the project of such importance. This strict monitoring is for all the working parties involved including entities in Railways. Rules of monitoring are applicable for all. Development of these freight corridors will bring faster, dedicated network for Railways to usher in a transformational change in freight operations which will benefit the business and economy of the nation,” the spokesperson for the railway ministry said. A review of the DFC is scheduled to be held on August 31 with the contractors. Railways will also hold a review with state government officials of UP, Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra on September 1. When contacted by HT, a spokesperson for the GMR Group said: “GMR group has a history of delivering world class projects ahead of schedule. GMR Group constructed and operationalised Terminal 3 in a record time of 37 months besides delivering international projects in multiple countries ahead of schedule.” “Despite the adverse effect of Covid which has impacted availability of manpower, raw material and other resources, due to support from government agencies we have overcome it to large extent over the last few month. Group’s DFCC project stretches more than 400 Km and requires supplies of construction material from multiple sources, even from beyond the state. Owing to COVID, movement of skilled manpower & supervisory staff along with efficient supply of construction material has adversely affected the project progress. More than 40 of our engineers and supervisors were impacted with Covid and there has been one fatality as well. Various village bodies have objected to free movement of outside labor due to the fear of Covid spread. We are also balancing the need of local employment and requirement of trained labour which is taking some time…It is noteworthy that in such projects, earthwork and bridges completion takes more time while the track work, which is about 40% of total work is carried out very fast. Despite these challenges, the rate of progress of works on this project is better than other sections of DFCC, which was recognized recently & project was awarded “Certificate of Appreciation,” he added. A spokesperson for Alstom said the company has completed 90% of the work awarded to it.“As the only company to have fast-tracked the execution of electrification and signaling on key stretches of EDFC, the 200 km section of 102/103 (Bhadan to Khurja), completed by Alstom in 2019 has enabled successful run of over 1250 fully loaded freight trains. This also makes it the only electrified section of DFC in the country… In all, we have completed 90% of our scope of work on the EDFC project and are on track to complete rest of the work at the earliest. We expect that very soon, the entire 345 km freight corridor from Bhaupur-Khurja will be fully functional… Due to the scale and complexity of the project, there have been persistent ongoing challenges which impacted the speed of execution. While COVID-19 slowed down the progress, with Unlock 1.0, our teams restarted with an undeterred spirit following all necessary permissions and kept safety as a priority by adhering to protocols. Despite all the unprecedented challenges, Alstom has only accelerated the pace of the project. As on date, we have more than 900 employees on site, working round the clock to deliver as per timelines. We also accord highest priority to maintain safe conditions at site, absorbing all additional costs, considering the significance that we attach to this project,” the spokesperson said.HT also reached out to the aforementioned firms for a response.On June 18, HT had reported that DFCCIL has decided to terminate its contract with Chinese firm, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays.“A review meeting was held on the DFFCIL and Shri Goyal directed the DFFCIL management team to necessary steps to speed up the project to compensate the loss of time due to lockdown during COVID. He also advised the officials to identify the most challenging area and come up with solution in a mission mode. He suggested that involving young fresh minds to suggest best solutions may be encouraged.”“During the meeting, it was decided that strict monitoring of work of all contractors to be done. Resolution of all issues, including coordination with the states to be done on a Mission mode. Innovative mechanisms to constantly monitor the weekly progress of the project to be evolved,” DFCCIL said.DFCCIL has been tasked with developing Indian Railways’ quadrilateral linking the four metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Howrah, commonly known as the Golden Quadrilateral. .The overall cost is pegged at Rs 81,459 crore. In the first phase the organisation is constructing the Western DFC (1504 Route km) and Eastern DFC (1856 route km) spanning a total length of 3360 route km. These corridors were targeted to be completed in phases by December 2021. DFCCIL had completed a total of 500 kilometres till January this year.“There are also issues around land acquisition, encroachments which are adversely impacting progress in certain stretches,” said Arindam Guha, Deloitte India’s partner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-cite-poor-progress-by-contractors-delays-on-dfc-after-concerns-raised-by-pmo/story-B7V6wDjHDu7ICzE0C0R4xH.html
26-08-2020||India||‘Will Modi govt guarantee no one will contract Covid-19’: Cong slams Centre over JEE, NEET||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the Centre saying the government is putting the health and safety of nearly 25 lakh students in jeopardy by conducting Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in September. Party’s national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala’s tweets came hours after an opposition meeting convened by Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi decided to move the Supreme Court to review its decision rejecting the plea to postpone the engineering and medical entrance tests in the country. In a series of tweets, Surjewala accused the “obstinate Modi Govt” of refusing to listen to students’ grievances and thereafter coming up with a universally acceptable solution. Also read: At Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet, Mamata and Amarinder call for moving SC over NEET, JEE“Health & safety of 25 lakh students is being jeopardised in the ensuing #JEE_NEET exams. Students are protesting across the country.Why is an obstinate Modi Govt even refusing to listen to their grievances, deliberate upon them and find a solution acceptable to all?,” he wrote on the microblogging site.  Health & safety of 25 lakh students is being jeopardised in the ensuing #JEE_NEET exams.Students are protesting across the country.Why is an obstinate Modi Govt even refusing to listen to their grievances, deliberate upon them and find a solution acceptable to all?1/3He also pointed towards the plight of students who have been holding virtual protests seeking postponement of the two exams amid the coronavirus outbreak. Members of the Congress-affiliated NSUI on Wednesday began an indefinite hunger strike demanding the deferment of exams and a fee waiver for six months during the pandemic. At a time when there are over 3.23 million confirmed cases of Covid-19 in India, Surjewala questioned the government if it was ready to guarantee that the candidates appearing for exams and the faculty at the exam centre will not get infected with the virus. Also read| Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said whatOn the safety protocols put in place to prevent the spread of the disease, he asked the Centre as to who was going to oversee if the guidelines were actually being practised and not remained a formality on paper. “Will Modi Govt guarantee that no student of #JEE_NEET or faculty will catch COVID infection during the exam? What safety precautions & protocols have been put in place? Who will oversee that the guidelines & protocols do not remain an empty paper formality?,” he tweeted.  2/4Will Modi Govt guarantee that no student of #JEE_NEET or faculty will catch COVID infection during the exam?What safety precautions & protocols have been put in place?Who will oversee that the guidelines & protocols do not remain an empty paper formality?Surjewala also brought to the Centre’s notice that the candidates may face trouble in commuting given the travel restrictions in place and enquired if any special arrangements were made for those in the flood affected states like Bihar and Assam. “Due to #COVID__19, transportation across the country has either not started or normalised. How will #JEENEET students arrive at the destination with absolute safety & return? What arrangements have been made for their stay etc.? Has Modi Govt left the students in the lurch?” he said. “What are the spl arrangements for students of flood affected #Bihar & #Assam ? Are there only 2 centres set up in the State of Bihar for NEET examination? Does it not mean a virtual denial of opportunity to students from Bihar?,” he added.  3/4What are the spl arrangements for students of flood affected #Bihar & #Assam ?Are there only 2 centres set up in the State of Bihar for NEET examination?Does it not mean a virtual denial of opportunity to students from Bihar? 4/4Due to #COVID__19, transportation across the country has either not started or normalised.How will #JEENEET students arrive at the destination with absolute safety & return? What arrangements have been made for their stay etc.?Has Modi Govt left the students in the lurch?The Opposition meeting earlier in the day and Surjewala’s sharp remarks came after the National Testing Agency (NTA) also on Tuesday refused to defer the exam schedule citing the apex court order stating “a crucial year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.”Nearly 8.58 lakh and 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the JEE (Main) and NEET examinations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-modi-govt-guarantee-no-one-will-catch-covid-19-cong-slams-centre-over-jee-neet/story-PkCcGBwf8BcHB9E5LYJVwK.html
26-08-2020||India||FIR against Rhea Chakraborty over drug probe in Sushant Rajput case||In the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the Narcotics Control Bureau has registered an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others after reports emerged that drugs were supplied to her and the late actor.The case was registered under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, which makes possessing, selling of drugs a crime.The other people named in the FIR are: Rhea’s brother Showik, her talent manager Jaya Saha, Sushant Singh Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and Gaurav Arya.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says actor was drugged unknowingly, this is ‘ultimately what led to his death’The NCB is the latest agency to be drawn into the case, which is already being investigated by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate.The FIR was filed after the Enforcement Directorate sent a letter to the NCB asking the agency to join the probe. Rakesh Asthana, the NCB director, confirmed that an FIR was filed. “We received a letter from the ED on Tuesday evening stating that during their probe into financial aspects they found that drugs were supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and people involved will be questioned,” said Asthana. The NCB has been roped in by the ED to probe if drugs were supplied to Rhea Chakraborty and Sushant Singh Rajput. ED sources said that during their questioning of Jaya Saha, Rhea’s talent manager, they found some conversation between them about drugs. However, none of the three agencies provided any details into the form of drug or if it was consumed by any of the persons involved in the case. Satish Maneshinde, senior counsel and Rhea’s lawyer, said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her lifetime. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” Meanwhile, the ED has once again called Jaya Saha to its South Mumbai office for questioning. On day 6 of the probe, the CBI continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East). Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. The probe was handed over to the CBI by the Supreme Court court after it upheld the validity of an FIR filed by the Bihar police in response to a complaint filed by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-control-bureau-registers-case-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-hMEemAtHfdE3haall8nQ2M.html
26-08-2020||India||I am a bit sceptical taking up new work due to the ongoing crisis: Aditi||Hailing from Jhansi in UP, youngster Aditi Sanwal is doctor by profession and actor by choice. “I think the acting bug was in me always. I always find myself being fascinated by TV and films. To keep my mischief in check, my parents used to tell me we will remove the TV and I used be all in check. In small towns, acting is still considered as a hobby and never a career. As I was a bright kid, my doctor parents wanted me to complete my degree in any field before taking up any other career option. After clearing my examination, I got selected for from MS Ramaiah Medical College, Bangaluru, for my MBBS degree,” she said over the phone. Telling more about how acting happened, Aditi said, “During my MBBS, I read an article about acting and photography contest and I was not able to keep my mind of it. And then I decided to try my hand in acting too. So for a course I joined an acting school in Bangaluru. So mornings were all about my medical college and then afternoons were for my acting classes. I was head-down busy with studies, acting but couldn’t complain as it was all my own choice. My friends at college had no idea that I was also training in acting. In final year, I did cut down on plays and also missed on many opportunities, but I was sure that first I have to complete my degree.” Aditi has done a number of TV and print commercials and reached Mumbai after her degree and internship. “Once in Mumbai, I was autioning round the clock before landing up a meaty role in the show ‘Chandragupta Maurya.’ The show gave me chance to play role of a warrior princess. It had every shade a newcomer would love to portray. Currently, I’m glad to play Kuki Bajaj in ‘Kasauti Zindagi Kay,’a fun-loving, bubbly girl who loves her parents and family. Also talks are on for other projects, especially for web. But for now, I am a bit sceptical taking up new work due to the ongoing crisis,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-am-a-bit-sceptical-taking-up-new-work-due-to-the-ongoing-crisis-aditi/story-TpK2X3DhOtj0uMmxO54tEM.html
26-08-2020||India||Armed Forces Tribunal begins hearing cases through video-conferencing||The Delhi-based principal bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal on Wednesday initiated hearing of matters pertaining to regional benches through video conferencing, said a defence ministry spokesperson. The AFT chairperson Justice Rajendra Menon inaugurated hearings by video conferencing for all 10 regional benches of the tribunal. “With this provision of hearing by video conferencing, an immense relief has been brought to the armed forces personnel, whose applications are awaiting justice at various Regional Benches,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The AFT’s principal bench is the only court that has been conducting physical hearings since June 8 amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Physical hearings are being conducted at the Principal Bench taking into account hardships and limitations faced by armed forces personnel, retired as well as serving, primarily due to their far-flung locations and various security related issues,” the statement said. All precautions are being taken during the physical hearings at the principal bench. These include high hygiene standards, the court premises being sanitised twice daily, entry to the court being restricted to a bare minimum and social distancing norms being followed. The advocates appearing in the AFT are separated by a transparent sheet, from the judges and proper social distancing is maintained between court staff and judges, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-tribunal-begins-hearing-cases-through-video-conferencing/story-DAjuJWjSRSvKOeWUQC3j7J.html
26-08-2020||India||UAE-Israel deal has opened ‘lots of opportunities’: S Jaishankar||The normalisation of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has opened up “lots of opportunities” at a time when ties between New Delhi and Abu Dhabi too are growing, external affairs minister S Jaishankar has said. India has welcomed the deal between the UAE and Israel, both key allies in West Asia, and also called for the resumption of direct talks between the Israeli and Palestinian leadership for a “two-state solution”. Referring to the normalisation of ties between the UAE and Israel, Jaishankar told Gulf News: “When two strategic friends come closer it opens up lots of opportunities.” India and the UAE, he said, have a “fast growing relationship”. He added, “UAE is central to India’s extended neighbourhood. We see UAE on the crossroads of international trade. As Singapore is in the East, UAE is in the West.” The report in the Gulf News stated Prime Minister Narendra Modi had personally directed officials to give a new thrust to ties with the UAE after coming to power in 2014. Over the past few years, New Delhi has expended considerable diplomatic capital in improving ties with West Asian countries, particularly members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and Saudi Arabia, and the relations now extend from energy security to security and defence cooperation, including intelligence-sharing and counter-terrorism. The presence of some 8 million Indian expatriates in West Asia has been a key factor in these efforts. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have also played a role in improving India’s ties with the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), though differences remain on issues such as Kashmir. Jaishankar’s visit to the UAE while he was foreign secretary in 2015 helped him build rapport with minister of state for foreign affairs Anwar Gargash and gave a boost to ties, the report said. Modi’s team also sought to go beyond the perception formed about West Asian countries through a narrow focus on the Israel-Palestine issue or merely as sources of energy, the report added. In 2015, Modi became the first Indian prime minister to visit the UAE in 34 years, and Sheikh Mohammad Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, was the chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations in 2017. During the past six years, Modi visited the UAE three times. Jaishankar said: “It is a relationship where the highest leadership of both countries have invested goodwill and energy. As a result, you can see the transformation during the last five years.” In his new book The India Way – Strategies for an Uncertain World, Jaishankar has listed the UAE among the five countries that India must concentrate on while conducting its foreign policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-israel-deal-has-opened-lots-of-opportunities-s-jaishankar/story-nS364lj7ccwqihpAfSJClK.html
26-08-2020||India||‘Let’s go to SC’: Mamata Banerjee at Sonia Gandhi’s CMs’ meet over exams||Chief ministers of opposition-ruled states on Wednesday resolved to work together and fight against the Centre for undermining the rights of states as they also decided to move the Supreme Court and seek a review of its earlier verdict giving go-ahead to the government in holding the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September. In a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the issues of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation, NEET and JEE exams in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic, chief ministers of West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray), Jharkhand (Hemant Soren), Punjab (Captain Amarinder Singh), Rajasthan (Ashok Gehlot), Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel) and Puducherry (V Narayanasamy) stressed the need to protect federalism, claiming that all powers were now concentrated in just one hand. The Congress had not invited the chief ministers of Odisha (Naveen Patnaik), Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal), Andhra Pradesh (YS Jaganmohan Reddy), Telangana (K Chandrashekhar Rao) and Kerala (Pinarayi Vijayan). For his part, Thackeray said the opposition-ruled states have to first decide whether they want to “fight or fear” the Modi government. “Opposition-ruled states should speak louder as the Centre is trying to suppress our voices. But we are together, we will be together and we will fight together,” he said Thackeray promptly got support from Banerjee who said the situation was “very serious” and the opposition-ruled states should launch a united fight against the Centre. Gandhi also endorsed Thackeray and Banerjee. “We have to work together and fight together,” she said. Soren alleged the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was using agencies against the opposition and undermining the federal structure. Earlier in her introductory remarks, Gandhi said refusal to pay GST compensation to states is “nothing short of betrayal” by the Narendra Modi government. “GST compensation being paid to states on time according to the laws passed by Parliament is crucial and I know this is not happening. Dues have accumulated. The finances of all states have been affected badly,” she added. The Congress chief said GST was enacted as an example of cooperative federalism and it came into existence because the states agreed to forego their constitutional powers of taxation in the larger national interest and on the solemn promise of compulsory GST compensation for a period of 5 years. In the meeting of the standing committee on finance on August 11, she said the union finance secretary has reportedly stated that the Centre is not in a position to pay the mandatory GST compensation of 14% for the current year. “This refusal to compensate the states is nothing short of a betrayal by the Modi government and a betrayal of trust of the people of India. On the other hand, the central government continues to profiteer from unilateral cesses which are non-shareable with states and corner this revenue,” added Gandhi. The Congress president further claimed that ordinances have been issued without consulting states on agricultural marketing, saying the Punjab chief minister has already highlighted how these will destroy the MSP regime and adversely impact the PDS as well. “There has been a nationwide outcry against the draft EIA notification which is deeply anti-democratic. Laws meant to protect the environment, livelihoods and public health are being weakened. The auction of coal mines too, I am aware, has been objected to by some chief ministers.” Gandhi said public sector assets created over decades are being sold off despite some state governments expressing their strong opposition. “Six airports have already been given to private hands. The railways are the lifeline of the country and they are being privatised too.” She said other announcements such as the National Education Policy were worrying as it is a “setback for progressive, secular and scientific values and reveals insensitivity” to what the states have been saying. “Problems of students and examinations are being dealt with very uncaringly,” Gandhi added. Banerjee urged all chief ministers to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams as students are not prepared. Amid a growing chorus for postponing the JEE and NEET exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has maintained that these will be conducted in September as scheduled. While the JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6, NEET is planned on September 13. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”. Banerjee alleged that states were being “bulldozed” by the Centre which is not giving money to them. “The situation today is dangerous. We cannot speak freely. From Facebook to everywhere, there is fake and distorted news to destroy the opposition,” she said. Banerjee said she had raised her concerns about the NEET and JEE exams with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The exams are in September. Why should the lives of students be put at risk? We have written to the Prime Minister, but there has been no response. If the Prime Minister does not listen to us, then we all collectively should approach the Supreme Court,” she said. “I request the state governments, let us do it together. Let’s go to the Supreme Court and request it to postpone it for the time being till the Covid-19 situation improves. We stand by our students, whatever help they require, we are willing to provide that,” the West Bengal chief minister added. Thackeray said the time has come to revisit the GST model and see if it is helping or not. “The old tax collection model was good? If there are lacunas in the GST, those need to be addressed so that states don’t suffer,” he said. Thackeray further said they were not “begging” before the Centre for the GST compensation as it is their money and they have to fight for it. “Maharashtra has not got the GST refund from the Centre. We keep reminding them by writing letter after letter. Some letters do get replies but others remain unanswered.” The Maharashtra chief minister said no one can suppress the voice of the opposition-ruled states because theirs is the common man’s voice and they are democratically elected like the Modi government. Urging Gandhi to hold more such meetings, Thackeray reminded her about the “excellent Panchayati Raj decision” of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi for decentralisation of power. “But today exactly the opposite is happening. Powers of all institutions are being concentrated in one person’s hand and that is not good for democracy,” he said. Singh said the Covid-19 situation is getting worse and Punjab might face a deficit of Rs 25,000 crore this year due to the pandemic. “I agree with Mamata ji that we should collectively meet the Prime Minister and apprise him of the revenue situation. And all of us should go to the Supreme Court on the issue of NEET and JEE exams,” he added. Baghel claimed that the Covid-19 situation has aggravated while Narayanasamy said the Centre will be responsible if students get infected during the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-go-to-supreme-court-mamata-banerjee-to-cms-at-meet-over-neet-jee/story-tlVjVKBkUpqHzclgfkuFSP.html
26-08-2020||India||Lockdown norms extended in Bengal till Sept 20, nod for flights, metro and local trains||The Mamata Banerjee-led administration in West Bengal has no issues if local trains and metro rail services are resumed in the state and has even allowed resumption of flight services from six cities to Kolkata that had been suspended since July 6. The chief minister also announced that there would be complete state-wide lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12. The state government, which was earlier planning to reopen schools on September 5 if the Covid-19 situation improved, said that schools and colleges would remain closed till September 20. “Flight services from six cities were suspended. From September 1, flight services to Kolkata from the six cities may resume and can operate on three days. We cannot allow complete resumption of flight services as of now,” Banerjee said after a cabinet meeting. Flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad were stopped from July 6 as the state government stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The dates were extended multiple times. “We have no problem if Metro wants to resume services in and around Kolkata after maintaining physical distance (between passengers). Local train services may also start in a phased manner - one fourth at a time. We have no problem. Railway authorities can speak with us,” Banerjee said. After months of deliberations, the Centre is finally likely to allow resumption of Metro services from September 1, when the fourth phase of unlocking economic activities will begin, people familiar with the development said. The government is considering opening local rail transportation from the first week of September. Officials of the Union government had earlier told HT that modifications were being worked out on how to resume Metro services. “Total lockdown would be enforced on September 7, 11 and 12. If the situation calls for more lockdown-days the dates would be announced later in September,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-norms-extended-in-bengal-till-sept-20-nod-for-flights-metro-and-local-trains/story-pxKSjrvLio3GVZqAj4gIIK.html
26-08-2020||India||Karnataka to reopen colleges from October, online classes to begin soon||Karnataka’s deputy chief minister C N Ashwathnarayan who also holds the higher education, IT & BT, skill development portfolios has announced that the state will commence the academic year for degree colleges in the state starting September 1, with online classes and then in October offline classes (in-person) would commence.In a series of tweets, the minister said, “We have decided to use the online medium to get the ball rolling on all academic activities from next month as we will need to conduct a few degree exams in September.”Even as he gave a timeline for resumption of classes, the minister, however, cautioned that the state was also awaiting detailed guidelines from the Centre regarding the resumption of offline classes and said the state would follow any additional directions that may come from them.Asserting that the Karnataka government was working with the sole intent of ensuring a bright future for students, Ashwathnarayan said, “Once the academic year begins, final year exams will be scheduled for all undergraduate, diploma and engineering students. Backlog exams will also be conducted accordingly.”If the government goes ahead with the plan, the state is likely to be the first in the country to reopen in-class and in-person coaching. Usually, the academic year for colleges in the state starts from June but this year, it has been delayed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-reopen-colleges-from-october-online-classes-to-begin-soon/story-JdO9hQ9iUKSSGba3VTRFUM.html
26-08-2020||India||Stranded foreign pilgrims visit Badrinath as Char Dham shrines open||For the first time since pilgrims were allowed to visit Char Dham shrines in the state, a group of foreigners from different countries visited Badrinath shrine this week. They have been living in Rishikesh for the past six months and went for the pilgrimage with the help of a travel company. The group of seven foreigners followed all safety norms and got themselves tested for Covid-19 before visiting the shrine. “It was an amazing feeling to have been able to visit Badrinath, amid the pristine mountains and experience the holy vibrations of the shrine,” said Carolina, from Lithuania who visited the shrine on Monday.The pilgrims were from Canada, United States of America (USA), Netherlands, among others. This is likely the first shrine out of the Char Dham shrines to welcome foreigners this year. Ravinder Negi, district information officer Chamoli district where Badrinath shrine is situated, said, “Over 10,000 pilgrims have visited the shrine since pilgrims were allowed this year, including some foreign visitors. Antigen tests are conducted for everyone entering the district and then at the temple premises thermal screening is carried out after which hands and shoes are sanitised. Even the vehicles in which the pilgrims come, those are also sanitised in the temple premises.” Seema Nautiyal, tourism officer for Haridwar district, said that since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, 27 foreign tourists were stranded in the district, however, as per the records of July, there are three foreign tourists in the district. Officials from Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that around 35,000 e-passes have been issued to pilgrims for visiting the shrines of which over 20,000 have visited the shrines. The response has been good despite the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said, “It is the effort of the state government that there should be a gradual influx of pilgrims in the four shrines so that tourism and pilgrimage can get momentum. The yatra is getting a good response also, and now people from outside Uttarakhand can also travel by making e-pass for Char Dham Yatra and fulfilling the health related standards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-foreign-pilgrims-visit-badrinath-as-char-dham-shrines-open/story-1pVLx653k4JIcr4CezJ7ZI.html
26-08-2020||India||MP govt to use drones to assess disaster impact and development work||The Madhya Pradesh government will use drones to assess impact of natural disasters and the implementation of developmental works across the state, a senior minister said.At a virtual meeting on Tuesday evening, the state cabinet discussed the use of drones which is a part of suggestions by a ministerial group, At the same time, the state government will also work on creating a unified web portal which will be a single source for providing all information related to different departments and provide all kinds of certificates to people. “The ministerial group on good governance submitted its suggestions to the cabinet. The suggestions include short term and long term goals. Use of drones for assessment of natural disasters impact and implementation of development schemes is a part of the suggestions,” home minister Narottam Mishra said.He said, “As per suggestions a unified data portal will have all the information and documents related to various services so that people don’t have to approach different departments for their work. The same facility will be available through a mobile phone App too. Developing the App is a part of long term goals but most of the suggestions are targeted to be completed in the next three years.” Mishra said all these suggestions would be presented before NITI Ayog. He said as per suggestions the CM Helpline service which is used to receive complaints from public would be known as CM Citizen Care and it would be connected to a Mobile phone App also through which people would be able to track the progress on their complaints, get permission for various facilities and get no dues certificates inter alia. Mishra said the government would also consider if a gun licence could be granted to people for entire life instead of renewing it every year and if permits for certain services too could be granted in the same manner. He said other suggestions included providing filtered water to every home by 2024, enhancing irrigation facilities from present 40 lakh hectare to 53 lakh hectare, eradication of tuberculosis from Madhya Pradesh by 2025, development of 75,000 acre land in Chambal region, laying of massive road network to connect each and every tourist centre and setting up of Deendayal kitchen at every pilgrimage spot.The ministerial group also suggested the setting up metro rail services in Bhopal and Indore at the earliest, of 4,400 MW solar plant, multi-model logistics hub in the state and broadening scope of Ayushman scheme.At the cabinet meeting, a decision was taken to exempt police recruitment from the provision of reserving 20% posts for contractual officers and employees, Mishra said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-to-use-drones-to-assess-disaster-impact-and-development-work/story-RO9aPslos1CrZiMe5JzazL.html
26-08-2020||India||Experts divided over resuming Delhi Metro as Centre plans to allow services from Sept 1||The Centre is planning to allow metro service to resume at a time when Covid-19 cases in the national capital are on the rise--1,544 Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday, the highest daily tally in the last 40 days. While transport exports say that resumption of Metro services is crucial for economic revival, the medical fraternity is divided over the issue.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s operations were shut on March 22.With nearly six million passenger journeys daily, the Delhi Metro is the transport lifeline of Delhi and the National Capital Region. As a majority of commercial activities have been allowed in the city, people are facing a lot of problems while commuting due to inadequate public transport and the restriction on the number of passengers who can travel at a given point of time. Transport expert Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment, cites Hong Kong as an example where the services were never shut. “For the economy to revive, it is essential to reopen public transport, especially Metro services. A lot of cities such as Hong Kong, London have the metro system operational. In Hong Kong, metro operations were never stopped. They have adopted a lot of precautionary measures to ensure social distancing. This can be done here too,” Chowdhury said.But the medical community is divided over it. While some say it should start as offices, markets, hotels restaurants etc have opened, others say starting metro services will result in faster spread of the contagious infection.Epidemiologists point at the increase in positivity rate in the Capital and the recent serological survey report—29% of Delhi’s population is exposed to Covid-19 as per the second sero survey -- and say that the opening of metro services should be deferred.“As per the second sero survey report, nearly 2/3 of the population is still unexposed. The positivity rate is already on the rise and if you create opportunities for people to mingle, then it will increase the chances of transmission of the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR.As the Metro connects Delhi with Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad, experts say that this will result in crowding at stations. “How will social distancing be ensured at stations? Currently, a lot of people from neighbouring areas are not able to come to Delhi as Metro operations are closed. Starting it would only allow more movement of people and increase the chances of infection,” said Dr PK Sharma, epidemiologist and former medical health officer with the New Delhi Municipal Council. But community medicine expert Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department at Safdarjung Hospital, disagrees. He said, “It is about time the government starts Metro services, as people are facing a lot of inconvenience while commuting. People are using their own vehicles which are causing air and sound pollution. People will use metro but should follow all the precautions such as use of face masks, social distancing etc.”The DMRC has taken measures to ensure social distancing at its stations and trains. It has also prepared protocols, which will be modified as per the Centre’s guidelines, to ensure contactless and cashless travel. Completely cashless transaction at ticketing counters, earmarking designated spots for passengers to stand while waiting for trains or at ticketing counters, use of face masks and Aarogya Setu mobile application, separate entry and exit point to the station premises are some of the measures the agency is likely to include in its protocols, said a DMRC official.Roychowdhury, too, says that there is a need to build confidence among people. “We have anyway started bus and other public transport services and people are using it. We need to build confidence among people that this mode of travel will be safe by ensuring stringent implementation of precautionary measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-divided-over-resuming-delhi-metro-as-centre-plans-to-allow-services-from-sept-1/story-F1DJDpk673sXNfA9oPdvoN.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Net tax liability to be considered for interest on late GST payments from Sep 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Net tax liability to be considered for interest on late GST payments from Sep 1Interest will be charged on the cash component of delayed settlement of Goods and Services Tax (GST) liability from September 1, the government has said, in a move which will bring relief to the industry. Read moreAt Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet, Mamata and Amarinder call for moving SC over NEET, JEECongress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which are scheduled to be held next month, saying it does not care about students. Read moreMilitary tension up as US planes intrude into China airspace during drillsThe US military aircraft’s intrusion into Chinese airspace during live-fire military exercises was “blatant provocation” and could lead to “misjudgments and accidents”, China has said even as a second US reconnaissance aircraft is said to have flown over the South China Sea on Wednesday. Read more‘The list is very long’: Zaheer Khan explains what makes Rohit Sharma a great captainFormer India left-arm fast bowler Zaheer Khan feels Rohit Sharma’s ability to maintain a cool head in pressure situations which in turn, brings the best out of his players, is one of the many great characteristics about his captaincy. Read moreRani Rampal: I dedicate the Khel Ratna award to our corona warriors, who are working selflessly to keep all of us safeIndian women’s hockey captain Rani Rampal’s story is a perfect example of one that’s built on grit and determination and the dream to make the country proud. Read moreTamannaah Bhatia’s parents test positive for Covid-19, actor and her staff test negativeActor Tamannaah Bhatia has said that both her parents have tested positive for coronavirus. The actor and her staff have tested negative. Read moreHonda Jazz 2020 launched at starting price of ₹7.49 lakhHonda Jazz 2020 has been officially launched in the country on Wednesday at a starting price of ₹7.49 lakh. The updated premium hatchback from Honda is available in three trims - V, VX and ZX, and two transmission options. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-net-tax-liability-to-be-considered-for-interest-on-late-gst-payments-from-sep-1-and-all-the-latest-news/story-rFCyVN5bF3GunQRzPIEOjI.html
26-08-2020||India||GST Council may discuss market borrowing by states on Thursday||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to discuss at a meeting on Thursday a market borrowing mechanism to help states leverage recently enhanced borrowing limits to compensate them for revenue shortfalls and debts thus raised to be eventually repaid from the compensation cess fund, two officials said.Other options like levying cess on more items, increasing cess rates on existing products or raising overall GST rates to raise revenue appears difficult at a time when demand is subdued and the economy is badly hit by Covid-19 pandemic, the officials added requesting anonymity.The special GST Council meeting has been convened to discuss how to compensate states for their revenue shortfalls when the economy is facing headwinds and the compensation cess kitty for 2020-21 is almost empty, the officials said.The pandemic and a 68-day nationwide lockdown to check its spread from March 25 hit the country’s economic growth, which had already slowed. India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the lowest in 11 years.The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2020. It also guarantees them that their revenue shortfall, if any, would be addressed through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products like liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.As cess collection fell sharply due to subdued business activities, states could not be paid compensation on time. According to official data, the last tranche of the GST compensation worth Rs 13,806 crore for 2019-20 was paid towards the end of July. So far, states have been paid Rs 1,65,302 crore GST compensation for 2019-20 against Rs 95,444 crore cess collection.“With promised 14% year-on-year revenue growth, the gap is expected to be unmanageable this financial year without borrowing from the market,” one of the officials said. The compensation requirement for 2020-21 is expected to exceed Rs 1.88 lakh crore even if the GST collection in 2020-21 remains at the same level as last financial year, he said.Some states have a misconception that it is the commitment of the Centre to compensate states and therefore it should borrow the money to pay to states and union territories, the officials said. In fact, paying compensation is the collective commitment of both the Union and state governments, and the GST Council is the apex body to take a decision on this matter, they added.“The GST law is clear that states will be compensated for their revenue shortfall only from the compensation cess fund. There is no legal provision that the compensation money will come either from the Consolidated Fund of India or the Union government will borrow from the market. Therefore, this matter will be resolved at the GST Council on the principle of collective responsibility. Ideally, states should leverage their enhanced borrowing limits,” a second official said.To give fiscal space to states in this time of crisis, the Centre raised their borrowing limits. Announcing the last tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India campaign) on May 17, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre had accepted the demand of states to raise their borrowing limit from 3% of their respective gross state domestic product to 5%. She said it would give them additional resources of Rs 4.28 lakh crore during the crisis.Experts say the shortfall in compensation cess collection is mainly because of unforeseen circumstances as the architects of the GST regime could not foresee a pandemic-like Covid-19 that would batter the economy. India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect its economy to contract by at least 5% this year especially because of the hard lockdown for two months of the quarter--April and May.Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer of the financial technology platform ClearTax, said: “Increasing state borrowing seems to be an option to fund the revenue shortfall for states. The other option suggested was to allow the GST Council to borrow, and repay from cess collection in future years.”He said these measures are short term. “...states need to become more fiscally responsible, reduce their debt and make attempts to become fiscally self-reliant to a large extent.”Pratik Jain, partner and leader of the indirect tax practice at PwC India, said it is evident that cess collected is not enough to compensate the states, particularly in current economic slowdown due to the pandemic. “However, at this point, neither increasing the rate of cess nor the ambit look like feasible options.”Jain said the Centre will need to negotiate the quantum of compensation, possibly by reducing the 14% annual increment and increasing the period of compensation beyond five years as initially envisaged. “In the long term, we will have to find ways for the states to be more economically independent and enhance the tax base.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-may-discuss-market-borrowing-by-states-on-thursday/story-rW2XLrZBNpshh4pIrRz3GI.html
26-08-2020||India||Two children among six killed as truck overturns on car in Jharkhand||Six people including two children were crushed to death when a truck overturned on their car on Dumka-Deoghar road in Jharkhand on Tuesday night, police said Wednesday.Dumka Superintendent of police (SP) Ambar Lakra told reporters that the horrific accident took place around 9.15 pm and the a family was going to Deoghar from Dumka in their car when the truck which was loaded with rice and was coming from the opposite direction, overturned on it killing all occupants on the spot.Police and locals first tried to rescue the family but failed. A crane was brought to lift the truck after which the victims were taken out of the car.The deceased were identified as Shantanu Kumar, his mother Archana Singh, sister Neha Singh and her two children and car driver Sanni Kumar.Police officials said truck was coming from Sugnibad village in Deoghar district. The truck driver escaped from the spot after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-children-among-six-killed-as-truck-overturns-on-car-in-jharkhand/story-fTsyvmZ8B990URIuJrSgXP.html
26-08-2020||India||Phase II trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine begins in Pune, 2 get first shot||The Phase II clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, being manufactured by the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII), began at a medical college and hospital here on Wednesday.Two male volunteers were administered the vaccine at Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Medical College and Hospital, a senior office-bearer of the hospital said.The trial began around 1 pm, he said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Doctors at the hospital administered the first shot of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine to a 32-year-old man after his reports of COVID-19 and antibodies tests came out negative,” Medical Director of Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, Dr Sanjay Lalwani, said.Another 48-year-old male volunteer was also given the vaccine, he added.While the 32 year-old volunteer works for a private company, the other one is associated with the healthcare sector, he said.“Before administering the vaccine, doctors checked their temperature, blood pressure and heart beats,” he said.Five volunteers had enrolled themselves for the trial after the doses were received from the SII on Tuesday, he added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The COVID-19 and antibodies tests were conducted on all the five volunteers. Of them, the reports of three volunteers’ antibodies test came out positive. So they became ineligible for the trial,” Dr Lalwani said.“The two other volunteers, who were administered the vaccines are being monitored,” he said.According to Dr Lalwani, in all, 25 candidates will given the vaccine in the next seven days.SII, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-ii-human-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-begins-in-pune-two-get-first-shot/story-R3HaGxrWLWHmnX0IK4ZozN.html
26-08-2020||India||Rain brings relief to Jammu and Kashmir after months of dry weather||Rain lashed parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday bringing down the temperatures and triggering landslides on the Srinagar-Jammu highway. Moderate to heavy rain started in the night and drenched various parts of the Union Territory. “There was widespread rain in the region today and it is expected to continue till Thursday, “ said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir. The rain also brought relief to farmers reeling under dry weather conditions for the past three months. “We have been facing very dry conditions for the past more than three months. The temperatures have also remained abnormally high. The rains have come as a major relief, “said Mohammad Sultan, a vegetable farmer of Srinagar. The weather office has predicted more rain.“Analysis of various weather models, widespread light to moderate rain with isolated heavy showers in Jammu and Kashmir and light to moderate rains at scattered places of Ladakh is very likely during August 26 and 27,” said director meteorological department, Sonam Lotus. A weather advisory by the MeT office has predicted flash floods and landslides in vulnerable parts. “IMDs experimental model shows that the soil at various places of J&K especially Jammu region is fully saturated and has low water absorbing capacity. Continuous rain may lead to flash flood and flash flood at vulnerable places, “ read the advisory issued to secretary disaster management. It said that the precipitation may lead to disruption of traffic on Srinagar- Jammu National highway, Srinagar-Leh highway and the Mughal Road. Traffic officials said that there were further landslides on the Srinagar-Jammu highway which was already closed on Tuesday after a large stretch part of the road was washed away in Ramban.“There have been landslides at Panthal and the highway is already closed,” said an official at the traffic control room. Scanty rainfall this year has led to very low output in water bodies causing shortage of portable water across the Valley and also affecting the agricultural and horticultural produce. The temperatures have also hovered above normal. On August 17, the highest temperature had reached 35.7 degree Celsius in Srinagar six degrees above normal, a record in 39 years. “The temperature has fallen now and will go further down,” Mir said. Last week, divisional commissioner of Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole had chaired a meeting of officers to take stock of the water crises like situation that has been looming due to dry season and no rainfall in the past three months.To mitigate portable water supply crises in affected areas, the divisional commissioner instructed officers concerned to use water tankers and ensure continuous supply to the residents in affected areas.He also directed officers to facilitate required irrigation supply to paddy, maize and other crops through community and individual bore well in all affected areas so that the yield is not damaged due to water supply shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-brings-relief-to-jammu-and-kashmir-after-months-of-dry-weather/story-3HSvjvBqE4vDIMlVrATDLK.html
26-08-2020||India||Should together fight Centre for undermining states’ rights: CMs of opposition-ruled states||Chief ministers belonging to various opposition parties on Wednesday got together and discussed the issue of GST compensation to states, with Congress president Sonia Gandhi saying the Centre’s refusal to reimburse the states was nothing short of betrayal of the people by the Modi government.Gandhi convened a virtual meeting of chief ministers of opposition-ruled states to discuss the key issues confronting them.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren and chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy attended the meeting.In her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said she agreed with Banerjee and Thackeray that all opposition-ruled states should together fight the Centre for their rights.“We have to work together and fight together against the Central government,” Gandhi said at the meeting while endorsing Banerjee and Thackeray.“We should decide whether we have to fight or fear,” Thackeray said at the meeting.Banerjee earlier said the situation was “very serious” and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly.Also read| Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said whatGandhi termed the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) legislation as “anti-democratic” and alleged that the laws to protect the environment and public health are being weakened by the Modi government.She said announcements like the National Education Policy should worry the opposition as they are a setback for secular and scientific values and reveal the “insensitivity” of the government.On students’ problems and the issue of exams arising out of the pandemic situation, she said it is being dealt with uncaringly by the Centre.Banerjee urges all chief ministers to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams as students are not prepared.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the ruling party was using agencies against the opposition and was undermining the federal structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-together-fight-centre-for-undermining-states-rights-cms-of-opposition-ruled-states/story-tDoZDyYM13G2XJ4TG2IgcN.html
26-08-2020||India||Lucknow municipality mulls using 30% cow dung cakes for cremation||The Lucknow municipal corporation (LMC) is mulling over making the use of 30% cow dung cakes mandatory for traditional cremations citing their low cost and negligible impact on environment as opposed to wood, said Dr Arvind Kumar Rao, additional director, animal welfare, LMC.“The idea came from municipal commissioner Ajay Kumar Dwivedi, who visited Kanha Upvan on Sunday and found around 3,769 cows, 4,578 bulls and 796 calves inside it. They are producing waste in huge quantity, which can be used for making cow dung cakes and compressed natural gas,” he said.The municipal commissioner has also ordered the officials to initiate talks with companies who could market products involving cow urine and compressed natural gas.The LMC controls the crematoriums at Gulalaghat, Bhaisakund and Alambagh where more than 900 quintals of wood is sold in a month.The idea is to reduce pollution by replacing 30% of wood with cow dung cakes.“This would not only save trees but also help individuals in saving money as cow dung cakes come at a much cheaper cost than wood,” said Dr Arvind Kumar Rao.However, the use of cow dung cakes would be made mandatory only after the proposal is passed by the executive committee of the LMC.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath says UP has reduced vector-borne diseases mortality rate by 95% since 2016Some of the corporators have advised the municipal commissioner to take the advice of some religious leaders before making the use of cow dung cakes mandatory in traditional cremation of bodies.Senior Congress corporator Girish Gupta said, “No one should be forced to use cow dung cakes as cremation of bodies is an emotional issue. We must encourage its use without making it mandatory.”“We will have to use every available resource to run Kanha Upvan. The place has the potential to produce gas, cow urine, cow dung cakes and cow urine based medicines,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-municipality-mulls-using-30-cow-dung-cakes-for-cremation/story-17CxnS8xOfkNUVegO7lygI.html
26-08-2020||India||Tripura handing out Swami Vivekananda’s books to Covid-19 patients for ‘mental toughness’||In order to keep Covid-19 patients mentally strong and motivated, the Tripura government has started distributing books written on Swami Vivekananda to them. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb handed over a few books on Swami Vivekananda to the medical superintendent of Tripura Medical College and also to the in-charge of Hapania Covid Care centre in Agartala. “To keep the Covid 19 patients motivated and mentally strong, we have decided to distribute books written on Swami Vivekananda to every Covid patient so that they can read these books and get inspired by his thoughts. It is very important to stay calm and energetic when we are fighting against Covid-19,” Deb wrote on his Facebook on Tuesday. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%The state has recorded a total of 9,213 Covid-19 cases so far and 6,574 patients have recovered. Till now, 83 patients have succumbed to the disease and two others have died by suicide.The state health experts recently said that the 9-10% Covid-19 positivity rate in the state suggests the possibility of it spreading in the communities in the next few weeks. With a hike in such cases, the government would conduct antibody tests in the state from September 15 so that they could start plasma therapy for the Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-handing-out-swami-vivekananda-s-books-to-covid-19-patients-for-mental-toughness/story-LUJZ3IgCV6BqD0PeVWif2M.html
26-08-2020||India||Villagers kill RJD leader, critically injure BJP worker in Jharkhand||A group of villagers allegedly beat a Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and critically injured a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker in Motilader village in Jharkahnd’s Giridih district on Tuesday night, police said Wednesday. Kailash Yadav was the district vice-president of the RJD while his friend Indralal Verma is a BJP worker.Giridih civil surgeon Dr AK Sinha said Yadav was brought dead to hospital while Verma was referred to Dhanbad’s Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for advanced treatment. Giridih’s superintendent of police (SP) Amit Renu said the incident occurred around 11 pm on Tuesday. The two men were returning to their village on a bike after lodging a complaint against few villagers with the Bengabad police station when a group of around two dozen people attacked them with lathis and injured them critically. Hearing commotion, people came out to their rescue and attackers fled from the spot. Though Yadav and Verma were active in different political parties the two were friends as they lived in the same village. Both men were immediately taken to Giridih sadar hospital where Yadav was declared brought dead while doctors referred Verma to PMCH, Dhanbad because of his critical condition. The SP said villagers who attacked the two men have been identified and police teams are conducting raids to arrest them. “Prima facie it looks to be a result of old enmity. But now we are focusing on arresting all persons involved in the incident,” Renu said.Kailash Yadav was a popular political worker in Giridih. As the news of his death spread, hundreds of RJD and BJP workers blocked Giridih Tower chowk for several hours in the morning in protest and demanded the arrest of people involved in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-kill-rjd-leader-critically-injure-bjp-worker-in-jharkhand/story-FWqlpTxWwMCacvp3OwtcXI.html
26-08-2020||India||Let’s appeal to Supreme Court to postpone NEET, JEE: Mamata Banerjee to non-BJP chief ministers||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday proposed that all non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)- ruled states appeal to the Supreme Court to allow the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to be postponed. As of now, they are scheduled to be held in September.Banerjee made the statement at a virtual meeting, attended by chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states, that she and the Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi jointly convened. The meeting started at 2.30pm. Also Read: 10 things you need to know about NEET-JEE exam controversyThe agenda, however, was not restricted to the examinations alone. Gandhi, who opened the discussion, said that state governments were facing a lot of problems because of the Centre’s policies. She referred to the rise in fuel prices, disinvestment of PSUs, privatisation of airports and other issues. This was the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out that chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states spoke out against Central government’s policies on a common platform. Gandhi then let Banerjee conduct the meeting. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy attended the meeting. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not attend because of urgent business. The Jharkhand chief minister said, “These days, the opposition appears to have become weak. We have to take a stand.” Banerjee seconded the statement and said, “Yes, we must raise our voice. Otherwise other political parties will not exist.” Thackeray also spoke on a number of issues and said the Centre had failed to deliver on many of its promises. Amarinder Singh spoke at length on the lack of Central funds to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and said, “We should all go to the Prime Minister with our problems.”Gehlot started speaking at 3.30 pm.On Monday and Tuesday, Banerjee had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the examinations, saying students would be exposed to risk if they travelled during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-appeal-to-supreme-court-to-postpone-neet-jee-mamata-banerjee-to-non-bjp-chief-ministers/story-Zf9IMZ5ROg9sozgfIDiBGI.html
26-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said what||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday convened a meeting with the chief ministers of seven states to discuss issues regarding the Goods and Services Tax collection and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main, National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) (NEET), which are due to be conducted in September.Here is who said what in the virtual meet:Problems of students, exams being dealt uncaringly, says Sonia GandhiAnnouncements such as those related to the National Education Policy should really worry us as it is actually a setback. Other problems of students and exams are also being dealt with uncaringly, said Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Also Watch: Explained | JEE-NEET exams amid Covid: What students must do; NTA rules  Refusal of GST compensation to states betrayal on part of Centre, says Sonia Gandhi“There are a number of issues related to Centre-state relations and since Parliament is expected to meet in less than 3 weeks. I thought we should have an interaction so that we can have a coordinated approach. GST compensation seems to be a big issue. GST compensation being paid to states on time according to laws passed by Parliament is crucial. But it is not happening. Dues have accumulated and finances of all the states are badly affected,” Sonia Gandhi said.“In the meeting of the Standing Committee of Finance on August 11, 2020, the finance secretary clearly stated that the Central government is not in a position to pay their mandatory compensation of 14 per cent for the current year. This refusal to compensate the state is nothing short of betrayal on the part of the Narendra Modi government, betrayal of State governments and people of India,” she said.Let us go to Supreme Court, says West Bengal CMThis will be my request to all state governments, let us do it together, let us go to the Supreme Court and postpone the exam for the time being until and unless the situation allows students to sit for exams, said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The exams are in September. Why should the lives of students be put at risk? We have written to the PM, but there has been no response, she also said. It is Satyamev Jayate for us, not ‘Sattamev Jayate’, says Maharashtra CMIt is never ‘Sattamev Jayate’ (power alone triumphs), it is ‘Satyamev Jayate’ (Truth alone triumphs) for us, said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav ThackerayWe will fight together, says Maharashtra CMWe are together, we have to work together and we will fight together, Maharashta chief minister gives message of unity among opposition parties. Let’s take this up with Supreme Court, says Punjab CMWe have written to the Prime Minister three times on this issue of University Grant Commission being told to hold other college exams or delay them. Like Mamata ji said, let’s take this up with the Supreme Court and fight there, said Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.They have not consulted us or any of my colleagues also. They have just gone and thrust the new education policy on us; without knowing what they are planning. Without us knowing what is going to cost us, the chief minister also said.Day after tomorrow our Vidhan Sabha is starting and we have said that every MLA must have a Covid-19 test done. A few were done today and 23 of my MLAs are positive as of today, the Punjab chief minister said.The situation is fearful, says Chhattisgarh CMCentre has not paid GST compensation to the states for the last four months. Today, the situation is fearful, said Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel. Conducting of examinations will lead to a rise in a number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Government of India will be responsible for it. We will jointly fight the battle against the Central government on this issue, said Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-president-sonia-gandhi-holds-discussion-with-7-state-cms-who-said-what/story-T1kQv1SbLon0m1jiZ7dzJO.html
26-08-2020||India||At Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet, Mamata and Amarinder call for moving SC over NEET, JEE||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which are scheduled to be held next month, saying it does not care about students.Gandhi was speaking at a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of seven states to work out a united opposition response amid growing chorus for deferring the entrance exams for engineering and medical courses amid the coronavirus crisis. Also Watch: Explained | JEE-NEET exams amid Covid: What students must do; NTA rules  The meeting was attended by Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry’s V Narayanasamy.Gandhi said that the announcements such as those related to the National Education Policy are worrying and termed it as a set back for progressive, secular and scientific values. The Congress chief also accused the Centre of “uncaringly” dealing with the other problems of students and exams.During the virtual meeting, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggested approaching the Supreme Court again for postponing the exams owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation.“This will be my request to all the state governments, let us do it together, let us go to the Supreme Court and postpone the exam for the time being until and unless the situation allows students to appear for the exams,” she said.Banerjee also referred to the two letters she wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the week seeking the postponement of the entrance exams.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh also backed Banerjee’s call to move the Supreme Court to intervene in the matter. Also read| Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said whatUddhav Thackeray cited a US report that said 97,000 children in the country were infected by the coronavirus disease when schools were reopened. “What will we do if such a situation arises here?”He also said that the schools could not even be opened in June when the number of cases was relatively less, then how can the situation be considered conducive to hold examinations now.Jharkhand’s Soren also expressed similar concerns and said that the states were not yet ready to hold exams. “When candidates come to exam centres, their parents also accompany them, especially female candidates, which is why the place is likely to become too crowded that may lead to a risky situation,” he said.The opposition meeting comes a day after the National Testing Agency (NTA) refused to change the exam schedule citing the August 17 Supreme Court order that rejected a petition to postpone the exams as “a crucial year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-holds-oppn-meet-on-jee-neet-mamata-banerjee-suggests-approaching-sc/story-fGt5ngFfMzeVPVNcENQcfM.html
26-08-2020||India||POCSO accused jumps into river, leaves video alleging harassment behind||After a video clip, of a POCSO (Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences) Act accused, Akshay Kumar, jumping into a swollen Tawi River after accusing the police, health authorities and the complainant of harassing him went viral, the police has ordered a high level probe into the incident and promised not to spare anyone found guilty of driving him to possible death.“An incident relating to a video with the heading ‘Frustrated youth... jumped over Tawi river, ended his life’ has come to our notice. We are deeply saddened by the unfortunate incident. A high-level enquiry into the matter to ascertain the facts and circumstances of the case, headed by SP City North, has been ordered. The responsible people will be strictly dealt under the law,” said a police spokesperson.The spokesperson added that an FIR under section 309 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) has already been registered at Nowabad police station and an investigation has started.The 25 year old youth, facing trial under section 376, 511 of the IPC and 7 of the POCSO Act, jumped off the third Tawi Bridge into the river on Tuesday afternoon alleging harassment by Janipur police, authorities of the government medical college and hospital and the mother of the minor rape survivor. An electrician by profession, he professed his innocence and blamed the woman and her daughter of harassing him and driving him to the point of suicide. Also Read: POCSO accused jumps into river, missingIn the video, he is heard claiming that the girl had voluntarily travelled with him to Amritsar, Jalandhar and many other places. He alleges he was falsely implicated under the POCSO act at the behest of the mother. Shan Ahmad, his friend, said, “Around 1.45 pm on Tuesday, he jumped off the third bridge into the swollen Tawi River. At 1.42 pm, he sent me two videos from his cell phone wherein he clearly blamed administration, the health department and Pooja Mehra along with her daughter for his extreme step. He said that he was being harassed by the Janipur police station since morning for getting a Covid test conducted before being sent back to jail and also by the hospital authorities, who asked him to bring a police order for the purpose.” The accused was on an interim bail since March 13 on humanitarian grounds, citing ill health of his father. However, on Monday, the principal session judge Sanjeev Gupta refused to extend his bail citing the gravity of the crime and the critical juncture of the case, where statements of the survivor and her mother have to be recorded. SHO Naresh Sharma said the requirement of getting a Coved-19 test done was as per the standard operating procedure and not because of any court order.Also Read: Kathua woman succumbs to virus, family alleges medical negligence “His bail had been refused and considering the crime he was asked to surrender before the jail authorities. Under the Covid protocol, he had to get himself tested for the virus before surrendering to the jail authorities as directed by the court. Had he not complied with the court order then we would have had to arrest him and produce before the court,” said the SHO. The police officer added that the accused perhaps didn’t want to go to jail and hence was frustrated. A search was on for the youth, who had not been traced so far.“Due to heavy rains Tawi River is in spate but we, along with the SDRF team, are still searching for him,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pocso-accused-jumps-into-river-leaves-video-alleging-harassment-behind/story-JX9ajAHoa0pNxlYUcrABbL.html
26-08-2020||India||SC refuses to interfere in High Court order on three capitals for Andhra Pradesh||In yet another setback to the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s plan to form three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, the Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to grant stay on the high court order for status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital.A division bench of the Supreme Court comprising justice Ashok Bhushan, justice R Subhash Reddy and justice M R Shah set aside the special leave petition filed by the state government, challenging the high court order.The bench said it cannot interfere in the matter, as it is already pending in the high court and is coming up for hearing on Thursday.The Supreme Court also rejected the plea of the state government to direct the high court to expedite the hearing. “We cannot fix a deadline to the high court to complete the hearing. But we hope it will settle the issue at the earliest,” the bench said.Senior counsel Fali S Nariman, arguing for the farmers of Amaravati, said the high court was formed in Amaravati as per a presidential order. As such, the state government cannot decide the judicial capital at Kurnool, he said.The development comes as a big disappointment for the Jagan government which is keen on shifting the executive capital to Visakhapatnam at the earliest.More than 55 public interest litigation petitions have been filed in the high court challenging the laws pertaining to creation of three capitals and abolition of the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA).The HC granted status quo on the two Acts till August 27. The case will come up for hearing in the high court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-interfere-in-high-court-order-on-three-capitals-for-andhra-pradesh/story-96Sdmq6AfZpJAsv9Uy9jLK.html
26-08-2020||India||Mehul Choksi moves Delhi high court against Netflix series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, demands pre-screening||Mehul Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Nirav Modi, has moved the Delhi high court against a documentary to be aired at OTT platform Netflix.The documentary titled ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ focusses on the fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in India. The poster released by Netflix shows Choksi’s nephew Nirav Modi, Subrata Roy (of the Sahara Group), now defunct Kingfisher Airlines chairman Vijay Mallya and Ramalinga Raju (former chairman and CEO of Satyam Computer Services).In his petition, Choksi has sought the postponement of the documentary, which is slated to be released on September 2. The petition, filed by lawyer Vijay Aggarwal, further said that Choksi got to know of the documentary’s release on August 24 when he saw the trailer following which he started receiving phone calls from various persons across the world, including from Delhi, asking him whether he was part of the documentary and to solicit his comments.Choksi further discovered, says the petition, that one of the persons seen speaking in the trailer was the writer of the book titled “Flawed: The Rise and Fall of India’s Diamond Mogul Nirav Modi” where his name had been co-mingled with Nirav Modi. Every move decoded, every paisa tracked down.Bad Boy Billionaires coming to Netflix on 2nd September.@Minnow_Films pic.twitter.com/PEZtTfgwxHThe petition said that Choksi fears his name may have been used in connection with Nirav Modi in the documentary even though his relation to the fugitive diamantaire is only that of an uncle and nephew.The petition also said that the series might have an episode on Choksi which has potential of leading to a media trial. It said that the petitioner has the right to innocent and free and fair trial and such a documentary would cause serious prejudice to his case.The petition claimed that Choksi has been falsely accused of various crimes in India.A brief hearing was held in the high court today where lawyer Vijay Aggarwal demanded a pre-screening for the petitioner and if his apprehension regarding his image getting tarnished is settled, then a chance may be given to him for agitating.Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who appeared for Netflix, said that the documentary has a two-minute piece on Nirav Modi where mentions of Choksi has been made. He also said that that there is no regulation of content on the OTT platform.The court then adjourned the matter till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-moves-delhi-high-court-against-netflix-series-bad-boy-billionaires-demands-pre-screening/story-lqkfWksB3pGxtpk3Cy8dmM.html
26-08-2020||India||24 Covid patients escape narrowly after fire breaks out in hospital in Andhra Pradesh||Twenty-four Covid-19 patients had a providential escape after a fire broke out in the record room adjacent to their ward in the government general hospital in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur town around midnight on Tuesday, police said Wednesday.Superintendent of police Satya Yesu Babu said the fire began in the record room, supposedly due to a short circuit at around 12.30 am. Hospital staff noticed the fire and alerted the police immediately.“Luckily, the fire station is very close to the hospital. Fire tenders were pressed into action immediately to douse the fire,” he said.“There was no big damage to the hospital, except that some records were burnt to ashes,” he said.However, Covid-19 patients in the adjacent ward felt suffocated as smoke started spreading in the ground floor. “We immediately shifted all the 24 patients to another ward, as fire fighters brought the situation under control,” the SP said.Quick response from the fire fighters averted any major damage, he said.Local MLA Ananta Venkatarami Reddy and assistant collector Surya rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue operations.“There are no injuries to anybody. Quick steps were taken to see that fire did not spread to other areas,” the MLA said.Earlier, on August 9, a similar fire mishap at Covid care centre run by Ramesh Hospital at Swarna Palace hotel in Vijayawada claimed 10 lives and left many injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-covid-patients-escape-narrowly-after-fire-breaks-out-in-hospital-in-andhra-pradesh/story-v5vOkuGG9VKVa8wRM72VeI.html
26-08-2020||India||Bhopal killer who murdered parents and live-in partner, sentenced to life in Bengal||‘Bhopal killer’ Udayan Das, who had shocked the country in 2016 with the murder of both parents and live-in partner Akansha Sharma was sentenced to life by a fast track court in Bankura in West Bengal on Wednesday. Das was convicted on Tuesday. On Wednesday additional district judge Suresh Biswakarma sentenced him for life. Das, now in his mid-30s, had killed his parents in 2010 at their home in Raipur and buried their bodies in the garden. He killed Sharma in July 2016. Later he allegedly placed her body in a metal box and poured concrete to create a mausoleum of sorts inside his bedroom. He covered the block with marble. “We had appealed for a death sentence. The court has sentenced him for life. We welcome the order. He has been sentenced to life and fined Rs 20,000 for murder and another two years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 2,000 for tampering evidence,” said A Chatterjee, public prosecutor. “The initial case was that of abduction. Later he was charged with murder and tampering evidence. The prosecution could not prove that the woman was abducted,” said Abhishek Biswas, Das’ lawyer. Although the courtroom used to remain packed during the earlier hearings, hardly anyone was allowed on Tuesday and Wednesday because of Covid-19. Das was, however, nonchalant and told the judge inside the courtroom in fluent English that he wanted to challenge the order in a higher court. “I have no repentance. Definitely we will go to the High Court and Supreme Court if necessary,” Das told reporters outside the court. Das was the only child of his parents and used to live with them at Raipur. His father was a foreman with BHEL while his mother worked as a data analyst at Vindhyachal in Bhopal. They had three houses at Raipur, Delhi and Bhopal. Das came in contact with Akanksha Sharma through ‘Orkut’, a defunct social networking portal, in 2007, and had convinced her that he was professional based in the US. Sharma, a native of Bankura district in West Bengal had left her parents’ house in June 2016, and met Das in Delhi. The duo then reached Bhopal, where their relationship turned sour, ending in her murder in December 27 that year.Police arrested Das from near his home in Bhopal’s Saket Nagar area on February 2, 2017. The murder came to light when a team of West Bengal Police came to Bhopal looking for Sharma after her parents lodged a complaint in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-killer-who-murdered-parents-and-live-in-partner-sentenced-to-life-in-bengal/story-7n3uVfFXCBZzb8C3X9p18M.html
26-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Narcotics Control Bureau to join probe||After the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Narcotics Control Bureau will also join the investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The ED wrote to the NCB, asking it to probe if drug was supplied to Rhea Chakraborty and Rajput. NCB director Rakesh Asthana said, “We received a letter from ED on Tuesday evening, stating that during their probe into the financial aspects, they found that drug was supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and people involved will be questioned.” ED sources said that during their questioning of Jaya Saha, Rhea’s talent manager, they found some conversation between them about some drug. However, none of the three central agencies provided any details into the form of drug or if it was consumed by any of the persons involved in the case. Satish Maneshinde, senior counsel and Rhea’s lawyer, said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her life. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” At the same time, the ED has once again called Jaya Saha to its South Mumbai office for questioning. Meanwhile, CBI continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East). Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. The probe was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of a first information report (FIR) lodged by Bihar Police in response to a plaint filed by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-narcotics-control-bureau-to-join-probe/story-h1YzXYiyYTcL0SnVkSwXHM.html
26-08-2020||India||Postpone or find an alternative way to conduct JEE, NEET exams: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday urged the Central government to either postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) or find an alternative way of conducting them.“I think the Central Govt should postpone the NEET and JEE exams or they should find an alternative way of conducting the exams. Examination system across the world is evolving, there are 1,000 alternate ways to conduct exams,” Sisodia told reporters.Despite opposition from several quarters and appeals to postpone the national level entrance exams for professional courses amid Covid-19 crisis, the National Testing Agency (NTA) gave directive to conduct JEE from September 1 to 6, and NEET on September 13.On August 17, the Supreme Court also rejected the plea seeking postponement of these exams saying a crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and “life has to go on”. Meanwhile, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi have jointly convened a meeting of chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states at 2.30pm on Wednesday to demand postponement of these exams.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy will be attending the meeting, a top TMC leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpone-or-find-an-alternative-way-to-conduct-jee-neet-exams-says-manish-sisodia/story-BJEuktZOyeA27YtcPRyfPL.html
26-08-2020||India||Amid heavy rains in Odisha, water level of Baitarani River likely to cross danger mark: Report||The Central Water Commission (CWC) on Tuesday said the water flow of Baitarani River, located at Swampatna in the Kendujhar district of Odisha is very likely to cross the dangerous mark due to heavy downpour in the state. The Baitarani is one of the six major rivers in the state and acts as a source of water for agricultural irrigation.  River Baitarni at #Swampatna in #Kendujhar District of #Odisha is rising rapidly and is expected to cross Danger Level. Hydrograph is appended. pic.twitter.com/BAejjkUEvcMeanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its All Weather Warning Bulletin said, “Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) is very likely over Southwest and adjoining Westcentral Arabian Sea; (wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph) over North Bay of Bengal along and off Odisha-West Bengal coasts.”Odisha has been witnessing torrential rains for almost a week and waterlogging was been reported in several low lying areas. Since Tuesday, three areas- Champua (Keonjhargarh district) Boudh and Marshaghai (Kendrapara) have recorded the highest amount of rainfall. The MeT department has predicted thundershower along with moderate rainfall in other districts of Odisha such as Balasore, Bhadrak, Deogarh, Sundergarh, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Baragarh, Boudh, Sonepur. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into these areas over the next few days.Officials on August 20 said at least two fishermen died and crops along with thatched and mud houses were damaged after torrential rains which were triggered by a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal hit Odisha. (With inputs from ANI, PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-heavy-rains-in-odisha-water-level-of-baitarani-river-likely-to-cross-danger-mark-report/story-JAG5V7KxcCTimtKXUOyClJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Cancel IT Panel meeting, BJP MP Dubey tells Tharoor||Nishikant Dubey, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) and a member of the Information Technology (IT) parliamentary panel, on Wednesday wrote to the committee’s chairperson Shashi Tharoor, a Congress Lok Sabha MP, urging him to cancel the panel’s upcoming meeting next week while citing that its agenda is in contravention of the rules of the House. Dubey’s letter to Tharoor comes a day after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla wrote to the chairpersons of all the parliamentary panels, asking them to select subjects based on the rules and keeping in mind the convention that the House does not discuss issues that are “pending in courts”. “In this connection, I may like to bring to your kind notice that recently, you have convened yet another sitting of the committee on 1 September to discuss the issue of 4G (fourth generation mobile telephony) services in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K),” Dubey wrote in his letter on Wednesday. “Since this issue is presently pending before the Supreme Court (SC)… any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant rules/directions as well as the recently issued advisory of the Speaker,” added Dubey, who represents Jharkhand’s Godda constituency in the Lok Sabha .On Tuesday, Speaker Birla wrote to the chairpersons of all the parliamentary panels and urged them to follow rules and conventions, including not taking up subjects that are pending in courts. “The committees should give due consideration to Rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination,” Birla said in the letter, which is accessed by HT. “In addition, I would like to point out that as per the convention, the committees do not take those subjects for examination, where the issue is pending in courts,” he added.According to Rule 270, “a committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records, provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the panel, the question shall be referred to the Speaker, whose decision shall be final”.The rule stipulates that the government may decline to produce a document on the ground that its disclosure would be prejudicial to the safety or interest of the state.The Speaker’s letter came around a week before the IT panel is slated to discuss two contentious topics such as internet shutdowns in J&K and Facebook’s alleged bias towards the ruling BJP. The IT parliamentary panel’s discussions are slated to be held on September 1 and 2.The SC is still hearing the matter of internet shutdowns in J&K. On August 11, the Centre had told the apex court that 4G connectivity would be restored in the Union Territory (UT) of J&K in a staggered manner after August 15, the day the nation celebrated its 74th Independence Day. The Facebook controversy broke out following a recent report in The Wall Street Journal (WSJ), which revealed how the social media company had deliberately turned a blind eye towards hate speeches by a BJP lawmaker from Telangana and did not take them down from its platform fearing that it might hurt the firm’s business interests in India, its biggest market. Facebook denied The WSJ report and reiterated that it acts in an unbiased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancel-it-panel-meeting-bjp-mp-dubey-tells-tharoor/story-Dauzg0VlqSAxcnTqXMirRO.html
26-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation after three staffers test Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers including an officer on special duty (OSD) tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days, officials said on Wednesday. Rawat informed his decision about self-isolation through his official Twitter handle on Tuesday evening. “As a precaution, all the staffers and security officers deployed at CM residence were tested for Covid-19. I along with my family members also took the test and with the grace of God tested negative,” he tweeted. “However, as a precautionary measure I will be going into self-isolation and will carry the works related to public and administration through phone and virtual platforms,” he said in another tweet.The CM’s media coordinator Darshan Singh Rawat said, “On August 15, one of his OSDs and economic advisor had tested positive for the virus. Later on Tuesday one his personal security officers and a driver in his team tested positive for Covid-19.” “Considering the development, he will be into self-isolation from Wednesday onwards and carry his works from his residence only,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-goes-into-self-isolation-after-three-staffers-test-covid-19-positive/story-37cDL8LxsMXdIVMOIrbLUO.html
26-08-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi tests positive for Covid-19||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi has tested positive for Covid-19. The 85-year-old, who was tested on Tuesday, wrote of his health status on Twitter Wednesday. According to Gogoi, he is asymptomatic and does not have any problems. “I have been tested COVID-19 positive yesterday. People who came in contact with me during the last few days they should go for COVID test immediately,” the former CM tweeted. Talking to Hindustan Times, Gogoi informed that though he had slight cold few days ago, he was not experiencing any health complication. His wife Dolly tested negative. “I was tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday and informed about my status on Wednesday morning. I had a slight cough and cold a few days ago, but am fine now,” Gogoi said. “I am staying at home. Some are saying I can stay at home while others are saying I need to get admitted at a hospital. I will go wherever the doctors asked me to,” he added. There are speculations that Gogoi, who has been busy travelling and meeting several party leaders, may have picked up the infection from Congress MLA Ajanta Neog of Golaghat, who had visited the former CM’s Guwahati residence recently and also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “I wish speedy recovery to former chief minister Tarun Gogoi as he has been found COVID-19 positive. We have kept a team of doctors ready for best possible medical care and assistance to our revered senior leader,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Wednesday. On Saturday, a meeting of several senior Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) leaders was held at Gogoi’s residence where a decision on forging a ‘grand alliance’ between the two opposition parties for the 2021 assembly polls was finalised. Gogoi had hit headlines recently when he stated that former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, a nominated Rajya Sabha MP, could be the ruling BJP’s candidate for Assam CM’s post for 2021. The BJP dismissed the assertion as false. Gogoi is the latest among several MLAs and prominent politicians from Assam who tested positive for Covid-19 in recent weeks. Till date, seven legislators from BJP, three from Congress, two from Asom Gana Parishad and one from AIUDF have tested positive for the disease. Besides, BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Assam Kamakhya Prasad Tasa and the president of All India Mahila Congress and former Silchar MP Sushmita Dev tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-JFkQY5inM2PolSVgKDdSpI.html
26-08-2020||India||Declining rain in 100 years pushing Uttarakhand’s treeline higher in the Himalayas||Amid a declining trend of rainfall in Uttarakhand, an analysis of data of the past century shows that vegetation development and regeneration is being affected in the Himalayas in the state. The recent State of Environment report of Uttarakhand, released by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) states that certain plant species like Sal, Oak, Telonj Oak are dependent on monsoon rain for regeneration. “Due to fluctuation in monsoon period and changes in temperature their regeneration and flowering time is getting affected... Lichens are also gradually shifting towards higher elevation due to the warming in the Chopta-Tungnath landscape (approximately 12,000 feet high), which comes under Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary protected area,” the report states. The rainfall pattern in Uttarakhand during 1911-2012, shows that the fluctuation in the quantum of rainfall is quite evident. Apart from Haridwar, all the districts in the state are in rainfall deficit, says the report. “It is quite evident that the hilly regions of the state are becoming drier while the rainfall is declining from south to north and from west to east. It is noteworthy that except for the months of March, May and November, other months are rainfall deficient.” The report also mentions that studies found that “xerophytic plants like Euphorbia royleana are gradually invading upward specifically in the tectonic valley of Kakarighat in Almora district. Due to the increase in temperature the aridity of the place rises which causes shifting in vegetation.” Similar changes have been noticed for palm trees and Lichen in Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary. “Upward invasion of such colonies of the palm trees is a sharp signature of aridity and beginning of the process of desertification in the region being accelerated by climate change.” SP Subudhi, member secretary of UEPPCB said that in a cold climate, tree species are visible till a particular height known as treeline, which is shifting upwards now. “Due to climate change and an increase in temperature, the treeline is shifting upwards. With a rise in temperature, the plant species are adapting themselves and they are growing in areas where they find the suitable temperature needed for them to grow. With the upward shifting of the treeline, the position of glaciers will shrink, which can lead to disasters in the future,” said Subudhi. A district-wise breakup of decrease in rainfall shows Chamoli, Udham Singh Nagar, Rudraprayag, Pauri Garhwal, Tehri Garhwal, Uttarkashi and Dehradun are districts witnessing decreasing rainfall.The decrease in rainfall is even more pronounced in the districts of Champawat, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora and Nainital.RK Srivastava, professor and head of department on environmental sciences at GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology said that with change in rainfall, temperature also changes and vegetation which is at the bottom keep on shifting higher to find conditions they are acclimatised to and thereby causing a change in the treeline. “The shift in treeline happens through the natural ecosystem with seeds being dispersed by natural forces, animals and birds. It is only happening due to change in climate as the temperature is rising in the current height where trees are growing. With the shift in timberline, the whole ecosystem of the area changes,” said Srivastava. Ravi Chopra, an environmentalist said, “Over the years, we have noticed that as the earth is getting warmer, species from warmer climates are moving upwards (which normally were colder). Whenever there is a remarkable shift in the treeline, it has to be due to a significant shift in the rainfall and obviously, the biodiversity will change, particularly plant life along with wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declining-rain-in-100-years-pushing-uttarakhand-s-treeline-higher-in-the-himalayas/story-RWRirCDrelzZesSOAmUlMJ.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Experts hold different views over resumption of Delhi Metro services and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Experts divided over resumption of Delhi Metro servicesTransport experts have backed the resumption of Metro services in Delhi for economic revival even as the medical fraternity appears divided over the issue amid rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Delhi reported the highest number of cases in 40 days —1,544— on Tuesday. Read more8.8 km long, 3,000 metre above sea: Know everything about Atal TunnelThe 8.8-km strategic Rohtang Tunnel, being built at 3,000 metre above sea level between Himachal Pradesh’s Manali and Leh in Ladakh, will be opened by September-end. The Rs 3,200-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours. Read moreHP Envy 15 review: Gets you what you need but at a priceRight now all of us are relying extensively on our laptops as we stay bundled away at home. If the laptop you had at home was something that you would use for lighter and more recreational purposes, that has been placed front and center on your work desk and that’s all that you have to tackle this work from home situation, it may have stuttered, sputtered and given up, or it may have muscled its way through whatever you throw at it. Read moreVirat Kohli has shown more faith in fast bowlers than MS Dhoni, says former India pacerVirat Kohli and MS Dhoni are regarded as two of the most successful India captains of the modern era. While under Dhoni’s leadership, India went on to win three ICC titles, Kohli led India to first-ever Test series win in Australia in 2018/19. But even though both the captains found major successes, one can clearly point out how different are Kohli and Dhoni in their styles of captaincy. Read moreRussian YouTuber pours 10,000 litres of Coca-Cola in baking soda, viral video gets over 7 million viewsMany of us may have mixed baking powder or Mentos with soda just to see how it would react. The mini ‘volcanic eruption’ that occurred after combining them was not just interesting but incredibly fun to watch too. Now, a Russian YouTuber has taken that experiment to a whole new level and it may just leave you surprised and wowed, all at the same time. Read moreWatch: Girl shot by Kasab during 26/11 attack urges govt to fulfill assurancesWatch: Girl shot by Kasab during 26/11 attack urges govt to fulfill assurancesDevika Rotawan was all of 10 years when she was shot at by Ajmal Kasab during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. Devika, who had been given many assurances by the government, is now urging it to fulfill the promises made to her. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-experts-hold-different-views-over-resumption-of-delhi-metro-services-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ydYA8OGhoE65ojE2myFHlO.html
26-08-2020||India||Ex-Assam CM Tarun Gogoi tests positive for Covid-19||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi said on Wednesday that he has been diagnosed with Covid-19.The veteran Congress leader urged all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested.“I have been tested Covid-19 positive yesterday. People who came in contact with me during the last few days, should go for Covid test immediately,” he tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHis wife Dolly Gogoi has tested negative, party sources said.Doctors have advised the 85-year-old politician to stay in home isolation, a party spokesperson said.Gogoi, who represents the Titabor assembly constituency in Jorhat district, is the 13th Assam legislator to be diagnosed with Covid-19.His former cabinet colleague Ajanta Neog, the MLA from Golaghat, tested Covid-positive on Tuesday and was admitted to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital.Another former Congress minister and legislator from Samaguri constituency in Nagaon, Rakibul Hussain, and his wife had earlier tested Covid-positive.Of the 13 legislators who have been diagnosed with Covid-19, seven are from the BJP, three from the Congress, two from the AGP and one from the AIUDF.BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kamakhya Prasad Tasa tested positive on Saturday and has been admitted to the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital.The BJP MLAs to be found Covid-positive are Mihir Kanti Shome from Udharbond, Deputy Speaker Aminul Haq Laskar from Sonai, Krishnendu Paul from Patharkandi, Narayan Deka of Borkhetry, Bolin Chetia from Sadiya, Nabanita Handique from Sonari and Atul Bora of Dispur.AGP’s West Gauhati legislator Ramendra Narayan Kalita and Dergaon MLA Bhabendra Nath Bharali have also tested positive for Covid-19.AIUDF’s Algapur MLA Nizamuddin Choudhury and eight members of his family were also diagnosed with Covid-19.Another prominent politician from the state to test positive for Covid-19 was All India Mahila Congress president and former Silchar Lok Sabha MP Sushmita Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-tXkAozFaKcrSGGZAjM6ZvK.html
26-08-2020||India||Officer who arrested Asaram has written a book with an important message||After Jodhpur police and commandos had pushed Asaram into a vehicle and raced towards Indore airport on August 31, 2013, Ajay Pal Lamba got a call on his mobile phone. “Mukta kisi bhi gaadi mein nahin hai. Woh humare saath nahin hai, sir. Woh peechche ashram main hi chhoot gayi hai lagta hai!’ (Mukta is not in any of the vehicles. She is not with us, sir. It seems that she has been left behind at the ashram!)” Sub-inspector Mukta Pareek, SHO of the Women’s Police Station (West), Jodhpur, went missing in the melee that preceded the arrest of controversial godman Asaram Bapu at the Indore ashram. Amid the sudden, unforeseen action, the team members’ detailing and who would sit where and in which vehicle, had been disturbed. Mukta was safe. She called Lamba to tell him that she hopped on to an Indore Police vehicle and was also headed to the airport. This is one of the many tales from a new book that Lamba has written, calling it the true story behind Asaram Bapu’s conviction. The book, titled Gunning for the Godman, will be released on September 5. Lamba, a 2005-batch IPS officer, was posted in Jodhpur East as Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) when the FIR against Asaram was registered in August 2013. After Asaram was pronounced guilty and imprisoned for life in March 2018, Lamba decided to pen the journey that involved difficulties, pressures, inducements and threats during the arrest and trial in the case. The book narrates how a team of 20 officers, called ‘the tough twenty’ in the book, investigated the charges, collected evidence, arrested the accused and filed a charge sheet despite all efforts made by the godman’s high profile battery of lawyers to get the man off the hook using all the tricks of the trade. “It is the story of foiling the Baba’s many attempts to get away scot-free; they arrested him in a matter of only ten days, and how they assiduously saw the victim and her family through a four-year long trial. This, despite the countless threats not only to the girl and her family, but also to DCP Lamba’s own family and the team. A testimony to unrelenting courage, this story of a dynamic police officer’s pursuit of justice is a lesson for these troubled times,” said the description of the book on the publisher’s website. Also Read: Asaram verdict: All you need to know about the case against himLamba said there were several moments during the trial when it seemed like an endless judicial process, but the doggedness of senior officers and public prosecutors led to the case reaching a logical conclusion.“The examination and cross-examination of all the witnesses lasted for more than three years. The victim was cross-examined for twenty-seven days, her mother, for nineteen days, her father, for eighteen days and the investigating officer, ACP Chanchal Mishra, for several months,” the book said. Also Read: Asaram case: Self-styled godman’s journey from puritanical preacher to rape convictLamba, currently the additional commissioner of police in Jaipur, is happy that the book will soon be converted into a motion picture by Anubhav Sinha. “I decided to write the book because I wanted the tale of Asaram’s conviction told so that people know that no one, no matter how influential they are, is above the law,” said the officer, who is an electrical engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officer-who-arrested-asaram-has-written-a-book-with-an-important-message/story-jsBAmkGPrG9Je28zEj9McO.html
26-08-2020||India||Vaishno Devi yatra’s online registration, helicopter booking starts from today||The online registration and helicopter booking for the holy pilgrimage (yatra) to the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine in Jammu and Kashmir started from Wednesday and will continue till September 5.“Vaishno Devi online yatra registration and helicopter booking is available from August 26 to September 5, 2020,” Ramesh Kumar Jangid, Chief Executing Officer of Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Jammu and Kashmir told news agency ANI.The Mata Vaishno Devi yatra resumed on August 16, nearly five months after it was suspended due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Jangid said that devotees will not be allowed to enter the temple without a Covid-19 negative test report.He said that people above 60 years of age, children below 10, pregnant women and persons with co-morbidity will not be given permission to visit the shrine as a precautionary measure in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Jangid said that at present 2,000 devotees are allowed to visit the shrine out of which 1,900 are residents are of Jammu and Kashmir and 100 from outside the union territory.Last week, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had paid obeisance at Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine and inspected the facilities for pilgrims. He also directed to continue precautionary measures for the safety of pilgrims.The shrine board said it is abiding with all central health norms to contain the spread of coronavirus outbreak.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-yatra-s-online-registration-helicopter-booking-starts-from-today/story-CXXjAWqGzsXsbNrloQZhjJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Interest on loans in moratorium: SC seeks Centre’s stand||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday took exception to the Central government’s refusal to take an independent stance regarding levy of interest by banks on loans in moratorium even after Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced the relief on borrowings between March and August owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.An apex court bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said that plight of people due to Covid-19 and the resultant nationwide lockdown restrictions should be considered by the Central government while taking a call on the issue and ordered the government to file a separate affidavit.The SC gave its order after solicitor-general (S-G) Tushar Mehta told the apex court that its stance on the matter is the same as that of RBI. Earlier in June, RBI had filed an affidavit before the SC stating that it would not support the move to waive off interest, as it could affect the financial viability of banks. “You should make your stand clear instead of relying on RBI,” Justice MR Shah, who was part of the bench, told Mehta.“Government of India has ample powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to take a decision. You should clarify two issues: whether interest can be charged and whether interest on interest can be levied,” Justice Bhushan said.The court adjourned the matter for further hearing on September 1 prior to which the Centre has to file its response. The moratorium announced by RBI expires on August 31. “The issue was created by your lockdown. Now, you cannot look into business (of banks) alone, but the plight of people should also be looked into,” the bench remarked.The petition, which was filed by Gajendra Sharma, an Agra resident, had demanded a waiver on interest charged by banks citing the relief announced by RBI on the payment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) between March and August 31 due to the pandemic.Petitioner Sharma specifically cited RBI’s March 27 and May 22 notifications announcing a moratorium on loan repayments while permitting banks to levy interest.“The imposition of interest (by banks) during the moratorium period is devastating and wrong,” he had submitted before the apex court. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-take-a-stand-on-levy-of-interest-on-loans-in-moratorium/story-n4e2JDiFkR0I8K3HYmTMNN.html
26-08-2020||India||Central Rly installs foot-operated hand wash vending machines at 4 stations in Mumbai||Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) will now be able to use a foot-operated hand wash vending machine. The Central Railway has placed the hand wash vending machine at platform number 14 of the terminus.The vending machines have been placed under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at four stations and four passengers can simultaneously wash their hands.“This machine dispenses liquid handwash and water separately in a zero contact manner for passengers during the coronavirus pandemic.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.The machines will also be installed in other suburban railway stations. The zonal railway has also manufactured a medical robot ‘Jivika’ that will be used to monitor a patient’s temperature, blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation. Earlier the Western Railway has manufactured a similar medical robot that is being used to treat coronavirus patients at railway-run Jagjivan Ram hospital. The Central Railway has also started health screening camps at Dadar, Kurla, Thane, Dombivli, and Ghatkopar railway stations. Passengers will be able to check their pulse rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure. The reports will be analysed by doctors and will then be provided to the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-rly-installs-foot-operated-hand-wash-vending-machines-at-4-stations-in-mumbai/story-tSggwmYcBEDxjY61nMhHBO.html
26-08-2020||India||Hooda, Moily happy as Sonia agrees to lead Congress||Veteran Congress leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda and M Veerappa Moily, who are among the 23 signatories to a letter to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the party, have expressed their satisfaction over her decision to stay on. Hooda, a former Haryana chief minister and the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, and other Congress lawmakers passed a vote of thanks to Sonia for agreeing to lead the party. The vote of thanks was passed in a special Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting ahead of the monsoon session of the state assembly that started from Wednesday. “Sonia Gandhi is the most accepted leader of the Congress. The decision would strengthen the party and has filled party workers with enthusiasm and lifted the morale of all those who are fighting for the party,” the statement read. M Veerappa Moily, a former Union minister, who is also one of the signatories to the letter that was later leaked to the media sparking a row, said they were sorry if their action had hurt Sonia’s feelings. “If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it,” Moily said.He asserted that the signatories never questioned the Gandhi family’s leadership. However, he defended his action as a signatory to the letter and contended that there is a need to rejuvenate and restructure the party. Moily also disapproved of the media leak of the letter and called for an internal party probe to find out who were behind it and wanted them to be punished. “Soniaji is like a mother to the party. There is no question of any intention to hurt her feelings. If we have hurt her feelings, then we are sorry for it,” he said. Refusing to comment on the developments in his former party, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia said it was the Congress’s internal matter. “I would not like to comment on it. Now, I am a BJP worker and commenting on internal affairs of any other political party would not be appropriate,” Scindia told media persons in Nagpur after visiting the residence of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) founder KB Hedgewar. In Kochi, Congress leader PC Chacko expressed discontentment over the letter but insisted that there is “adhocism” in the party. He said despite being a permanent member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) – the highest decision-making body of the 134-year-old party -- he was not invited for the crucial meeting on Monday.However, according to party functionaries he had ceased to be a CWC member after his removal as the Delhi in-charge following the Congress’s debacle in the last year’s assembly polls, where it had drawn a blank. Chacko said that the leaders should have avoided writing a letter and releasing it to the media before the CWC meeting. “I am not against the spirit of the letter. But I am against the way they wrote a letter and released it to the media a day ahead of the CWC meet. They were all in Delhi, and only a phone call away for a meeting. I sent a message to Soniaji on Monday... there is a lot of adhocism prevailing in the party,” Chacko told ANI. “I feel certain things need to be corrected in the leadership…all over India, the Congress has its footprint. All regional and smaller parties want the Congress leadership to call and discuss issues with them. This is what they expect from the Congress, but, unfortunately, this is not happening. They are disappointed with the party,” he added. Congress leader Anil Shastri said most of the problems within the party could be resolved if the party top brass is accessible. He also demanded that Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra should be considered for the Congress president’s post. “There are certain things that are lacking in the Congress leadership. Significantly, meetings are not held between party leaders. For instance, if a leader from a different state comes to Delhi, it’s not easy for him to meet other leaders in the national capital,” Shastri told ANI. “If Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi start meeting party leaders, then, I think, 50% of all the problems will be solved,” he said.Shastri maintained that the Congress president should only be from the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hooda-moily-happy-as-sonia-agrees-to-lead-congress/story-jAvmcIhYrRrPtyE4z4wKGM.html
26-08-2020||India||Jharkhand launching food security scheme for 15 lakh people uncovered under NFSA||More than 15 lakh people under the poverty line (BPL) deprived of benefits under National Food Security Act (NFSA) would soon get subsidized ration under a proposed state-sponsored scheme, which will be known as Jharkhand State Food Security (JSFS) scheme, officials said on Wednesday.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has given an in-principle nod to the scheme, which will be tabled in the next cabinet meeting for approval, as per a press communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Tuesday evening.The scheme proposes to provide five kilograms of food grains per month to around 15 lakh beneficiaries at Rs 1 per kg. The CMO said it has been proposed to set a district-wise target in order to reach 15 lakh eligible beneficiaries.Secretary, food and public distribution, Arun Singh, refused to speak on the development until the scheme gets approved by the cabinet, however, a senior official in the department, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the scheme would be an extended version of the NFSA.The NFSA was rolled out in the state from October 1, 2015. Around 57 lakh households covering 2.63 people, around 80% of the state population, have been receiving rice at Rs 1 per kg in Jharkhand under NFSA. “The NFSA was designed based on the 2011 census, when the state’s population was 3.29 crore. The population has grown substantially since then based on rough estimates keeping the previous growth rate of 22%, registered in the previous decade, in mind. So, the poor among the additional population are deprived of the benefits under the NFSA, which caps the number of beneficiaries,” he said. Also Read: JMM chief Shibu Soren shifted to Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital for further treatment“If we go through the application pending for ration cards under NFSA, we find the waiting list has reached 22 lakh. So, it has been a big deal for the state to feed these people. Therefore, we have decided to provide subsidized ration to these left out people from the state’s own pocket so that no one goes hungry,” the official quoted above added. Out of the 22 lakh who have applied for ration cards under the NFSA, 15 lakh would be accommodated under the state sponsored scheme, while vacancy would be created in the NFSA to accommodate rest of the people. “A massive drive is on in the state to scrap duplicate or fake ration cards apart from cancelling cards from people who are not eligible for it,” he said. Also Read: Ranchi University to hold final year UG, PG exams offline in SeptemberON the question of eligibility for the new state-sponsored scheme, the officials said there will be three categories including priority households, Antyodaya and PVTG like in NFSA. However, old people and differently-abled persons would get priority in the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-launching-food-security-scheme-for-15-lakh-people-uncovered-under-nfsa/story-fAkEUbD3xSGuHRIUESf1aI.html
26-08-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks direction for appointment of govt nominee to Ayodhya mosque trust||A petition has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking a direction for the appointment of a government nominee to the Ayodhya mosque trust constituted for the construction of the mosque. The petition was filed by one of the lawyers from Hindu side in the Ayodhya case, Karunesh Shukla, through his lawyer, Vishnu Jain.The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has created an ‘Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation’, a 15-member trust for building a mosque and other facilities on the land allotted in Ayodhya by the Uttar Pradesh Government on the Supreme Court’s instructions.In the Ayodhya-Babri Masjid land case, the Supreme Court had, on November 9 last year, directed the Central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a temple and set up a trust for the same.The apex court had further directed the government to allocate an alternative five acres of land at a prominent location in Ayodhya for the construction of a mosque to the Sunni Waqf Board.According to a press release by the Board, “In compliance of the Judgment and order of the Supreme Court of India, in Babri Masjid case, the Government of Uttar Pradesh had allotted 5 Acres of land in village Dhannipur, Ayodhya and the Board had accepted it in February 2020. The Board has created a Trust named, Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, for building the Mosque and other facilities for the benefit of the general public.”The Trust will have a maximum of 15 trustees, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board being its founder trustee, while Zufar Ahmad Faruqi will be chief trustee/president.In February, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board accepted the five acres of land provided for construction of the mosque in Ayodhya.Apart from this, the Trust will also construct a charitable hospital, public library and a centre showcasing the heritage of Indo-Islamic civilisation which will also serve as a research and study centre for the same, according to a press release by the Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-direction-for-appointment-of-govt-nominee-to-ayodhya-mosque-trust/story-xa5rqxn01ElG9J1sOmMSNN.html
26-08-2020||India||Jammu Srinagar National Highway remains blocked due to landslide, clearance work underway||The Jammu Srinagar National Highway (NHW-44) continued to remain blocked on Wednesday as clearance work following landslide and heavy rains is underway in the area, Jammu and Kashmir Police said.“Jammu-Srinagar NHW-44 is still blocked, clearance work is going on,” J-K Police tweeted. Earlier on August 21, the highway was blocked due to landslides between Ramban and Ramsu.Meanwhile, rain lashes several parts of Gandhinagar area in Jammu. According to police, the overnight rainfall had aggravated the situation due to which the shooting stones blocked the road at Panthial, Trishul Mod, Marog, Monkey Mod, Iron shed Digdol, Anokhy Fall and Battery Chashma.Also, a flood-like situation has prevailed in Rajouri district as Saktoh and Dharhali rivers are overflowing following heavy rainfall in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-remains-blocked-due-to-landslide-clearance-work-underway/story-JmZjIquqflkbPj5e06N4fL.html
26-08-2020||India||Maharashtra plans to waive excess amount in inflated power bills||After the shock from inflated power bills, citizens are likely to get some relief in the coming months as the Maharashtra government is likely to provide waiver in electricity bills, officials said.It plans to bear the financial burden of the surplus amount from the inflated bills for three months of the lockdown period - April, May and June.According to the proposal moved by the state energy department, the waiver has been divided into three slabs based on power consumption by each household. It will bear the entire cost if usage is up to 100 units in excess to the usage of the corresponding period last year. For 101-300 units, it has proposed to waive off 75% of the excess amount and 50% if units in excess are up to 500, said, a senior official requesting anonymity.The proposal which is likely to cost around Rs 1,500 crore is likely to come up for discussion in the next cabinet meeting.Officials said that giving a waiver means the amount is going to be adjusted in the next month’s bill as it is not possible for them to provide cash.“The waiver will be implemented in the form of adjustment in the next power bill. The excess amount will be deducted from the current power bill and people will have to pay only the remaining amount,” an official said.The proposal will be applicable for both private and government power distribution companies.Consumers across the state have been complaining about inflated power bills for the past few months, but power distribution companies have maintained that there was no error on their part and that there has been an increase in power usage owing to summer and Covid-19-induced lockdown, with most people at home and the meter-reading suspended.Following hue and cry on the issue, state energy minister Nitin Raut declared to provide relief to the people after holding several meetings. The state also approached Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) for the same.According to energy department officials, they had two options — rebate up to a certain percentage in the existing power bill or reduce charges in the current slabs — that could be implemented to bring down consumers’ power bills from next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-plans-to-waive-excess-amount-in-inflated-power-bills/story-fpJ7PuvoWdKh4yvxob4WtI.html
26-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in coma, renal parameters ‘slightly deranged’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection and his renal function parameters have deteriorated since yesterday, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said in a medical bulletin on Wednesday morning.He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support.The 84-year-old former President underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on August 10. He was also tested positive for coronavirus at the time of his admission to the hospital. He later developed a respiratory infection.Pranab Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-in-coma-renal-parameters-slightly-deranged-hospital/story-V3UHrulAU8Rx9zbuYoHbXO.html
26-08-2020||India||10-month-old among 3 trapped in MP house collapse, 9 rescued||As many as nine people were rescued while three, including a 10-month-old baby, are still trapped in the debris of a two-storey house which collapsed in Dewas city, 153 kilometres south west of Bhopal, on Tuesday evening, said administrative officers. Meanwhile, a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) reached Dewas on Wednesday morning for the rescue work going on in Nai Aabadi area on station road, as per the officials. The house is owned by Zakir Sheikh, an auto-rickshaw driver. Families of four brothers including Zakir reside in the house.Those rescued include Baskar B, 55, Aksha, 16, Aafia, 9, Anjum, 39, Alfez, 15, Aneesha, 13, Shareen, 21, Shabana, 40, and another person of the family. Those still trapped include Rehan, 16, Simran, 23, and the 10-month-old baby.The rescued injured were rushed to the district hospital, as per officials. The male members of the family were out of the house when the house, in a dilapidated condition, collapsed. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has instructed officials to expedite the rescue work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-month-old-infant-among-three-trapped-in-mp-house-collapse-9-rescued/story-JH5MLw5HUz5OG2vbkoRqJN.html
26-08-2020||India||Most JEE, NEET candidates this year from Maharashtra, UP||With a total 228,914 candidates who will take National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in 615 centres, Maharashtra has the highest number of students appearing for the exam followed by Uttar Pradesh with 166,582 students, according to data released by the National Testing Agency (NTA).For the JEE (Main) exam, which, like NEET, is also slated to be held in September, it is Maharashtra again which has the highest number of candidates followed again by Uttar Pradesh.According to the NTA data, there are 110,313 who will take the test in 74 centres in Maharashtra while for Uttar Pradesh, 100, 706 candidates will take the test in 66 centres.Also Read: Despite furore, JEE, NEET to be held in SeptemberNEET, which is a pen and paper-based exam for entrance to top medical colleges, will be held on September 13 while the JEE (Main), which is for entry to engineering colleges, is a computer-based test to be held from September 1 to 6.There has been much opposition to the tests being held in the time of Covid-19 with famous activist Greta Thurnberg and actor Sonu Sood being the latest celebrities suggesting the exams by postponed. Chief ministers of some states, like West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, have also asked the Centre to not hold the exam when the number of coronavirus cases is on the rise. The NTA, meanwhile, has been citing the academic interest of the students and emphasising on the detailed safety protocol it has prepared.Also Read: 10 things you need to know about NEET-JEE exam controversyAccording to the data released by the NTA, after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the state with the highest number of NEET candidates is Karnataka with 119, 587 candidates while Tamil Nadu has 117,990. Kerala is close with 115, 959 candidates. The NTA has set up 298 centres in Karnataka, 322 in Kerala and 238 in Tamil Nadu. Rajasthan also has over 108,000 candidates.According to the NTA data, 1,597, 433 candidates will take the NEET exam in 3,842 centres in September. Last year, 1,519,375 candidates had taken the exam in 2,546 centres.For JEE (Main), the highest number of candidates after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh will take the test in Andhra Pradesh. As many as 82,748 candidates will take the test in the state in 52 centres while 67,319 candidates will take the test in Telangana in 27 centres.Among the other states with a high number of candidates is Bihar. A total of 61, 583 students will take the test in 43 centres. There are over 50,000 candidates in Tamil Nadu while the states of Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala have over 40,000 candidates, according to NTA data. Delhi has 37,790 candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-jee-neet-candidates-this-year-from-maharashtra-up/story-bA7NT7to7adgnVgC34eDWO.html
26-08-2020||India||Over 3.76 crore samples tested for Covid-19 so far, says ICMR||A total of 8,23,992 samples were tested for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples tested to 3,76,51,512 so far, informed the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday. In a tweet today, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said that testing has worked as an ‘effective’ tool to contain the spread of the deadly virus. “India has exponentially scaled its TESTING from one in January to 10 lakhs/day in August 2020,” the tweet read. COVID-19 Testing Update . For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/tATuvKKKT7“With Positivity Rate progressively falling, testing has worked as an effective tool to limit the spread of #Covid19 infection,” the Ministry said in another tweet.According to a GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) shared by the Ministry, the average daily positivity rate in India has fallen from 11 patients per 100 in July to about eight patients in the last week of August. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%With 67,151 new Covid-19 cases, India surpassed the 32-lakh mark in the last 24 hours, according to the MoHFW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-76-crore-samples-tested-for-covid-19-so-far-says-icmr/story-JwaROThmZv8AALpar7VvXI.html
26-08-2020||India||Bombay HC directs Mumbai, Pune police to decide afresh on licenses for rummy tournaments||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the licensing police authorities of Mumbai and Pune city police to pass fresh orders on applications filed by Competitive Tournament Rummy Players Association (CTRPA) for licenses for organising competitive rummy tournaments in Maharashtra.The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht directed the licensing authorities to decide within eight weeks the applications filed by CTRPA for premises license, performance license and license for sale of tickets, after giving an opportunity of hearing to the representative of CTRPA.The directive was issued in a petition filed by Milind Limaye, founder and president of CTRPA, through advocate Shivani Samel, challenging March 2, 2020 order passed by the additional chief secretary, home department, holding that Rummy tournament sought to be conducted by CTRPA was in the nature of gambling activity and that the association was not entitled to premises license, performance license and sale of ticket license, to hold Rummy skill game tournaments in a Card Court Café.Limaye’s counsel, advocate Shruti Tulpule pointed out that though the appellate authority rejected their appeal, it directed the licensing authorities of both Mumbai and Pune police to decide pending applications filed by CTRPA. She pointed out that applications dated February 14, 2020 were pending before the licensing authorities when the order of March 2 was passed, but the licensing authorities of Mumbai and Pune police have not decided the applications yet.Additional public prosecutor Jayesh Yagnik responded by complaining that though the applications are rejected by licensing authorities, appeals against the same are rejected, multiple applications and petitions were being filed by the association on the same issue.HC, however, accepted Tulpule’s contention and directed the licensing authorities to decide the pending applications after hearing CTRPA representative. The bench also clarified that the licensing authorities shall not be influenced by the observations made and conclusions drawn by the additional chief secretary in his March 2 order.Also Read: IIT-Bombay records two-fold rise in number of patentsThus, the licensing authorities will have to decide afresh, if holding of game of skill rummy tournaments would amount to gambling and whether the activity is exempted under Section 13 of the Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act, 1887.Also Read: Son-in-law held for Navi Mumbai woman’s murderLimaye, in his petition, has stated that CTRPA proposes to promote the concept of Card Court Café, which integrates an eating house and a place for amusement in the form of games. Thus, the petition states, a Card Court Café will have an eating section - Café and a playing section - Card Court. A ‘Card Court’ will be similar to a Tennis Court or Badminton Court, where a particular game is played in a specific competition format, designed to increase the skill, and where skill will determine the overall outcome of the game, rather than chance, which is peculiar to gambling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-directs-mumbai-pune-police-to-decide-afresh-on-licenses-for-rummy-tournaments/story-tVDODZtri46zKNVMirZtxM.html
26-08-2020||India||Bengal sets up 3-tier scanner to monitor senior citizens during Covid-19 pandemic||The West Bengal government is setting up a three-tier scanner to monitor senior citizens living alone in high-rises and gated communities in urban areas after it emerged that one out of every five people who died in the state due to Covid-19 belonged to this category.The three-tier scanner will comprise three arms of the government – the police, district and health officials and public representatives who would keep a check on the senior citizens. This would help the authorities to send medical help and ambulance during a crisis which in turn could help to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR). “At the ground level, officers from the local police station, the block development officer, block medical officer and public representatives such as ward councilor and ward coordinators will keep a tab on the senior citizens living alone in housing societies, flats, high rises and gated communities, particularly in urban areas,” said a senior official of the home department. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Till Tuesday, 2,909 people have died in West Bengal after testing positive for Covid-19. Nearly 20% of them were found to be citizens above 61 years of age. While 6.2% were found to be in the age bracket 61–75 years, 13.7% of the victims were above 75 years of age. Hypertension was the major comorbidity factor among senior citizens. Under the monitoring plan, the ground level government staff and public representatives will visit the highrises and gated communities and speak to the members of the managing committees. They will exchange numbers so that the citizens can contact the police and health officials whenever a senior citizen falls sick or tests positive for Covid-19. “They can be immediately rushed to the hospital and treatment will start at the earliest. With comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac diseases also taking a heavy toll we will be starting a survey on this,” said a senior health official. The police have already started taking stock of senior citizens living in Kolkata, Howrah, Salt Lake and Barrackpore.The police and administration in other urban areas such as Asansol-Durgapur, Siliguri and Chandannagar have been asked to start the process as well. The decision was taken in an administrative review meeting chaired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. “With a three-tier checklist we hope to plug the gap that exists in urban areas. This would in turn help us to bring down the mortality rate,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sets-up-3-tier-scanner-to-monitor-senior-citizens-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-9NTmPGivkRGKTR4SGxM8vO.html
26-08-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown results in more teens tuning in to radio programmes, targeted ads||After nationwide Covid-19 lockdown there has been a noticeable growth in radio content consumption among teenagers in four metropolitan cities, according to a press release shared by Association of Radio Operators for India.In Kolkata, there has been a 72 per cent growth in Teen Segment Listenership (TSL) whereas Mumbai has seen a 50 per cent growth in TSL followed by Delhi and Bengaluru, that have seen 35 per cent and 34 per cent increase respectively.“It may be noted that research by AZ Research PPL in April 2020 for top 6 metros had indicated that 82 per cent of population (22 per cent increase) had tuned in to FM Radio post covid -19 with a significant increase in listening time ( 23 per cent increase) . The research also positioned FM Radio as the most credible media amongst Print, TV and Radio,” the press release said. The growth in TSL has resulted in a higher per centage of advertisement targeted at teenagers. The significant increases have been in publications/books (438 per cent), music albums (319 per cent), education-other courses (313 per cent), cellular phone service (120 per cent), and educational / vocational training institutes (157 per cent).“It is not surprising to see that Radio engagement has also grown phenomenally in teen segment, as is has done in all other segments. Teens are the future of India and I am sure that their engagement with Radio will only grow with time, especially as the very active teen segment can listen into radio even while doing most other activities, be it walking, playing, biking or studying. Advertising growth definitely follows growth in listenership and engagement,” said Anurradha Prasad , President of Association of Radio Operators, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-results-in-more-teens-tuning-in-to-radio-programmes-targeted-ads/story-FNV0nTZfTXhoncpGXMrEsO.html
26-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out over RBI report, says he had warned before||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took on the government over the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) latest warning on economic contraction amid the novel coronavirus pandemic, saying “distractions through media won’t help the poor”.Gandhi said the central bank has “now confirmed” what he has been talking about for months and suggested a few ways to restart the economy.“RBI has now confirmed what I have been warning for months. Govt needs to: Spend more, not lend more. Give money to the poor, not tax cuts to industrialists. Restart economy by consumption. Distractions through media won’t help the poor or make the economic disaster disappear,” the former Congress leader tweeted.The central bank had said in its annual report released on Tuesday that the impact of the coronavirus pandemic could cause a structural downshift on India’s potential output, with the gross domestic product (GDP) likely to contract in the second quarter as well.RBI, which on previous occasions warned that the country’s GDP is set to contract at least in the first half of the current year, said, unlike the 2008 financial crisis which was man-made, the recovery this time is likely to be different and path likely more gradual.“The global crisis occurred after years of robust growth with macroeconomic stability; by contrast, Covid-19 has hit the economy after consecutive quarters of slowdown,” RBI said. Gandhi, who represents Kerala’s Wayanad in the Lok Sabha, has been leading his party’s attack on the Centre over a number of issues, including the handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the border standoff with China, for some time now.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has, on its part, denied his accusations with senior leaders, including JP Nadda, taking on the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-over-rbi-report-says-he-had-warned-before/story-PgGfAOacmBzUbYrBgmy3VO.html
26-08-2020||India||6 dead, over dozen injured after 2 buses collide near Lucknow||At least six people died and over a dozen were injured when two Uttar Pradesh state roadways buses and a truck collided on the outskirts of Lucknow city under Kakori police station limits on Wednesday morning, said police officials.The condition of five injured is said to be very critical. They are undergoing treatment at King George’s Medical University (KGMU)’s trauma center. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Kakori SM Qasim Abidi confirmed that six people have died while eight are critically injured.A policeman at Kakori police station said the incident took place when a roadways bus coming from Lucknow city tried to overtake a truck and collided with another bus coming from the opposite direction. The truck being overtaken also got involved in the collision. The policeman added that a two-wheeler rider, who was passing through, also got injured in the incident.The truck drive involved in the accident said that he lost his nerves and control of the vehicle when the two buses collided within metres of his vehicle.The incident took place at around 6.30 am. As many as 25 passengers were present in the two buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-buses-collide-near-lucknow-6-dead-over-dozen-injured/story-v8m2RiFyoB0t01WANGAi4O.html
26-08-2020||India||BJP Rajya Sabha tally set to get big boost||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to increase its Rajya Sabha (RS) tally. Based on the available numbers, it is comfortably placed to win the solitary by-poll to the Upper House of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh (UP) on September 11, a notification for which was issued on Tuesday. The by-poll will be held following the death of Samajwadi Party’s (SP) RS member Amar Singh (64) in Singapore on August 1. However, the big push for a BJP domination in the RS -- 164 is the two-third mark in the 245-member Upper House of Parliament – will occur later this year.On November 25, the tenure of 10 RS members from UP expires following which fresh polls will be held. At present, the BJP has 86 RS members. While the strength of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is 113 on the basis of the BJP’s support from its coalition partners. UP sends 31 members to the RS, the highest among all states. The BJP, which has 305 lawmakers in the 403-member UP state legislative assembly , is sitting pretty. The ruling party is poised to win eight out of 10 seats and then may try for an additional ninth seat. The current strength of the UP assembly is 395, as eight seats are lying vacant.RS elections are based on proportional representation and single transferable vote, which ensures that after the first round, surplus votes get transferred to the remaining candidate in the second round. “RS election is held on the basis of a complex equation. As per the present strength of the UP assembly, the quota of votes that each member will need for an outright win in November will be around 37,” said Brij Bhushan Dubey, the returning officer (RO) for the September 11 by-poll. The Samajwadi Party (SP) is the second-largest party after the BJP in the UP assembly, as it has 48 lawmakers. The Bahujan Samaj Party has 18 legislators, followed by the BJP ally, Apna Dal (9), Congress (7), Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) 4, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) (1) and independents (3). The BJP appears comfortable to win eight RS seats from UP. While it could make a play for the ninth seat along with its ally Apna Dal, BJP leaders said.The BJP would be left with 13 surplus votes after securing the win for its eight candidates and the tally would go up 22 on the basis of the Apna Dal’s support that has nine MLAs in the UP assembly, they added. “There are several fence-sitters in other parties. Some MLAs in the opposition are already pro-BJP,” a party leader said, requesting anonymity. Though BJP leader didn’t name any particular lawmaker, several lawmakers such as Rakesh Singh and Aditi Singh, Congress legislators from Harchandpur and Sadar, respectively, in Rae Bareli, had defied the party line in the recent past. Rakesh Singh’s brother Dinesh Singh, a former member of the UP legislative council (MLC), had also contested unsuccessfully against Congress president Sonia Gandhi from Rae Bareli in last year’s parliamentary elections. Opposition MLAs such as Nitin Agarwal, who is still a lawmaker on SP symbol, has since joined the BJP. He made the move after his father Naresh Agarwal had revolted against the SP for being denied a ticket in the RS polls held earlier this year. “The RS polls would give an indication of not just the BJP’s political domination but also about how many ‘friends’ they have in other parties, who had come to its support during the RS polls held earlier this year. Though the opposition had come together, they couldn’t ensure victory of their candidate,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer. The SP, which has 48 MLAs, is the only other party from UP that is in the reckoning to win a solitary RS seat.10 RS MPs from UP whose tenure will end on November 25 * Arun Singh* Javed Ali Khan* PL Punia* Ram Gopal Yadav * Rajaram * Vir Singh* Chandrapal Singh Yadav* Neeraj Shekhar * Ravi Prakash Verma * Hardeep Singh Puri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rajya-sabha-tally-set-to-get-big-boost/story-NhLRMU9HlvjkMMeaFPJ18H.html
26-08-2020||India||Covid-19 takes Odisha’s primitive tribal groups into its tentacles||After remaining untouched for long, primitive tribal groups of Odisha in remote habitations have reported half a dozen Covid-19 cases recently, triggering concerns over the infection spreading to other such tribals in the state.Five Didayi tribals in Oringi and Muduliguda villages have tested positive for the virus over the last couple of days, officials said.Didayi is a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG).The first case of infection among tribals was reported recently from Khairput block of Malkangiri district, where over 12,000 Bonda tribals, one of the 13 PVTG of Odisha, stay in hilltop villages.“The infection was reported a few days back and the infected person is doing well. His conditions are stable. We have taken all precautionary measures,” said Malkangiri district collector Manish AgarwalHe also said that movements to Bonda hamlets have been restricted.Other officials in the district said considering the isolated way of life of Bondas, it is difficult to find out how the Bonda tribal got infected. “Some of the Bondas do go to the nearby haats (community marketplace) and may have caught the infection,” said an official. In Khairput block, so far 41 people have tested positive.The Bondas scattered across 32 remote hilltop villages on in the Eastern Ghats of Malkangiri district are believed to have come to India as part of the first wave of migration out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. They were the first forest settlers in India. Though the state government set up the Bonda Development Agency in 1977, there has not been much progress in the community with malnutrition still rampant among the children.Y Giri Rao, who works with the tribal communities in Odisha, said Covid reaching the PVTG groups like Bondas was not a good sign considering the poor level of immunity of these tribals due to malnutrition. “The PVTG are our heritage. There is still no clear data whether the pandemic has affected other groups like Lanjia Saura, Dongaria Kondh, Juangs and Lodhas. Their numbers have remained stagnant and if they are not saved from pandemic they may be wiped out,” said Rao, adding that if infection spreads among Bondas, it may be difficult to isolate them considering the way they live.Officials working with the PVTG asserted that infection is yet to spread among these tribals living in the remote pockets of the state. Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement Programme, P Arthanarisaid none of the officials have reported cases of Covid infection among the tribals on the ground even though cases have been reported from areas where these tribals live.“I have sought information from my staff about the possible Covid cases among PVTG tribals,” Arthanari said.In Bissamcuttack and Kalyansinghpur blocks of the Rayagada district, where the Dongria Kandhs tribe lives, there have been 106 and 40 positive cases respectively. Similarly, 189 Covid-19 cases have been found in Lanjigarh block of Kalahandi district, where the Dongrias live.In Gajapati’s Guma block, home to the Lanjiasaura tribals, 313 people have been infected by the Covid-19.Director of Public Health, Ajit Mohanty said the state government has not done classification of the cases on the basis of tribals and non-tribals so far even though tribals constitute 23 per cent of the total population of the state. “The number of cases is too large for our staff to do any classification. We are mostly doing classification on gender and age basis. However, the prevalence among PVTG tribals, if any, would be low as they don’t travel outside for work. Most of the tribals who were infected were migrant workers,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-takes-odisha-s-primitive-tribal-group-into-its-tentacles/story-QkyFtNSFT3csaRTLxeAnhI.html
26-08-2020||India||4.1-magnitude earthquake hits West Bengal’s Durgapur||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.1 struck Durgapur in Paschim Bardhaman district of West Bengal on Wednesday morning, officials said.Tremors were felt in the industrial town and its nearby areas, they said.The quake, with its epicentre at 110 km east-northeast of Durgapur, occurred at 7.54 am at a depth of 10 km, the National Centre of Seismology said.There has been no report of damages in the area so far, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-1-magnitude-earthquake-hits-west-bengal-s-durgapur/story-CRQNSEq3aLHMZ5V6upGTEJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Films on Gandhi, Sardar Patel most watched during virtual patriotic film festival||Shyam Benegal-directed documentary The Making of the Mahatma, Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi along with National Film Development Corporation’s (NFDC) Sardar Patel --- A Nation Stands United and Satyajit Ray’s Ghare Baire emerged as the most-watched films in the first-ever patriotic film festival that was organised by the Union Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry between August 7 and 21.The festival, which was organised in virtual mode because of the unprecedented coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day, showcased a variety of movies ranging from Mani Ratnam’s Roja to Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Khakee.According to the I&B ministry data, accessed by HT, the two films on Gandhi, Ghare Baire, Roja, Heda Hoda, Veera Pandiya Kattabomman, Sardar Patel: A Nation Stands United, and Chittagong have attracted most viewers in the first week of the festival. Over 60,000 cineastes from 147 nations, including the United States of America (USA), the United Kingdom (UK), the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Canada, and Germany, had watched these films in the first week of the festival. “The first-ever patriotic film festival got an encouraging response. Several movies have had thousands of viewers and despite it being a modest festival, as compared to the much bigger IFFI (International Film Festival of India), which is slated to be held in Goa in November. People across the globe are keen to watch good cinema on Indian history. Attenborough’s Gandhi, which is one of the most viewed movies, was made accessible for hearing-impaired viewers as well,” said a person aware of the developments.A majority of the audience was in the age group of 25 and 34 and the gender ratio was 72.5% males to 27.5% females, the ministry data showed. NFDC’s Cinemas of India platform had reported a spike of 3,156.18 % traffic on its website between August 7 and 21, when the festival was held.Other popular films were Udayer Pathey, Chota Sipahi, Shahadat, Abhi Kal Ki Baat Hai, Ae Vatan Ter Liye, Andhra Kesari, The Flag, Harun Arun, 1971: Beyond Borders, Battalion 609, Khakee, Qayamat, Tango Charlie, and Spread The Light of Freedom.Around 84.76 % users watched these films on mobile devices, as compared to desktops and tablets, according to the data.Nearly 88.% of the viewers were from India, the USA, the UAE, Germany, Canada and the UK.“The festival received a lot of support from several celebrities. Music composer A R Rehman gave a video message, urging cinema lovers to seize the opportunity to watch patriotic films free of cost. He was also nostalgic about Roja that was screened at the festival, as he was the music composer of the film,” said the person quoted above.The patriotic film festival is a precursor to IFFI, which will be held in Goa in November. “The lessons learnt here will also be put to good use in Goa,” the person said. Former I&B secretary Uday Varma said it was a positive sign that many people, especially youngsters, were keen on watching movies about those who made history. “It is a positive trend and will help them develop a better perspective,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/films-on-gandhi-sardar-patel-most-watched-during-virtual-patriotic-film-festival/story-dz2Wjtw7923qzJxK0KAhlJ.html
26-08-2020||India||10 get life imprisonment for smuggling explosives from Pakistan||A special court in Rajasthan’s Barmer pronounced 10 people guilty of smuggling explosives from Pakistan for supply to Sikh terror organization, Babbar Khalsa, on Tuesday and sentenced them to life imprisonment besides slapping fines. The convicts include one Babbar Khalsa member, who came to Barmer, to collect the consignment of explosives. The ten have been held guilty under different sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Explosive Act, Arms Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code. Barmer SC/ST court special judge Vamita Singh said the accused were guilty of bringing explosives to India with the help of Pakistani smugglers for supply to Babbar Khalsa. “The accused have helped the terrorists by forming an unlawful organization to spread terrorism in India with smuggled explosive,” the order said. Barmer police booked 14 people, including two Pakistani smugglers Aliya Khan and Fotiya Khan and three Babbar Khalsa members Harjot Singh, Parmajit Singh and Jagmohan Singh in 2009 after recovering 6 kg of RDX, 8 foreign pistols and 420 rounds of cartridges during a raid at a location 13 km from Barmer town on September 8, 2009. Three people were arrested during the raid, and on the basis of information given by them, 9 kg of RDX, one timer device, 3 detonators, 910 cartridges and some other material was recovered. Ten people, included Jagmohan Singh of Babbar Khalsa, were arrested; investigation against the remaining four is pending because they are outside India. Also Read: NIA files charge sheet in Pulwama attack case; names Jaish chief Masood Azhar, his brothers and PakistanThe Barmer special judge sentenced the 10 to life imprisonment (14 years) after pronouncing them guilty under section 4 of Explosive Act; sections 5 and 6 of Explosive Substances Act; sections 3/10, 18 and 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, section 7(25)(1)(D)(1-AA) of Arms Act and section 120B of IPC. They were given five years imprisonment under section 3/25 of Arms Act, three years under sections 5, 9 (B) of Explosive Act, two years under sections 6, 9 (B) of Explosive Act, seven years under section 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and three years under section 153A of the IPC. The conviction order said the sentences will be served concurrently and the time in police and judicial custody will be included in it. The court acquitted the accused of charge under section 29 of the Arms Act giving them benefit of doubt. The convicted people are Sodha Khan alias Sodiya alias Luniya, Najeer Khan (son of Meeru Khan), Najeer Khan (son of Jiya Khan), Khanu Khan, Musa Khan, Meeru Khan, Kalla Khan, Ramdha Khan, Mubarak Khan and Jagmohan Singh. Six of them – Najeer Khan (son of Jiya Khan), Meeru Khan, Kalla Khan, Ramdha Khan, Mubarak Khan and Jagmohan Singh – are out on bail; Sodha Khan, Najeer Khan and Khanu Khan are in jail since 2009, and Musa Khan is in jail since 2011. The court accepted the prosecution story according to which the consignment of explosive, arms and ammunition was smuggled from Pakistan for supply to Babbar Khalsa. Aliya Khan and Fotiya Khan of Pakistan smuggled the consignment to their India connections in Barmer. Jagmohan Singh came to Barmer to receive the consignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-get-life-imprisonment-for-smuggling-explosives-from-pakistan/story-hBODPoXxm7wusvgxnY3GBM.html
26-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%||With 67,151 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,059 deaths in a single day, India’s tally has crossed 3.2 million, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday.The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 59,449 and the number of active cases is 707,267, according to the health ministry dashboard at 8am. India reported its first Covid-19 fatality in mid-March and over 22,000 deaths have been recorded in August so far.Recoveries saw further increase with 63,173 Covid-19 patients being cured between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, data showed. There have been 2,467,758 discharges till date, which has taken the country’s recovery rate to 76.29%.The health ministry had said on Tuesday that there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate of Covid-19 despite an exponential increase in testing, underlining that the number of active cases has reduced by 6,423 in a day for the first time. Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, said the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 8% now from 11% during the first week of August on the basis of a seven-day rolling average.Bhushan also said 36% of the deaths have been reported in the age group between 45-60 years and 51% deaths in people aged 60 and above. He added that 11% of deaths were reported in the age group of 26-44 years and 1% each among people aged 18-25 and those below 17 during a press briefing. Covid-19 fatalities include 69% male and 31% female, he added.The testing for the disease has been increased from 363 tests per million per day on August 1 to more than 600 tests per million per day at present, with India having tested nearly 3.7 crore cumulative Covid-19 samples so far, Bhushan said.India, which is the third worst-hit country, had reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases globally on Tuesday for the 18th straight day, ahead of the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-3-2-million-recovery-rate-rises-to-76-29/story-FvIBnIhbALQluOe0GuDRmK.html
26-08-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal calls crucial meet to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has on Wednesday called a high level meeting to discuss the overall Covid-19 situation in the national capital amid the rising number of infections. The meeting will take place at 11am and will be attended by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and other officials of the state’s health department. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDelhi over the past few days has witnessed a slight rise in Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, the state registered 1,544 cases- the highest single day tally in over a month. The total number of cases in the national capital are over 161,000 and the death toll stands at 4330, according to the union health ministry’s dashboard. As many as 147,743 people have recovered from the infection till now. Also read: How metro travel will look in Covid-19 eraMeanwhile, 67,151 fresh cases and 1,059 deaths in the last 24 hours pushed India’s Covid-19 tally to over 3.2 million. The total cases include 7,07,267 active cases 2,467,758 discharges and nearly 60,000 deaths. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-calls-crucial-meet-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-RGNuIaBhDVHJjw0cG75DrL.html
26-08-2020||India||Congress likely to elect new president in January||The Congress party is likely to call its All India Congress Committee (AICC) session as early as January next year to elect its new president, two senior party leaders involved in the matter told HT. At the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, a section of the leaders had initially suggested that the session be held within a year, but party leader Rahul Gandhi and many others preferred holding it in the next six months. A January schedule for this mammoth organisational exercise also suits the party, as there would be no major elections round the corner after this year’s Bihar assembly poll. In 2021, elections for five assemblies—Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry—are slated in April, providing enough time for the Congress to come up with a rejigged team headed by a new leader. Sonia Gandhi, who has been the interim president of the party since August 2019, had offered to resign and asked the CWC to start the process to find a new chief, but amid heated debate over a letter signed by 23 senior leaders seeking major changes in the functioning of the Congress, many leaders, including former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, urged her to continue until such time as the new president is elected.Also Read: CWC meet: Leaked letter puts Congress seniors on back footParty leaders also added that Rahul Gandhi, who led the party for two years between 2017 and 2019, is against returning to the hot seat, but thousands of Congress workers and many leaders are keen to see him as the leader and may not accept a non-Gandhi. Also Read: At CWC meeting, Congress leaders ask Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief, criticise letterSonia Gandhi has already completed one year as the party’s interim chief. She was the party president for over 19 years, from May 1998 to December 2017—the longest uninterrupted tenure in the history of the Congress—when Rahul Gandhi took over the reins. He resigned in May 2019, taking moral responsibility for the party’s rout in the Lok Sabha elections. An AICC session is a marathon process that starts with a membership drive and election of delegates from the state-level. In the recent history of the party, the president has been selected unanimously, barring the one instance when Jitendra Prasada decided to contest against Sonia Gandhi in 2000. He lost miserably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-likely-to-elect-new-president-in-january/story-fiPbbEdDAqigKKKNj5oqAJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Pak ‘masquerading’ as a terror victim: India at UN||India hit out at Pakistan for its litany of lies at the United Nations after Islamabad’s UN envoy claimed to have given a statement in a Security Council meeting not open to non-Council members and said that the biggest sponsor of cross-border terrorism against it now tries to “masquerade” itself as a victim of terror.Calling out Pakistan’s lie that it has been a target of cross-border terrorism for decades, India said “a lie repeated a hundred times will not become truth. The biggest sponsor of cross-border terrorism against India now tries to masquerade itself as a victim of terrorism by India,” India’s Permanent Mission to the UN said on Monday. The Pakistan Mission falsely claimed that its UN envoy Munir Akram gave a statement at a Security Council debate on Report of the Secretary General on Threats to International Peace and Security posed by Terrorism Actions. However, the Security Council meeting on threats to international peace and security was not open to non-members of the Council. A photograph of the meeting tweeted by the German Mission to the UN showed only envoys of the 15 Security Council members participating in the meeting. Pakistan is not a member of the Council.“We fail to comprehend where exactly did the Permanent Representative of Pakistan make his statement since the Security Council session today was not open to non-members of the Security Council. Be that as it may, the five big lies of Pakistan lies exposed,” India’s Mission to the UN said in a post on Twitter.On Akram’s claim that Pakistan has decimated Al-Qaeda from the region, India said perhaps the Permanent Representative of Pakistan is “not aware that Osama bin Laden was hiding in their own country in plain sight, and it is the US forces which got him inside Pakistan. Nor have they heard their Prime Minister refer to Osama bin Laden as a martyr.” Giving a strong rebuttal to Pakistan’s lies, New Delhi termed Pakistan’s claim that India has hired terrorists as mercenaries to hit them as “laughable”. “Coming from a country which is a known sponsor of cross-border terrorism which has made the world suffer due to its actions, this claim is nothing short of being preposterous!”, India said. India also said that Pakistan is home to the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN and many of the sanctioned terrorists and entities continue to operate with impunity inside Pakistan. Prime Minister Imran Khan himself had admitted at the General Assembly last year about the presence of 40,000-50,000 terrorists inside Pakistan. Laying bare another lie by Pakistan about Indian nationals in the 1267 Al-Qaeda Sanctions List of the UN Security Council, India said the Sanctions List is “public and the world can see none of these individuals are in it. The 1267 Committee works on the basis of evidence and not random accusations thrown in to divert their time and attention,” India said in response to a lie made by Pakistan that it has submitted names of some Indians to be proscribed under the Sanctions list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-masquerading-as-a-terror-victim-india-at-un/story-O7KvD5kDEPCQwnMWqT4Z8I.html
26-08-2020||India||8.8 km long, 3,000 metre above sea: Know everything about Atal Tunnel||The 8.8-km strategic Rohtang Tunnel, being built at 3,000 metre above sea level between Himachal Pradesh’s Manali and Leh in Ladakh, will be opened by September-end. The Rs 3,200-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours.The tunnel is also called Atal Tunnel after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had announced the project on June 3, 2000. The work was entrusted to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO).The project has faced geological challenges which have pushed the deadline since digging started in 2011. The project was to be completed in February 2015, but water ingress from Seri Nullah, ban on rock mining and delay in allotment of land needed for quarrying, and loose rock strata in the middle caused the slow progress.Here is everything you need to know about the Atal Tunnel:• More than 700 men are working in shifts to complete the work of the tunnel. When the coronavirus pandemic-enforced lockdown was imposed, proactive measures were taken to recommence work in active coordination with the state government.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh was to inspect the work at the tunnel last month, but due to the stand-off between India and Chinese troops, this trip was cancelled. Singh is likely to visit the Rohtang tunnel in at the end of this month.• The speed limits in the tunnel will be 80km per hour. The tunnel will accelerate troop mobility to strategic frontiers in Jammu and Kashmir, besides providing a road link to Lahaul and Spiti in the winters.• The tunnel has the capacity to ply 3,000 vehicles per day under any weather condition. The cost of the project has escalated from Rs 1,700 crore in 2010 to almost its double to Rs 3,200 crore by September 2020.• Himachal Pradesh will run Vistadome buses inside Atal tunnel when it is inaugurated next month. Vistadome buses will have a glass rooftop for a panoramic view through the hilly region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-8-km-long-3-000-metre-above-sea-know-everything-about-atal-tunnel/story-oCTBzaruSchVIXXDYccSXM.html
26-08-2020||India||IIT-Bombay records two-fold rise in number of patents||The Indian Institute Technology, Bombay, recorded an almost two-fold increase in the number of patents granted to it for its innovations in the academic year 2019-20 as compared to the previour year.According to the data released during the 58th annual convocation ceremony of the institute, the premiere technology institute, which has been identified as an Institute of Eminence by the Centre, received 86 intellectual property rights (IPR), including patents and trademarks in the year 2019-20. This translates into a success rate of 56% as the institute had applied for 153 IPRs. In comparison, it had applied for 133 IPRs in 2018-19, of which only 48 were granted _ a 36% success rate. Of the 97 Indian patent applications filed in 2018-19, only 20 were granted. However, in 2019-20, the institute received 42 Indian patents against an application of 97. In 2019-20, applications were filed in the fields of battery storage system, biochemistry for therapeutic treatment, biomedical devices and blockchain technologies, among others. Professor Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, attributed the increase in number of applications to the innovations by the IDC School of Design and the start-ups incubated at the institute. “With startups, there is a lot of technology disruption and innovators want to patent their work,” he said.The institute was witnessing higher success is converting its application as the patent filing process is more streamlined now, said Atrey. “With streamlining of the patent filing process by the Indian Patent Office, the applications are now processes faster,” he said. While earlier innovators had to wait for five to seven years to get a patent, now the process takes around three years.For all Indian patents, the institute bears the expenses for the application process. “Thereafter, if an innovator wants to apply for a patent abroad, we take a call on the financial aspect of the application process taking into account the commercial aspect of the technology,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-bombay-records-two-fold-rise-in-number-of-patents/story-Dotpd4Lc2edOpHiRUzSBCP.html
26-08-2020||India||ISI wanted a Hurriyat-like body in Kashmir, says NIA||Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan’s spy agency, sought to create a non-government organisation (NGO) parallel to the All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) because of a perception that Kashmiris had lost faith in the latter , according to a charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in July against Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), J&K Police, and four others. ISI authorities delegated the job to Irfan Shafi Mir, 31, a lawyer from Kashmir, who was trusted by both the Pakistani establishment and the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM), the primary terrorist group in the Valley, the charge sheet says.According to the charge sheet, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT, the Central anti-terror probe agency has named at least six ISI officials – Umar Cheema, Eshan Chaudhary, Faizal, Sohail Abbas, Arbaaz and Sheikh Sahab – who were in touch with Mir.Also read: ISI pushed Jaish for intel on IAF bases after BalakotShafkat Jatoi alias Hussain, a Pakistani high commission official, who was repatriated from New Delhi to Islamabad in June for allegedly engaging in anti-India activities, paid Rs 2.5 lakh to Mir in two instalments to organise two seminars to fuel separatist sentiment -- How to defend Article 370, and Violation of Human Rights in the Kashmir Valley -- the charge sheet said.These seminars were allegedly chaired by Hameeda Bano, an academician based in Kashmir and the wife of the separatist activist Nayeem Khan, who was charged in 2017 in the NIA’s Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) terror funding case, it added.Professor Bano, however, denied that she chaired these seminars. “It’s a white lie. I have not attended any such seminar”.Mir is alleged to be the key person in the conspiracy to revive HM’s activities in the Valley; he used to regularly visit the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi “to receive instructions and money, and also facilitated the (Pakistani) visa applications for a number of Kashmiris,” according to the charge-sheet.He was arrested along with Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), J&K Police, and two HM terrorists – Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmad Rather -- on January 11 in Shopian, south Kashmir. Davinder Singh was suspended from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police after he was arrested while ferrying the two HM terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway.APHC, an alliance of 26 political, social and religious organisations from Kashmir, was formed in March 1993 as a united front to raise the cause of Kashmiri separatism, but has been ineffective in Kashmir for over the past two years. APHC’s leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani , 90, the face of Kashmir’s separatist movement for over three decades, resigned in June.There has been consistent action against separatist leaders by the NIA and Jammu and Kashmir Police in the past two-three years and many of them have either been jailed or put under house arrest.The NIA charge sheet stated that Mir has known senior ISI operatives since 2016 through a person identified as Majeed, who invited him to Pakistan to meet the HM leadership. During his 10-day trip to Pakistan four years ago, Mir met HM chief Syed Salahuddin, Khurshid Alam, Najar Mahmood, who are HM’s operations and finance heads, respectively, among others.Also read| Photos, chats and a phone: How NIA cracked the Pulwama caseIn 2018, he made two trips – in February and September– to Pakistan, during which he was instructed by Alam to find a contact in West Asia, preferably in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), for obtaining funds transferred through hawala channels for keeping terror activities alive in Kashmir, the charge sheet said.Mir’s father Mohammad Shafi Mir used to be a J&K police constable who turned rogue and joined HM and was eventually killed near the Line of Control (LoC) in the 1990s by Indian security forces while trying to cross over to Pakistan.Mir used secure messaging applications such as BBM, Zangi, KiK, Just Talk, Corp Chat, Cover Me and Sure Spot in a bid to keep in touch with HM terrorists in the valley, the charge sheet added.Sameer Patil, a fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, a think tank, said: “A combination of factors such as the action by the NIA against its leaders, their inability to hold large gatherings and address the public, a decline in stone pelting incidents etc, shows that the Hurriyat leadership has definitely lost its sheen. This is evident from Geelani’s decision to quit the organisation. He wouldn’t have done so if the Hurriyat had any influence left over (the Kashmiri) people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isi-wanted-a-hurriyat-like-body-in-kashmir-says-nia/story-L3P8HlrQK5FNQTJPGkGpoI.html
26-08-2020||India||Expedite projects worth Rs 5.88 lakh crore: Pradhan tells oil PSUs||Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan has told state-run energy companies to expeditiously implement oil and gas sector projects worth Rs 5.88 lakh crore to generate employment and revive growth after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic blows over, an oil ministry official said.Out of the total capital expenditure of Rs 5.88 lakh crore, about Rs 1.20 lakh crore capital expenditure is expected in the current financial year, the official said, requesting anonymity. Pradhan reviewed the progress of these projects on Monday, he said.“These projects will create a virtuous cycle of investments and will play a crucial role in revival of the Indian economy after the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the official quoting Pradhan.In the current financial year, companies have spent about Rs 26,576 crore on these projects until August 15. These firms have spent about Rs 3,258 crore on labour-related issues of these projects, he said.Public sector undertaking (PSU) companies and their joint ventures are implementing 8,363 projects that include laying pipelines, upgrading refineries, setting up of petrochemical, exploration and production projects.PSUs such as Oil and Natural gas Corporation (ONGC), Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Hindustan petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), GAIL India Ltd, Oil India Ltd (OIL) and HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd (HMEL) are implementing these projects.“A total of around 33.8 crore man-days (direct as well as indirect) of employment is expected to be generated towards the completion of these 8,363 projects, out of which more than 9.76 crore man-days of employment generation is targeted in FY 2020-21 itself,” he said.Over 2.2 crore man-days of employment have been generated through execution of these oil and gas projects until August 15, he added.Energy companies have reported that in 2020-21, they have planned an employment oriented operational expenditure (OPEX) of around Rs 41,672 crore, out of that Rs 11,296 crore has been spent.“This OPEX of Rs 41,672 crore has potential to generate around 14.5 crore man-days (direct/indirect). In FY 2020-21, direct/indirect employment of around 4.4 crore man-days have been generated through OPEX until August 15,” he said.In 2020-21, a total of around Rs 1.62 lakh crore is targeted to be spent by these companies, including both capital and employment oriented operational expenditures, as they have the potential to generate around 24 crore man-days of employment, he added.“The amount spent will create a virtuous cycle of investments. It will play a crucial role in the revival of the Indian economy. It will also provide employment opportunities to the people,” he said. Out of the total 8,363 projects, the anticipated cost for major 25 projects is Rs 1.67 lakh crore, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expedite-projects-worth-rs-5-88-lakh-crore-pradhan-tells-oil-psus/story-1t9kmLJtMNeYAgex9LryQP.html
26-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s porn OTT service involving models has a Pakistan link, 3 arrested||Madhya Pradesh police on Tuesday arrested two men including a software engineer, who launched an over the top (OTT) media service to circulate obscene video contents in the name of adult movies shot illegally, across 22 countries and have named a Pakistan resident for alleged involvement in the crime. The two arrested by the cyber cell of Indore police include Deepak Saini, 30, a software engineer from Gwalior and his partner Keshav Singh, 27, a resident of Morena. Three other accused were arrested by police on August 10. Seven other accused are absconding. All of them have been booked under section 66 and 67 of Information Technology Act, 2000, said police. The maintenance of their media services was done by one Hussain Ali, a resident of Pakistan, police said and added that no case has been registered against Ali as police is still looking into his role in the crime.“Saini and Singh used to pay up to Rs 5 lakh to distributors for a movie containing obscene contents and they used to earn money through subscription charges decided as per the boldness of the contents. The basic subscription charge was Rs 249 per month. In just one year, they released as many as 84 such movies on their platform,” said Jitendra Singh, superintendent of police, cyber cell, Indore. Also Read: Pakistan hackers target personal website of MoS G Kishan Reddy, now temporarily unavailable“The matter came to light when an Indore-based model lodged a complaint with the city cyber cell on July 25 that three men had signed her for acting in a web series of a reputed OTT platform. The accused shot bold scenes of the models in a farm house in Indore and later uploaded it on different porn sites. Later, a few more women came forward with similar complaints against Milind Dawar, who runs a modelling agency, Brijendra Gurjar, who posed as the director of movies, cameraman Ankit Chawda and five others. They were arrested on August 10,” said Singh. Also Read: 10 cops win Medal of Honour from Madhya Pradesh; 3 inspectors among them cracked rape and murder casesIn the investigation, it was found that the accused used to lure the models in the name of casting them in a popular web series of reputed web channels and used to shoot obscene movies. Later, they used to sell the movies to Mumbai-based Ashok Singh and Vijayanand Pandey, distributors of these adult movies,” said the cyber cell SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-porn-ott-service-involving-models-has-a-pakistan-link-3-arrested/story-voQuWlRcvALfFL9UzkTMyI.html
26-08-2020||India||India inches closer to 60k Covid deaths||On Tuesday, at least 1,066 coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related deaths were reported and the toll from the contagion is inching towards the 60,000 mark and stands at 59,598 to date.Of the 1,066 fresh deaths, the maximum was reported from Maharashtra at 329 – the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the country --- followed by Karnataka (148) and Tamil Nadu (107). The Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) officials are maintaining that the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) is below 2% and are trying to bring it down to under 1%.“The Covid-19 mortality rate in the country is among the lowest in the world. India has managed the viral outbreak well so far,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan during Tuesday’s briefing on the pandemic.India has reported 3,229,351 Covid-19 cases so far, including 66,781 fresh ones on Tuesday. While 64,562 Covid-19 patients recovered from their viral infection on Tuesday and the total recoveries stand at 2,465,081.“The active caseload is only about 22.24% of the total positive cases; and the overall recoveries have crossed the 75% mark,” said Bhushan.Though Covid-19 tests have increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate, he added.Bhushan highlighted that the number of Covid-19 active cases reduced by 6,423 for the first time within a span of 24 hours. “While the tests for detection of Covid-19 have increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. For the first time, active cases of Covid-19 have reduced by 6,423 within a span of 24 hours,” he said.Bhushan said on the basis of a seven-day rolling average the positivity rate of Covid-19, which was 11% during the first week of August, has currently come down to 8%.The ministry data also underlined the aggressive testing mechanism. It has increased from 363 tests per million population per day on August 1 to over 600 at present, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moves-closer-to-60k-covid-deaths/story-HQEjvtMz2SS3cVv02O7SaI.html
26-08-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee furious as embankments repaired after cyclone Amphan collapse||Several villages in the coastal districts of West Bengal have been inundated after portions of many river embankments which were repaired after cyclone Amphan in May, collapsed recently. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed her displeasure over the matter and has asked senior officials of the district administration to look into the matter. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has already raised allegations of corruption involving ‘cut money’ or bribe in exchange of government welfare scheme. “Several areas have become inundated as there were breaches in the embankments. In many places the embankments, which were repaired after Amphan, have also collapsed. Those involved in the process should have been more serious. Does this mean that the work was done in a hurry and not given due importance?” Banerjee said in an administrative review meeting on Tuesday. She, however, added that embankments repaired during the monsoon don’t hold for long because the rivers swell and the high tidal waves hit the embankments with great force. The ruling Trinamool Congress was on the backfoot after allegations of massive corruption and nepotism had surfaced against many local leaders of the party in the distribution of relief work in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan. Banerjee had to intervene and a few leaders were suspended. With less than a year remaining for the crucial Bengal assembly elections, Banerjee is not in a mood to face any more allegations. The chief minister has already asked senior officials to look into the matter. The BJP, however, lashed out at the state government and the ruling TMC with allegations of corruption. “The Trinamool Congress is synonymous with cut money. Embankments were also repaired after cyclone Bulbul in November 2019. The more the repair work the greater is the amount of cut money that would reach party leaders. Hence they would repair embankments and roads in such a way that they need to be repaired frequently,” said Sayantan Basu, BJP state general secretary. Around 160 km of river embankments and four kilometres of sea dykes were damaged by cyclone Amphan which had hit Bengal on May 20. Around 100 million people were affected. The breaches in the embankments have hit the districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas badly.“Particularly hit are the two coastal districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. Many villages have become inundated and the district administration is carrying out relief and rescue measures. But the situation has improved as there was no rain on Tuesday,” said a senior official. In North 24 Parganas, several villages in Minakha, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Hingalganj and Haroa have been hit because of breaches in the embankments. River water has gushed in and more than 900 people have been shifted to flood shelters, a senior official of the district said. In South 24 Parganas several villages in at least four blocks – Sagar, Patharprtaima, Namkhana and Kakdwip – were inundated after water gushed into the villages through breached embankments. More than 2,000 people had to be evacuated. The state government apprehends that more areas could get inundated after the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of heavy rain in till Thursday because of a low pressure developing over the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-furious-as-embankments-repaired-after-cyclone-amphan-collapse/story-wGhCoCTBHVu2OEXEi1GIuL.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Chattisgarh, Odisha likely to receive heavy rainfall, Orange warning issued for Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Orange warning for Delhi; Odisha, Chhattisgarh on alert for extremely heavy rainThe Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi has issued an orange warning for Delhi today. An orange warning implies that disaster management authorities should be prepared to avert any rain related disasters or flooding. Read moreYogi Adityanath says UP has reduced vector-borne diseases mortality rate by 95% since 2016Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Tuesday night that better inter-department coordination would make the state health mission more successful. He said an example to prove this was the effectiveness of the state in controlling vector-borne diseases through well-coordinated efforts among various departments. Read moreBattle shifting as Covid-19 threat stalks rural IndiaMore than half of all Covid-19 cases recorded in August came from 584 districts that are classified as “mostly rural” or “entirely rural”, reflecting the spread of the coronavirus disease from the large urban centres into the Indian hinterland where health care challenges, from testing to treatment, are much more significant. Read moreManchester United defender Harry Maguire found guilty of assaultManchester United defender Harry Maguire was found guilty of assault at a trial on Tuesday and handed a 21-month suspended sentence following his arrest after a brawl last week on the island of Mykonos, court officials in Greece said. Read moreChina protests US spy plane watching live fire military drillsChina has lodged “stern representations” with the United States, accusing it of sending a US U-2 reconnaissance plane into a no-fly zone over Chinese live-fire military drills on Tuesday, further ratcheting up tensions between Beijing and Washington. Read moreWomen’s Equality Day 2020: History, significance and all you need to knowThe Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was adopted, giving women the right to vote on this day in 1920. Amendment XIX prohibits any US state and the federal government from denying the right to vote to any American citizens on the basis of sex. Read moreGoogle’s mask song is catchy and creative. Heard it yet?Masks are a necessity of the current times and wearing this safety equipment whenever one is going out is something everyone should follow. Time and again, various posts on social media remind people to wear masks whenever one is going out. Read moreWatch| ‘Another split in Congress imminent?’: Watch Sanjay Jha’s response||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-chattisgarh-odisha-likely-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-orange-warning-issued-for-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AqvWcHYHo39oZCZROUK0pI.html
26-08-2020||India||10 things you need to know about NEET-JEE exam controversy||From international environmental activist Greta Thunberg to Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, several political leaders, activists, students, parents, and other stakeholders have raised concerns over holding the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in September amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While NEET is scheduled to take place on September 13, JEE (Mains) will be held from September 1 to September 6.Here are 10 things you need to know about the NEET-JEE exams so far:– Exam dates extended twice due to Covid-19: Over 8.58 lakh and 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) respectively this year. Generally, the JEE (Mains) exams for engineering aspirants are conducted in April while NEET is conducted for medical aspirants in May. These exams were postponed twice in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to restrict the spread of the disease.– Number of centres increased: In order to ensure that social distancing is maintained, the National Testing Agency (NTA), which is responsible for conducting these exams, has increased the number of centres this year. While the number of centres for JEE has been increased from 570 to 660, for NEET the number stands at 3,843, an increase from 2,546.– Admit cards available online: While NTA has released admit cards for JEE (Mains), the apex examination body on Tuesday said it would soon release admit cards for NEET as well. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ told a news channel in an interview that over 80% students had already downloaded the JEE (Mains) admit cards till Tuesday.– Social distancing in exam halls: As per the standard operating protocols developed by NTA, a reduced number of candidates will be seated in exam rooms to maintain social distancing. In case of NEET (UG), the number of candidates per room has been reduced from the earlier 24 to 12. While students have been asked to use gloves and masks at all times, centres will be equipped with extra supplies in case students or staff need it at the centre.– Precautionary measures: There will be hand sanitiser will be present at entry and exit points. Students will disperse in a staggered manner to avoid overcrowding. There will be thermo-guns to check the temperature of all staff and candidates. If any examination functionary fails to meet the self-declaration criteria or thermal scanner check, they will be asked to leave the examination centre immediately. Isolation rooms will also be set up for students with a body temperature of over 99.4° Fahrenheit. NTA has said that “no one will be denied permission to appear for the examination, if he/ she violates the Covid-19 directives/advisories of Government (Central/State) applicable on the day of exam and instructions mentioned in the Admit Card.”– Students cite problems: Apart from the Covid-19 threat, several stakeholders have pointed out that students from flood-hit states such as Bihar, Gujarat, and Assam or the rain-hit districts of Kerala or those from areas such as Jammu and Kashmir facing Internet connectivity issues will have to struggle more to appear for the entrance exams. Activists have also pointed out that students travelling to different centres and returning home to multigenerational families may further spread the disease in the country.– Several districts in lockdown: Of the 734 districts in the country, lockdown orders related to Covid-19 of varying degrees are in place in 345 districts across the country. Students from these areas are likely to face problems while commuting to the exam centre with a reduced number of operational public transport facilities.– Political leaders against it: Leaders from various political parties, such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Trinamool Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal among others, have expressed reservations about conducting exams amid a pandemic and urged the Centre to come up with an alternative solution for admission to medical and engineering courses. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee are also slated to hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers of non-BJP states on Wednesday.– Students’ protests: Students’ organisations, such as AISA, SFI, NSUI among others, have been holding consistent social media campaigns to demand the cancellation or postponement of the exams. Twitter hashtags such as #ProtestAgainstExamsinCovid garnered over three million tweets on a single day. The student community has also been holding relay hunger strikes to protest against the issue. Other exams scheduled to be held in September include Delhi University Entrance Test, Common Law Admissions Test, IP university entrance exams, and UGC-NET exams. – Loss of an academic year is a concern: Academicians said a further delay in examinations can disrupt the academic calendar and put the future of students in jeopardy. They also emphasised that conducting the exams in September would allow institutes to start online classes at the very least. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court too said that “life must go on” and students “cannot waste a whole year”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-things-you-need-to-know-about-neet-jee-exam-controversy/story-7sr84qHGTtXu35T9VzLu8N.html
26-08-2020||India||US to probe Pak’s ISIS terrorists in Syria, may complicate Imran Khan woes||The United States has started an investigation into the role of Pakistanis in the Islamic State movement in Syria, complicating the situation for Prime Minister Imran Khan who is still to emerge from Tuesday’s setback to his attempt to get two “critical” FATF-linked legislations enacted, people familiar with the matter said.The US backed and predominantly Kurd Syrian Democratic Forces have shared a list of 29 Pakistanis among others who are in their custody for fighting for the Islamic State, the ultra-conservative radical Sunni movement that swept Iraq-Syria in the past decade. The shortlist, according to counter-terror officials in Delhi and Washington, include four Pakistanis who had acquired citizenship of another country such as Turkey and Sudan. Nine of the 29 captured ISIS fighters are women.“The American security forces are currently interrogating these Pakistani nationals including who sent them to fight for IS in Syria and their past affiliations with terrorist groups like the Al Qaida or any other pan-Islamic group based in Pakistan. As the Pakistani deep state is involved with the so-called Islamic State of Khorasan Province in Afghanistan, the interrogation will also reveal its role if any,” said a counter-terror official in know of the list. Also Watch | BSF shoots down 5 infiltrators at India-Pakistan border in Punjab, arms recoveredThe reference to the IS presence in Afghanistan is a pointer to the Islamic State-Khorasan Province, or ISKP, which had carried out several attacks on civilian installations including a gurdwara in the heart of Kabul. ISKP chief Aslam Farooqui, also a Pakistani national with clear links to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence, was arrested for this bombing. Farooqui was earlier associated with the terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba before switching over to the ISKP. Farooqui is currently in custody of Afghan government after it rejected the Pakistani request to extradite him.While Pakistan with the help of China wants to exit out of the FATF Grey List, this new revelation substantiates the Indian claim that Islamabad is the epicentre of terrorism. While two Punjab based terrorist groups—Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Tayebba—target India, Rawalpindi supports Taliban through Haqqani Network and ISKP to cause mayhem in Afghanistan. The Pakistani involvement in attacks in US, UK and the Middle-East have come out in the open in the past.While the Islamic State does not hold any territory in Iraq or Syria, the remnant fighters are operating as free-lancers in the Syrian civil war and its ultra conservative Sunni ideology is still radicalizes the Muslim community in the name of puritan Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-probe-pak-s-isis-terrorists-in-syria-may-complicate-imran-khan-woes/story-MeMBUffYP8ObWnSxmPNLKO.html
26-08-2020||India||Podcast: Pratap Bhanu Mehta on Indian Democracy at 73||On August 15, 2020, India celebrated its 73rd birthday. To reflect on the state of Indian democracy and to kick off the podcast’s fourth season, Pratap Bhanu Mehta joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) for a wide-ranging conversation on India’s past, present, and future. Pratap is a professor of political science at Ashoka University and contributing editor and columnist at the Indian Express. He is a noted author, scholar, and commentator, not to mention arguably India’s finest public intellectual.Pratap and Milan discuss what the Covid crisis says about Indian democracy, the future of secularism in India, the popular yearning for strongman rule, and the maladies plaguing India’s rule of law institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-pratap-bhanu-mehta-on-indian-democracy-at-73/story-jNQG55204VcIGAPOhStirM.html
26-08-2020||India||500 stressed cops in Uttar Pradesh turn to psychological therapy||Overstressed personnel of the emergency response unit of Uttar Pradesh Police are getting assistance from psychological counsellors with support from Lucknow University to fight depression, stress and other issues they suffer from while performing their duties. According to senior officials of the 112 emergency unit, close to 500 personnel have sought help from over 27 counsellors from across the country. The counsellors were arranged with the help of the psychology department of Lucknow University. “The workload on 112 personnel has increased manifold due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation. They are now handling calls from people with no food or medicine along with the usual crime incidents. This excess work has put undue stress on our staff,” said a senior UP police official. Considering this, 112 and the Lucknow University signed an agreement in April, naming it ‘samvad.’ The partnership has come a long way since then. Police personnel from the emergency unit have been asked to fill a form which is shared with experts. The personnel is then connected with a psychologist personally or via phone to discuss issues. The 112 administration makes it a point to keep all these communications a secret. The 112 unit has made some fundamental changes in the working style. The working hours have been reduced to eight hours from the previous 12 hours. Also cops on patrol vehicles are kept closer to their homes. The officials also make sure that the 112 personnel get time to spend with their families. “We have also set up a dedicated phone line where family members of 112 personnel can call,” an official said.In July, when several 112 employees tested Covid-19 positive and even the unit’s building was closed, it put more pressure on the police personnel posted there. The UP 112 has now imposed stringent measures to screen the workers and sanitise the workplace. Personnel who are over 55 years of age have been given tasks that require very little human interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-stressed-cops-in-uttar-pradesh-turn-to-psychological-therapy/story-AEqhWTCnDP9CyOkNHquEcM.html
26-08-2020||India||Despite furore, JEE, NEET to be held in September||Despite growing opposition from several quarters, the National Testing Agency (NTA) – which is tasked with conducting various entrance examinations – on Tuesday announced that it would conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) as per the schedule. The apex examination agency said that NEET will be held on September 13 and JEE will be held from September 1 to September 6.This comes after thousands of students, parents, activists and politicians across the country have been calling for postponement of the two major entrance exams amid the Covid-19 crisis. Till Tuesday morning, India has reported over 3.23 million cases and over 53% of the country lives in places under either complete, partial, or weekend lockdown. Out of the 734 districts in the country, lockdown orders are in place for 345 – forcing students to rethink their decision of appearing for the entrance exams.WHY ARE STUDENTS UP IN ARMS AGAINST THE EXAMS?On August 17, the Supreme Court rejected the plea seeking postponement of these exams saying a crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on. Nineteen-year-old Deva Mashkoor, a medical aspirant from Anantnag in Kashmir, has been anxious ever since.“The exam centre is 150 km from my house. Since no public transport is available and we cannot afford a cab, I have to take a lift from someone to reach the centre during a pandemic which puts my health at risk. I don’t know how things will unfold,” said Mashkoor, who was preparing for his entrance exams in Delhi when the nationwide lockdown to restrict the spread of Covid-19 disease was announced in March.“I returned months ago and haven’t been able to prepare ever since due to lack of access to the internet here. It would be better if we could go to Delhi and take the exam there when things become normal. It will be so difficult to do so now amid so many restrictions,” he said.Thousands of engineering and medical aspirants have taken to social media platforms to express their anger towards the decision to hold exams during a pandemic. Danish Khan, a resident of Bhagalpur in Bihar, said, “The exam is starting to feel like a matter of life and death now. My family isn’t allowing me to appear for my papers as we live in a joint family. If I contract the disease, I may pass on the infection to the elderly in my family. The standard operating procedures put in place by NTA are of little comfort since we have seen them fail in various state exams such as ComedK UGET and UP B.Ed.”Candidates are also demanding cancellation of the entrance exam this year in view of the pandemic. Hitesh Gupta, a JEE aspirant from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, said, “The cases of Covid-19 are increasing day by day in our state. How can the government put our lives in danger by conducting exams amid a pandemic? Why can’t they come up with some alternative way of admission as a one-time measure this year?”Various students’ associations have also been rallying for the cause. N Sai Balaji, president of the All India Students Association, said, “We have been receiving messages from students across the country who are extremely disheartened and depressed. We have been holding fasts and online protests to demand that the government should rethink this decision of holding exams during a health crisis.” Congress’s student body, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), will also be holding relay hunger strikes beginning Wednesday. The Students’ Federation of India (SFI) has also been campaigning against the exams on social media.WHAT ARE THE MEASURES BEING TAKEN TO CONDUCT THE EXAMS?The NTA, the central government body which conducts exams, has formulated a special standard operating procedure to conduct the exams. In addition to making masks, gloves, thermo-guns, and sanitisation mandatory at the centres, NTA has also increased the number of centres to meet the social distancing requirements for over 858,000 JEE applicants and 1,597,000 NEET applicants.“The number of examination centers have also been increased from 570 to 660 (in case of JEE Main) and from 2,546 to 3,843 (in case of NEET (UG) 2020). JEE (Main) is Computer Based Test (CBT) and NEET (UG) is pen paper-based test. Additionally, in case of JEE (Main), the number of shifts has been increased from 8 to 12, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 132,000 to 85,000,” the NTA said in a statement on Tuesday.“In order to ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE (Main). In case of NEET (UG), the number of candidates per room has been reduced from 24 to 12. For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered,” the statement added.NTA director general Vineet Joshi had earlier told HT that hand-held metal detectors installed on a stick will be used for contactless frisking while maintaining distance. “These devices too will be sanitised at regular intervals. Admit cards will have specific barcodes which will be scanned and rooms will be allotted to students accordingly,” he said.WHY ARE EXAMS BEING HELD DURING A PANDEMIC?V Ramgopal Rao, director at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, said, “The consequences of postponing these exams any further can have serious repercussions on IIT academic calendars and for the candidates. The delay can impact the careers of so many bright students. We have already lost six months. If we conduct the exams in September, we can at least start the sessions in IITs, even if online, in December.”“As far as JEE Mains is concerned, the exam is now conducted multiple times in a year. In case some students cannot write the JEE Mains this time, they can take the exam after six months again. I don’t see any reason for a concern,” he added.IIT-D will also be organising the JEE (advance) exams this year. “I assure every one that IITs will put their best foot forward in organising the JEE Advanced examination. We will also be closely monitoring the situation and taking necessary steps as necessary. Health of candidates is of utmost concern to all of us. We all have children and we can connect with the parents of candidates. I am sure NTA and the ministry of education are in touch with state governments for taking care of the transport requirements,” Rao added.Some candidates are also in favour of conducting the entrance exams in September. Warisha, a NEET aspirant from Samastipur in Bihar, said, “The delay in exam is increasing mental pressure among the aspirants. It’s better if the exam is held at the earliest.”In an interview to a news channel, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had said several parents and students pressured the government to conduct NEET-JEE exams. “The Supreme Court also said that life must go on and the future of students cannot be kept at risk for a long time. We have to respect that decision. Out of 858,000 students, 725,000 students have downloaded the admit cards already. Around 99% candidates have got their first choice of centre cities in both of these examinations. We are also making provisions for those who want to appear from different centres,” he told the channel. OPPOSITION LEADERS UNITE AGAINST A COMMON CAUSEPolitical leaders across the spectrum have expressed concerns over conducting the exams during a pandemic and its subsequent impact on the existing health crisis in the country. From Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the political leaders have urged the Centre to rethink their decision on the exams.A senior Trinamool Congress leader also told Hindustan Times that chief ministers of all non-BJP ruled states have been invited for a virtual meeting on Wednesday with Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi to demand postponement of the exams.“Chief ministers of all non-BJP ruled states have been invited, only Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has informed us that he will not be able to attend due to some previous engagement,” said the TMC leader who is involved in arranging the meeting. Those who will attend include Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy,” the TMC leader had said.Political leaders such as BJP’s Subramanian Swamy, Congress’s Vivek Tankha and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav have also raised safety concerns over the conduct of NEET and JEE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-furore-jee-neet-to-be-held-in-september/story-ncAeN5WRuYNLgodIX7HLBJ.html
26-08-2020||India||ISI pushed Jaish for intel on IAF bases after Balakot||Around the time New Delhi and Islamabad scrambled fighter jets at their borders following India’s airstrike on a terror camp in Balakot in February last year, Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) asked Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) operatives in Jammu and Kashmir to find out and pass on information on the location of Indian Air Force (IAF) bases, according to a charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Pulwama terror attack case on Tuesday.The audacious February 14 strike by the Jaish in southern Kashmir’s Pulwama killed 40 Indian security personnel, triggered the IAF action against the terror camp deep inside Pakistan 12 days later, resulted in a dogfight between fighter jets of the two nations on February 27, and brought them on the brink of a war.In its 13,500-page charge sheet filed in a special NIA court in Jammu, NIA named 19 people, including Jaish leader Masood Azhar and four of his relatives, for planning and carrying out the attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy at the behest of Pakistan. Of the 19, six are dead, three are absconding, and seven have been arrested. Azhar and his two brothers are believed to be in Pakistan.According to the charge sheet, Azhar’s 24-year-old nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq was sent to Kashmir in 2018 to execute the bombing. Farooq, who was killed in an encounter by security forces on March 29, 2019, was in constant touch with Azhar’s brothers Abdul Rouf Asghar Alvi and Ammar Alvi, and received directions from them before, during and after the attack, the charge sheet said. It also included transcripts of the chats between them.Alvi told Farooq, the key figure behind the blasts, during one of these chats after the Balakot strike that ISI wanted Jaish operatives on the Indian side to find out about IAF’s bases from where the fighter jets were being scrambled, said an official who asked not to be named, sharing details of the charge sheet.NIA’s charge sheet also said Jaish planned to carry out a second suicide attack after the Pulwama bombing, but aborted its plans due to international pressure for action against the Pakistan-based terror group.“Mufti (a reference to Azhar) has asked for the (second) attack to be put on hold,” read a message received by Farooq from Pakistan, according to the agency.“The Pakistan-based leadership of Masood Azhar, Asghar, and Ammar Alvi, alias Chota Masood, were continuously giving directions and guidance to the JeM terrorists (who infiltrated into India) both before and after the attack. They also planned to carry out another suicide attack, which was averted due to Balakot strikes and due to the killing of main conspirator Umar Farooq by the security forces,” said NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang, who was involved in the investigation into the case.Farooq, according to NIA, was the son of Azhar’s younger brother Ibrahim Athar. Athar and four others hijacked the IC-814 Indian Airlines flight in December 1999, seeking Azhar’s release. Azhar was freed from an Indian prison in exchange for the 155 passengers of the hijacked aircraft, and went on to found the Jaish in 2000.Farooq infiltrated into India using a tunnel in the Jammu-Samba sector in April 2018, and took over as the Jaish commander of Pulwama, according to the agency. Since then, he spent most of his time planning, arranging for logistics and convincing the suicide bomber, Adil Ahmad Dar.Another Pakistani terrorist related to Azhar’s family, 25-year-old Mohammad Ismail, alias Saifullah, who is currently said to be hiding in the Kashmir valley, infiltrated along with Farooq. He is believed to be heading the Jaish in the Valley.“After infiltrating into India, Umar Farooq took over as Jaish-e-Mohammad commander of Pulwama and along with his Pakistani compatriots — Kamran Ali, Ismail, Qari Yasir — and local associates Sameer Dar and Adil Ahmad Dar planned and prepared for the attack on security forces using IEDs,” Narang said.“Investigation also revealed a well-crafted mechanism by Pakistani establishment to push terrorists into the Indian territory from the launch pads located in Shakargarh (Pakistan) opposite Samba-Kathua sector in Jammu,” she added.Apart from Azhar, Asghar Alvi, Ammar Alvi, Farooq, Mohammad Ismail, Kamran Ali and Qari Yasir – all Pakistani nationals – and Indian nationals Adil Ahmad Dar and Sameer Dar, the NIA charge sheet also named Shakir Bashir Magray, Insha Jan, her father Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, Waiz-ul-Islam, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Mohammad Iqbal Rather, Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey, Sajjad Ahmed Bhat, Mudasir Ahmad Khan and Ashaq Ahmed Nengroo.Farooq, Kamran Ali, Sajjad Ahmed Bhat, Mudasir Ahmad Khan and Qari Yasir have been killed in encounters. Shakir Bashir Magray, Insha Jan, Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, Mohammad Iqbal Rather, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey and Waiz-ul-Islam were arrested. Mohammad Ismail Alvi, Sameer Ahmad Dar and Ashaq Ahmed Nengroo are absconding.Farooq, a skilled bomb-maker trained in hybrid camps of al Qaeda, Taliban, Jaish and the Haqqani network inside Afghanistan in 2016-17, prepared improvised explosive devices (IEDs) using two jerrycans (one weighing 160kg and another 40kg), gelatin sticks, ammonium nitrate, ammonium powder and RDX on February 5 night, according to the charge sheet.Ali, also killed in the same encounter as Farooq, Sameer Ahmad Dar and Magray, helped Farooq at Magray’s house. While the RDX was smuggled into India from Pakistan, other explosives were collected by Jaish operatives and overground workers from stone quarries in Kashmir, according to the NIA probe.On February 6, 2019, the jerrycans filled with explosives were loaded in a Maruti Eeco car that would eventually ram the CRPF convoy eight days later, according to the charge sheet.HT reported exclusively on March 4 this year that Jaish planned to carry out the attack in the first week of February, but postponed its plans since roads were closed and convoy movement stopped due to inclement weather.According to the NIA probe, Adil Ahmad Dar drove along with the CRPF convoy for a while before ramming it in the bus that was carrying the maximum number of troops.He was inspired to become a suicide bomber after watching a vitriolic video of Azhar, recorded in October 2018 after the killing of his nephew Usman Haider in Tral by security forces, the NIA said. In the video, the Jaish chief exhorted young Kashmiris to sacrifice their lives for jihad. “Lot of digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence establishing a fool-proof case for this dastardly and barbaric attack has been collected. The charge sheet has brought on record the all-out involvement of Pakistan-based entities to carry out terrorist strikes in India and to incite and provoke Kashmiri youth,” Narang said. She added that non-bailable warrants were issued against Azhar, Alvi, Asghar and other absconding accused persons.Officials said the charge sheet was an irrefutable piece of evidence — technical, material and circumstantial — on Pakistan’s role in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isi-pushed-jaish-for-intel-on-iaf-bases-after-balakot/story-aVOWAlwnCil37OOKzikdGJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Battle shifting as Covid-19 threat stalks rural India||More than half of all Covid-19 cases recorded in August came from 584 districts that are classified as “mostly rural” or “entirely rural”, reflecting the spread of the coronavirus disease from the large urban centres into the Indian hinterland where health care challenges, from testing to treatment, are much more significant. The trend is very different from that seen in the initial months of the pandemic, when the cases were largely in the urban areas, especially the three metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. This Hindustan Times analysis is based on district-level data by How India Lives, which is available till August 24, although even a cursory look at the HT dashboard suggests that, if anything, this trend has been strengthening for weeks. The front lines of India’s fight against the viral disease have clearly moved. Experts said the lack of adequate health infrastructure in villages will be a major challenge. “The first challenge that villages will likely face is of testing. Most of the RT-PCR labs are currently located in big cities or district headquarters, and are very rare if one looks for them at the subdistrict level. There is also the issue of the lack of medical equipment and physicians. Machines like pulse oximeters and radiology facilities such as good quality chest X-rays, which are crucial tools to monitor the health of Covid patients, are not as easily found in rural areas,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Delhi’s Maulana Azad Medical College. To be sure, there is a counter view as well: “There are reports of cases coming from rural areas, but the advantage that we have there is that population density is low because of which cases can be identified, isolated, and treated early. In these areas, surveillance can be far better and also compliance, and that is instrumental in controlling spread of the disease effectively,” says Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Aayog, who also chairs one of the National Task Forces on Covid-19 management. “Having said that, we have to be careful and concentrate on rural areas as some of the villages may suffer from lack of adequate health infrastructure to manage positive cases,” he added. The analysis also shows that few of India’s 734 districts are untouched by Covid-19: More than 700 districts and the national capital have reported cases so far. When a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, just over a hundred districts had reported cases (many of them just had one case). The number of affected districts was more than 600 by the end of May.Experts said that the spread of the disease in rural pockets may lead to a long-drawn battle. “We’ve seen the disease spread like wildfire in cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. But equally fast, the governments were able to bring the outbreak into relative control. What we are likely to see in villages will not be like this – it will be a slow- and long-burning fire, which will be much harder to contain. But in general, villages are already disadvantaged because of their inadequate health care system, so this may end up becoming a much longer battle,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.The analysis classifies districts into five categories based on the proportion of the rural population – entirely urban (under 20% of the rural population), mostly urban (20%-40% rural), mixed (40%-60% rural), mostly rural (60% to 80% rural) and entirely rural (over 80% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 census (the latest data available). According to the analysis, 55% of the about 1.4 million new Covid-19 cases reported in August (those cases where the district is known) have come from 584 districts in the last two categories. This was not the case earlier. Only 23% of new cases reported in April came from these districts. This share, though, has been steadily increasing every month – it was 28% in May, 24% in June and 41% in July.As Covid-19 shifts away from the urban centres, 16 urban districts (15 districts plus Delhi) where the share of rural population is less than 20% reported only 13% of the country’s Covid-19 cases in August. More than 44% new cases reported in April, May and June came from these urban districts. In July, 23% of the cases came from these districts.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The bulk of the rural challenge is likely to be centred around two states that have sizeable rural populations – Uttar Pradesh and Bihar – which have seen a rapid and steady growth of cases in the past few weeks. The two states, which together account for more than a quarter of the country’s population, are also among the states with the lowest testing rates in the country despite a recent jump in numbers in the past few weeks. Both have conducted a little over 20,000 tests per million of their population against the national average of around 28,000.Nearly all major metropolitan cities in the country are districts among themselves, with the exception of Delhi, which consists of 11 revenue districts. However, the Delhi government does not release a district-wise breakup of cases, deaths and recoveries. The move into the hinterland has also decreased the share of metros in new Covid-19 cases. For instance, about 40% of the country’s Covid-19 cases in June were being reported from only three metro cities – Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. They accounted for only 6% of the new cases in August.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The number of Covid-19 cases reported in urban areas is still disproportionately higher than their population. The 16 districts which reported 13% of new Covid-19 cases in August are home to only 5.6% of India’s population. Similarly, the 584 districts where the share of rural population is more than 60% are home to 74% population, but reported only 55% of new Covid-19 cases this month. The disproportionate role of urban areas is also reflected in the number of cases currently active in the country. Regions with the recent outbreaks generally tend to have a higher share of active cases. Of the 10 districts with the most active cases in the country, seven are city districts or districts that constitute a single city, and thus entirely urban. This can also be explained by two other factors: the number of cases in rural India are spread over a large number of districts; and at least some of the active cases are those from June and July. The number of active cases — those still under treatment — directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in any region. It is calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally. As of Tuesday night, of the 3,229,351 total Covid-19 cases in the country, 704,672 (21.8%) were active, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. With over 44,717 cases out of the 150,207 cases in Pune active, the city tops this list. It is followed by Bengaluru with 34,877 cases active out of the 107,875 cases, and Thane, where 20,372 cases out of the 122,626 infections are active. Delhi, which is the city with the most cases in the country, had 11,778 active cases as of Monday. East Godavari (17,228 active cases as of August 23) and Chittoor (9,999 active cases), both in Andhra Pradesh; and Maharashtra’s Nashik (10,667 active cases) are the only three districts in the top 10 that are not entirely urban. The only major city-district excluded from this tally is Hyderabad as Telangana does not release recovery and death data for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-shifting-as-covid-19-threat-stalks-rural-india/story-GZJsSPOOpNR0RF9Yj5B59M.html
26-08-2020||India||After 2 letters in 24 hours, Mamata joins forces with Sonia against NEET, JEE||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the second time seeking his intervention to postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) due to be held in September. Banerjee’s second letter to Modi on the issue was written a day before she and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi hold a virtual meet with the chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states in a bid to mobilize political support for their demand for postponement of the two critical joint entrance examinations on Wednesday afternoon, according to a top TMC leader close to the Bengal chief minister. Banerjee had sent a letter to Modi on Monday for the first time requesting the Prime Minister to postpone the NEET and JEE examinations. In her second letter written on Tuesday, Banerjee said Centre should consider appealing the Supreme Court decision on holding of the examinations.“I am aware that the Supreme Court has given a verdict on holding of JEE and NEET examinations and the Central government had been issuing instructions to go ahead with it accordingly. However, I would like to request your kind intervention and to consider the Central government making an appeal to the apex court to review its decision in the interest of the student community,” Mamata wrote on Tuesday. Also Read: NEET, JEE Main 2020: Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik seeks postponement of examThe West Bengal government received a letter from the National Testing Agency on Tuesday for conducting the JEE and NEET examinations starting from September 1, prompting Banerjee to write to Modi for the second time within a span of 24 hours. “We are really worried and concerned,” Banerjee wrote. On Sunday, Adhir Ranjan Chowdury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also wrote to the Prime Minister urging him to postpone the examinations. Also Read: More exam centres for safe conduct of NEET, JEE: GovtStudents in West Bengal and several other states have been demanding postponement of these examinations over the past few days. The All India Students Association (AISA), a Left front organisation, has planned protests in Kolkata and other cities. “Such intervention is very much essential in the larger interest of the students to facilitate creating a situation whereby the students will neither be subjected to grave health risk nor they will be facing a career risk,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-s-second-letter-to-pm-modi-on-neet-jee-lists-two-main-concerns/story-3gs5ZKKMg7YYIykmDJlF5I.html
26-08-2020||India||How metro travel will look in Covid-19 era||The Delhi Metro services, which have been closed since March 22 in view of coronavirus pandemic, are likely to be allowed as part of Unlock 4. Unlock 4, the ongoing process to open up economic activities in India after the nationwide lockdown imposed in the wake of the pandemic, will start from September 1. The guidelines for this phase will be issued sometime this week, ministry of home affairs officials said. Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 infection tally has gone above 3 million and as many as 58,390 people have died of the infection, according to the health ministry dashboard on Wednesday morning.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) are planning to put in place a series of measures for a smooth and safe conduct when the metro resumes operation.Here are the safety measures to be followed:• Tokens will no longer be issued to passengers. Automatic top-up and smart cards will be available for contactless travel.• All passengers arriving at metro stations will be thermally screened by CISF staff. The security personnel will also check whether the passengers have Aaogya Setu app on their phones• CISF personnel at door-frame metal detectors will mandatorily wear a mask shield, face mask, and gloves.• If the door frame metal detector does not raise an alarm when a passenger passes through it, he/she will be allowed to move ahead without any frisking. CISF officials can, however, select passengers randomly for a detailed frisk.• The security officials will use modified hand-held metal detectors to check passengers from a distance.• The number of passengers in a train will be limited to 300-350.• Only alternate seats will be used.• Air conditioners inside trains will be set at 26 degrees Celsius• Passengers will be required to keep the mask on throughout their journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-metro-travel-will-look-in-covid-19-era/story-oQeB8hIxSbkvQPg1NmqXyL.html
26-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India has seen 66,286 new cases of Covid-19 on average every day in the week ended Monday. That works out to 5.3 cases per 100,000 people (assuming India’s population at 1.3 billion). One way of looking at the Covid-19 challenge is to target reducing the number of new cases to less than one per 100,000. This isn’t a number picked without basis – it is the trend seen in countries that managed to crush the virus, if only temporarily. That’s a huge challenge for India.India’s Covid-19 numbers could well see an increase in the coming weeks – as testing increases (although states are blindly using rapid antigen tests without understanding when they should be used – a theme discussed several times in this column), and as the virus moves into rural India. Indeed, the pandemic’s progress in India has been outward – from the metros to the other cities and towns; and from urban districts to rural ones (see front page).India and the US are similar in terms of their approach to the pandemic – they opened up when cases were still rising (unlike Europe, where countries opened up only after the number of new cases started declining). Sure, the US saw a dip and then a long plateau between mid-April and mid-June, but cases rose rapidly after that. They rose till late July, when they started falling again. Interestingly, the seven-day average of daily cases in the US is well off its peak seen in late July, but still higher than the peak seen in early April. In contrast, India’s seven-day average has never dipped – the trajectory of the coronavirus disease, in terms of number of cases, has been one steady upward curve as the infection spread across the second-most populous country in the world.In the week ended Monday, India added 463,999 cases, according to the HT dashboard. This is 26% of the 1.75 million new cases recorded around the world in the same period (the second number is from the New York Times database). This statistic is worrying, although India’s case fatality rate of 1.85% is among the lowest in the world, and of the 3.16 million cases recorded till Monday night, 76% had recovered. The disease is yet to peak in India but doctors have clearly become better at saving lives.There has been some debate about a possible second lockdown in the US. There hasn’t been much talk of one in India. Through August, even some of the states that insisted on partial lockdowns (on certain days) have eased up. This is understandable – the lockdown has wreaked havoc on livelihoods and the economy. Once it became clear that the virus wasn’t going away anytime soon, and that a vaccine wouldn’t be available till early 2021, the focus moved to living and working with the virus.The buzz in Delhi is that the next set of so-called unlock guidelines issued by the home ministry could reflect that. HT reported on Tuesday that Delhi Metro could soon begin operations. This is a good move, provided the safety protocols that have been put down on paper are faithfully implemented. That could be problematic, though. Many Indians have shown poor discipline when it comes to wearing masks or practising social distancing. Police departments around the country do not seem keen to enforce the home ministry’s guidelines on masks (there is very poor monitoring in markets and parks, especially). Many people who wear masks, wear them improperly. And experience around the world has shown that crowds, especially in enclosed places, are a magnet for the virus. Talk of restarting the Delhi Metro also comes at a time when the number of cases in Delhi is beginning to inch up again (although it is still 60-70% off its peaks) – all the more reason why safety and social distancing protocols will need to be strictly followed, and monitored.There is no point in pretending things have returned to normal – because they haven’t.Note: This article has been corrected to reflect the correct weekly average of daily cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-1iYhOLMoeiMrIXtIqJpqlI.html
26-08-2020||India||Andhra govt increases annual professional tax with some exemptions||The Andhra Pradesh government has increased the annual professional tax by Rs 750 to Rs 1250 per year on some categories of professions with immediate effect. A fresh notification to this effect was issued on Monday. According to the notification, the government has increased one of the two slabs of professional tax on some categories – from Rs 1250 to Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500 per year. While commercial establishments with an annual turnover of Rs 10 lakh are exempted from the professional tax, those with a turnover between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 25 lakh would have to pay professional tax of Rs 2,000 and those having an annual turnover of more than Rs 25 lakh would pay Rs 2,500. “The maximum professional tax on all categories of professions is Rs 2,500,” it said. Workers of the film industry, district and state-level cooperative societies, video libraries and way bridge operators would have to pay Rs 2,500 towards professional tax. Public telephone operators are exempted from professional tax, but takeaway food joints, curry-sale points and canteens would have to pay Rs 2,500 as professional tax, the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-increases-annual-professional-tax-with-some-exemptions/story-vvuA8aA5TBHx84dFHXI1cL.html
26-08-2020||India||Bengal begins survey to identify people with co-morbidities to reduce Covid-19 mortality rate||With co-morbidity accounting for nearly 90% of Covid-19 related deaths in West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee-led administration has started a survey to identify people with such ailments so that the death rate can be reduced in future. “We have initiated a new survey to identify people with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac diseases. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has already started the survey. Within the next one week it would be launched in other districts,” Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal said. Till August 24 at least 2,851 people, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have died. Co-morbidity was present in 2,483 patients, which is around 87% of the total deaths. In only around 13% of the cases there were no co-morbidities. “If we can identify the citizens with co-morbidities we would be able to identify the vulnerable people. This way we can hope to bring down the mortality rate which is present 2.01%,” said a senior official of the state health department. The national-average of case fatality rate has dipped to 1.85% at present according to the union government. Earlier this month, at least 13 districts across the country including five districts in the state - North 24 Paraganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Malda – had come under the scanner of the Union government for their high mortality rate. “Till June, the death rate compared to last year has dropped by 35%. But as Covid-19 patients have died the overall death rate has shot up,” Banerjee said. A door-to-door survey by ASHA volunteers has also revealed that there are around 8,500 patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and another 3.5 lakh people infected with Influenza-Like-Illness (ILI). Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has directed the district magistrates, superintendents of police and the chief medical officers of health in the districts to ensure that Covid-19 patients coming from neighbouring states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha for treatment in West Bengal are not shown as local residents. Showing them as residents of West Bengal would give a false impression that the positivity rate and fatality rate is higher in the state. The state labour minister has also been asked to conduct a survey, by making surprise visits to factories including jute industries and tea gardens, to check whether social distance is being maintained at the work place. In some cases it has been reported that factories and offices have become hubs of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-begins-survey-to-identify-people-with-co-morbidities-to-reduce-covid-19-mortality-rate/story-Jo8UqHo31qCWYdagNVR7SK.html
26-08-2020||India||Not keen on contesting Assam polls next year, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam minister and convenor of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Himanta Biswa Sarma conveyed on Tuesday that he is not interested in contesting next year’s assembly polls. In a series of tweets, Sarma, the most influential BJP leader in the northeast by virtue of heading NEDA, the BJP-led alliance of anti-Congress parties in the region, said his ambition was to ensure the party retaining power in Assam in 2021. “Few people feel I am after some post and position. My only ambition is to see a BJP government with 100 plus seats. In my last few months, I want to work for my state as much as possible to have eternal satisfaction. ‘Janani Janmabhumischa Swargadapi Gariyai’ (Mother and Motherland are superior even to Heaven)” he tweeted. “As I have indicated on several public platforms that I am not interested in contesting the next assembly election, my role will be limited to contributing whatever I can for my party and for my state. For Assam(‘s) future we need to have a strong nationalist government,” Sarma said in another tweet. In the past few days, Sarma, who handles the finance, health, education and PWD portfolios in the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government, had been in headlines over news reports on his eligibility for the chief minister’s post. The issue attracted attention after Pijush Hazarika, minister of state for health, said earlier this month that Sarma has all the “merits” of becoming CM. With the statement creating ripples in state BJP, Sarma said “everyone has eligibility to be the CM”. Following veteran Congress leader and former CM Tarun Gogoi’s statement on Saturday that BJP could field ex-Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as CM in 2021, Sarma had told journalists that the party is still undecided on its candidate for the top post in the next polls. Sarma’s tweets on Tuesday come six days after he told journalists in Guwahati that he was undecided on contesting the 2021 polls and the decision on that will be taken by the BJP and his family. “There are several speculations on my contesting the 2021 polls. Right now I haven’t thought of it. My present aim is to complete all our government’s pending tasks by March next year,” Sarma said. “I don’t know if I will contest the next election or not. The decision on that will be taken by my party and family. I am not seeking any post, but am more interested in working for my people and state,” he added. In recent weeks there have been speculations that the BJP leadership might shift Sarma to New Delhi and accommodate him as a minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet. In February last year, Sarma had indicated that he would contest the Lok Sabha polls if he gets a ticket. But the BJP high command entrusted him with the responsibility of steering the party’s poll strategy and campaign in all the seven northeastern states. “As a party we can’t comment on what made Sarma say he is not interested in contesting the next assembly polls. Any decision on whether he will contest the polls or what role he will be given will be taken by the party’s core committee,” said Rupam Goswami, BJP chief spokesperson for Assam. The BJP has 60 members in the 126-member assembly while its coalition partners Asom Gana Parishad and Bodoland Peoples’ Front have 14 and 12 seats, respectively. The BJP has declared that the party along with allies aims to win 100 seats in April 2021, when the assembly polls are held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-keen-on-contesting-assam-polls-next-year-says-himanta-biswa-sarma/story-waVLkZ4UxguR5U7IuHE4NM.html
26-08-2020||India||India, Bangladesh to launch new riverine trade route on September 3||India and Bangladesh are set to operationalise a new riverine trade route on September 3, when a Bangladeshi vessel will transport a cargo of cement to Tripura as part of efforts to boost connectivity between the two countries. The route connecting Sonamura in Tripura to Daudkandi in Bangladesh is being operationalised under an agreement signed by the two sides in May to boost riverine trade by adding two new routes and five more ports in order to improve connectivity to India’s north-eastern states and reduce transportation costs. Following discussions between the Inland Water Authority of India and Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, the first pilot movement on the 93-km Daudkandi-Sonamura route is expected to be conducted on September 3, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Bangladeshi vessel MV Premier will carry 50 metric tonnes of cement from Premier Cement Ltd of Bangladesh to Tripura via Gumti River, the people said. Customs formalities will be completed at the land customs station at Srimantapur-Bibirbazar, they added. “The new route will facilitate bilateral trade with improved reliability and cost effectiveness for the business community,” said one of the people cited above. India and Bangladesh signed the Protocol for Inland Water Trade and Transit in 1972 for inland waterways connectivity between the two sides for bilateral trade and to improve connectivity to India’s north-eastern states. The protocol was expanded with the signing of a second addendum on May 20 that added two new routes and five ports of call to takes the total number of routes to 10 and ports of call to 11. During fiscal 2019-20, about 3.5 million metric tonnes of cargo were transported via the inland waterways. “The connectivity provided by the existing and the newly added routes is all the more pertinent amid the Covid-19 crisis as it will be key to economical, faster, safer and greener transportation for the business communities of both countries,” the person said. The other new route – Rajshahi-Dhulian-Rajshahi – will help augment infrastructure in Bangladesh and reduce the cost of transporting goods such as stone chips to northern Bangladesh. It is also expected to decongest land customs stations on both sides. The new riverine trade route is being operationalised against the backdrop of India’s concerted efforts to boost economic aid and connectivity with key neighbours amid the border standoff with China. Last month, India handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh, reflecting a renewed focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy. This came close on the heels of the first cross-border container train reaching Bangladesh with 50 containers of FMCG goods and fabrics and the first trans-shipment of container cargo from Kolkata to Agartala in the landlocked north-eastern region via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-to-launch-new-riverine-trade-route-on-september-3/story-1y2UkA6GXcg4mWXxYWwQBN.html
26-08-2020||India||June 15 LAC clash unfortunate: China envoy||The June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese border forces was an “unfortunate incident” and “a brief moment from the perspective of history”, and the two sides should now “seek common ground while reserving differences”, Chinese envoy Sun Weidong has said. Sun made the remarks at a China-India youth webinar organised on August 18, though the transcript of his speech was released by the Chinese embassy only on Tuesday. The remarks came against the backdrop of India urging China to speedily address outstanding issues that have held up the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The envoy’s speech largely focused on historical links between the two countries and how the two sides, as ancient civilisations, should respect each other and seek common ground. He also said China’s “basic foreign policy towards India remains unchanged”. In the only reference in his speech to the June 15 clash, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused unspecified Chinese casualties, Sun said: “Not long ago, an unfortunate incident happened in the border areas that neither China nor India would like to see. Now we are working to handle it properly. It is a brief moment from the perspective of history.” The envoy added, “China sees India as a partner instead of a rival, and an opportunity instead of a threat. We hope to put the boundary question at an appropriate place in bilateral relations, properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation, and push bilateral relations back on track at an early date.” There was no immediate response to the Chinese envoy’s remarks from Indian officials. In an apparent response to the Indian government’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) initiative that was launched after the border standoff began, Sun said: “No country can be isolated from the rest of the world and seek development on its own. We should not only adhere to self-reliance, but also stick to opening up to the outside world in line with the trend of globalisation.” He pointed out China has been India’s largest trading partner for many years and the two economies are interdependent. “I think the two big economies of China and India should attract each other like magnets, rather than forcefully separate them,” he said. The envoy outlined three reasons to show that China’s foreign policy towards India has not changed – the basic national conditions of the two countries remain unchanged, their orientation as partners, friendly cooperation and common development remain unchanged, and the “general structure that China and India cannot develop without each other remains unchanged”. Sun noted the Chinese people often say it is important to have a “long-term perspective rather than only looking at the present”, and there is need to see that “friendly cooperation between China and India is...the general trend”. “Only by seeing this can we maintain objective and rational judgment and correctly handle the differences between the two sides. I am convinced that China and India...have the wisdom and ability to properly handle bilateral relations,” he added. Sun further said the two countries should “treat each other’s differences in a mature and rational manner”. He added: “We need to understand each other, seek common ground while reserving differences, and work together to build a community with shared future for mankind.” The two “rising major neighbours” should “abandon the old mindset of drawing lines by ideology, and get rid of the old game of ‘one’s gain is another’s loss’ and ‘zero-sum game’”, or else “you would be led astray and go down a wrong path”, Sun said.Mutual respect and equal treatment alone can enhance mutual understanding and trust, avoid suspicion and misunderstanding, and “realise the goal of ‘Dragon-Elephant Tango’ between China and India on the road of peaceful coexistence and common development”, the envoy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/june-15-lac-clash-unfortunate-china-envoy/story-Pm9ff6nM1EYj0U4ZM9DuJK.html
26-08-2020||India||More exam centres for safe conduct of NEET, JEE: Govt||Increasing the number of examination centres, an alternate seating plan, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit feature among the steps the National Testing Agency (NTA) will take for the safe conduct of medical and engineering entrance exams — NEET and JEE – in September. Over 950,000 students will sit for the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), or JEE, across 660 centres from September 1 to 6, the premier testing agency said on Tuesday. In January 2019, over a million candidates took the test for admission to top engineering schools across 570 centres. According to data released by NTA, a government agency, nearly 1.6 million candidates of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will take the entrance exam for admission to medical and dental courses in 3,842 test centres on September 13 — up from the 2,546 centres that were set up for 1.52 million students in 2019. “Additionally, in case of JEE-Mains, the number of shifts has been increased from the earlier 8 to 12, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 1.32 lakh (132,000) to 85,000 now,” an NTA statement said. “While JEE-Mains is a computer-based test, NEET is a pen-paper test,” it added.The steps were introduced to ensure adherence to social distancing norms at the centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A chorus to postpone the exams in view of the coronavirus disease outbreak is growing with several politicians joining a large section of students in making such a demand. “In order to ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE-Mains. In case of NEET, the number of candidates per room has been reduced from 24 to 12,” the statement said. For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered, it added. “Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing, while waiting. Candidates have also been issued advisory guiding them about ‘Dos and Don’ts’ for proper social distancing,” the statement said. The agency said the exams were being held in view of the “academic interests” of the students, citing that the Supreme Court had rejected a plea seeking postponement of the two entrance tests. The agency also said over 99% candidates got their first choice of cities (for test centre) in case of both examinations. According to state-wise data shared by NTA, for both the exams, the highest number of students is in Maharashtra (228,000 for NEET and 110,000 for JEE). Several opposition leaders including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, DMK president MK Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia have demanded the exams be postponed. But on August 17, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea seeking the postponement of the two exams amid spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-exam-centres-for-safe-conduct-of-neet-jee-govt/story-6vhrfV8TtDcX92k6QdcqBO.html
26-08-2020||India||Modi, Yogi mourn death of ‘Dom Raja’||Jagdish Chaudhary, 55, the 'Dom Raja' of Kashi, died on Tuesday, following a prolonged illness. Chaudhary was among the backers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, when he filed his nomination from the Varanasi parliamentary constituency in the 2019 general election.The Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath mourned Chaudhary’s death.“I am saddened by the death of Varanasi’s Dom Raja Jagdish Chaudhary ji. He carried forward the tradition of Sanatan Dharma. He was a keeper of the culture of Varanasi. He worked for the welfare of the society and social harmony during his entire life. May his soul rest in peace and God grant his family the strength to deal with this loss,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet.The 'Dom Raja' is the head of the community responsible for cremations in Varanasi. “In Varanasi, last rites are performed at Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat. At both the ghats, members of the family of Dom Raja shoulder the responsibility of setting up the pyre and cremating the bodies,” said Pandit Prasad Dikshit, an expert in Karmkand and Vedic rituals.Yogi said Chaudhary’s demise is “a loss for the entire Indian society.”“The symbol of social harmony, Dom Raja Jagdish Chaudhary’s death is saddening. His death is a loss for the entire Indian society. I pray to ‘Baba Vishvanath’ to grant you a place in his ‘Paramdham’. Om Shanti,” Yogi tweeted. According to a family member, Chaudhary suffered an injury in his thigh around two months ago. “He was undergoing treatment for the injury. On Tuesday morning, his condition deteriorated. He was rushed to a private hospital where he breathed his last,” a family member said.As news of Chaudhary’s death spread, a large number of people gathered at his house to pay tribute. He is survived by wife Rukmani Devi (45) and three teenaged children. His last rites were performed in the evening.There are around 500 members in Chaudhary’s extended family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-yogi-mourn-death-of-dom-raja/story-XH2D2bp3NLAfFqmUAFERVK.html
26-08-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies may take part in multilateral drills||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army may be caught in a tense border standoff along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, but both are likely to send troop contingents to Russia next month to take part in a multilateral exercise, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. Talks between the two armies to reduce border tensions are stuck in a stalemate and the disengagement process in Ladakh has hit a roadblock. The Pakistan Army is also likely to take part in the exercise, Kavkaz-2020, said one of the officials cited above. Eighteen countries are expected to take part in the exercise, including the member-states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), the exercise planned next month appears to have become more newsy because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector, said a second official. “Participation of Pakistan and China in this annual event as part of the SCO should not be contextualized in the perspective of the India-China border row,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). India is sending a tri-services contingent of 150 to 200 personnel to Russia for the drills scheduled from September 15 to 26. Details of the Chinese and Pakistani participation are not known. India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks last week, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-may-take-part-in-multilateral-drills/story-p5CsXrISZK6dqG6BpeCIYJ.html
26-08-2020||India||BJP gears up to face Oppn in Parliament||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is geared up to face an aggressive Opposition that will seek to corner the government on issues ranging from the Covid-19 pandemic to the face-off between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley when the Parliament reconvenes for the monsoon session, likely on September 14.The Opposition, primarily the Congress, has been attacking the government over its response to the pandemic and accused the government of not doing enough to stabilize the economic slowdown in the aftermath of the nationwide lockdown in March. The Congress has also accused the government of not being transparent in citing details of the Galwan clash that left 20 soldiers dead.“The questions raised by the Opposition about China and the pandemic have already been answered and they are only using these issues for petty politics,” a BJP functionary said.Over 10 ordinances that were passed this year and after the last session in March are among the issues that will come up for consideration, according to the party functionary.Ordinances expire after six months and they have to be replaced by a bill, which would lapse in six weeks if not passed, when the Parliament session begins.Among the ordinances that will be taken up are the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on April 22; Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020, The Essential Commodities Amendment) Ordinance; The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on April 7, that seeks to amend the Salary, Allowances, and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on June 5.“There are other legislative issues that are also expected to draw a lot of attention, including the Data Protection Bill and the labour codes,” said a second BJP functionary, who is familiar with the developments.The Data Protection Bill, 2019, introduced in the winter session, in December 2019, pertains to the rules for data storage and sharing, and defines the rights citizens have on their personal information. It is currently being examined by a joint parliamentary committee.“The government is hopeful that all four codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions will be implemented once the Parliament gives its nod,” said the first functionary.The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2019; the Industrial Relations Code, 2019, and Social Security Code have all been referred to parliamentary committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-gears-up-to-face-oppn-in-parliament/story-pfXZ97o0TBKviyY3SEZYMI.html
26-08-2020||India||Cop arrested for raping fellow officer while on duty at Covid centre||A constable of district police was arrested and sent to jail for allegedly raping a lady constable at a Covid-19 quarantine centre in Sidhgora Professional College under Sidhgora police station in Jamshedpur on Tuesday, police said.“We had detained the accused constable Anil Kumar last night and sent him to jail on charges of raping a lady constable at the Sdihgora Professional College quarantine centre after production in the court today. Both were on duty at the quarantine centre and the lady constable has stated that the incident occurred three days ago. She, however, lodged a formal complaint yesterday after which a case under section 376 (2) has been lodged against the accused constable,” Manoj Thakur, Sidhgora PS officer-in-charge (OC), said on Tuesday.The officer further said that the medical tests of the woman constable were also done today while her X-Ray and other tests would be done tomorrow. “We are investigating the case and any concrete conclusion could be reached after the medical reports,” he added.As per available information, Anil Kumar and the lady constable – from Golmuri Police Line – were deputed at Sidhgora professional College quarantine centre. The lady constable got a job in the state police force on compassionate grounds following the death of her husband while on duty at Palamu.As per the complaint by the lady constable, she was on duty with a woman arrested in connection with a dowry death case at the quarantine centre on August 20.“The accused constable, who too was on duty at the centre, came to me on August 20 evening and said the virus was more rampant on the lower floor and rooms on upper floors are safer. He then took me to the upper floor on the pretext of showing the safer rooms there and then raped me. He had also tied up my mouth so that I can’t scream and shout for help,” the lady constable has alleged in her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-arrested-for-raping-fellow-officer-while-on-duty-at-covid-centre/story-CFYQCnVCuCHCFGo3l5L7jM.html
26-08-2020||India||Photos, chats and a phone: How NIA cracked the Pulwama case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) hit an obstacle in the Pulwama terror attack probe for the initial 10 months in piecing together the sequence of events since key players such as Masood Azhar’s nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq, and Pakistani terrorists Kamran Ali and Qari Yasir were killed in encounters by the security forces. Even though Farooq, the key figure in the attack, was killed on March 29, 2019, his mobile phone was lying with the Jammu and Kashmir Police for several months. In December 2019, the first ray of hope came for the agency, which took over the probe immediately after the attack, with the retrieval of numerous photos, videos and conversations from Farooq’s mobile phone; he clicked several photos of his journey from Pakistan to India through the border, his accomplices, and the bomb-making process, according to an official who requested anonymity.Also read: ISI wanted a Hurriyat-like body in Kashmir, says NIAAlso, his conversations on WhatsApp and other chat platforms with the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) leadership, primarily his uncles Abdul Rouf Asghar and Ammar Alvi in Pakistan, and other operatives from the Valley — were found around this time. Soon, the probe team, led by inspector general Anil Shukla, deputy inspector general Sonia Narang and superintendent of police Rakesh Balwal, found a picture of a Kashmiri youth, Shakir Bashir Magray, in Farooq’s phone.Magray (24) was identified as a resident of Kakapora in Pulwama. This was when NIA realised that it could have hit a jackpot. Magray, who ran sawmill near the blast site from where he conducted the reconnaissance of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy, was arrested on February 28 this year, the first in the case. It was found that his house was used for stocking explosives and making the bomb that would be used to attack a CRPF convoy and kill 40 security personnel.In a chat retrieved by NIA, Farooq was found discussing around the time when Indian and Pakistani fighter jets were engaged in a dogfight towards the end of February 2019 that “there should be a war between both countries” as it will give an opportunity for hundreds of Jaish fighters to infiltrate into India. NIA also recovered conversations that proved Farooq’s uncles in Pakistan were giving him directions to prepare for a second attack after Pulwama; the Jaish had to abort its plans in the face of growing international pressure on Pakistan. The agency found two bank accounts of Farooq — in Pakistan’s Allied Bank Ltd and Meezan Bank, in which money for the Pulwama attack was deposited. Conversations regarding the transfers were retrieved by NIA. Selfies, photos, videos and chats recovered from Farooq’s phone helped NIA establish Pakistan’s link to the terror conspiracy. Also read: ISI pushed Jaish for intel on IAF bases after BalakotDuring interrogation, Magray disclosed details of the conspiracy, including how Farooq was the one running the show and giving directions to them. Six more persons — Insha Jan, her father Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, Waiz-ul-Islam, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Mohammad Iqbal Rather and Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey — who played in a role in providing logistics or shelter to Pakistani terrorists, were arrested in the following months. Jan’s house, NIA said, was used to make the propaganda video clip of the suicide bomber; the clip was released after the attack. In its 13,500-page charge sheet filed in a special NIA court in Jammu on Tuesday, the agency named 19 people, including Azhar and Farooq, for planning and carrying out the attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy on the behest of Pakistan. “Lot of digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence establishing a fool-proof case for this dastardly and barbaric attack has been collected. The charge sheet has brought on record the all-out involvement of Pakistan based entities to carry out terrorist strikes in India and to incite and provoke Kashmiri youth,” said NIA deputy inspector general Narang. The agency will soon send Letter Rogatories (LRs) — a judicial request seeking information from abroad – to Pakistan seeking information on Farooq, and the Jaish leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-chats-and-a-phone-how-nia-cracked-the-pulwama-case/story-ImJ7ZmnhnzXLYH9c7E2qcI.html
26-08-2020||India||FB row: Cong forms new panel||New Delhi: The Congress has formed an informal panel of at least four members to look into allegations that Facebook overrode its own content moderation policy to enable hate speech by politicians of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two members of the panel said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.The panel, set up under the legal cell headed by Vivek Tankha, comprises four young lawyers who are also attached to the Congress party. Varun Chopra, Vaibhav Srivastava, Kuber Bodh and Varun Tankha are the members of the group. The move comes after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi spoke against “manipulation of our hard-earned democracy” and a protest letter written by the party to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg following a report in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) that the social media company was going easy on hate speech by BJP members to protect its business interests in India. According to the two panel members cited above, they are now busy gathering information before deciding their next course of action—political as well as any possible legal recourse—against Facebook’s alleged lenience towards the BJP. The WSJ report, based on interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders, said the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects. According to a Congress functionary, the panel has already held preliminary discussions and is setting the objectives it would pursue, indicating that the party will not drop the issue. After the WSJ report was published, the Opposition launched protests against both Facebook and the BJP. Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by @WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians.” To be sure, the principal opposition party is still seen to be lagging behind the BJP in social media outreach. After the report was published n the WSJ, the party wrote a letter to Zuckerberg. saying Facebook may be “a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values” India’s founding leaders sacrificed their lives for. K C Venugopal, the Congress general secretary (organisation), also alleged that the social media company provided the BJP with “favourable treatment on election-related issues”. He called it a “damning and serious allegation” that Facebook was interfering in India’s electoral democracy. The informal panel formed by the Congress has been asked to look into more such cases of alleged lenience towards the BJP for making a stronger case against Facebook. The choice of four legal brains to function under the legal cell headed by Tankha, a lawyer, makes it an interesting pack. It also possibly indicates that the Congress wants to prepare a document backed by legal argument to take on Facebook. As it is, the party has decided to raise the WSJ report in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament that is due to start in September. Facebook has come out with a statement saying, it is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely. “Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form. We take this opportunity to offer clarity on policy development and enforcement at Facebook. Our Community Standards define what stays on our platform and are enforced globally,” said the Facebook statement. “First and foremost, we want to make it clear that we denounce hate in any form. Our Community Standards, which outline what is and isn’t allowed on Facebook, have clear and very detailed policies against hate speech, which prohibit attacks on people on the basis of protected characteristics, including religion, ethnicity, caste and national origin,” added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-row-cong-forms-new-panel/story-rWaTsJ1hSaW4QD6Xl5DY6K.html
26-08-2020||India||Sonia and Rahul speak to leaders who wrote letter||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi spoke to some of the dissenting leaders, including leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, after Monday’s stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee in a bid to address the prevailing unrest in the party, people familiar with the developments said. A Congress functionary said on condition of anonymity that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi called up some of the senior leaders -- among the group of 23 who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi asking for structural changes in the party -- and conveyed to them that they hold no grudges. The leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi included Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Jitin Prasada, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Mukul Wasnik, Manish Tiwari, Shashi Tharoor, and Prithiviraj Chavan. Also read: Shiv Sena slams Cong MLAs’ protest, calls it akin to questioning Sonia and RahulIn the letter, they demanded a complete overhaul of the organisation, a full-time president and constitution of a parliamentary board that will include the Gandhi family as the “collective leadership” if Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were not willing to accept the party chief’s post. The people cited above said that the calls were a follow-up to Sonia Gandhi’s concluding remarks at the CWC meeting when she said that she has no “ill-will” and let bygones be bygones and the need of the hour is to fight against those who are “failing” the country -- in an apparent reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “We are a large family. We have differences and different views on many occasions, but, we come together as one. The need of the hour is to fight for the cause of the people and the forces that are failing this country. Organisational issues are always addressed within the organisation. And the process of constitution and reconstitution is a continuous one,” she said. “I do not hold any ill-will against any colleague or any other thought of any other nature, for I treat all of you as part of the family. Irrespective of how hurtful the remarks or in the past many years of any colleague may have been, I have always risen above them to keep the Congress family together and to fight for the cause of the people,” the Congress chief added. Also read | Congress turmoil: A look at past instances involving ‘letters’Rahul Gandhi had called up Sibal on Monday during the CWC meeting after the former Union minister tweeted in response to media reports claiming that the former Congress chief had said the dissenters were colluding with the BJP. Sibal later withdrew his tweet, saying that Rahul Gandhi had clarified that the reports were incorrect and that the words attributed to him were wrong.The Congress functionary quoted in the first instance said that Sonia Gandhi will soon form a committee that will help her in the party’s day-to-day functioning. The functionary indicated that it will be a small panel that will share Sonia Gandhi’s burden till a session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) is held within six months if the Covid-19 situation improves by then and a new party president elected. “For the AICC session, ways and means have to be devised,” he said. The decisions were taken at the CWC meeting where Sonia Gandhi was asked to continue on the post till a new president is elected. After the seven-hour meeting in which 48 of the 52 members came down heavily on the four letter-writers present in the meeting – Azad, Wasnik, Sharma and Prasada -- Sonia Gandhi agreed to continue but said this arrangement cannot remain open-ended as the new party chief has to be selected soon. She also asked leaders, especially the seniors, to desist from raising organisational issues outside the party forum. On Tuesday, many signatories took to twitter to refute those calling them “dissenters”. “Friends, we are not dissenters but proponents of revival: the letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party: universally truth is best defence whether it be Court or Public Affairs: history acknowledges the brave & not the timid,” tweeted party’s Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha. Anand Sharma agreed with him and said their intention was to convey “shared concerns” over the present environment in the county and it was done with the best interest of the party in their hearts. “Well said. The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the constitution,” Sharma said in response to Tankha’s tweet. Wasnik also responded to Tankha’s tweet. “Well said. Sooner than later those who saw the letter as an offence will also realise that the issues raised are worth consideration,” he tweeted. Sharma further said that having a “full time, active and visible” leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution were some of the key suggestions made by the 23 leaders in their letter to Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation. Earlier in the day, Sibal posted a cryptic tweet, saying: “It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most.” A leader belonging to the group of dissenters said they were satisfied with the outcome of the CWC meet but would wait and watch before deciding about their future course of action. Former Union minister M Veerappa Moily, who is also one of the signatories, said they were sorry if their action had hurt Sonia Gandhi’s feelings. “If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it,” Moily said, asserting they never questioned her Gandhi family leadership. However, he defended being a signatory to the letter saying there is a need for rejuvenating and restructuring the party. Moily also disapproved of the media leak of the letter and called for an internal party enquiry to find out those behind it and wanted them to be punished. “Soniaji is like a mother to the party. There is no question of any intention to hurt her feelings. If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it,” he said. Meanwhile, Sonia Gandhi will also interact through video-conferencing with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, four Congress chief ministers – Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry), Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren on the GST, NEET and JEE issues||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-and-rahul-speak-to-leaders-who-wrote-letter/story-DWCotOGIGVysGEkzBZ546I.html
26-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi, Mamata call meeting of CMs to demand postponement of NEET, JEE||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi have jointly convened a meeting of chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states on Wednesday afternoon to demand postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to be held in September. The virtual meeting will take place at 2.30 pm on Wednesday, a top TMC leader close to the Bengal chief minister told HT on Tuesday night. “Chief ministers of all non-BJP ruled states have been invited. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has informed that he will not be able to attend as he has to attend to some urgent business,” said the TMC leader who is involved in arranging the meeting. Those who will attend include Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, said the TMC leader. In back to back appeals on Monday and Tuesday, Banerjee urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the examinations, saying students would be exposed to risk if they travel during the Covid-19 pandemic. “In our last video conference with Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi Ji, I had been vocal against the UGC guidelines mandating completion of terminal examinations in Universities/Colleges by the end of September 2020, which had a huge potential to put student lives at risk,” Banerjee tweeted on Monday. “Now with the directive of @EduMinOfIndia to conduct NEET, JEE 2020 in Sep, I would again appeal to the Centre to assess the risk and postpone these examinations until the situation is conducive again. It is our duty to ensure a safe environment for all our students,” she said in a second tweet. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also wrote to the Prime Minster on Sunday urging him to postpone the examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-mamata-call-meeting-of-cms-to-demand-postponement-of-neet-jee/story-9Yrobr0tIXFPQoIc7Sy00K.html
26-08-2020||India||FASTag mandatory to avail toll discounts||Centre has made it mandatory to allow only FASTag users to avail any discount on toll charges at highway toll plazas in a bid to promote the digital mode of payment, according to notification issued on Tuesday.The ministry of road transport and highways on Tuesday amended the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008 to allow discount for users who make the return journey within 24 hours and all other local exemptions only if the vehicle carries a valid functional FASTag. HT has reviewed a copy of the notification. “In order to promote usage of digital payments for availing all discounts on the Fee Plazas of national highways, the amendments to the Rules are made which would enable- discount on return journey within 24 hours, it would be through FASTag or such other device and automatic. There will be no requirement for a pass,” a ministry official said.“The fee payable towards discounts ashall be paid through pre-paid instruments, smart card or through FASTag or on board unit (transponder) or any other such device only. The amendment would also enable that in cases where there is a discount available for a return journey within 24 hours, there is no need for a prior receipt or intimation and the citizen would get the discount automatically if return journey is made within 24 hours with a valid and a functional FASTag on the vehicle,” the official added.FASTag is a radio frequency identification sticker typically fixed to a vehicle’s windscreen that allows for the deduction of toll wirelessly and automatically without requiring a vehicle to stop at plazas. The tags were introduced to encourage digital payments and to end congestion and reduce waiting time at toll plazas.The Centre mandated that all lanes of toll plazas on national highways be declared FASTag lanes by December 15 to reduce bottlenecks along the national highways. It also relaxed its rules to allow at least a fourth of the lanes at toll plazas to allow both cash and FASTags payments for a period of 30 days. That ended on January 15||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-mandatory-to-avail-toll-discounts/story-trcxhrgZiDV46rNxjrgMfP.html
26-08-2020||India||Key files gutted in Kerala fire, Opposition alleges foul play||Thiruvananthapuram: High drama unfolded at the Kerala secretariat on Tuesday after a fire even as the opposition alleged foul play and called it an attempt to destroy evidence in a sensational gold smuggling case.The fire was first noticed at 5.30pm and brought under control within 45 minutes. But opposition parties said there was a delay and many important files were destroyed — an allegation denied by the Left Front government, which suspected a “conspiracy” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. P Hani, additional secretary of the general administration department, said a short circuit caused the fire and it damaged the office of the protocol officer. The protocol officer was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week. Hani said none of the “important files have been destroyed and they are all safe”.A senior fire force official told news agency PTI: “We first opened the windows and doors to let the smoke out. As per our initial assessment, the source of the fire was a switch on the wall, from where the blaze spread to the floor. Some files were partially burnt.”BJP state president K Surendran, who arrived at the scene soon after the fire broke out, was arrested by the police for entering the complex. The police also denied entry to state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, but later he was allowed to visit the spot after he threatened a dharna. “I was told some important files were gutted. It is sad that mediamen and leaders are not allowed to inspect the place. It is a big conspiracy to destroy evidence in the smuggling case,” said Chennithala. He appealed to NIA to make this incident a part of its investigation, and later called on governor Arif Mohammad Khan.Before his arrest, Surendran said: “It is strange that the fire gutted the protocol officer’s room. He was in-charge of the CCTV visuals. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will have to answer many questions.” The BJP announced a protest against Surendran’s arrest. The government denied the allegations, saying the Congress and the BJP were trying to give a political colour to the incident. “They are trying to fuel violence even at the state secretariat. We will not allow this to happen,” said state industry minister EP Jayarajan. “It seems like a conspiracy was hatched to create a violent atmosphere there,” he said.Later, the chief secretary announced an inquiry into the incident.The gold smuggling case at the centre of the controversy came to light on July 5 after custom officials seized 30kgs of gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. The case was handed over to NIA. The main accused, Swapna Suresh, and her accomplice were arrested from their hideout in Bangaluru. Also, CM Vijayan was forced to drop his secretary M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer over his alleged links with Suresh. Last month, NIA wrote to the chief secretary to provide footages from July 2019 to July 5, 2000. Initially, officials manning the control room said some cameras were damaged but later said visuals can be retrieved. The delay in the submission of important visuals added to the mystery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-files-gutted-in-kerala-fire-opposition-alleges-foul-play/story-FvuimaMHhJz9xWs77QAOeL.html
26-08-2020||India||Monsoon session set to be held from Sept 14 to Oct 1 with Covid guidelines||Indian Parliament’s much-awaited monsoon session should start from September 14 and end on October 1 , the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended, according to people familiar with the matter. The dates will now have to be approved by the Union cabinet, which will then forward them to the President. CCPA has also suggested a total of 18 sittings as the government has a total of 11 ordinances to clear, the people cited in the first instance added on condition of anonymity. The government is also bracing for a demand from Opposition parties to debate the India China border conflict, the Covid situation, the state of the economy, problems of migrant workers and the recent allegations against social media giant Facebook. According to the people, the government is discussing with stakeholders, a plan that involves skipping the Question Hour to reserve more time for debates and legislative business. “Conducting Question Hour requires huge manpower which is not advisable amid pandemic. We are talking to different parties before taking the final call,” said one official. HT has previously reported that during wartime in 1962, 1965 and 1971 and the Emergency (1975-77), the Lok Sabha didn’t have question Hour. Officials added that the government and the two presiding officers will also decide whether the proceedings of the two Houses be in two shifts—Lok Sabha in the morning and Rajya Sabha in the afternoon, or vice versa —or spread across alternative days. According to officials, the Rajya Sabha secretariat favours shifts. The Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has called a meeting on August 27 to discuss how to prepare for the session. The Houses are being prepared for the session with measures such as ultraviolet germicidal irradiation of the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceeding, placards to indicate names of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking the two Houses. While ministers, former PMs and floor leaders will get preference in the main chamber, many party MPs — even from the ruling party — will be accommodated in the galleries. The government will aim to replace 11 ordinances during the session. This includes a cluster of agriculture-related ordinances promulgated during the Covid pandemic to help Indian farmers such as the Farmers Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) and the Farmers (Empowerment And Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance And Farm Services Ordinance and essential commodities amendment ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-set-to-be-held-from-sept-14-to-oct-1-with-covid-guidelines/story-11ndBRuZ5pqZaosxnNLC6O.html
26-08-2020||India||Afghanistan asks Pakistan to carry out UN sanctions on Taliban||Afghanistan asked Pakistan on Tuesday to fully implement UN Security Council sanctions on terrorist groups and individuals even as foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi held talks with a Taliban delegation that included several sanctioned leaders. On August 18, Pakistan’s Foreign Office issued a statutory regulatory order to enforce UN sanctions, which include a freeze on assets, a travel ban and denying access to weapons, against scores of operatives of the Taliban and Haqqani Network. Less than a week later, a Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the deputy political chief of the group, arrived in Islamabad on Monday at the Pakistan government’s invitation for talks on the Afghan peace process. A statement issued by Afghanistan’s foreign ministry, the notification issued by Pakistan on implementing the UN Security Council sanctions had been “carefully considered and thoroughly reviewed”. All nations are bound to comply with UN Security Council Resolutions 2255, 1988, 1267 and 2253, and Afghanistan “urges the government of...Pakistan to abide by its obligations and its international responsibilities to implement the above-mentioned resolutions and to be committed to their full implementation”, said the statement in Dari. The statement noted the Pakistan government has pledged to implement the UN Security Council sanctions, including travel restrictions, arms embargo and freezing of funding for individuals and groups affiliated with the Taliban. “The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan will continuously monitor and follow the process of implementation of this document and the implementation of its resolutions,” it added. Implementation of all UN Security Council sanction, “especially those that cut off funding and equip terrorist activities and prevent war and bloodshed, is mandatory for all governments”, the statement said. The Afghan government also called on the Taliban to “start peace talks as soon as possible and not to expose themselves to international sanctions by stopping the bloodshed and [making a] full commitment to a lasting and dignified peace”. Pakistan foreign minister Qureshi personally received the Taliban delegation when it arrived at the foreign ministry on Tuesday evening. The talks between the two sides lasted almost two hours. At least six members of the Taliban delegation, including Mullah Baradar, have been sanctioned by the UN Security Council. While Baradar and three others were allowed to travel under a special exemption to participate in “peace and reconciliation discussions”, two members aren’t allowed to travel abroad, people familiar with developments said. Pakistan’s recent move to enforce the UN sanctions, which also apply to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar, Dawood Ibrahim and hundreds of terrorists, was widely perceived as having been taken with an eye on an upcoming assessment of the country’s counter-terror financing regime by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-asks-pak-to-carry-out-un-sanctions-on-taliban/story-xBUATyydr4fW6NNWUXL8DN.html
26-08-2020||India||India, Russia in talks over Covid vaccine production||India and Russia are in discussion for the potential production of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya institute, according to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan who said New Delhi has received some information about the candidate but detailed data is awaited. The Russian vaccine, called Sputnik V, was the first to be approved for use anywhere in the world even though it is yet to undergo safety and efficacy trials large groups of human volunteers – one of the most crucial steps before a vaccine candidate can be approved. Russian president Vladimir Putin said the shot is safe and effective.“As far as Sputnik V is concerned, both the countries (India and Russia) are in communication,” said Bhushan during the briefing on Covid-19 on Friday. “Some initial information has already been shared with us (by the Russian government), while some detailed information is awaited by us (from the Russian government),” he added.India currently has three vaccine candidates against Covid-19 under various stages of human trials, and there are three vaccine candidates in pre-clinical stages, said director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Balram Bhargava.Of the three vaccine manufacturers approved to conduct human trials in India, two are working on an indigenously developed candidate, while the third has been developed by Oxford University and British pharma firm AstraZeneca, which has struck a trials and production deal with Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII). “SII has begun phase 2/3 trials on 1,700 adult participants; Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate has completed phase 1 on about 375 participants, and Zydus Cadila’s phase I trial has also taken place in about 50 participants. The vaccine is given in two doses, and the second shot is usually given on either the 14th or 28th day after the first dose. After two-four weeks antibodies response is checked in blood,” said Dr Bhargava.Around the world, there are 31 potential vaccine in human trials and the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate is largely considered as the front runner along with the one by United States’s Moderna. In India, SII has begun the phase II/III clinical trials at Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital, Pune. “We have asked for about 300-350 vials of the Covishield vaccine being manufactured by Pune based Serum Institute of India,” said Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth. The vials arrived on Tuesday evening at the hospital at its Katraj campus, and the candidates will be administered the dose between 12 noon to 2 pm on Wednesday. “Once the vials arrive, we will check the temperature logs of the vaccine. We have also called about 10 volunteers who will be tested for Covid and presence of antibodies on Wednesday morning. The eligibility criteria is that the person must be aged between 18-99 years without any comorbidities. Also, he or she has to be tested negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid19 and test negative for the antibodies of the virus. So the person must not be currently or previously infected with Covid. Out of the 10 volunteers, whoever is deemed fit for the vaccination process will be vaccinated. They will be kept under a close check and after a week the next batch of volunteers will be vaccinated,” said Lalwani. The hospital was earlier also part of Serum Institute’s research to determine if the recombinant Bacille Calmette-Guerian (BCG) vaccine can boost immunity to fight against the Covid19 virus which was a six months study. SII is world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced and sold globally. On August 3, India’s drugs controller gave SII approval for phase II and III clinical trials. The first make in India vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech, Covaxin, received central drugs controller’s approval for phase I/II human trials on June 29. The vaccine candidate has been developed in collaboration with ICMR as its National Institute of Virology in Pune had isolated the SARS-CoV-2 strain that causes Covid-19, and transferred to Bharat Biotech in May.Pharma major Zydus Cadila has also started phase 2 clinical trials to establish efficacy of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate, ZyCov-D. The phase 2 trial began on August 6.The company received central drugs controller’s approval for human trials on July 2.“The vaccine will be ultimate to check the disease spread but we don’t know when will be an effective vaccine be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease,” said Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU, Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-in-talks-over-covid-vaccine-production/story-nSFTFjDMegVzzZhmcMuNeK.html
26-08-2020||India||What the Hong Kong reinfection case means||Researchers in Hong Kong said they have the first evidence of a repeat infection of Covid-19, a claim that the scientific community has described as both unsurprising, and worth looking into. Experts have said that since this study involved a singular case, more research is needed to establish the findings although there is some consensus on what has been established and what it could mean. THE CASEIn late March, a 33-year-old Hong Kong resident contracted Covid-19 and was symptomatic. The man was hospitalised and deemed recovered on April 14. Genomic analysis showed the infection was with a strain prevalent in Asia at the time. Also Watch | Battle shifting as Covid threat stalks rural India; 1st case of reinfectionOn August 15, the patient – while on his way back from Spain – tested positive for an infection at the Hong Kong airport. He did not have any symptoms. Analysis of the genome showed this was an infection by Sars-Cov2 of a different lineage -- one now prevalent in Europe.THE ANTIBODY QUESTIONThe researchers note that the first infection triggered antibodies that tapered off and were undetectable during the second reinfection. Neutralising antibodies are responsible for binding to free virions, inhibiting their ability to infect cells. These usually taper off after an active infection is resolved.“This is no cause for alarm - this is a textbook example of how immunity should work,” said Akiko Iwasaki, professor of immunobiology at Yale School of Medicine in one of a series of tweets. A drop in these implies a person’s immune system may not be able to stop a second infection. It is possible, as several studies have suggested, that another side of the immunity that forms a memory of a pathogen may help quickly create antibodies and other responses upon a second infection, which could help the person have a mild or asymptomatic illness. The researchers note as much, saying” “residual low titer of antibodies may have partially controlled the virus”.INFECTED = INFECTIOUS?The researchers note that the purported second infection showed high viral load that tapered off with time, all the while with the person being asymptomatic. High viral load has previously been linked with an increased likelihood of a person being infectious, even when they have no symptoms. HERD IMMUNITY QUESTIONThis case, the researchers say, has several implications with the first challenging popular notions about natural herd immunity. “It is unlikely that herd immunity can eliminate Sars-Cov2, although it is possible that subsequent infections may be milder than before,” the report. The virus thus could become similar to several seasonal coronaviruses that infect humans, becoming part of the typical flu season. IMPLICATIONS FOR VACCINESNoted virologist Jacob John told HT last week that natural infections cannot be seen in the same manner as vaccine-triggered herd immunity. “It does not work in the same way because a vaccinated person does not spread the disease, while an infected person passes it on to others in the initial days at least,” he said. This possibly leaves vaccines as the most important tool in efforts to stop the pandemic. “The only safe and effective way to achieve herd immunity is through vaccination,” wrote Iwasaki in a second tweet. The researchers said in their study, submitted to the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal, say that vaccine studies should include patients recovered from Covid-19, and that ultimately, vaccines may not offer lifelong immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-the-hong-kong-reinfection-case-means/story-Ta2L7fkKdtYa37MDO0t3UL.html
26-08-2020||India||New SC bench will hear 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan||A new bench of Supreme Court will hear a 2009 contempt of court case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for calling past Chief Justices of India (CJI) corrupt in a 2009 interview.The matter was sent to a fresh bench in view of the fact that the presiding judge of the bench presently hearing the case, justice Arun Mishra, is retiring on September 2 and will not have adequate time to address the legal questions raised by Bhushan in the matter.“There is paucity of time otherwise we would have heard the senior counsel with respect to the questions which have been proposed. Let the matter be listed on September 10, 2020 before appropriate bench as may deem fit by the Chief Justice of India,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari ordered. This same bench, on Tuesday, heard and reserved its judgment in another contempt of court case against Bhushan for his tweets against the top court and the CJI.The 2009 case was invoked against Bhushan after he said that half of the past 16 CJIs were corrupt in an interview to Tehelka magazine.Senior advocate Harish Salve brought this statement to the attention of the court based on which contempt action was initiated against him in November 2009. Former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal is also a contemnor along with Bhushan. The case was listed by the top court out of the blue on July 24, 2020 more than 8 years after it was last heard. Bhushan refused to apologise for his statement but offered an explanation to the court regarding his controversial remark. The court, on August 10, rejected Bhushan’s explanation and decided to proceed with the case and hear it in detail.When the case was heard on August 17, the court said that certain larger legal issues need to be settled including whether allegations of corruption against judges can be made by way of public statements and the procedure to be adopted when such allegations are raised.When the case was taken up on Tuesday, Bhushan submitted a revised list of legal issues to be considered by the court and also prayed for reference of matter to Constitution Bench. “There is shortage of time. I am demitting office,” justice Mishra remarked before he proceeded to order that the matter be listed before an alternative bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-sc-bench-will-hear-2009-contempt-case-against-bhushan/story-PoSFNY6XvLF6GV97GXElCN.html
26-08-2020||India||Daily new Covid-19 cases in Delhi hit a 40-day high||The Capital on Tuesday recorded 1,544 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest single-day increase in infections in the city in 40 days, according to official data -- a worrying statistic at a time when the state government has asked that Metro rail services be resumed.After witnessing a drop in Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks, infections in Delhi have started rising again, leading experts to warn the city against complacency, which, they said, may cause a resurgence of the outbreak. The Capital was the first major Covid-19 hot spot in the country to have successfully controlled the outbreak last month. At the end of June, the city was reporting over 3,400 cases every day at an average, which then dropped in the 900s in the first week of August. In the last week, Delhi has added 1,333 cases every day on average – the highest the weekly case trajectory has touched since July 21, or 35 days ago, when cases were still dropping from the peak.Tuesday’s increase in daily Covid-19 cases is the highest since July 16, when 1,652 new cases were registered.While the Delhi government said the Covid-19 situation continues to be under control in the city, clinicians and public health experts said the new-case trajectory implies that the infection rate has once again started to increase, and this can be attributed to violations of recommended protection protocols such as social distancing and wearing masks in public places.The increase in case rate comes at a time when the Delhi government has started opening hotels and weekly markets, with talks underway to open the Delhi Metro, which carries around 2.5 million people every day.Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said that residents must continue to maintain extreme caution despite the opening up of services in the city because two out of every three people in Delhi remain susceptible to infection from Sars-Cov2 as per the latest serological survey, findings of which were released by the Delhi government on Thursday.“Services such as the Metro, which carried millions of people daily, should be opened only when the positivity rate is below 5%. Same goes for other economic activities as well because more opportunities will lead to more infections. But, these are all ‘date’ driven (political) not data driven decisions. Since the government has opened up economic activities it should be absolutely confident about being able to test, treat and isolate the increased caseload. Contact tracing and active surveillance should not be compromised at any cost,” said Kant.With 1,544 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Delhi’s tally of total cases now stands at 164,071 of which 11,998 are active cases. In the last 24 hours, 1,155 people have been cured of the virus in Delhi. Out of those infected, 147,743 have recovered. Delhi reported 17 new deaths due to the virus, taking Covid-19 death toll to 4,330.Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog said this week that people need to take protective measures seriously.“Delhi is at a stage where whether cases increase or decrease will depend on how people here behave. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene etc. must be strictly followed if the numbers have to go down from here otherwise cases will keep coming as the susceptible population is there and virus is in circulation,” Dr Paul said on Monday.The rise in cases corresponds with the number of daily tests in Delhi being on a near-steady drop from peak levels – 19,841 samples were tested on Monday, with 14,461 (72.9%) of these being antigen, or rapid tests. The seven-day average for tests stands at 17,924 — significantly off the peak of 21,660 for the week ending July 10.This drop in testing has also caused a steady increase in the positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive. Around 7.8% of tests came back positive for Covid-19 according to Tuesday’s bulletin. This pushes the seven-day average of positivity rate to 7.5%, the highest since July 19, or 37 days ago. The number had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, the lowest recorded in the city so far.According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. Delhi has never dropped below this threshold.While the Delhi government declined to comment on Tuesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that the Covid-19 situation is still under control because the infection rate in the Capital is still below 10%.“We see the infection rate in ranges of 5-10%, 10-20%, 20-30% and so on. As on date, the infection rate is well below 10%, whereas, Delhi has also seen a time when the infection rate had hit 40%. The current variation of 1-1.5% we are seeing these days is understandable and keeps happening. It is just day-to-day variation,” Jain said during his interaction with reporters on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-hit-a-40-day-high/story-a3x7KrCvU9rtDHNkoWtaCM.html
26-08-2020||India||Regret, martyr buzzwords as Supreme Court reserves sentencing||The Supreme Court reserved its verdict on the sentence to be handed to Prashant Bhushan -- after giving the activist-lawyer a fresh opportunity on Tuesday to apologise, withdraw his comments, or express regret -- days after it held him guilty of criminal contempt of court for two tweets against the apex court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The court was urged by Bhushan’s lawyer Rajeev Dhawan and Attorney General (AG) of India KK Venugopal -- the top law officer of the Union government who was appearing in his personal capacity -- to not punish Bhushan, and to let him off with a reprimand.“The effect of a punishment is it will make Prashant Bhushan a martyr. Do not make Bhushan a martyr. We do not want this controversy to continue. This controversy will continue depending on the sentence that you give Bhushan,” Dhavan said.The court, which considered these requests, wanted Bhushan to apologise before it could take a lenient view in the matter. The bench, headed by justice Arun Mishra, suggested that Bhushan must “express regret” for his tweets, and subsequent statements defending those tweets.“Tells us what is wrong in using the word ‘apology’? Is it a reflection of guilt? It is a magical word which can heal. If you have hurt someone, you should apologise. There is no need to feel belittled by that,” justice Mishra, who will retire on September 2, said.At one point on Tuesday, the court on gave Bhushan time to think over his responses and consider retracting his statements. But no apology or retraction was offered by the activist-lawyer, who has maintained in his replies to the court than an apology would be ingenuous and a “contempt of his conscience”. He has also argued that his criticism came with the best interests of the court in mind as a long-serving officer of the law.The bench said that the court welcomes fair criticism, but those criticising the courts should not attribute motives to judges. “We tolerate fair criticism and welcome it. But do not attribute motives to judges when criticizing. We cannot go to the press to defend ourselves,” said justice Mishra.He added that lawyers and judges are part of the same institution and should work together to ensure that the dignity of the institution is not compromised. “You [lawyers] are part of the system. We are not separate from the Bar. We [judges] have also come from the Bar.”Several eminent jurists -- including former AG Soli Sorabjee, and justices RM Lodha and MB Lokur -- have over the past week said that the court was being overly harsh in initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan.According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence of criminal contempt carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both. The court has also, in previous instances, barred lawyers found guilty of contempt, from practising before the court for a limited period while refraining from imposing any jail sentence.The morning session of Tuesday’s hearing witnessed an engaging discussion between the bench and Venugopal on the punishment to be handed down to Bhushan -- with the AG urging the court to let off Bhushan with a warning, and the court insisting on the activist-lawyer tendering an apology.The bench said that Bhushan has declined to apologise and has also filed statements sticking to his stance. “We have given him time to think over. He says he is not ready to apologise. So, what should we do now?” asked Justice Mishra.Interestingly, the bench pointed out that Venugopal himself filed a contempt of court case against Bhushan in 2019 for a remark made by Bhushan accusing the AG of misleading the court in a case relating to appointment of CBI director.“I withdrew that case,” said Venugopal told the bench.“Yes, but only after he (Bhushan) expressed regret,” said Justice Gavai.Venugopal maintained that Bhushan should express regret, and the court should close the case. “Your Lordships should reprimand him and tell him not to repeat it in future. But do not punish him. It will be greatly appreciated at the Bar. That will be a fitting end to this case,” he said.Bhushan had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.Mehek Maheshwari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. Based on his petition, the court took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the matter and listed it for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day.The court then heard the matter on August 5 and held Bhushan guilty of a contempt of court in a judgment delivered on August 14. It then posted the case for hearing on August 20 to decide the sentence to be given to Bhushan.When the matter was heard on August 20, Bhushan read out a statement expressing dismay over his conviction. He said that he was standing by his tweets, which he described as an attempt to discharge his duty towards the country.The three-judge bench last week said it could show leniency only if Bhushan expressed regret and reconsidered his statement declining to apologise. It gave Bhushan time to submit an unconditional apology by Monday failing which it would proceed against him.Bhushan submitted a supplementary statement before the court on Monday persisting with his stance and refusing to offer an apology. He submitted his views represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, therefore, offering an apology for expressing them would be insincere.His tweets were not intended to malign the apex court or the CJI but only offered constructive criticism “so that the court could arrest any drift away from its longstanding role as a guardian of the Constitution”, the statement by Bhushan added.Rajeev Dhavan suggested on Tuesday that court should close the case after issuing a general direction that the Bar should exercise restraint while criticising the court. He specifically requested the court not to impose any punishment on Bhushan.Dhavan also pointed out instance when lawyers and judges have criticised the court and its judgments. One of Bhushan’s main arguments was that criticising courts is protected by free speech and will not amount to contempt.“Statements have been made (criticising the Supreme Court) not just by lawyers but also by judges. This court is often criticised and it will be criticised again and again. This institution will collapse if it does not suffer criticism,” Dhavan said.It is not clear when the sentence will be announced, but it is expected before justice Mishra’s retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regret-martyr-buzzwords-as-sc-reserves-sentencing/story-MkPl82PUc8cY21Mp99XXIK.html
26-08-2020||India||Red corner notice issued against Nirav Modi’s wife||The Interpol has issued a red corner notice against the wife of Nirav Modi, the prime accused in the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case, people familiar with the development said. The notice has been issued in connection with money laundering case registered against Ami Modi in India. A red corner notice acts as international arrest warrant. Ami had left India with Nirav Modi and other family members in first week of January, 2018, just before agencies started investigations in the PNB scam. It is alleged that she had gone to the US. Ami was director in few companies which were allegedly used by Nirav Modi for laundering money. The ED had named Ami as an accused in the PNB money-laundering case for the first time in March last year. Nirav Modi was arrested in London by the Scotland Yard authorities in March 2019. He was declared an “economic fugitive offender” under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act in December last year. On June 8, a special court set up under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) ordered confiscation of movable and immovable properties belonging to Modi. The order was passed in accordance with section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act on an application filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money laundering charges in the fraud case.The fugitive businessman is fighting extradition to India. Earlier this month, a UK court remanded Modi to further remanded in custody until August 27. The 49-year-old has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-corner-notice-issued-against-nirav-s-wife/story-9jADpyXG4QnV0XzZRnpMqI.html
26-08-2020||India||Govt pushes hard to complete 1st all-weather route to Ladakh||India’s national security planners are pushing hard to complete an all-weather strategic route to Ladakh that will link Darcha in Himachal Pradesh to Nimu via Padum in Kargil’s Zanskar valley, people familiar with the matter said. Senior military commanders said the third route to connect Ladakh by road is urgently needed given Pakistan and its all-weather friend, China’s interest in the Siachen Glacier and Daulat Beg Oldie.Nimu is 35 kilometres from Leh town and headquarters of XIV Corps responsible for the defence of East Ladakh and Siachen Glacier.This will be the first all-weather route to Ladakh which is already connected by two other routes; the first via Zoji La in Jammu and Kashmir and the second, via Himachal’s Manali-Upshi-Leh axis. The 9.02 kilometre Atal tunnel at Rohtang La, which will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km, is set to become operational next month.The defence ministry’s road project is being pushed hard by road and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and his colleague Gen VK Singh after China provoked a standoff along the Line of Actual Control in East Ladakh and started mobilising troops in the depth areas. New Delhi perceives Beijing’s reluctance to disengage despite reminders as an effort to create a new normal at the border.Officials said the third route requires upgrading the Darcha-Padum-Nimu trekking route into a metalled road and building a 4.5-kilometre tunnel under Shingo La on the Darcha-Padum route. The project, which has been in the pipeline for a decade, is scheduled to be completed by the defence ministry within two years.In an effort to ensure that the project meets its two-year deadline, Gadkari’s ministry has proposed that the task to build the tunnel should be given to the company that constructed the 9.02 km tunnel at Rohtang La on the condition that it meets the timeline.According to military commanders, the need to build the third axis was felt as tunnelling would be required under four more high mountain passes on the existing Manali-Leh route if the road has to be kept open through the year. The Atal tunnel at Rohtang La on this route has been built at a height of 10,171 feet and is already the world’s longest at this altitude.The four passes that would require tunnels on the existing Manali-Leh route are at higher altitudes: Baralacha La (16,500 feet), Nakee La (15,547 feet), Lachung La (16,616 feet), and Tanglang La (17,480 feet). These passes are only open for traffic between mid-May and mid-November and covered with deep snow remaining part of the year.However, the Darcha-Padum-Nimu route requires only a single 4.5 km tunnel through the 16,570 feet Shingo La between Darcha and Padum to ensure that the road is closed only for two months in winter. Darcha is 147 kilometres from Manali and lies on the highway to Leh after Jispa and Keylong across Rohtang La.The distance between Darcha and Padum is about 148 kilometres with the Zanskar sub-divisional town connected to Kargil via a 230-km long single lane road. Work is already on to construct the Darcha-Padum road with another 260 km road work in progress between Padum and Nimu. “We are looking to build a road that bisects the Leh-Kargil highway around Lamayuru monastery and connects Darcha via Padum. This road will allow the Indian military and the local population to get round-the-year supplies… The route is not under the prying eyes of the Pakistan Army as in Kaksar in Kargil district or the DSDBO (Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie) route that is under the observation of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA),” said a former army chief who asked not to be named.Apart from keeping supply lines open for the military guarding Siachen, Kargil and DBO sectors, the Darcha-Nimu route will also develop the new union territory of Ladakh to match the aspirations of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushes-hard-to-complete-1st-all-weather-route-to-ladakh/story-bG46RSR4r0xZ2V1jvP5vLM.html
26-08-2020||India||Fire breaks out at Kerala Secretariat, Oppn alleges conspiracy to destroy gold smuggling case evidence||A fire broke out at the Kerala Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday which the Opposition called “a conspiracy to destroy evidence related to the gold smuggling case.”The leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a sit-in protest before the secretariat against the government.BJP state president K Surendran was arrested from the spot following the protest. “Democracy has been slaughtered,” he said before the arrest. The protesting leaders of his party have demanded a forensic examination of the fire affected areas.The fire was brought under control but many files are reported to have been destroyed which has led to several Opposition leaders suspecting foul play.P Hani, additional secretary of the general administration department, said that a short circuit resulted in the fire that damaged the office of the protocol officer probing the gold smuggling case.Kerala BJP president K Surendran alleged it was a “well-planned sabotage and an attempt to hide the involvement of ministers in the gold smuggling case”.Amid allegations that a group of officers waited to begin efforts to douse the fire till the fire force personnel arrived, the Congress and BJP have demanded a high-level probe into the matter.Chief secretary Viswas Mehta reached the spot and has assured of a detailed inquiry into the incident.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that the fire was part of a conspiracy to tamper with evidence and has sought a detailed enquiry into the incident.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the gold smuggling case had sought the CCTV visuals of the last one year but the government is yet to submit it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-kerala-secretariat-oppn-alleges-conspiracy-to-destroy-gold-smuggling-case-evidence/story-tJJW0vgtTAh6X5FR5X0qZM.html
26-08-2020||India||Questions remain over success of LPG scheme||Poor targeting, or benefits reaching undeserving recipients, has been among the most common criticisms of welfare programmes in India. The adoption of JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity was supposed to get rid of this problem. An HT analysis of unit level data from a 2018 National Statistical Office (NSO) survey shows that at least one of the government’s flagship welfare schemes, the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), has successfully addressed the challenge — and excluded undeserving beneficiaries.However, this has not helped the scheme in achieving its end objective, which is to get households to shift to less polluting methods of cooking. The reason, ironical as it may sound, is to be found in the scheme’s successful identification of beneficiaries. A large number of them are so poor that they cannot afford to buy liquified petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder refills. The experience of PMUY offers potential insights into what the next level of welfare challenges — in this case, for instance, the state may have to incur recurring expenses rather than one-time transfers.The PMUY scheme was aimed at achieving a shift from polluting to cleaner methods of cooking. It has overshot its target of giving 80 million free LPG connections. Data from the petroleum ministry shows that as on April 1, 2020, there were 80.2 million PMUY connections in India. The data also shows that in the last four years, PMUY connections account for 71% of growth in total domestic LPG connections in the country. (See Chart 1) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Also read: Prime Minister Modi’s LPG scheme for poor running out of gasThis success however has not helped the PMUY achieve its stated goal. A unit level analysis of data from the 76th round of the 76th round of the National Sample Survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) across more than 100,000 households in 2018 shows that 43% of PMUY beneficiaries were not using LPG for cooking. (See Chart 2) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The share of beneficiaries not using LPG for cooking increases down the economic ladder. The fact that almost 70% of PMUY beneficiaries are from the bottom 40% of the households, shows the scheme has been remarkably successful in reaching poor households. (See Chart 3) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();How difficult can it be for the poor to buy an LPG refill? According to a December 2019 audit report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on PMUY, the market price of LPG refills (14.2 kg cylinders) varied between ₹500 and ₹837 during the period from April 2016 to December 2018 in India’s four metro cities. The 2018 NSO survey findings show that the average monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) of the poorest 20% households in India was ₹1,065. This means a cylinder refill costing ₹500 would comprise nearly half of a household’s MPCE. The same refill would comprise only about a tenth of the average MPCE of the richest 20% households (₹5,543). The cost of a non-subsidised LPG cylinder in Delhi is ₹594 right now. Even though PMUY and subsidised LPG consumers receive a subsidy on refill, they have to make the full payment upfront before the subsidy amount is transferred back to them. The high cost of gas refills, the CAG report said, has become a constraint in ensuring sustained usage of LPG.Also read | LPG cylinders still unaffordable for poor: CAGTo be sure, beneficiaries under the PMUY scheme could also opt for a 5 kg cylinder in place of a routine 14.2 kg cylinder. The government also allowed swapping the bigger cylinder with the smaller one to make it easier for consumers to get a refill. But the CAG audit found that till December 2018, only 16,032 connections with 5 kg cylinder were released and oil companies were able to convert nearly 76,000 connections from bigger to smaller cylinders, totalling about 92,000 connections which was a meagre 0.24% of the PMUY connections. The audit report said insufficient steps were taken to encourage consumption of the 5 kg cylinder.In order to ensure 100% LPG coverage in India – not only by the number of households covered but also by the number of households actually using it – it is important to make it easier for the country’s poor to buy a refill. This will require spending more on LPG subsidies. The government in March this year announced three free refills for the scheme’s 80 million beneficiaries to cope with the economic pain of the Covid-19 lockdown. Data on refills during this period will indicate how beneficial this was in increasing LPG usage in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/questions-remain-over-success-of-lpg-scheme/story-5AuhMJ5LcfmHJB2CrhNW6H.html
26-08-2020||India||2,173 killed in air crashes since 1947||Eighteen people, including both pilots, died on August 7 when an Air India Express flight carrying 190 people crashed at Kozhikode airport in Kerala. With this, the number of people to have died in commercial airline accidents in independent India has reached 2,173, a Hindustan Times analysis found. An overwhelming 80% of them have died in accidents caused by pilot error – an action or decision taken by the pilot which was the cause or a contributing factor in an accident.The analysis is based on data compiled by the Aviation Safety Network, a privately run initiative that keeps track of aviation accidents, incidents and hijackings. The cause of most accidents has been sourced from accident investigation reports by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, and of remaining from the Aviation Safety Network. The analysis has looked at only passenger flights and only those accidents in which at least one passenger or crew member died. Chartered flights, training flights, cargo flights and flights without passengers have not been accounted for.The Kozhikode crash was the 52nd commercial airliner accident in independent India that led to fatalities. There have been over 100 more accidents of commercial airliners, but they have not led to fatalities. Of the 52 fatal accidents, 40 involved Indian airliners and 12 foreign airliners.The skies today are generally safer than anytime before. The number of fliers has increased manifold over time – for instance, the number of passengers handled by airports in India increased by more than nine times between 1995-96 and 2019-20, according to data compiled by the ministry of civil aviation. But the number of fliers dying in air crashes has significantly reduced over time.This decade (2011-2020) has by far been the safest period in terms of air crashes in independent India. This month’s air crash in Kozhikode was the only passenger plane crash that led to fatalities in this decade. In the previous decade (2001-2010) also, there was only one fatal accident – an Air India Express flight that crashed after landing at Mangalore, killing 158 of the 166 people on board, in May 2010. The decade before (1991-2000) saw seven fatal crashes which killed 552 people, including 349 killed in the world’s worst mid-air collision in the skies over Haryana. Aircraft technology has changed over time, so have the causes of air accidents. In 30 years between 1951 and 1980, there were 34 fatal air crashes; pilot error was a cause or contributing factor in 20 or nearly 59% of the accidents. In the next 30 years, between 1981 and 2010, there were 13 fatal air accidents and of them 12 or 92% were linked to pilot error. To be sure, the number of accidents caused by pilot error does not show an increasing trend, but their share in all fatal accidents has increased because less fatal accidents are now caused by other reasons such as mechanical or structural failure.This is a global trend. A report by Boeing, one of the world’s leading aircraft manufacturers, in 2007 had also stated that 80% of air accidents across the world in present times were caused by human error compared to just 20% in the early 1990s.In terms of fatalities, 68% of 1,057 people who died in India between 1951 and 1980 died in accidents caused by pilot error, while 99% of 997 people who died between 1981 and 2010 died in accidents caused by pilot error. All put together, 80% or 1,740 of 2,173 people in India have died in accidents in which pilot error was either the cause or a contributory factor. The cause of last week’s crash in Kozhikode is not known yet; some experts have blamed the pilot’s decision to land in unfavourable weather conditions for it.Pilot error was found to be the cause in eight of India’s 10 most fatal air crashes. These 10 accidents together killed 1,352 people. One-hundred and fifty eight of them were killed in two accidents caused by engine failure and severe turbulence. (See map)The deadliest air crash in India’s history has been a mid-air collision 14,000 feet high in the skies over Charkhi Dadri in Haryana on 12 November 1996. A Saudi Arabian jumbo jet collided shortly after take-off with a Kazak Airlines plane approaching Delhi airport, killing 349 on board the two planes. Investigation team found pilot error to be the cause of the accident. The Kazak Airlines plane was commanded by air traffic control to fly at 15,000 feet, but the pilots made an unauthorised descent to 14,000 feet, causing the collision. This is also known as the worst mid-air collision in world history.In some accidents, pilot error accompanies other reasons, for instance in case of India’s second deadliest air crash. An Air India flight crashed in the sea near Mumbai shortly after take-off on 1 January 1978, killing all 213 people on board. Investigation found that a malfunction of an instrument called Attitude Director Indicator made the pilot unaware of the aircraft’s attitude (orientation relative to the natural horizon), but it also found that the captain failed to determine the attitude with other available instruments and that the co-pilot failed to monitor the flight instruments and did not render any assistance to the captain in ascertaining the attitude of the aircraft.The Mangalore air crash in 2010 that killed 158 became the third deadliest air crash in India. It too was a direct result of pilot error. The investigation team found that the pilots failed to plan their descent properly, causing the aircraft to be higher than it should have been at the time of landing. The captain, the investigation team found, failed to discontinue this unstabilised approach and persisted in continuing with the landing despite three calls by the co-pilot to go around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-173-killed-in-air-crashes-since-1947/story-5jDaotQMDTqAmEQuBlC7PP.html
26-08-2020||Editorials||The proof of Pulwama||On Tuesday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed a charge sheet in the Pulwama terror attack case. It has formally named 19 people, including the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed chief, Masood Azhar, for planning and carrying out the attack on the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy, killing 40 security personnel. Azhar’s nephew, Mohammad Umar Farooq, was sent to Kashmir to execute the bombing and was in touch with the Jaish leadership back in Pakistan, during, before and after the attack, according to the charge sheet. One of Azhar’s brother also told Farooq, who was killed in an encounter subsequently, that the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) wanted Jaish operatives to find out about Indian Air Force bases; Jaish was also planning a second terror attack after Pulwama, but had to abort it due to international pressure on Pakistan.Pulwama was a defining moment for geopolitics in South Asia. Despite Pakistan’s strenuous denials, it was clear then — and it is clearer now — that the attack had the clear sanction of the Pakistani establishment. A set of observers, at that point, wanted to make a distinction between the Pakistani government and terror-based groups. But while it is still at the charge sheet stage, the NIA investigation has shown that this is an artificial distinction — and in fact, there was a very high degree of synergy and coordination between the Pakistani military intelligence and terror groups based in Pakistan. It also shows that Pakistan was more than willing to escalate the situation with another terror attack, but the Balakot retaliatory attack (framed diplomatically as a “pre-emptive strike”) and the concerted international diplomatic pressure, mobilised effectively by India, forced Rawalpindi to back off.The international community today recognises Pakistan has given patronage to terror groups and supports terrorism as a State policy — but it has vacillated between appeasing Islamabad-Rawalpindi and penalising it in a somewhat half-hearted manner. Pakistan remains a key source of global instability, and any country — including its best friend, China — which wants stability must force Pakistan to act against terror. For India, the lesson is simple. In terms of security, New Delhi must never let its guard down, for Pakistan’s intent is clear. In terms of individuals, letting Azhar get away in 1999 (after the IC-814 hijack) has proved to be enormously costly; such an error must not be repeated. In terms of diplomacy, India must be alert to the joint China-Pakistani project of undermining India and counter it across platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-proof-of-pulwama/story-xDrrNHm2oQLYkz97cG7ChM.html
26-08-2020||Editorials||Sustain the Naga peace talks | HT Editorial||The Indian State has a novel way of dealing with what seem to be intractable armed conflicts. Engage (with stakeholders, including rebels); assert (the State’s authority) and coerce; divide (especially rebel groups which are often prone to fragmentation); concede (but only partially, without compromising on core principles); and repeat the cycle. The template has been applied, with varying degrees of success, in different contexts. But broadly, it helps ensure peace without concessions, maintains the centrality of the State, and either weakens rebel groups or creates incentives for them to stay within the framework of a peace agreement.The Naga peace talks between the Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (I-M), which started in 1997, have followed a similar trajectory. Asia’s oldest insurgency, when talks began, appeared intractable — Naga groups were insistent on their distinct identity; they wanted a Greater Nagaland, which included Naga-speaking parts of other Indian states and Myanmar; they saw Nagaland as sovereign, with its own symbols. New Delhi was clear that neither would a Greater Nagaland be possible, nor would these groups be allowed to claim absolute sovereignty. But to keep the peace, the State often, rhetorically, accepted the distinct identity of Nagas; it informally allowed NSCN (I-M) to operate (including allowing it to function as a de facto parallel regime which had its own armed militia and collected tax); it also bridged differences and accepted the idea of “shared sovereignty”, a form of asymmetric federalism.But there was no pact, and the perils of prolonged talks are now visible. RN Ravi, the key interlocutor for the Naga talks and now Nagaland’s governor, expressed the State’s exasperation at the operation of a parallel regime when he criticised “armed gangs”. NSCN(I-M), exasperated by the lack of a tangible solution despite a framework agreement signed in 2015, and annoyed at what it perceives as lack of respect, wants a new interlocutor and structure for talks. The geopolitical churn makes the situation more challenging — remember China has historically encouraged many armed insurgents in the Northeast, and given the current state of India-China ties, renewed Chinese support for those against the Indian State is quite possible. The Naga peace process is an achievement. It has kept the peace in a region troubled almost since Independence. New Delhi must sustain it and break the stalemate, by reviving talks and institutionalising an agreement. The old template must be tweaked to accommodate new realities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/sustain-the-naga-peace-talks-ht-editorial/story-vQSl0a8bpvolfEswewd7uI.html
