28-08-2020||News||A five-point action plan to manage waste effectively||Years of neglect, lack of foresight and complete absence of urban planning has left India staring at mountains of waste-landfills, waste-choked drains, water bodies and rivers. This is called “legacy waste”, a cumulative consequence of decades of neglect and lack of foresight. There are about 48 recognised landfills across India, together covering nearly 5,000 acres of land, with a total land value of about Rs 100,000 crore. India generates about 275 million tonnes of waste per year. With current waste treatment rates of about 20-25%, this leaves majority of waste untreated, in a heap, on landfills, and an equal amount in drains and river bodies. The Deonar dumpsite in Mumbai is an example. This is the oldest landfill in India, and was set up in 1929. It covers about 325 acres, receives 5,500 metric tonnes of waste, 600 metric tonnes of silt and 25 tonnes of bio-medical waste daily. Mumbai city generates about 7,500 metric tonnes of waste daily. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has recently commissioned a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant which will treat 600 metric tonnes of municipal solid waste every day. Clearly the plant is not positioned to deal with the everyday fresh waste, let alone treat “legacy waste”, that is the Deonar dumpsite. Drains and water bodies, emptying out into Indian rivers, also carry with them an unimaginable amount of waste. The Ganga is among the top 10 polluted rivers in the world, together accounting for 90% of the total ocean plastic pollution. India faces a seemingly insurmountable challenge of treating and getting rid of the legacy waste, with simultaneous and continuous accumulation of fresh everyday waste. India generates the most waste globally, and if urgent measures are not put into place, by 2050, our waste generation will double. Central, state, city and municipal governments, over decades, have not been able to prevent this situation, nor deal with its scale. For a country the size of India, there are about 92 large WTE plants. Of these, only a small fraction is operational, and the plants that are operational, run at suboptimal capacity. State governments have, so far, invested an estimated Rs 10,000 crore in such plants. The task now is to be clear on what needs to be done, on what has not been done, or done incorrectly, and to ensure correct execution of a national mission. Here are some suggestions that may be pertinent. First, municipalities need to have access to affordable technology which has been piloted and validated under Indian conditions. Today, most of the technology/equipment needed for waste management is imported, expensive and often not suited in our varied local situations. India needs affordable, decentralised, customised solutions for its land-constrained complex city matrix. For example, amphibian equipment to clean water bodies is imported and can work well for large water bodies. Indigenisation of design and manufacturing of such equipment for smaller drains and water bodies is essential. Robotic long-hand scavenging machines to unclog drains, booms which filter and prevent waste in our drains entering a larger water body are some examples, where Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) needs to kick in immediately. Entry to drains in India is choked with pan masala, shampoo sachets, chips/kurkure packets and so on. These are major problems unique to India and require both community and technological solutions.The next suggestion for focused action is the ease of procurement. Evolving a less cumbersome process for the procurement of technology and equipment is imperative. State governments are hit by a double whammy due to lack of technology and an immutable and rigid procurement system. BMC took almost seven years to finalise the bid for a Deonar waste to energy plant. The third area where speedy change is needed is policy. A direction which can accelerate the removal of waste exponentially is needed. One way, used internationally, is to unlock the land value under landfills. Allowing agencies, companies or industry that clear waste, to own the land (fully or partially as per mutually agreed terms) can fund the clean-up. A land payback can be a major incentive to recover the estimated 5,000 acres of prime land taken up by landfills. Rough calculations suggest that the value of the 77 acres of land under the Ghazipur landfill is worth at least Rs 1500 crore. These calculations ignore the socioeconomic benefits of cleaning a site which harbours disease and is a pernicious source of pollution to land, water and air.The fourth area needing urgent attention is the development of skilled and trained professional personnel to operate and maintain the waste management chain, right from collection, operation and maintenance of waste-handling plants. This needs to done with full use of mechanisation. The fifth and final focus area is to move to a zero-waste society. India was traditionally a society where little was wasted and everything could be reused and recycled. Sweden is now importing waste for some of its plants and there is definitely value in all the waste generated and any investment needed is an investment for a clean and secure future.Central, and integral to success, is design. Design in the collection, of centralised and decentralised waste treatment plants, and of the equipment used. Design of waste management should be the bedrock of a well-planned smart city, town or village. A well-designed waste-management strategy, cognisant of Indian constraints, will be the hallmark of Swachh Bharat, Swasth Bharat and Unnat Bharat. Science and technology must be the fulcrum to provide solutions to the waste challenges faced by the country, a challenge which is both urgent and important, and can be ignored at our own peril.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-five-point-action-plan-to-manage-waste-effectively/story-0I1qoralrtVVYskwZGenIK.html
28-08-2020||News||NEET-JEE: It’s time to enable students to ‘take’, not ‘give’, exams||Like much of the fallout of the Covid-19 crisis, the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)/Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) exams pose a conundrum with no perfect answers. Every solution comes with faults. Think for a moment of the students who have prepared for this, gearing up for years, mentally preparing for peak performance on the day. They find themselves ready, only to be let down if the examination does not take place. A year lost, worse, momentum lost, which they may not regain. A competitive exam is as much about one’s emotional state as it is about knowledge and application. The same recognition of it being about one’s emotional state can be used to flip the argument. Think of those thousands of students who find themselves affected by the pandemic, unable to concentrate and prepare under these conditions. Then again, there is the mega problem of safe examinations. Even if by some miracle, the examination authorities were able to organise socially-distanced examinations, with larger halls, sanitised papers and protective clothing for all, the problem of reaching the location remains. With the pandemic still in play, to travel to and from another location, stay in shared accommodation and to increase interaction via transactions such as food, tickets and more for the hundreds of thousands of students who take the exam, is risky. This is exactly the kind of contact that all governments are trying to avoid. To lose a year, or to risk lives — that seems to be the stark choice. This is not a trade-off, this is a bind. Much of this mess is because the examination systems in the country have not kept pace with available technology. If everything depends upon one date and location, obviously there will be problems. A student still has to go to the exams, rather than the examinations being made available to them. No wonder most Indians use the verb “give” for exams rather than the technically correct “take”. They have to give a lot to take the examination. Covid-19 has brought this to a crisis, where thousands of students are clamouring that they do not have the ability to give in these conditions. From a systems point of view, continuity is important, and the authorities have already said that the examination must go on. The current debate has come to a head because we have not created an examination system that serves the varied needs of students. Students are not a homogenised unit. They are real people with real-world problems and challenges. The crisis now seeks an operational solution — cancel — whereas we should be looking at a systemic solution that sustains, with cognisance of student pressures. The entire NEET-JEE crisis is because we have not invested in multiple chances and choices for examinations. Undoubtedly, the examination administration system has vast years of experience, but it needs to demonstrate agility and outreach in examination-delivery design. Which means, let examinations reach out to students, let them take it at multiple times during the year, and let the scores be valid for a reasonable period, typically three years. Every public library, whether attached to a college, university or not, can become an examination centre on call. Ideally, the examination can be online and on call, but if that proves difficult, then on a few set dates every quarter. There is no reason to link the application process to the examination process when technology has raced ahead of old administrative mores. Covid-19 catalyses this essential paradigm change. Students who are ready can bank their preparation and take their exam now. Others must have another chance every few months, if not on-demand, with institutional proctoring. What, then, happens to the much-vaunted rankings and percentiles? They can be normalised on an updated distribution curve across time. In many ways, this is fairer to all students across circumstances. This only calls on simple statistics taught by the very people who set these papers. This is a time to seek another shift too — one of scale. Even with the exams held now, a semester may already have been lost. We have already come to a crisis where there will be a bunching of students and batches during the Covid-19 years. In managing that, we have a chance to scale up engineering and medical capacity. For years, many have been calling for scaling up current professional colleges by leveraging capacity, enabling support faculty and digital potential in line with many schools of excellence globally. Rearranging courses into modules with sequential requirements, and including blended learning, will enable scale shifts. During the crisis, most learning is digital, and these modules may need further bridge courses in later years. There is also a good case to be made for running at least two batches per year, with separate starts. Multiple exams, multiple starts will give relief to those who did not have the resources to make it to the exam this time. This combined approach of sequential requirements, modular digital courses and bridge courses may serve the country during the Covid-19 crisis and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/neet-jee-it-s-time-to-enable-students-to-take-not-give-exams/story-57wTmGBhtyeOt8WEpdTMPO.html
28-08-2020||News||Delhi-Kathmandu ties: Finding a win-win on floods||Floods in north Bihar and the districts of Uttar Pradesh (UP), bordering Nepal, during the monsoon season, cause enormous losses in lives and property. Similarly, large parts of Nepal’s Tarai get submerged. This tragedy repeats on a loop every year. Heavy rains in the catchment areas of the major trans-boundary river systems — the Kosi, Gandak/Narayani and Karnali/Ghagra as well as Rapti and Mahakali/Sharda — lead to substantial run-offs as these rivers debouch into the plains, causing widespread flooding. So far, the two countries have adopted flood-control measures that largely comprise river-training works, including embankment construction. This approach comes with its problems. Due to soil erosion and landslides in the upper catchment area, particularly of the eastern rivers, the run-offs are heavily laden with silt. This results in a rise in the level of the river beds. In some places, the Kosi now flows above the surrounding territory. Embankments provide a temporary respite. In the long-run, if the banks are breached, as happened in 2008 to the east afflux bund, there are catastrophic consequences. The problem is further compounded by the fact that the Kosi has made significant oscillations in its course over the last 200 years. Both countries blame each other for the floods. The chief ministers of UP and Bihar complain to the prime minister that Nepal was not providing full cooperation on embankment construction for these trans-boundary rivers and their tributaries, even though some of this activity is financed by India. Nepal, on the other hand, blames India for the flooding of its Tarai plains. It argues that India has constructed roads all along the India-Nepal border without installing adequate drainage. The roads, it contends, act like an embankment and cause submergence of land and villages on Nepal’s side. A report of a joint India-Nepal technical team that did not find any evidence for this allegation has not been accepted by the Nepali authorities. A longer term more sustainable approach is needed to address the root causes of the problem. India must cooperate with Nepal on the prevention of soil erosion and reforestation projects including in the Chure (Shiwalik) Hills under the Rashtrapati Chure Conservation Programme, a project under the patronage of the president of Nepal. More importantly, we need to revive the many reservoir projects agreed upon in the past and whose implementation has been tardy. The Narendra Modi government provided a huge impetus to the Pancheshwar Hydro-Power Project on the Mahakali/Sharda River that had remained stalled for almost two decades since the mid-1990s. Unfortunately, six years down the road, it has got bogged down again, particularly over Nepal’s refusal to accept India’s proposal to include the waters of the Lower Sharda Barrage in the existing consumptive usage of the Mahakali waters. If this issue is not sorted out at the political level, the project will be delayed again at a huge cost. The last time the project was delayed, the overall cost increased from ~12,000 crore to ~40,000 crore even as the total capacity has been reduced from 6,720 MW to 5,040 MW largely due to hydrological factors.Another priority should be the revival of the Kosi high dam proposal. Though the Kosi Barrage was built several decades ago, and embankment works have proceeded apace, the high dam proposal has not made much progress since its conception in the 1950s. The joint project office has been unable to complete the survey-related work needed for the preparation of the detailed project report (DPR), even though it was set up in 2004, in part due to resistance from local communities. Considerable efforts are needed to address the concerns of the local population, especially in the area that will be submerged. The Nepali authorities are less than supportive on the grounds that the entire submergence will be in Nepal, while the bulk of the benefits in terms of irrigation and flood control will go to India. The Sun Kosi Storage-cum-Diversion Scheme has been made an integral part of the project keeping in mind Nepal’s interests. An objective and fair system for sharing the costs and benefits from the project will need to be worked out.So far, India has opted for a bilateral approach. But Bangladesh too is an interested party as the project will regulate water flows into the Ganga and the Padma. Trilateral cooperation will make it easier politically for Nepal to pursue the project. If the project is implemented, an important benefit for Nepal will be the creation of inland waterways along the Ganga and Kosi, which will result in a significant reduction of logistics costs for trade. It will also significantly strengthen sub-regional cooperation. Though relations with Nepal are currently fraught and it is unlikely that solutions will be easily found, India needs to review joint reservoir projects strategically at the political level.Ranjit Rae is former ambassador to NepalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/delhi-kathmandu-ties-finding-a-win-win-on-floods/story-4I8ACB8NTIh65s0peO9v2M.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Was police action in Jamia proportionate, high court asks ASG||The Delhi high court on Friday sought to know from the Delhi Police whether their action against the students on the Jamia Milia Islamia campus last December, during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), was proportionate to the police’s claims that weapons were stored on the campus to attack the police.After an anti-CAA protest turned violent on December 15, the police had entered the campus, cane charged students and detained them and also used tear gas shells. “Even if we assume that the action taken by police was legitimate, was it proportionate? Does it justify what the police have done? Was it as per the ethical standards of policing?, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan asked additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi. The bench was hearing a bunch of pleas pertaining to the Jamia violence, seeking relief and registration of FIRs against erring police personnel.The court’s poser came after ASG Lekhi contended that the police action was warranted and the police had asked the students to maintain restrain. He said the students inside the varsity, however, got violent and started pelting stones, bricks, bottles, etc at the police.“Despite multiple warnings, students continued to pelt stones and destroy barricades,” he said.He submitted said that the unruly mob did not even spare school buses and six buses were burnt. He said the mob had blocked the roads and there was heavy stone pelting from inside the campus.“A university is supposed to have books and academics, where did all these objects come from? A university has to be a place of learning and not of violence and arson,” Lekhi said.“The objective of that mob was to overawe the law with the use of criminal force,” he said, while adding that the facts squarely fit into the definition of an unlawful assembly, and hence the police action was warranted.Following arguments, the court posted the matter for further hearing to September 18.Violence has broken out in the varsity after student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Police have been accused of entering the university campus and assaulting students after a protest against the Citizenship(Amendment) Act turned violent on December 15.At least 10 vehicles were allegedly torched by protesters. The Jamia students had said they were not involved in the violence and that their peaceful march was hijacked by outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/was-police-action-in-jamia-proportionate-high-court-asks-asg/story-2hrxBl4SlOgWY9tm0SgEcL.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||45-year-old woman injured after balcony collapses in Gurugram’s DLF Phase 4||A 45-year-old woman was injured after the balcony of the second floor of her house collapsed, causing the first-floor balcony, where she was standing, to buckle under the weight of the rubble in Palm Avenue in DLF Phase 4 on Friday.The police said the woman was pulled out of the debris and rushed to a private hospital, where her condition is said to be stable. They said she escaped serious injuries as the slab from the second floor fell mostly on a beam which deflected it from directly contacting the woman.According to the police, the incident took place around 11.30 am when the woman, Mandakini Kaul, was standing in the rear balcony on the first floor of her house. Her children and her husband were in the adjacent rooms. No one was on the second floor of the house.The police said the entire second floor balcony, over nine-feet long and at least five-feet wide, along with its grille, fell on the first-floor balcony where Kaul stood. The fallen slab took the first-floor balcony, along with Kaul, to the ground with a thud. Several labourers, who were working nearby, and residents in the area rushed to the house and pulled her out.A police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “We received a call from the police control room and rushed to the area. Though she was caught underneath the rubble, she escaped any serious injuries. The beams created a gap somehow which prevented a major injury. When the woman was pulled out and was in the ambulance, she was stable. She suffered some bruises on her feet and is currently undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Sushant Lok 1. The doctors have declared her unfit for giving a statement since they are running some tests on her.”Jagbir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sector 29, said, “The woman did not have any external injuries. Her statement is yet to be recorded. The incident took place in Palm Avenue in DLF Phase 4. It is an independent house. ” According to private developer DLF, the colony does not belong to them.The police did not receive any complaint in the matter.A team of fire department officials had also visited the spot. Deepanshu Mehlawat, fire station officer, Sector 29, said, “The woman sustained minor injuries. She was conscious at the time we reached the area and was pulled out with the help of residents and passersby.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/45-year-old-woman-injured-after-balcony-collapses-in-gurugram-s-dlf-phase-4/story-Q0UUfCd5WjDTo1O3cSSpjP.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Public gatherings, parties behind recent spurt in Covid cases, say officials||With the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) increasing in the city, the district administration has called the current situation a “wake-up call” for citizens. According to the administration, infection is once again on the rise as people have started organising and attending public gatherings and parties and are not following rules of social distancing.Health officials said that contact tracing in many of the newly detected Covid-19 cases shows that in some instances, family members are turning out to be positive after attending a social function or a private gathering. Gurugram Police, however, said that they have been taking action against people who are organising parties, violating social distancing norms.Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Friday, while addressing the media at Mini Secretariat, said, “There is an upward trend in the Covid-19 cases in the district. More than 100 new cases are being reported every day, which was not the situation a few weeks back. It is a wake-up call for people to maintain social distancing and avoid private or public gatherings.” In Gurugram, 126 new cases were reported on Friday, taking the overall count of infected persons to 11,555. Out of these, at least 973 are active cases, while 10,450 have recovered from the illness. The Covid-19 toll stands at 132, while the fatality rate stand at 1.15%. The growth rate of new infection has climbed up to 1.2%. It has also led a drop in the doubling rate from 104 days earlier to 81 days this week.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The positivity rate of the district is maintained at 6.77% but infectivity is increasing, especially among people who are moving out and attending functions or gatherings. In one Large Outbreak Region ( LOR), our team came across a case where 15 people from a family got infected on the same day.” To tackle the cases, Yadav, who was also present at the meet, said that the health department will focus upon proper 14-day quarantine of people who have come in contact with infected people. “If there is a need to admit people in a Covid Care Centre, we would even do that to break the chain of transmission. Also, more symptomatic cases will be identified, tested and isolated,” said Yadav. Gurugram police, on the other hand, said that they have been taking strict action against people who are organising these parties and functions in the present phase of Unlock. “Eighty people, who were found partying and drinking in public places, have been arrested till now,” said K K Rao, commissioner of police. “Special teams have been formed who are keeping check on party venues. Anyone found organising parties will be arrested. Party organisers are on the police radar and the cyber cell is keeping a tab on social media to see if anyone is promoting any page for a night party,” said Rao. He also said that people partying in Gurugram are mostly from Delhi and Noida and get in touch with party organisers on social media. People are still posting online advertisements for weekend parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-public-gatherings-parties-behind-recent-spurt-in-covid-cases-say-officials/story-EMHcSkCNzgTuOG1O85PmHO.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||Two large farmhouses worth crores demolished in protected Aravallis||Two farmhouses that were as large as luxury hotels, that had come up in the protected Aravllis areas were demolished on Friday after the Supreme Court took cognizance of the matter.The Aravallis, one of the oldest mountain ranges in the country and the “green lung” to Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi, has suffered in the hands of illegal construction over the past many years, including several hillocks vanishing. The Supreme Court had issued stern warnings then to the state governments and did so again this week to Haryana.The two “luxurious” farmhouses had come up illegally in the Bandhwari village of the Aravallis, along with 17 others that were demolished too over the last three days.One official from the department town and country planing, which along with the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) oversaw the demolition, described it as “spread over two acres, with swimming pools and large lawns”.“In one, we found around 400 plates and assorted crockery usually found in hotels. The rooms were furnished and equipped like commercial property and even a spa was part of the establishment,” said the official who did not wish to be named.The two farmhouses were large and well built that the authorities had to call for heavier earthmovers than the usual ones that are usually deployed during demolition drives. RS Bhath, district town planner, said though no one was found living in these farmhouses, they met the owner of one large farmhouse. “They came on and off to take care of the property,” he said.MCG joint commissioner Hari Om Atri said, “These two farmhouses were huge and it took an entire day to demolish these structures. A large boundary wall in acres built by a school was also demolished as it was illegal.”Bhath said that with Friday’s operation, all illegal farmhouses in the area were demolished. “We are now analysing the violations that were carried out by the developer as per urban areas act and municipal act so that a police case is registered against the developer,” he said.The authorities did not offer comment on how these large farmhouses came to be without their knowledge.The DTCP official said that a formal report on the demolition drive would be submitted to the deputy commissioner of Gurugram. “As per the directions of the government 19 farmhouses in various stages of construction, boundary walls, plinths and related constructions were demolished in the last three days. The director of DTCP has also been apprised of the action taken. A police complaint would also be lodged against the accused after compiling the violations as per different departments,” he said.Earlier on Thursday, Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commisioner had said the Haryana chief secretary had ordered the demolition. “We will also work on collaboration with forest department and based on their recommendations take all steps to restore the forest in the area,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-large-farmhouses-worth-crores-demolished-in-protected-aravallis/story-E6uQ6JUykHZ7Zbqk1fBJyO.html
28-08-2020||City||₹2.5-lakh aid for Ludhiana MC sweeper injured in mishap||The municipal corporation has provided a financial aid of Rs 2.5 lakh to a contractual sweeper whose legs got fractured in an accident while at work on July 10.Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal handed over a cheque for Rs 2.5 lakh to the family of Ashok Kumar at MC’s Zone A office on Friday. Apart from this, the Association of Sanitary Inspectors of MC also provided Rs 50,000 to the family. Kumar was hit by a speeding Tata Ace while he was performing his duty near Dholewal Chowk on July 10. Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee chairman Ashwani Sahota said after they took up the matter with the mayor, he assured to bear the treatment cost of Kumar and provide his family further financial aid. He said they had also demanded that Kumar’s job be regularised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-5-lakh-aid-for-ludhiana-mc-sweeper-injured-in-mishap/story-JzZAwbFUJr5DMrq0LRTpRI.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||MCG to form committee to address drainage issues in Golf Course Road, sectors 27 and 28||A 10-member committee will be appointed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to review the existing drainage system of Golf Course Road (GCR), sectors 27 and 28, and compile a report on the matter, suggesting the best possible ways to address waterlogging issues in these areas. The councillors of the civic body took this decision in a House meeting on Friday. The committee will comprise five councillors and five officials from MCG’s engineering wing, said officials familiar with the matter. The development comes just a week after three underpasses on GCR were inundated, following two days of heavy rain. Further, basements and ground floors of houses in sectors 27 and 28 were also flooded.The House meeting took place at a community centre in Sector 27. It was the second meeting to take place since the outbreak of Covid-19, and the first where councillors and officials were physically present. The last House meeting was held via video conference. RS Rathee, councillor of Ward 34, had raised the agenda for discussing the drainage situation, following which, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh announced for the formation of the committee.“At both GCR as well as sectors 27 and 28, there is an absence of open drains that resulted in heavy waterlogging last week. The committee will closely examine the carrying capacity and the condition of existing drainage lines, along with the stretches where such lines are completely absent. It will also identify spots where new lines need to be laid on a priority basis,” said Rathee, who added that, by next week, the names of the 10 councillors and MCG officials will be finalised.Singh also said that the committee will closely work with the recently formed flood control committee of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). The GMDA committee comprises officials from GMDA, MCG, private developer DLF, and Haryana Shahri Vikas Prahikaran (HSVP) and is meant to propose both short-term and long-term solutions waterlogging problems in the city. “The MCG committee will work in tandem with the flood control committee. After a month of observation, they will submit their findings, based on which solutions would be found for the existing drainage issues,” said Singh.Following the heavy floods last week, GMDA has installed four large capacity motor pumps on GCR, and one each in sectors 27 and 28. MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma also announced that a private firm headed by former HSVP chief engineer KK Bhugra is preparing a detailed drainage plan for sectors 27 and 28. Another key agenda discussed during the meeting was MCG’s sapling drive.The civic body had a set a target of planting nearly 1.25 lakh saplings during this monsoons season. During the meeting, Singh announced that so far, more than 75,000 saplings have been planted across the city. The remaining saplings will be planted next month.Councillors also sought an update regarding the status of taking over of various private colonies. To this, MCG’s planning branch officials said that the civic body has requested the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to submit copies of approved service plan designs and estimates for Ardee City, Malibu Towne, Vipul World, Uppal Southend, Rosewood City, and Mayfield Garden. Following this, a deficiency assessment survey would be initiated by the civic body in these colonies.Councillors told MCG officials that Sushant Lok 2 and 3 should also be added to this list and, in the future, the transfer process of all eight colonies should be undertaken together.An agenda for developing an urban forest around the vacant plots reclaimed by MCG from encroachers in Sikanderpur last month was also passed unanimously. Meanwhile Singh directed officials to stop illegal garbage collection in Sushant Lok 1, seize illegal garbage collection vehicles in the area, and file a case against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-form-committee-to-address-drainage-issues-in-golf-course-road-sectors-27-and-28/story-w2nVH1zCsLITqMQWiNgJ8K.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Community volunteers to help school students get access to smart phones for online classes||The directorate of school education is planning to launch an initiative that seeks to bridge the digital divide, by appointing community volunteers who’ll ensure that students who don’t have access to smart phones can remain in touch with their teachers.As a part of the initiative, titled ‘Shiksha Mitr’, teachers would need to identify one member from the student’s family or the neighbourhood with an internet-enabled smart phone. The owner of the phone will then share it with the student for a certain duration of the day so that he or she can be in touch with the teachers for the online classes. The department has directed all teachers to identify and register a Shiksha Mitr for every student in their class. Additionally, teachers are also supposed to carry out local awareness campaigns so that students as well as the community are aware of the role of these volunteers.In a directive shared with district education officers on Thursday, the department said that each teacher would need to ensure that one Shiksha Mitr is assigned to every student who doesn’t have access to digital devices for online classes. “In order to minimise the digital divide among students of government schools, it is recommended that a Shiksha Mitra is assigned to every student to ensure that they are connected to their teachers and the department’s e-learning initiatives,” the department stated in its directive, which is yet to be communicated with the teachers of the students. As per the department’s directive, a Shiksha Mitr can be any parent, sibling, relative, neighbour or community volunteer, who has an internet-enabled smart phone and is in a position to lend the phone to the student daily for some time. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 43, said there were students who either didn’t have access to smart phones or were struggling with internet connections. “While students in middle school can still reach out to their classmates to keep a tab on lessons, connecting with students of primary classes has been relatively difficult during the lockdown. While we have been encouraging them to borrow phones from neighbours or parents for lessons, there has been a significant lag in learning. Through the new initiative, we are hoping to cover all students in a more formal manner,” said Miglani.Sangeeta Chaudhary, district elementary education officer-cum-district project coordinator, said that teachers had been facing issues since the online database for registering details was under stress. “There are certain households where students don’t have a TV or a mobile phone. In other households, only one parent has a mobile phone. As parents were home during the complete lockdown, children could access smart phones but since people are getting back to work now, children are not able to log in as regularly as before. Keeping these issues in mind, we decided to designate community volunteers for students,” said Chaudhary.Manjubala, an English teacher at the Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that while directions regarding the new initiative had not been shared so far, these volunteers were expected to act as a bridge between the school and students. “Some students have been facing access issues due to the lack of smartphones at home. So far, we had been making calls and asking such students to take notes from other children in their neighbourhood. With the new initiative, we hope to get support from local volunteers who will share their smartphone with our students on a daily basis. This will, hopefully, ensure regular engagement with lessons,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-community-volunteers-to-help-school-students-get-access-to-smart-phones-for-online-classes/story-MMzJXr9UWR8qJB2MyNlD6O.html
28-08-2020||City||Senior citizen loses ₹2.63 crore in insurance fraud; police book nine suspects||Noida Lured by the release of maturity amount of some insurance policies, a 70-year-old man from Sector 26 was allegedly duped of ₹2.63 crore by a gang of cyber criminals. The victim, Surendra Kumar Bansal, lost the money in more than 100 bank transactions over a period of 10 months, his family members and lawyer said. The police have registered an FIR against nine suspects and are investigating the case, a senior police official said on Friday. Bansal, a retired official from a private firm, lost all his retirement savings and also the money borrowed from his two daughters. Vandana Agarwal, one of his daughters, had filed a complaint with the cyber cell of the Noida police. “My father had some retirement savings. In January last year, he received a dubious call from the suspect, Jagmohan Shukla, who pretended to be an official from the ministry of finance. He said that my father’s insurance policies have matured and money is due. But he conditioned that the money would be released after making some payment,” Vandana, who lives in Singapore, said. The senior citizen got convinced and transferred ₹2 lakh in the given bank account on February 1, 2019. However, the gang members perceived Bansal as vulnerable and started demanding more money citing different terms and conditions. In the next few months, nine suspects – Jagmohan Shukla, Seema Aggarwal, Punam, Pratibha Agarwal, Shyamlal Gupta, Savitri Mahajan, Swami, Vandana, and Khurana – repeatedly called Bansal pretending as insurance company officials or bank officials and extracted the money. The transaction details showed that from ₹2-10 lakh was transferred in each transaction, Vandana said, adding that she transferred ₹18 lakh in her father’s bank account on his request in July last year. “I believed he may have some work, and did not discuss the matter. Later, I was talking to my sister who revealed that she had also transferred ₹28 lakh to our father’s account sometime back. Then I got suspicious,” she said. Vandana said she arrived in Noida in November last year and got to know about the fraud. She then contacted a lawyer and filed a police complaint. Jaikush Hoon, the victim’s lawyer, said that when we enquired about the transactions, we came to know that the money was transferred in the accounts of some shell companies in Rajasthan, Delhi, Dehradun, Karnal, etc. “The suspects duped ₹2.63 crore in 101 transactions between February and November last year. The suspects had also sent a forged bank draft named on Bansal and mentioning ₹3.55 crore via email, and demanded more money to release it,” he said. Hoon said that he had filed a complaint against the cyber fraud in November last year, but did not get any update. A complaint was also filed with the Noida police on July 28 this year, he said.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that primary investigation in the matter was conducted by the DCP (headquarters), who directed the Sector 20 police to register an FIR. “Based on the complaint, a case has been registered against nine suspects under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (breach of trust) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code. After the investigation, action will be taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-loses-2-63-crore-in-insurance-fraud-police-book-nine-suspects/story-jg0JYZ3HewwTQX9RdJbiPP.html
28-08-2020||City||Farmers demand full compensation before handing over land for Noida airport||Farmers, whose land is earmarked for the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar, along the Yamuna Expressway, are demanding the entire land compensation amount before giving possession of their land for the project.They said they will not give possession of their land if the Gautam Budh Nagar administration does not resolve their demands related with land compensation.“The administration paid the compensation for the agricultural land to acquire the area for the airport. But it is yet to compensate for the tubewell, trees, crops and other benefits that they had promised. Our demand is that they pay up the first compensation for tubewell, trees and other benefits such as Rs 5.5 lakh for each farmer, before taking possession,” said Balbhadar Singh, a Ranhera village farmer, who has given 100 bigha of land for the airport.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has acquired 1,334 hectares under phase 1 out of the total 5,000 hectares required for the airport project. Work on the first phase of the airport is likely to start soon after the Covid 19 crisis is over. The project is scheduled to be operational by 2023 if all goes as per plan.Going by the compensation decided by the state, if a farmer accepts Rs 2,300 per square metres then the government will provide them a 50 square metres residential plot and R5 lakh for construction purposes. If the farmer does not want a plot and R 5 lakh perk then they can accept Rs 2,500 per square metres rate. There are many farmers who opted for the first plan and need Rs5 lakh for construction of their houses.“The administration is not paying Rs 5 lakh before taking possession of their land. And the administration is also hell bent on destroying the standing crop without waiting for the yield. Farmers will continue to resist the administration’s move of taking over the land,” said Ajay Singh, a farmer of Dayanatpur village.The administration, meanwhile, said all issues of the farmers are being resolved properly.“We have decided to set up camps in villages to address their grievances related to land compensation. We will address all issues of farmers in the next two weeks’ time via these camps. And farmers are not resisting or protesting; they just want to discuss the issues that they have. We are discussing all issues to resolve them as per rules,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-demand-full-compensation-before-handing-over-land-for-noida-airport/story-uP01Z4xGxfW4NuVOOX1luJ.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||Man challenges Gurugram police to catch him, behind bars in 7 hrs||Seven hours after a man challenged the Gurugram city police to find him claiming he was all but untraceable, they did.On August 26, a Sector 18 resident had filed a missing person complaint at the Sector 17/18 police station, stating that his wife had not returned after having left for work a day earlier. The police registered a case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement). He had not named any suspects.The same day, the man received a phone call from his wife’s colleague 30-year-old Krishan Kumar, who is from Rajasthan’s Sikar. “He allegedly told him that his wife was with him,” said Subhash Boken, spokesperson for the city police.Soon enough, the man passed on this information to Sector 17/18 station house officer (SHO) Sudhir Kumar, who told him to join the investigation. “Then he boasted that he could not be found and challenged the police to find him before cutting the call,” said the spokesperson.The police team traced his phone number.Boken said, “The police traced and raided his suspected location in Aliyar, Manesar, but he was not there. He had procured a SIM card from a local retailer in Manesar using forged documents. The police arrested the retailer, who confessed that he had sold the SIM card to Kumar on a fake ID. After further probe, police traced his location to a hotel in Rewari.”The police said there too, Kumar and the woman had given fake documents at the time of checking in at the hotel.“Kumar was arrested on Wednesday within seven hours of him challenging the police to locate him. The man’s wife and he are colleagues. They said that they thought since they had procured the SIM card using fake addresses and had given forged documents at the hotel, no one would be able to trace them,” said Boken. “But we did,” he added. Kumar, the woman and the SIM card retailer, identified as Santosh Kumar, were all arrested and booked under forgery and other related sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-challenges-gurugram-police-to-catch-him-behind-bars-in-7-hrs/story-C3LZ981PEz2Z6zbUl7FhxL.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to screen, settle claims of 1,200 oustees between September 1 and 10||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will settle the claims of around 1,200 landowners, who have claimed plots under the oustees quota from the authority lieu of the ones that were acquired for the development of civic projects in the city. The screening process of the 1,200 applicants will take place between September 1 and 10 across various estates of the district. HSVP officials said they will go through the submissions of all the applicants carefully to determine whether they are eligible for the oustees quota or not. As per HSVP rules, a landowner, who had to give up over 75% land in an estate and who is shown to be the proprietor of the land in revenue records is entitled to a plot. Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP Gurugram, said that screening would be conducted by a committee, comprising the senior town planner, the district town planner, the land acquisition officer, estate officers to ensure that all applicants in a particular zone are heard and their applications are processed. “After deciding upon the claims of the applicants, recommendations would be sent to Chandigarh for approval. Once the nod comes from headquarters, a draw of lots would be held to allot plots to the eligible applicants,” Yadav said, adding that, during the hearing, the size of the plot to be given to the oustees will also be decided as per the HSVP policy. As per the policy, the landowners who are eligible for these plots will also be given a discount by the authority to buy the same. Around 1,200 applicants have applied for plots under the oustees quota online. Claims of those who have applied for the same manually are not being considered. Yadav said that claims of those landowners who applied for the plots through an offline mode would not be considered. The amount they have deposited with the authority would also be refunded.As per HSVP officials, next in the agenda is to settle the claims of allottees seeking alternative plots. HSVP is settling the claims to the oustees on a priority basis so that it can secure a free hand in auctioning its residential and commercial properties in the district — a process that is currently stuck due to multiple court cases, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-screen-settle-claims-of-1-200-oustees-between-september-1-and-10/story-gAWIp4g0DpinlwnyIk5ISI.html
28-08-2020||City||Gurugram: Malls, shops to shut on Mondays and Tuesdays now, instead of weekends||Gurugram: Instead of weekends, all shopping malls and shops, except those dealing with essential goods and services, will now stay closed on Mondays and Tuesdays in urban areas, as per a revised order issued by the Haryana government on Friday.On August 21, the government had ordered that all public and private offices, malls, markets, and shops should remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays in a bid to control the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Although there was no restriction on traffic movement, traders in the city had said their businesses would be hit by the decision and had protested against it earlier this week.The latest order comes after the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) reconsidered the matter and released fresh orders on closing only malls and shops in market places of urban areas of Haryana on the two weekdays. Public and private offices, however, won’t be closed on these days. The directive was issued by Keshani Anand Arora, chief secretary, who is also the chairperson of the state executive committee under SDMA. The decision comes at a time when Covid-19 tally in Haryana has crossed 60,596 and at least 661 deaths till Friday, according to the daily state health bulletin.“There is no bar on opening shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday in these areas,” reads the order. “The decision was taken to revive the economy which has already been hit hard by the national lockdown for months. Even before the lockdown, most of the shops used to be closed either on Monday or Tuesday. By closing markets and malls, the urban local body will get time to properly sanitise these areas,” said a senior official privy to the matter, requesting not to be named. In a press statement issued from state capital Chandigarh, the government said these directives shall remain in force till further orders.According to the official quoted above, the state home department is not happy with the move but the decision was taken as the country is in the unlock phase whereby businesses and industries are opening up. The decision to keep shops closed on weekends was declared by state home minister Anil Vij on Twitter on the evening of August 21. Many expressed their disgruntlement on platforms run by social media companies citing how businesses are suffering terribly, difficulty in getting back to normalcy and the burden of retaining employees.The decision of weekend lockdown was also opposed by restaurant owners, although they are now allowed to serve alcohol at the table after getting their liquor licenses renewed. Restaurant owners said they would be running in losses if the weekend lockdown is not lifted as they earn their maximum revenue during the weekend.Shopping malls and market associations in Gurugram, meanwhile, felt encouraged with the government’s move. “Even during normal days, before the pandemic struck, buyers hardly rushed to shops on Mondays and Tuesdays, so closing shops on these two days won’t affect business much. The crowd is almost four times more on Saturdays and Sundays than weekdays, and keeping establishments on weekend days is good for business,” said Aman Bajaj, member, Metropolitan Mall Association. According to him, last weekend, due to closing of malls in Gurugram, people went to malls in South Delhi.Harinder Rana, president, Palam Vyapar Kendra Market Association, also welcomed the move. “Generally, shops in our area are closed on Tuesdays. So, closing it for one more day won’t affect our business. Major sales are on weekends, which will once again pick up pace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-malls-shops-to-shut-on-mondays-and-tuesdays-now-instead-of-weekends/story-cCogJcwxuZQpQ2SnAQkBsJ.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown effect: Restrictions, police presence block drug supply in Chandigarh||Restrictions on inter-state movement and increased police presence on the ground seems to have snapped the drug supply chain in the city as the number of cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in the city has come down drastically this year. As per the Chandigarh police records, only 100 NDPS cases have so far been registered in different police stations of the city since January this year. This is also the lowest number of drug cases registered in the last five years. The city had seen 226 drug cases in the first eight months of 2019, 167 cases in 2018, 244 cases in 2017, 144 cases in 2016, and 173 in 2015. Acting senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vineet Kumar said, “We had managed to break the supply chain of the drugs and even arrested a few big suppliers in 2019. There has been a consistent effort by the police to not allow peddlers to build their supply chain again.” He added, “The increased patrolling owing to the pandemic, restrictions on interstate movement and night curfew have also worked as deterrents to drug peddling.” 101 ARRESTED SINCE JANUARY As per the UT police, as many as 34 persons were arrested in 31 drug cases in March, April and May, when complete lockdown was in place. Since January, 101 persons were arrested under the NDPS Act, of which 11 were women drug peddlers. SUPPLY OF VIALS REGISTERED DIP Medicinal drugs, such as injections of Buprenorphine, Pheniramine Maleate, are popular owing to easy availability and low cost. This year police recovered 529 such banned vials from addicts. In 2019, a total of 1,633 vials were recovered while in 2018, 4,193 vials were seized. Heroin and opium recoveries have also seen a dip this year. As per police records, 1.5kg heroin was recovered this year as compared to 3.1kg in 2019 and 1.4 kg in 2018. The opium recovery stood at 500gm this year against 934gm in 2019 and 3.9kg in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-effect-restrictions-police-presence-block-drug-supply-in-chandigarh/story-sIhTavUqfWKFnxBJEEgebM.html
28-08-2020||City||Only 10% of RT-PCR samples getting tested in Ghaziabad’s new lab||In absence of sufficient resources, Ghaziabad’s only laboratory for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing, is presently testing only around 10% of samples meant for RT-PCR testing for Covid-19 daily in the district. Made operational on August 14, the RT-PCR lab at MMG district hospital—which was supposed to help enhance testing capacity in the district— has only been able to process nearly 90 samples everyday, said officials.Till August 26, the lab had tested only 1,203 samples (out of which 32 tested positive) even as 800-900 samples are collected for RT-PCR testing—considered the gold-standard method for Covid-19 testing—in the district everyday. Around 90% of these samples are still being sent outside the district for Covid-19 testing and results of the tests sometimes take as long as five days to come, health department officials said.Till August 27, the district was waiting for a total of 2,667 RT-PCR test reports. The district collects a total of nearly 3,000-3500 samples daily, of which around more than 2,100-2,600 samples are tested through rapid anitgen testing kits and rest through RT-PCR testing.The MMG district hospital authorities said fewer tests are being conducted at the RT-PCR lab as they don’t have the necessary equipment that enables faster testing of samples for Covid-19. “The new laboratory is conducting around 90 tests per day, and we can test about 1,000 samples in the future if we get an RNA extraction machine ( a machine which extracts ribonucleic acid from the samples for the RT-PCR machine to study the viral load to confirm the presence of coronavirus) . At present, the work for RNA extraction is taking place manually at the lab. We have apprised the concerned authorities (district health department) about the need for RNA extractor,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG district hospital.“We are also awaiting one of our non-medical scientists to join duties at the lab. Once we get an RNA extraction machine and the scientist joins the lab, we can process at least 1,000 per day. Currently, we are testing samples collectedat the sampling centre at the hospital itself,” he added.A lion share of the samples collected for RT-PCR testing in the district continue to be sent to Noida, Delhi and Meerut as the testing capacities district’s sole lab remain underutilised. “Since the new laboratory is not testing many samples, majority of our RT-PCR samples are sent to laboratories in Noida and even outside districts. These are about 700-800 samples (out of 800-900 collected daily) which we send everyday to labs outside Ghaziabad and then wait for the reports to come which take two to five days. If the new laboratory at MMG starts testing more, our samples can be tested in Ghaziabad itself,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“The MMG Hospital authorities have told us verbally about the requirement of an RNA extractor. We have asked them to submit a written proposal for the same. Once this is done, we can forward the demand for the machine to the district committee,” the CMO added.Earlier, this month the Uttar Pradesh government had provided contingency funds of about ₹5 crore to different districts, including Ghaziabad, having more than 25 lakh population. The funds are sanctioned at the district level to meet Covid-19 related requirements including the purchase of consumables and equipment among others. A district committee, headed by the district magistrate, decides on how the funds are to be utilised. As the district’s sole RT-PCR testing lab fails to make a major contribution in enhancing testing capacities, the district continues to rely heavily on rapid antigen kits for Covid-19 testing. Till August 27, out of total of 184,193 tests conducted around 57.55% of tests (106,013) were conducted using the less-sensitive on-site kits.On Thursday, the UP government-appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, during a review with district officials meeting had directed that the administration should enhance the RT-PCR testing in comparison to rapid antigen kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-10-of-rt-pcr-samples-getting-tested-in-ghaziabad-s-new-lab/story-hTHuqnWYomepn286WctskN.html
28-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Woman ends life, blames in-laws in video||A 25-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide late Thursday in her house at a locality under the jurisdiction of Vijay Nagar police station. Her husband and mother-in-law were arrested for allegedly harassing her, police officers said.According to the police, they found a video in the victim’s mobile phone in which she is saying that she was harassed, officers said. “We have registered a first information report and arrested her mother-in-law and husband,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). Based on a complaint by the victim’s parents, the police registered a first information report against the two suspects under sections 304b (dowry death) and 398a (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as levied provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The first information report was registered at Vijay Nagar police station. Ghaziabad does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and 011-23389090 from SUMAITRI (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-woman-ends-life-blames-in-laws-in-video/story-1P4yYAoCGkBvhDBMejxAbL.html
28-08-2020||City||NHAI plans automatic registration plate readers for cashless travel on Delhi-Meerut Expressway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has planned cashless fare deduction for the 60km stretch of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) and a proposal has been mooted for the installation of ‘automatic number plate readers (ANPRs)’ at all the six entry/exit points near Akshardham in Delhi and Meerut in western Uttar Pradesh. The DME project spans 8.7km in phase 1 from Akshardham to UP Gate; 19.28km in phase 2 from UP Gate to Dasna; and 31.78km in phase 4 from Dasna to Meerut which is a dedicated access-controlled expressway. The NHAI officials said the exit/entry points will be Akshardham, Indirapuram, near ABES College, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and Bhojpur in Ghaziabad and the final one at Partapur in Meerut. “We have proposed installation of ANPRs at all entry/exit points. The device will read the vehicle’s front and rear number plates at the entry point and calculate the fare when the vehicle arrives at the exit point. The fare will automatically be deducted from the wallet account of the commuter. For this, commuters will have to register like they did for Fastags,” Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI, said. “In case the vehicle has a non-standard registration plate, the exit gates will not open. In such a case, the commuter will have to pay in cash and that too for the entire 60km stretch, irrespective of from where (s)he got on. The systems will be installed in November for phase 1, which is an operational phase, and in December for phase 2 and phase 4 once the construction work is complete. A proposal has also been sent to headquarters and it is likely to get cleared,” he said. The officials said the fare will be charged according to the per kilometre of distance travelled by the vehicle. At present, officials estimate that the DME from Delhi to Meerut will cater to about 48,000 passenger car units (PCUs) per day. The phase 1 caters to about 1.2 lakh PCUs while the phase 2 is expected to cater to about 60,000 PCUs per day. The DME stretch from Delhi to Meerut will have total of 14 lanes of which six towards the centre will be dedicated as an expressway while the outer four lanes on each side will be dedicated as highway lanes and will not be chargeable for local commuters. The phase 3 from Dasna to Hapur is also operational and having one toll plaza at Pilkhuwa. The previous toll plaza from Dasna in Ghaziabad was shifted to Pilkhuwa after the stretch became operational on September 30, 2019. The two phases -- phase 2 and phase 4 -- of the DME are under construction and are likely to be ready by the end of the year. According to officials, the phase 4 is about 73% ready while the phase 2 is about 83% complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhai-plans-automatic-registration-plate-readers-for-cashless-travel-on-delhi-meerut-expressway/story-lXIK41VMOgnywT6nhCUfRN.html
28-08-2020||City||Odd-even rule: Financial uncertainty taking toll on mental health, say Ludhiana traders||Five days into the odd-even restrictions for shops in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the district, shopkeepers have complained that not only are they facing mounting losses for months now, but were now finding it hard to combat stress amid the financial hardship.Seeking relief from the state government and district administration, various shopkeepers associations in the city have claimed that their business has reduced to 15-20% amid the latest restrictions after coming back on track slowly. “Uncertainty about the future is taking a toll on the mental health of shopkeepers,” said Amarjit Singh, president of the Model Town Market Association.“The government provided no relief to the traders for the loss of business during the lockdown. Now, due to the new restrictions, half of the shops are open for just three days in a week and the remaining only two. How will traders pay rent, loan instalments and salaries?” he questioned.The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has also opposed the odd-even rule. “If the government really wants to break the chain of infection, a lockdown can be announced for an entire week. But, the odd-even rule is only disturbing the business environment,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, FICO. Body’s senior vice-president Manjinder Singh Sachdeva said,“How can traders survive when they are allowed to open shops only for 16 or 24 hours a week?” The odd-even rule had also confused customers, say shopkeepers. “All shops should be allowed to remain open for a limited number of days,” said president of the Chaura Bazaar Shopkeepers Association, Parampal Singh Witty.Babanpreet Singh, who has a shop in Ghumar Mandi, said,“Our savings are depleting quickly. The government should pay heed to our problems, else this slowdown will result in large scale-unemployment.” Some market associations, including those in Ghumar Mandi and Mall Road, have suggested that only shops on one side of a road be allowed to remain open on a certain day. This way, shops in one row can remain on one day and the opposite row on the next day, they said. “This will at least help allay confusion among the customers about which shop they can visit,” said Pawan Batra, president of the Ghumar Mandi Market Association.FIVE SHOPKEEPERS BOOKED Meanwhile, since August 24, when the odd-even rule was enforced, the Division Number 8 police have registered five FIRs against shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi for violating the norms. The FIRs have been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. FIRs are also being registered against shopkeepers who keep their shops open after 6.30pm ahead of the night curfew that begins at 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odd-even-rule-financial-uncertainty-taking-toll-on-mental-health-say-ludhiana-traders/story-DczyayVevgxQa51wCmKbnL.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP chief announces state executive members||BJP Chandigarh president Arun Sood on Friday announced the appointments of state executive members, special invitee, permanent invitee and ex-officio members, as per the constitution of the party.People from all the sections of the society have been given representation while making these appointments, Sood said.The party’s state general secretary, Rambir Bhatti, said that as per the constitution of the party, 25 women and six Scheduled Castes have been given representation in these fresh appointments. Sood has also appointed 15 members as special invitees.Also, he has appointed seven permanent invitees including local MP Kirron Kher, national executive member Satyapal Jain, national council member Sanjay Tandon, former state presidents Dharampal Gupta, Yashpal Mahajan and Kamla Sharma and national secretary of minority morcha, Khurshid Ahmed.Notably, Sood had already appointed 29 state office bearers prior to these members.Sood has included all 20 party councillors, five district presidents, seven morcha presidents, convenors of all cells, departments and projects in state karyakarini.He said that the first semi-virtual meeting of newly constituted state executive members of the party will be organised from 11 am to 6 pm on August 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-chief-announces-state-executive-members/story-sEBWxYJIJy4rDvP39TnntM.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leader Tweets Vij over poor conditions in Panchkula civil hospital||Ranjeeta Mehta, media spokesperson of Haryana Pradesh Mahila Congress and national coordinator, All India Mahila Congress, posted a series of Tweets on Friday highlighting the poor condition of isolation wards in civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, where she has been kept after testing positive for Covid-19 on August 26.In her tweet to Haryana home minister Anil Vij, she wrote, “Bees are welcoming Corona patients in Sector 6 hospital. No one has conducted any test since 11am. Is this the way you and your department are handling patients? Now I can understand why the CM and speaker rushed to Vedanta.”In another tweet, she shared a picture with ten tablets in her hand. Seeking the intervention of the minister, she wrote: “Ten tablets given to me after five hours of torture to consume together. When I asked what the tablets were, no one answered.”She also shared a video where patients are undergoing X-ray in an open corridor.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “I understand her problem. We may not be able to provide optimum facilities, considering the number of cases. In isolation, even sweepers can’t be sent constantly as they can’t be exposed.”“I am arranging a private room for her in a private hospital by tomorrow so she can stay comfortably. But I would like to request everyone to be a little more patient, as we are trying our best,” the civil surgeon said.She said Mehta cannot be sent home for isolation as per doctor’s advice considering her health condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leader-tweets-vij-over-poor-conditions-in-panchkula-civil-hospital/story-CvJIYO5j0ppYf1eR5Qao1M.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||RWAs in Chandigarh threaten to surrender parks over delay in payment of maintenance fee||Many residents welfare associations (RWAs) in Chandigarh are threatening to surrender parks being maintained by them, claiming that the municipal corporation (MC) hasn’t paid their maintenance fee since June. The RWAs said they are having to dig into their own pockets to pay salaries of gardeners and sweepers.There are around 1,800 neighborhood parks in Chandigarh, of which almost 700 are maintained by the RWAs. They are paid ₹2.48 per square meter, and the rates haven’t been revised since 2013.Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri said many RWAs have complained to him about these charges. “Around 20 RWAs have come forward and said they are ready to surrender the parks if payment doesn’t come through. We will take a collective call and approach MC officials regarding this on Monday,” he said. Puri added that they have already written two letters to the MC asking them to release funds, but no action has been taken.President of the Sector 21-B RWA, Kuldeep Singh Gill, said, “We are ready to surrender the park maintained by us. However, as all RWAs facing this problem, we need to do this together. The MC will not be affected if just one or two RWAs surrender the parks.” President of the Sector 38 A and B RWA, Joginder Singh, said that although he was in favour of surrendering the park for the same reason, the RWA has no other alternative. “Once the MC starts maintaining the park, they will hire contractors for sweeping, cleaning grass and weed cutting. This has failed in the other parks they maintain and we don’t want ours to get neglected the same way,” he said, adding that park maintenance fee for April was received by them in July.Rajinder Garg, president of the Sector 46-A RWA, said that they have already surrendered the park being maintained by them, owing to the delayed payments. “We surrendered the park being maintained by our RWA around ten days back. We are still helping to maintain the park because the MC hasn’t taken the initiative. Those maintained by the MC have overgrown grass and aren’t pruned enough. Further, the civic body’s memo to impose tax deducted on source (TDS) on our park maintenance payment wasn’t acceptable,” he said.Meanwhile, municipal officials said payments are being made as per protocol. A senior official from the horticulture wing, said, “We have not received any complaints regarding payment of maintenance fee. There is no fund crunch and we have been paying RWAs as per protocol.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rwas-in-chandigarh-threaten-to-surrender-parks-over-delay-in-payment-of-maintenance-fee/story-OJ7wOqQzU8JUSjIMZU23iK.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Land fraud: Chandigarh man duped of ₹36 lakh||Police have booked a Zirakpur man for duping a resident of Sector 26, Chandigarh, of ₹36 lakh on the pretext of selling him a plot of land at Pipli Wala Town in Manimajra. In his complaint, Tarsem Singh said that he and his son-in law paid the accused, Sushil Gandhi of Peermuchalla, Zirakpur, ₹36 Lakh for the land, but he failed to provide them no objection certificate (NOC) issued by notified area committee, Manimajra, saying that a rain water pipe is yet to be removed from the plot.Singh said that on checking himself, he found that construction was on in the plot and found out that the accused had got the land registered in name of seven other persons, including his son. A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code at Manimajra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/land-fraud-chandigarh-man-duped-of-36-lakh/story-69IxtNo4n3UBRpgzeHlyCK.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Chandigarh over weekend; expect heavy showers from Monday||After 15.8 mm rainfall in the early hours of Friday and 0.8 mm during the day, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rainfall in the city, upto 20 mm, over the weekend, with intensity likely to increase from next week. “Rain intensity over the weekend is likely to stay on the lower side and only light spells are expected. However, the sky is still likely to remain cloudy. Moderate spells of up to 50 mm seem likely again next week from Monday onwards,” IMD officials said.Maximum temperature in the city rose from 33°C on Thursday to 32°C on Friday. Minimum temperature dipped from 27.6°C to 26°C. Over the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 33°C while minimum temperature will remain between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-over-weekend-expect-heavy-showers-from-monday/story-BzmR0bPOuTeyub8r4DbK6O.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Waterlogging in several areas after rains in Delhi||Heavy rains in Delhi on Friday led to waterlogging in several parts of the city, according to municipal reports. In north Delhi, waterlogging took place at seven different locations in areas, including Karala, Burari and Prem Nagar. Trees fell at four different locations, according to a monsoon report released by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. In south Delhi and east Delhi too, waterlogging occurred in several areas. In areas falling under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, water stagnation was recorded at Devli Extension, Nizamuddin West Market, among other places, the SDMC report said. Falling of trees was reported from seven different locations, including Madangir, Maharani Bagh and Saket Court area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/waterlogging-in-several-areas-after-rains-in-delhi/story-K1gTWhL07bil3BUS8qTMbI.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: To improve Swachh Survekshan rankings, make haste, clear waste||Blame game takes it tollHaving failed to work out a solution with the Jaypee Group,the municipal corporation authorities are not taking the blame for the huge amount of mixed garbage at Dadumajra, which fouls up the air in a 10-kilometre radius around it. One way out of the mess is that residents should use wet waste for composting. The existing limited installed capacity of the Dadumajra plant can be to some extent be sorted out if waste is segregated at source. MC must get its act together and ensure the entire garbage does not get mixed in transit and offloaded as such at the disposal site. The MC commissioner hopes that things will get sorted out by October, so we have to wait and watch and hope for improvements in the city’s rankings next year. SC LuthraControl waste, let locals take responsibilityThere is a saying: “Charity begins at home. We the residents are also to be blamed for throwing waste in the open and not segregating at source. Stray cattle and dogs can be seen in all residential areas, defecating on roads, parks and other public places. MC authorities are not taking any drastic measures to control this menace. Apart from cleanliness of the area, waste management is the need of the hour. Residents must cooperate with authorities and ensure that waste is not discarded in public places like gardens, roads, nullahs, drains, etc. MC authorities should work on a war footing and ensure that waste is disposed of regularly as per norms and not allowed to to accumulate at collection centres set up by MC authorities. Col TBS Bedi (retd), ChandigarhAwareness programmes for clean, green city a mustWaste management is the key to ‘swachh bharat’, and that is where the tricity, especially Chandigarh, has been failing repeatedly. The private door-to-door waste collection model has not worked. The MC has failed miserably on the three R’s of waste management: Reduce, reuse and recycle, and MC commissioner KK Yadav is as usual blaming citizens, resident welfare associations and his own staff. The garbage dumping scenario is getting worse each passing day. The Sehaj Safai Kendra’s (SSKs) are in a bad state and the arrangement between the Jaypee garbage processing plant at Dadumajra and the MC has fallen through. Toxins such as dioxins and furans are being released into the atmosphere. The compost unit has operational deficiencies. Instead of treating effluents the Jaypee plant caused serious pollution. The processing capacity does not have the capacity to handle garbage from the city and its disposal is a matter of concern. Though the Chandigarh Pollution Control Board could not resolve issues, the National Green Tribunal took cognisance of the matter in March 2019 and the UT administration submitted a compliance report on solid, plastic and biomedical waste management, outlining steps taken for air quality control. It specified that by June 1, 2019, systems should be in place, which was revised to September 2019, but till date, a year later, nothing concrete has been done at the ground level. There are fines in place for littering and dumping unprocessed construction/ demolition waste in low lying areas, landfills and public places, but implementation is a problem. Creating awareness by conducting road shows, multimedia campaigns, visiting schools and educating children and making them aware about how to keep our city ‘clean and green’, have to be ongoing exercises.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurRWAs, authorities have to work togetherThe City Beautiful cannot make it to the top rung in cleanliness programmes until the citizens, RWAs and the administration work together. It is the people of the city who can only take this initiative and decide whether they want to live in a clean city or not. Once they make up their minds putting a good plan in place will not be a problem. Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.Take a page from the Indore modelIt is the joint responsibility of the residents as well as the MC to keep the city clean, with the former taking firm measures to stop littering and instead dumping garbage only at the assigned spots. Segregating waste is most important. Those found littering or defecating in the open and not segregating waste should be fined immediately. Public toilets have to be cleaned regularly and kept open on all seven days – sometimes they are locked on Sundays. Sweeping of the roads should be done at night. Look at how well Indore has been faring in the rankings, MC should do everything possible to adopt that model. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliStudents, local leaders should take chargeFixing responsibility is a way to ensure the city’s cleanliness, but overpopulation, internal MC politics and the issue of sorting out the waste management issue is leading to problems. Holding MC employees accountable for a slip in rankings should be done when all other steps have failed. Locals, especially private persons such as students and local leaders should take charge and ensure no one litters. Budget for waste management should also be increased. Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Give incentives for innovation and good workFixing responsibility for the city’s slip in rankings will not be easy and logically conclusive because no project is a one-man show and the blame will be passed on from one department to the other. The better line of action is motivation and incentives given for innovation and good work. This annual exercise is not to secure a qualifying score but to ensure that all the 4,242 participating cities and towns vie for the best ranking. This warrants specific efforts as any complacency will mean a poor performance – to target key categories and sub-categories which need to be publicised among all stakeholders. All endeavours go for a six when waste dumps, roads and localities get inundated after rain. Stormwater infrastructure should be augmented. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaStrict control over MC spending requiredNow it has been reported that segregation of garbage, the main point of deficiency in the waste management system, at people’s doorsteps, is set to start by October with Chandigarh Smart City by purchasing 390 twin-bin BS6 vehicles to lift dry and wet garbage separately. The responsibility of segregation, instead of Chandigarh municipal Corporation, now rests on the shoulders of Chandigarh Smart City Limited. The MC earlier used to be cash rich but now because of financial constraints due to poor planning it has been forced to even put off development work. It can perhaps cut costs by stopping spending on refreshments at every monthly meeting as all councillors are local and get allowances for attending this and other meetings. The authorities should not sanction local and foreign tours, fuel expenses, or give out laptops to those who do not know how to operate them. Night food streets should be revived once the pandemic is over. The corporation can earn revenues by starting mini buses for local routes. Also, all projects handed over to contractors should be now run by MC staff with officials concerned responsible for their working and promoted/demoted on the success of the project.SK Khosla, ChandigarhAuthorities, residents to blameThe civic authorities and residents are equally responsible for not maintaining the city’s cleanliness. One can see heaps of garbage at spots near the Central Library, in Sector 34, Chandigarh, for instance. The city’s upkeep is way down the priority list of the authorities. Littering should be penalised strictly, which is not being done as yet. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliNeed for effective waste recyclingThe MC is accountable to the residents for inaction, apathy and mismanagement. It should look into and adopt the latest measures for recycling garbage. Garden/kitchen waste can be used as manure through composting. Construction waste can be used for making bricks, for which MC can get in touch with brick kiln owners and make it mandatory to supply waste to the kiln. Study tours by councillors to various cities should be stopped as these don’t seem to have worked so far.Usha Verma, ChandigarhImpose strict penalty for litteringFixing accountability to improve the city’s cleanliness is not the only way to deal with the slide in rankings. We cannot always blame the government for collection of garbage because it is the duty of the citizens too to segregate wasted and dispose it too. The government has made public toilets so that the city is open defecation free but these are not maintained properly. Penalty for littering should be imposed strictly. Secondly, the Ghaggar river is getting polluted by the day, so there should be a strict ban on dumping garbage in it. It is also the duty of the residents to manage waste effectively and do not throw garbage in the streets, adopting composting as a way of life. Ishita NaraRecycling garbage the way forwardYes, accountability has to be fixed to improve the city’s ranking in cleanliness. That is from the officials of the MC and UT. But, along with that, we have to develop a good got to develop a good civic sense, not only to solve the problem of garbage disposal but also to keep the city clean. Fines by the MC are in order, but that alone will not help. We have to develop the habit of keeping our own homes and surroundings clean. Specifically, an effective way to dispose of garbage is by chemical decomposition. In Chandigarh, garbage can be turned into fuel energy, and manure. With IITs and so many engineering colleges in the country, why can’t we find ways to convert garbage into an asset, rather than a problem? Recycling and conversion is the way forward. Let it be a people’s movement, starting collection from each house, and ending up in industrial units. If the garbage collectors do not turn up, we should ourselves dispose it on the way to work. Take initiative, do it yourself. Don’t keep blaming others. Colonel RD Singh (retd), AmbalaREADER OF THE WEEKReassurance of getting trucks for waste segregation a bluffWhat standards of accountability can be fixed, when the Central agencies are monitoring and declaring the ranking of the cities across the country for almost five years now? Thousands of tonnes of waste are unprocessed even after the plant has been taken over by the MC. However, except for a visit by a team of expert the assess the viability of the machines at the plant, nothing was being done to upgrade or replace them. Now the MC is trying to reassure the citizens that they will get 390 trucks for 100% waste segregation in the next two months and will be able to improve its ranking by next years. Can there be a bigger bluff than this? When the MC does not have money to complete urgent repairs of the roads, and when a tender for the 390 trucks is yet to be floated, how quickly will the vehicles be put to use? All the officials in Chandigarh know they are here for a short duration, to expect accountability is out of the question.Suresh Verma, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-for-swachh-survekshan-rankings-make-haste-clear-waste/story-36rxqX226sokLsNbXTrUdP.html
28-08-2020||City||Swelling Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana cage thousands in 39 restricted zones||As Ludhiana continues to grapple with the maximum number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in Punjab, the number of containment zones has also increased substantially across the length and breadth of the district, restricting around 15,000 residents within their streets.From old city areas to narrow lanes, rural areas to city markets, the pandemic has not spared even those living in posh localities of Ludhiana. With 9,546 Covid-19 cases and 361 fatalities, the district has five containment zones and 34 micro-containment zones, and the number is expected to rise. Micro containment involves sealing only a certain locality in a large area.When the cases were 3,935 and deaths 122 in the beginning of August, the administration had declared 10 areas as micro-containment zones, while a month ago, the district had just two containment zones. As per officials, in Punjab, areas where positive cases exceed 15 are declared containment zones, while those with cases between five and 15 are declared micro-containment zones. Among the areas to get the tag recently are tony city areas, such as B-block of BRS Nagar (25 positive cases, containment zone) and parts of Model Town Extension, Aggar Nagar Block A, Sector 32, Chandigarh Road and Atam Nagar (micro-containment zones). The highest positive cases at 39 are from the narrow lanes of Dhandari Kalan, a congested area, which was declared a containment zone on August 17. In the rural parts of the district, confined areas near Heavenly Palace, Doraha, is a containment zone with 17 cases, while areas near Macchhiwara Sahib, Ram Nagar Jagraon, Kalakh Majra Dehlon, village Manakwal, village Akalgarh, among others have been declared micro-containment zones. According to Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner (development) Sandeep Kumar, the residents of these zones are allowed access to only essential services within their area and movement is severely restricted. “Boundaries are decided keeping in view the cases in that particular area. While the containment zone is initially declared for a minimum of 10 days, decision on whether to extend it is taken following analysis of the last positive case there,” he said. Amid all these steps by the administration, managing a large population with blatant containment zone violations remains a challenge. “People venture out several kilometres away from their house for all sorts of errands by pleading ‘emergencies’. Confining the public amid the sheer disregard towards the rising pandemic is a major challenge,” said a police official deputed at a containment zone. RESISTANCE TO TESTING District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar said their aim was to collect samples from 100% population of a contained area. “But, despite our best efforts, we face a lot of resistance from residents. Some even refuse to open doors out of fear that they will be declared positive. They do not cooperate with us.” Containment zonesHeavenly Palace, Doraha (17 cases), Salempura (16), Dhandari Kalan (39), New Model Town, Sahnewal (16), Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Block B (25).Micro containment zones: Macchiwara Sahib, New Azad Nagar, Daulat Colony, Maya Nagar, Cartoon Woods Flat Jhammat, Basant Avenue, Prince Colony, Daad village, 355-A Model Town Extension, Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, Atam Nagar, Basant City, Pakhowal Road, Allaour Manpur village, New Durga Puri Haibowal, New Moti Nagar, Ram Nagar Jagraon, part of Shimlapuri, Mohalla Bogia, Jagraon, Model House Model Town, Kalakh Majri, Dehlon, Gurpreet Nagar Daba Road, Manakwaal village near Lovleen Studio, parts of Shakti Nagar, Ashok Nagar near bus stand, Akalgarh village, Guru Ramdas Nagar, G Block BRS Nagar, Aggar Nagar A Block, Shivaji Nagar, Issa Nagri, New Madopuri (gali 4 and 4.1/2), ward number 19 Sunder Nagar, Jyotisaroop Watica near Saai Daam, New Subhash Nagar gali 5/3, gali number 5, Indira Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swelling-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana-cage-thousands-in-39-restricted-zones/story-Jn1ZqcMaPVbWOobdxsRfhP.html
28-08-2020||City||Wrestler Vinesh Phogat, her coach Om Prakash Dahiya test positive for Covid||Wrestler Vinesh Phogat and her coach Om Prakash Dahiya tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday. The duo were set to receive this year’s Khel Ratna and Dronacharya Award at a virtual award ceremony at Sonepat SAI centre on Saturday. They had undergone Covid test on Thursday and even taken part in the rehearsal at the SAI centre along with other recipients on Wednesday. The sportswoman took to Twitter to announce her health status. “I have tested positive for COVID-19 in a test taken yesterday. I am currently showing no symptoms but have isolated myself,” she tweeted. Vinesh’s brother Harvinder Phogat said his sister is fit and fine. “As a precautionary measure, no one from our family will take part in the award ceremony tomorrow. We are praying for her speedy recovery,” he added. Calling it a setback, Vinesh’s coach Om Prakash Dahiya said, “I was informed by an official about the test results. I was taken aback as we experienced no symptoms of Covid-19. We both had been practising daily and I even went for cycling this morning.”Meanwhile, Sonepat district sports officer Ramesh Hooda said the decision on the entry of two other awardees, who were present with Vinesh and her coach Dahiya during the rehearsal programme on Wednesday, will be made by the central officials.A senior doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said all contacts of Vinesh and Dahiya will have to go observe home quarantine and it was highly likely that the two awardees will also not be allowed to attend the award ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wrestler-vinesh-phogat-her-coach-om-prakash-dahiya-test-positive-for-covid/story-smobicg08POOVNPT1J70KM.html
28-08-2020||City||More seats in PU-affiliated colleges of Ludhiana’s rural areas going vacant this year||Many colleges located in the rural areas of Ludhiana, which are affiliated to Panjab University (PU), are reporting more seats going vacant this year than ever. Even though the varsity has extended the last date of admissions to August 31 to give more time to students to enrol themselves in undergraduate courses, college authorities say the situation remains the same.Students desirous of studying in government colleges, which already have a low fee structure, are requesting authorities to take the fee in instalments. Despite that, seats are still going vacant.At Sanmati Government College of Science Education and Research, Jagraon, which only offers bachelor of science (BSc) course, 30 seats are still vacant in the medical stream against the 80 seats. In BSc (non-medical), the college offers 160 seats and 30 are yet to be filled. Vice-principal Sumedha Syal said, “In previous years, for every seat more applicants used to apply here. But in the last two years, the trend has changed as the majority of them prefer to pursue higher education from abroad. Many students are unaware of the ongoing admission process.”Meanwhile at the government college in Karamsar, Rara Sahib, 30 of 60 seats offered in BSc (non-medical) are still vacant. Harmesh Lal, vice-principal, said, “Students are keen to go abroad. Many of them register online in our college, but later decide to study from Canada or Australia. The ones in the final list of online counselling have been asked to deposit the fee before August 31.”SITUATION NO DIFFERENT IN PRIVATE COLLEGESGuru Nanak National College (GNN), Doraha, offers 210 seats in the bachelor of commerce (BCom) course, and 120 of those are yet to be filled. Other courses such as bachelor in business administration (BBA) and bachelor in computer applications (BCA), half the seats out of total 40 in each course are vacant. In bachelor of arts (BA I), only 50 students have applied so far. At Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kottan, 90 seats are lying vacant in BCom I. The college has 140 seats on offer. At GTB College, Dakha, of 140 seats offered in BCom, 55 seats are lying vacant. In other courses such as BA, 60 students have been admitted, as against last year’s 125. Avtar Singh, officiating principal, said, “The admission process is slow this year due to the pandemic and financial constraints are also an issue with the parents.”Narinder Singh Sidhu, principal of GNN College, Doraha, said, “The pandemic has affected the people financially which has in turn impacted college admissions. PU officials have extended the last date for admissions, but not many students have shown up for enrollments. In BCom, which is the most sought-after course, 120 seats are still vacant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-seats-in-pu-affiliated-colleges-of-ludhiana-s-rural-areas-going-vacant-this-year/story-AG9CFH0spTNhFA0Rt36NHI.html
28-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Inter-district school games postponed due to Covid-19||The much-awaited inter-district school-level games that were scheduled to be held in September have been postponed by the state education department owing to the rising Covid cases in the state.The five-day long event would have featured more than 33 sports events including kho-kho, roller skating, swimming, volleyball, wrestling, gymnastics, athletics, yoga, karate, circle kabaddi, chess, cricket, boxing, basketball, hockey, softball, handball, gatka, shooting, archery, carrom, fencing, judo, lawn tennis, netball, track and road cycling, powerlifting, weight lifting, and kabaddi.A letter in this regard was issued by the sports branch stating that due to the pandemic, the schools had remained closed since March and the inter-district school-level games scheduled to be held in September had been postponed. The games were to be conducted for Under-14, 17 and 19 categories of both boys and girls. The postponement has disappointed the players, but the coaches said that life was more important and the games could be conducted whenever the situation was under control. Basketball player Amritpal Singh said, “I have been participating in the competition for the last four years, and this year I was to play in the Under-19 category. But we were unable to practice as a team and the game requires coordination and strategy among players.”As per the sports calendar, the inter-district games were to begin from September 14 and continue till October 10. In Ludhiana, over 5,000 participants from other districts were expected to participate.Ajitpal Singh, district-level incharge (sports), said, “Due to the growing number of Covid cases, the higher authorities have postponed the games. Since the schools closed in March, players were not able to practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-inter-district-school-games-postponed-due-to-covid-19/story-eF9G3AZKDNCgwD3toP8vHL.html
28-08-2020||City||₹39-crore SC scholarship scam: BJP protests, demands Dharamsot’s resignation||The local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday staged a protest against the ruling Congress government in the state and Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for allegedly embezzling ₹39 crore that was disbursed by the Centre towards the scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste.Leading the protest, president of SC Morcha of BJP Punjab unit Raj Kumar Atwal demanded the sacking of the Cabinet minister and also sought a CBI probe in the matter. He accused the Congress government of being neck deep in corruption.NEW TEAM OF BJP LUDHIANA UNIT FORMEDPushpinder Singal, the district head of BJP, has announced a new team of the Ludhiana Urban unit. Singal told the reporters that the team had been formed after discussions with Punjab chief Ashwani Sharma and district in-charge Malvinder Singh.In the new list released on Friday, Kantandu Sharma, who is close to BJP’s state general secretary Jeevan Gupta, has been appointed as the general secretary of the district. Besides, district chief of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) Mahesh Sharma and former BJYM chief Harsh Sharma have been appointed as vice-presidents.The other vice-presidents include Sunil Modgil, Satpal Saggar, Rajeshwari, Yoginder Makol, Yashpal Jagotra, Kiran Sharma, Ashwani Behal, and former deputy mayor of Ludhiana, RS Sharma.Vicky Sahota and Amit Dogra have also been appointed as secretaries in the new district team to promote the party among the youth. Former councillors Narendra Malli and Naval Jain have been appointed as secretaries.At the same time, the command of the district’s funds has been given to Bobby Jindal this time as well. While Lucky Chopra has been appointed as office secretary, Dimpy Makkad and Ankit Batra have been appointed as spokespersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/39-crore-sc-scholarship-scam-bjp-protests-demands-dharamsot-s-resignation/story-Cd4i30et8ndhHV5iIT6EzN.html
28-08-2020||City||Amid pandemic, Ludhiana falls in love with cycling||With rising concerns over health and immunity amid the pandemic, city residents from all walks of life are embracing cycling as a means to keep themselves fit.With their fancy, high-end cycles, some with mounted speakers, residents can be found pedalling in parks and leisure valleys including Sidhwan Canal waterfront, Rakh Bagh and Rose Garden.A visitor to Sidhwan Canal waterfront, Sandeep, said, “It is good to see a large number of residents turning to cycling and the trend is catching on. From kids to senior citizens, everyone is cycling. They have nowhere else to go anyway and the weather conditions in the evening are encouraging.”Youngsters are often spotted clicking pictures with their bikes for the media.A resident of Model Town, Guneet Singh, said, “We are a group of four friends and we started cycling after gyms closed down. While long distances are covered on holidays, we cycle for at least an hour on a daily basis. Now, cycling has become a part of our lives.”He added that the government should promote cycling by building cycling tracks in the city to ensure their safety as the trend was sure to grow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-pandemic-ludhiana-falls-in-love-with-cycling/story-0eK7MkltThoZMICpfx9pyO.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Revenue augmentation to be top agenda at Chandigarh MC House meet||At the top of the agenda of the municipal corporation (MC) General House meet, slated for August 31, will be a slew of recommendations of the revenue generation committee for augmenting its revenue. A one-time scheme for water bill defaulters, regularisation of water connection outside lal dora, door-to-door waste collection charges, running gyms on PPP model, optimum utilisation of the Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38, advertisement at parks, on toilets, MC vehicles and at connecting passes in Sector 17, will be taken up for the House’s approval. For recovering around Rs 40 crore in pending water bills, under the one-time scheme, water bill defaults will be regularised at 10% for one-time payment, 7% for two installments and 5% for three installments. This will be applicable for general public and government institutions. For augmenting its revenue, the fund-starved MC is preparing to put its assets such as community centres and Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38, to better use for generating additional revenue. While it plans to employ public-private partnership model for running the gyms at community centres, it also plans to rent out rooms, exhibition halls, gym and canteen at the Mahila Bhawan, Sector 38. The city has 42 community centers, some of which have gym facilities and health centres, but don’t generate any revenue and instead end up putting additional financial burden on the MC in the form of maintenance costs. Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38-C, even after more than five years of its opening, is yet to be fully utilised. Only a part of the bhawan, which was built at a cost of around Rs 22 crore, is being used by the UT culture department. Now, the MC is projecting to earn Rs 64 lakh annually from the bhawan, which is spread over 1.3 acre, by leasing out rooms and dormitories at Rs 35 lakh to Rs 40 lakh per year. The licencee will rent out the rooms on per bed basis. Similarly, other facilities at the bhawan such as exhibition halls, library, gym hall, and conference halls are being proposed to be rented out or leased out. Significantly, a similar proposal was rejected by the MC in July earlier this year. The MC house will also take up the matter of giving in-principle approval for using MC land for providing houses under the affordable rental housing complexes (ARHC) scheme as part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. If approved, a seven-member committee, comprising officials and councilors, will be constituted for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/revenue-augmentation-to-be-top-agenda-at-chandigarh-mc-house-meet/story-BhL6P6KfYIBu5LscCgVEIO.html
28-08-2020||City||Naib tehsildar booked for corruption in J&K’s Doda||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday booked a naib tehsildar on corruption charges in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir.The accused has been identified as Mohammad Mukhtyar Zargar, then judicial clerk posted in the office of Doda deputy commissioner.The ACB has registered a case under sections 5(1) (e), 5(2) of the J&K Prevention of Corruption Act 2006 against Zargar for acquiring huge assets disproportionate to his known source of income.The accused has raised huge assets in the form of immovable and movable properties in his own name and his family members’ that include two-storied houses in Jammu’s Bathindi and Doda city; two houses at his ancestral village Pangrain in Doda; a car and luxurious household items; costly electronics gadgets and jewellery, said a spokesperson.After obtaining a search warrant from the court of special judge (anti-corruption) in Jammu, teams raided all the houses of the accused public servant.“During the searches, some incriminating documents like sale deeds, power of attorney, agreements, etc. were seized,” he said. Further investigation in the case is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naib-tehsildar-booked-for-corruption-in-j-k-s-doda/story-BbEu8nwixgm7nlS8OdKaBM.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two more succumb to Covid in Chandigarh, toll reaches 45||Two more people succumbed to coronavirus, taking the death toll to 45 in Chandigarh on Friday.Also, with 160 people testing positive, the total count has reached 3,724. As many as 1,090 cases (30%) have surfaced in the past one week.Among those who died is a 84-year-old man from Sector 22, who was also suffering from coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. He died following acute respiratory distress syndrome with cardiorespiratory arrest at a private hospital in Mohali. A 58-year-old man from Mauli Jagran is the other fatality. He had acute kidney injury, alcoholic liver disease and pneumonitis and died a the PGIMER.Like the two of them, 39 other patients who have died so far had comorbidities, and only four were not diagnosed with any other disease. Meanwhile, 130 patients were also discharged on Friday, taking the number of those cured to 2,107. There are 1572 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-more-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-toll-reaches-45/story-Ndme1yFgRmZ2qb12CWJyML.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kangra admn issues reservation roster for eight ULBs||Ahead of upcoming elections for Panchayati Raj Institutions and civic bodies, the Kangra administration has issued a reservation roster for eight Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) wards. Kangra district has nine ULBs, including one municipal corporation (MC), six municipal councils and two Nagar Panchayats. The municipal councils include Nagrota-Bagwan, Palampur, Dehra, Nurpur, Kangra and Jawalamukhi while Jawali and Baijnath-Paprola are nagar panchayats.The reservation was fixed by draw of lots under Section 10 of the Himachal Pradesh Municipal (Delimitation and Reservation of Wards) Rules, 2015 for eight ULBs, except the Dharamshala MC.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapti said, excluding Dharamshala there are 66 wards in eight ULBs. He said 28 wards were reserved for women members (eight for SC women). As many as 13 wards are reserved for SC candidates.Prajapati said that the process of draw of lots was conducted in the presence of three eminent persons of each ULB and three gazetted officers.“The entire process was videographed,” he said, adding that the reservation roster for Dharamshala Municipal Corporation will be issued before the August 31.Shahpur town has also been declared a nagar panchayat but a notification is yet to be issued. The reservation roster for Shahpur will be fixed once it is notified.The PRI and Panchayati Raj polls are slated for December-end. The government has approved the formation of 230 new panchayats in the state. A dozen ULBs are also being formed, for which delimitation and reservation process is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kangra-admn-issues-reservation-roster-for-eight-ulbs/story-HSNgZoIb2O3Ws2KnCKjO1I.html
28-08-2020||City||Panchkula’s Covid toll rises to 17 as two senior citizens die||Two deaths and 56 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula district on Friday, taking the toll to 17 and number of infections to 1,979.Those who died include a 77-year-old woman from Sector 10. A 70-year-old man from Pinjore is the other fatality.Among the fresh cases, 15 surfaced in Pinjore, 13 in Surajpur, nine in Raipur Rani and one each in Kot and Nanakpur. The remaining were reported from Panchkula city.While 724 cases remain active, 1,238 patients have been cured so far.Looking at the surge in cases, the health authorities are planning to prepare the civil hospital’s D Block for Covid care.Confirming this, civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said: “We have 1,000 beds in Covid care centres, out of which 208 are occupied. We have 216 beds with oxygen facility, of which 52 are occupied.”As there is shortage of ICU beds in private hospitals, they have been asked to increase the capacity by 20 to 25, she said, adding that more stress is being put on active surveillance.Ban on protestsThe Panchkula deputy commissioner on Friday ordered a ban on protests in the district.“Looking at the Covid-19 pandemic, no individual, association, society, party or any organisation is allowed to gather or hold protest at the Sector-5 ground or any other place in Panchkula district,” he said. Even those who had taking permission will not be allowed to hold the scheduled protests till further orders.In the recent past, Congress leaders had organised a dharna in which social distancing norms were flouted. Even hundreds of Asha workers had gathered and protested for hours at the Panchkula-Chandigarh border on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-covid-toll-rises-to-17-as-two-senior-citizens-die/story-hTgwJ28FSl6plgXgWdgPmI.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM inaugurates developmental projects worth ₹94cr in Sarkaghat||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth around ₹94.14 crore in the Sarkaghat legislative assembly constituency in Mandi over video conference and said that state government is ensuring that the pace of developmental works does not get hampered due to the coronavirus pandemic.Jai Ram Thakur dedicated ₹10.46 crore to the building of Government Degree College, Baldwara, ₹ 2.97 crore to additional accommodation at Government Senior Secondary School, Paunta, and ₹99 lakh to the Lift Water Supply Scheme for habitations of Patrighat and its adjoining villages in Baldwara tehsil.The CM laid foundation stones of the ₹51.76-crore Multi Villages Rural Piped Water Supply Scheme for Baldwara, Bhadrota and part of Gopalpur Block, the ₹20.35-crore upgradation of Sarkaghat Maseran Baggi Road, ₹1.42-crore science lab at Government Senior Secondary School, Thona, ₹1.32-crore science lab at Government Senior Secondary School, Paunta, ₹1.04-crore additional accommodation at Government Senior Secondary School Rissa, ₹1.03-crore Lift Water Supply Schemes to partially covered habitations of Garouru Chimba Ra Balh in Gram Panchayat Pingla in Sarkaghat, ₹95-lakh science lab at Government Senior Secondary School Chowk, ₹95 lakhs Science Lab at Government Senior Secondary School, Patrighat and ₹90 lakh Wrestling Stadium at Baira (Pingla).While addressing the virtual rally, Jai Ram Thakur said he had inaugurated three developmental projects worth ₹14.42 crore and also laid foundation stones of nine projects worth ₹79.72 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-inaugurates-developmental-projects-worth-94cr-in-sarkaghat/story-pZC7cg4lVc5l785sJImCKO.html
28-08-2020||City||To prevent floods, embankments built along Sutlej river in Bholewal Jadid village under MGNREGA||A project worth Rs 3.5 crores to build embankments along Sutlej river in Bholewal Jadid village to prevent soil erosion has been completed in two months’ time. District Programme Coordinator, Ludhiana had passed the project under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) for construction of embankments along the Sutlej river in Bholewal Jadid village as a flood control measure.Cost of labour under this project accounted for ₹40 lakhs.Using tangible flood mitigation methods, wire craters were designed and filled with boulders to make long-lasting embankments. These embankments diverted the flow of water avoiding soil erosion and each embankment was placed at a suitable distance to protect the banks from caving in.The entire funding was carried out under the MGNREGA scheme under the drainage department. This project has helped around 25 villages from getting waterlogged, said Sandeep Kumar, Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner (development). The project took around two months to complete and has proved to be a boon for the surrounding villages.“In fact, it has even helped the MGNREGA job cardholders to avail employment in the ongoing pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-prevent-floods-embankments-built-along-sutlej-river-in-bholewal-jadid-village-under-mgnrega/story-HGrmRpVDw7WUjhCirveVEJ.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon devastation: Four houses damaged in rain-triggered landslides in Kullu||Around 40 people were rendered homeless after rain-triggered landslides destroyed three houses and partially damaged one house in Kullu’s Malana village. However, no loss of life was reported. The incident occurred during the early hours of Friday around 4am.The residents escaped from their dwellings in time. Kullu sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amit Guleria said accommodation arrangements and ration had been provided to the people and relief work was underway. The amount of loss suffered is being ascertained.Heavy rainfall to continue in HP Heavy rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state till next week. A yellow warning has also been issued for middle and lower hills of the state for September 1. Heavy rainfall took place in isolated places of Bilaspur district on Friday while light to moderate rainfall was witnessed in many places on the state on Friday. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said heavy rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state till September 3. Ghumarwin, a town in Bilaspur district. received 84mm rain,the highest in the state, followed by Mandi’s Baldwara (64mm), Bilaspur’s Berthin (63 mm), Kasauli (50 mm), Solan’s Arki (42 mm) and Rampur Bushahr (36mm). Mandi, Dalhousie and Shimla recorded 34.4mm, 24mm and 22.3mm rain.The maximum temperature in Shimla was 20.8°C, while Kufri recorded a high of 17.3°C. Popular tourist destinations, Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded maximum temperature’s of 21.6°C, 27.4°C. and 19.3°C, respectively. Solan and Bilaspur recorded a high of 29°C each, while Hamirpur recorded 28.8°C, Nahan 26.2°C and Kalpa, 20°C. Una was the hottest place in the state at 33.6°C while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest at 10.7°C.Weather expected to improve in J&K After incessant rains across the region, the weather is likely to improve in Jammu and Kashmir.Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) director Sonum Lotus said the weather is generally cloudy at most places in Kashmir, with light rain in some parts of Jammu region. “The condition is likely to improve significantly in the next 24 hours.”The IMD had predicted intermittent light to moderate rain spells on Friday in Jammu division, southeast Kashmir and Ladakh division, besides improvement in weather in other places. “Srinagar, Baramulla, Kupwara Bandipora, and Ganderbal will have significant improvement in the weather,” the officials said.Heavy rain which began in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday brought down the temperatures. This brought relief to farmers from the dry weather conditions prevailing for the past three months.In Kashmir, rains have caused the water level to rise in all the major rivers and streams. The administration, however, has ruled out the possibility of floods at this stage, though flood control rooms have been activated in some parts of north Kashmir due to the surging water levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-devastation-four-houses-damaged-in-rain-triggered-landslides-in-kullu/story-DiCUyJU6OYeEsAsBG9j5iJ.html
28-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: I-T dept holds webinar on faceless assessment scheme||With the income tax department introducing new schemes after the launch of faceless assessment and taxpayer charter on August 13, a webinar was organised by Range-5 of the Income Tax department, Ludhiana on Friday to apprise members and office bearers of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) about the new schemes. The session was led by additional commissioner Tarundeep Kaur. She explained how the process of Faceless Assessments and appeals would work and how it would make the interface between the taxpayer and the department more technology-driven and user-friendly. She also appealed to the taxpayers to come forward with their queries which would be resolved by conducting more such webinars in the future also.Kaur said that these webinars are being held under a special drive for taxpayer awareness led by the chief commissioner of income-tax Ludhiana, KM Bali. The department plans to reach far and wide with these initiatives for aiding taxpayer services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-i-t-dept-holds-webinar-on-faceless-assessment-scheme/story-RHbFWUXeI1rotyjsDbHI9O.html
28-08-2020||City||₹17.50L ‘embezzlement’ in MC office: Ludhiana civic body to inspect records of all ePOS machines||After the role of three municipal corporation (MC) employees was put under the scanner for alleged embezzlement of about ₹17.50 lakh that has come to light at the Zone A office, the Ludhiana civic body on Friday decided to conduct an inspection of records of all the 49 ePOS (Electronic Point of Sale) machines issued to its employees. Mayor Balkar Sandhu has asked additional commissioner Rishipal Singh to inquire into the matter and take necessary action against the employees if anomalies are found in their working.The officials would now be checking the machines to know about the amount which has been collected from residents and submitted in the MC account.The ePOS machines were provided to MC inspectors for door-to-door recovery of dues including water-sewer user charges and property tax in the last week of December last year. Earlier this week, the senior officials caught three employees of MC— an inspector, a contractual junior engineer (JE) and an outsourced employee of Zone A Suvidha Kendra for alleged embezzlement of ₹17.5. The MC officials said that an FIR is being recommended against the employees and MC’s deputy controller finance and accounts (DCFA) has been asked to hold back the benefits of the inspector, who is retiring soon.As per information, one of the machines was given to the inspector, who had further handed over the same to JE, who assisted him in recovery. But a few days back, the machine was caught from the possession of a woman employee. When the seniors inquired into the matter, it was found that receipts worth ₹45 lakhs were issued through the machine, but the employees submitted only ₹17.5 lakhs in the MC accounts. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The ePOS machines were given for increasing transparency and facilitating the residents. But strict action would be taken against the embezzlements. I have asked additional commissioner Rishipal Singh to inspect records of ePOS machines and action would be taken if any anomalies are found.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-50l-embezzlement-in-mc-office-ludhiana-civic-body-to-inspect-records-of-all-epos-machines/story-r4ZRjLl0eQnqMFvftrUfZI.html
28-08-2020||City||Industry should offer attractive packages to young graduates: Executive director, STEP (GNDEC)||Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana and Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) conducted an academia-industry discussion on ‘making our youth future-ready’. The online programme was conducted with the support of TEQIP-III. Around 150 students from GNDEC and 150 delegates from other institutes attended the event. Speaking on the conclave, Sandeep Jain, executive director, Monte Carlo, Ludhiana said that goal setting in turbulent times was a necessity. He also stressed upon the change in work culture to attract young graduates to industry. Ambrish Jain, MD, Kangaroo Industries cited creative and critical thinking as an essential attribute for a young graduate to rise in the future. He advised the youth to prepare for failures and learn from them to move ahead. He said that youth should not worry that these days the jobs were scarce but advised them to spend time learning the skills demanded in the industry. Arvind Dhingra, executive director, STEP-GNDEC said that industry should welcome young graduates by offering them attractive packages. He cited the recent reports of 34% of young graduates not being employable. He suggested the introduction of job-oriented industry-centric bridge courses. He added that GNDEC under its autonomous status was starting three postgraduate diplomas all industry and job-oriented.Sehijpal Singh, principal, GNDEC said that this was just the beginning and CII with GNDEC is looking forward to providing a bridge between academia and industry to make our youth future-ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industry-should-offer-attractive-packages-to-young-graduates-executive-director-step-gndec/story-JbtgKCUyssNUh3SAOnfHDL.html
28-08-2020||City||Himachal to introduce rapid antigen tests to ramp up Covid-19 diagnosis||To increase coronavirus testing capacity in the state, the Himachal government has decided to introduce rapid antigen and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) tests, as per the recommendations of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The government will soon provide these testing kits to various public health facilities, said additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman.A detailed circular containing the indications and guidelines for the use of antigen-based tests was issued here on Friday.As per the guidelines, the tests will be conducted on asymptomatic cases in the containment zones or hotspots and institutional quarantine facilities where inter-state travellers from high-load cities have completed 6-7 days of isolation or asymptomatic patients who are hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation.The rapid antigen tests will also be done in case of patients undergoing chemotherapy, diagnosed with malignant disease, organ recipients or immunosuppressed patients like those having HIV. Besides them, elderly patients above 65 years of age with co-morbidities, asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol generating, emergency surgical procedures and non-surgical interventions, will be examined.The patients whose antigen test comes out negative but are symptomatic, their samples shall be sent for RT-PCR tests.“IgG ELISA tests can also give an insight into the presence of antibodies among frontline workers and the results can be used as a guide for deployment of such personnel in various healthcare institutions of the state,” said Dhiman.Among the low-risk population, the IgG ELISA tests shall be done on outpatient attendees (non-ILI patients) and pregnant women.The sample size for high-risk population in each district should be 100 per week and 400 per month. For low-risk, it should be 50 per week and 200 per month each for outpatient attendees and pregnant women. The collective sample size should be 200 per week and 800 per month.High-risk population includes healthcare workers, immunocompromised patients, individuals in containment zones; security, police and paramilitary personnel; civil defence, press corps, rural, tribal population; industrial workers, farmers, vendors, staff in municipal bodies, drivers, bankers, postal and courier personnel; telecom offices, shops, congregate settings and prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-introduce-rapid-antigen-tests-to-ramp-up-covid-19-diagnosis/story-JbNGTHzaIJQqu3sgkCKaXI.html
28-08-2020||City||Vehicles still stranded as Jammu-Srinagar highway remains shut for 4th day||While the intensity of rains has reduced in the region, the Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained shut for the fourth consecutive day on Friday.Jammu and Kashmir witnessed moderate to heavy rainfall over the past two days which ended a three-month-long dry spell across the union territory.According to traffic officials, heavy rainfall triggered landslides and shooting stones at nearly 10 spots on the national highway, which has been blocked since Tuesday when a large portion of a road got washed away in Ramban district.National highway SSP JS Johar said, “The highway is still closed due to landslides at multiple places like Mompassi, Panthial, Dalwas, Marog, Digdol and Monkey Morh in Ramban district. Weather is still inclement.”“Due to rains, the highway restoration work has not been completed. Till the landslides are removed, traffic movement will remain suspended,” he added.Over 2,000 vehicles are stranded at various places in Qazigund, Chenani, Udhampur and Nagrota, said another official.A local from Ramban said the landslide at Cafeteria Morh was a massive, and that incessant rains have rendered machines defunct as they could not clear the debris due to mud and slush on the affected stretches in the district.“Intensity of rains reduced to drizzle this morning. Around 300 vehicles are stranded in Ramban district,” he added.Light to moderate rains also lashed twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, south of Pir Panjal on Friday morning.MUGHAL ROAD OPENED FOR TRAFFICThe Mughal Road, which is an alternate link between Jammu and Kashmir, was opened for traffic on Friday. “Vehicles were released towards Poonch as traffic was restored on Mughal Road,” said IG traffic.However, Poonch deputy magistrate Rahul Yadav informed that the road has not been opened for all kind of traffic.“All are informed that no such order has been issued and traffic on Mughal Road is allowed only for downward movement of fruit trucks, empty oil tankers from Kashmir to Jammu. No other movement is allowed via Mughal Road,” he said.4 RESCUED FROM RIVER IN POONCHPoonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “Police and Army successfully accomplished a rescue operation this morning and saved four lives. These four people were trapped in the flooded Suran river in Salotri area of Poonch.”Reports of light to moderate rains also poured in from the Doda region comprising Kishtwar and Bhaderwah.Paddar-Kishtwar highway has also been blocked by a massive landslide at Naigad near Padiyarna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicles-still-stranded-as-jammu-srinagar-highway-remains-shut-for-4th-day/story-BPfzAXCbR2YL8DgOqNIkkL.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||Khattar underwent blood test, condition stable: Doctors||A multidisciplinary team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak on Friday reviewed the health condition of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who got infected with Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital of Gurugram. The team included doctors of the treating hospital and Dr Virender Yadav, district chief medical officer.“The team reviewed CM’s health condition, line of treatment and progress. He underwent some blood tests and CT investigations on Friday. Overall, the CM was comfortable and relaxed,” stated the press statement issued by the hospital.‘Speaker Gian Chanda Gupta responding to treatment’Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chanda Gupta has also made steady progress in responding to the treatment for the coronavirus disease. A senior health official privy to the matter said, “Gupta has been shifted from the intensive care unit (ICU) to the isolation room. He was on room air and could move comfortably. There is a steady progress in his health and doctors are satisfied with his response to the treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khattar-underwent-blood-test-condition-stable-doctors/story-SjdhLBdiitLmr5ouDQvSdL.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Revoking of senator’s registration: HC division bench upholds order quashing PU’s decision||Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday upheld a single bench order in which Panjab University (PU)’s decision of revoking the registration of senator Munish Verma as a graduate constituency member in 2019, was quashed. The registration allows former students to elect and contest polls for the varsity’s apex governing body. His registration was cancelled and he was barred from participating in future senate elections after he was indicted of wrongfully hiring three persons as centre and assistant superintendents in the 2014 annual examinations at MR Government College, Fazilka, Punjab.The single judge bench had in July quashed the decision, observing that as per PU Act, a person’s name can be struck off from the register of registered graduates with the concurrence of not less than 2/3 of the members of the senate. However, there were a total of 91 members and 2/3rd of the same comes to 61, but when decision on revoking registration was taken, only 38 members were present. Hence, the quorum of the meeting was not complete. The high court, however, upheld PU’s decision to constitute a committee to probe the 2014 incident. The ‘fraud’ had came to light on April 4, 2014, when a flying squad of the university visited the examination centre and recommended the removal of all three centre and assistant superintendents who were appointed illegally. After that, a committee constituted by the Panjab University vice-chancellor in 2015 had indicted the senator of cheating the varsity while deputing the three persons. The PU had argued that a single judge bench has decided the case on technical grounds. The matter should have been sent to the senate for a fresh decision. It further submitted that Verma never sought that there should be voting in senate on probe report and other related aspects of the case. No member, who could not attend the meeting raised any objection to the decision, the PU had submitted, adding that it was a unanimous decision of all members who had attended the meeting on May 26, 2019. PU had also stated that 62 members were present in the meeting and not 38, as depicted in the single bench order. The matter was taken up by the bench of justice Daya Chaudhary and justice Meenakshi, which dismissed the appeal. A detailed order is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/revoking-of-senator-s-registration-hc-division-bench-upholds-order-quashing-pu-s-decision/story-99y0y8zVgyG32chowgar7K.html
28-08-2020||City||Sikh voices question SGPC, Akal Takht on 328 missing saroops||AMRITSAR The row over missing saroops refuses to die down with a section of the Sikh community raising questions on why have these not been recovered. The recent inquiry that the Akal Takht had ordered put the number of missing saroops at 328. Taking action against those indicted in the report of inquiry that advocate Ishar Singh-led panel conducted, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) executive has already dismissed six staffers, suspended five and terminated the services of a controversial Chartered Accountancy (CA) firm on Thursday. This was done on the Akal Takht’s directions. SGPC member and former general secretary Kiranjot Kaur said, “The SGPC has decided that who is to be blamed for the missing 328 birs. The original question still stands where are the missing birs?”.“The Punjab Human Rights Organization (PHRO) wants to know the fate of 328 missing saroops, plus the 186, which were printed and issued to devotees without authorisation and proper entries, and persons on whose directions these saroops were provided,” said Sarbjit Singh Verka, chief investigator of the human rights advocacy group, which brought the matter to light, sending the apex gurdwara body into a fix.Panthic Talmel Sangathan, the umbrella organisation representing several Sikh groups, said, “The million-dollar question is where are the missing saroops and in which condition they are? The SGPC is silent on this question.” Former Khalsa College principal Baljinder Singh had also raised the same question, while cornering the SGPC on the issue.“If the chief secretary owns moral responsibility and resigns from his post, does the president have no moral responsibility? The SGPC functions on the orders of its president, while the staff led by chief secretary is responsible for implementation of these orders. The president cannot evade moral responsibility,” added Kaur.Verka added, “Longowal and the SGPC executive committee should resign in lieu of this letter to them in 2018 in which statutory auditors have pointed out irregularities and embezzlements on which no action was taken. Erring officials of the SGPC were protected.” He also made the letter public. There is also demand to make the inquiry report public. “It is necessary to make the inquiry report public, because everyone wants to know if action has been taken as per report and which aspects are highlighted and which issues have been ignored,” said Giani Kewal Singh, convener, and advocate Jaswinder Singh, co-convener of the panthic sangathan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-voices-question-sgpc-akal-takht-on-328-missing-saroops/story-3maZaJ2QYRIPVt1xU71nxH.html
28-08-2020||City||37-year-old arrested for raping minor in Kurali||Police arrested a 37-year-old Kurali resident on Friday for allegedly raping a minor girl. The accused has been identified as Parvinder Singh, who works as a transporter.As per the police, the accused had been on the run for the past 10 days. On Thursday, members of the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party had held a protest outside the Kurali police station, demanding his arrest. On August 23, the police had arrested the victim’s aunt, who had allegedly helped the accused in the crime. As per information, the victim, aged around 14, had gone to stay at her grandparents’ house, where the aunt also lived. The aunt used to call the accused, who raped the girl several times at the house. The aunt had allegedly even threatened the girl against revealing the incident to anyone. Police said the accused was arrested from Majri block of Haryana. Kurali station house officer Gurpreet Singh said, “We have arrested him and will take him to the court on Saturday. A case under Sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, has been registered against the duo.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-year-old-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-kurali/story-bMiKxyg82v1oYYmq33bI2O.html
28-08-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid toll rises to 361 with 11 deaths, 119 test positive||The district’s Covid-19 toll rose to 361 on Friday with 11 more patients losing the battle against the virus.As many as 119 new cases were also confirmed, taking the district’s tally to 9,546. Of the 361 Covid fatalities reported since March, August alone accounts for 75.6% (273). Among the latest fatalities are eight female and three male patients. Six among them are aged above 60 – a 74-year-old female from BRS Nagar, a 70-year-old female from Abdullahpur Basti, a 65-year-old female from Purana Dai Hatta, a 62-year-old female from Aggar Nagar, a 60-year-old female from Omax Township and a 60-year-old male from Preet Nagar.The other deceased are a 58-year-old female from Jodhewal Basti, a 54-year-old male from Dandi Swami, a 53-year-old female from Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, a 48-year-old female from Miller Gunj and a 20-year-old male from Chhawani Mohalla. SAD leader Manpreet Singh Mana is among those tested positive. As many as 42 patients have symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 18 are contacts of positive patients and 20 have been referred from OPDs. These include six healthcare workers and a pregnant woman. Results of 2,311 samples are awaited.50-YEAR-OLD ASI DEADA 50-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) died and assistant commissioner of police (ACP, crime) Mandeep Singh tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The deceased was posted at line office in Jagraon. So far, a total of three police officials, including ACP Anil Kohli, have died due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-toll-rises-to-361-with-11-deaths-119-test-positive/story-R7lHVVdeoa4A2M2X4h68cK.html
28-08-2020||City||Mohali records highest single-day spike with 149 cases||Punjab’s Mohali district on Friday recorded its biggest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases, with 149 people testing positive for the virus, which also took the tally past 3,300. The previous steepest surge occurred on August 21, with 147 cases. Meanwhile, 93 people were discharged, with which the number of those cured has reached 1,775. Among the fresh cases, 63 are from Mohali city, 35 from Kharar, 26 from Gharuan and the remaining from Dera Bassi, Banur and Kurali. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most of them are asymptomatic. The district’s total has reached 3,314, of which 1,471 cases remain active. As many as 68 patients have succumbed so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-149-cases/story-Nteqnmdmym4gaa6vVbtBUM.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGI starts enrolling volunteers for Oxford Covid vaccine trials||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Friday put out an advertisement for enrolment of healthy individuals for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials. The principal investigator for the trials, Dr Madhu Gupta, in a circular, said, “We are going to start the ICMR/SII-Covi Shield study titled: A phase 2/3 observer-blind, randomised, controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of Covishield (Covid-19 vaccine) in healthy Indian adults’, sponsored by Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd and co-sponsored by Indian Council of Medical Research.”She added that participation in this vaccine trial is purely on a voluntary basis. All healthy volunteers above the age of 18 (not involved in patient care), who are interested in participating in the study, are requested to send a registration form by email or send a text messages at: covi.shield2020@gmail.com and +917696148362. The registration form will be made available on the website. Another important eligibility criterion is that the volunteers should not have contracted Covid-19 so far. Those who are not eligible include people with acute illnesses with or without fever at the time of study; those having a history of laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 disease in household contacts or close workplace contacts; seropositivity (antibodies) to Sars-Cov-2; history of or currently positive for Sars-Cov-2 confirmed by real-time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) test; history of severe allergic reactions after previous vaccinations or hypersensitivity to any component of study vaccines; any confirmed or suspected condition with impaired/altered function of immune system; and pregnant women.PGIMER director Professor Jagat Ram said they are expecting the participation of around 250 individuals. The institute will assess immunogenicity along with the safety of the vaccine. PGIMER is among the 17 sites across the country to participate in the second and third phases of human clinical trials of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-starts-enrolling-volunteers-for-oxford-covid-vaccine-trials/story-LgehHVooCk36KA2IdWrgIO.html
28-08-2020||City||Brand Factory store in Mohali mall to pay Rs 1.6 lakh fine in 5 cases of unfair trade practice||The district consumer disputes redressal commission, Mohali, on Friday imposed a fine of Rs 1.6 lakh on Brand Factory, a clothing store at a mall in Zirakpur, in five cases of unfair trade practice. The complainants had alleged that the store was arbitrarily charging goods and services tax (GST) and using misleading advertisements. In all five cases, notices were issued to Brand Factory, but no one turned up even after 30 days, following which a fine of Rs 32,000 was imposed in each case. The store is to pay Rs 7,000 to the complainant and Rs 25,000 to the legal-aid fund of the commission in each case. Commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma said that it is a clear admission on the part of owners of Brand factory that they have arbitrarily charged GST from the complainant by adopting unfair trade practice and have also committed deficiency in service. In the first case, Anuj Mehta, a resident of Phase-5, Mohali, had alleged that he had purchased a pair of socks from the store. The MRP of the product was Rs.169, inclusive of all taxes, and there was a 30% discount on it. It is alleged that he was to pay only Rs.118.2, but instead of charging this amount, the owners added 5% GST and charged him Rs 124 for the product. Despite repeated requests by the customer, no clarification was provided by the shop owner. It was therefore alleged that it was a case of misleading advertisement and unfair trade practice. In the second case, Anuj Mehta alleged that he bought a T-shirt, the MRP of which was Rs.399, inclusive of all taxes. The T-shirt had a 50% discount on it, which meant he was to pay only Rs 199.49. But instead of charging this amount, the store owner added 5% GST and charged him Rs 209. In the third case, Sumeet Singh, a resident of Gillco Valley, Sector 127, Kharar, alleged that he also bought a T-shirt from the same clothing store. The MRP of the shirt was Rs.399, inclusive of all taxes, and there was a 50% discount on it. He was made to pay Rs.209 by adding 5% GST. In the fourth case, Summet Singh alleged that he purchased handkerchiefs that had an MRP of Rs 299, inclusive of all taxes. With a 60% discount, he was to pay only Rs 119.60 but he was charged Rs.126. In the fifth case, Summet alleged that he was charged Rs 146 for a pair of socks that would have cost him only Rs 139 had the store not arbitrarily charged a GST of 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brand-factory-store-in-mohali-mall-to-pay-rs-1-6-lakh-fine-for-unfair-trade-practices/story-xdlwkIygtzdpm9R8sp0ZGL.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Shops, malls in Haryana open this weekend but closed on Monday, Tuesday||Chandigarh: To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Haryana government on Friday ordered that malls and shops in the market places of urban areas will remain closed on Monday and Tuesday instead of the weekend. The new order, however, does not apply to shops dealing with essential goods and services. However, public and private offices will remain open on Monday and Tuesday.The revised instructions come a week after the government had ordered offices and shops to remain closed on the weekend in the state. “To contain further spread of Covid-19 in Haryana, shopping malls and shops, except those dealing with essential goods and services shall remain closed on Monday and Tuesday in the market places of urban areas of the state. Accordingly, there is no bar on opening of shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday in these areas. These orders will be applicable till further orders,” a government order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-malls-in-haryana-open-this-weekend-but-closed-on-monday-tuesday/story-iFsMq2VkkWxTvIeKHjJFnJ.html
28-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Father of four rapes 19-year-old neighbour for 11 days, booked||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped for 11 days by her neighbour at his friend’s accommodation, police said on Friday.The matter came to fore after the woman escaped from the house and narrated the incident to her parents, who approached the police.The accused has been identified as Somnath of Jiven Nagar.In her complaint to the police, the woman stated that Somnath lived alone in a rented accommodation near her house. He is married and has four children, who live in Bihar.She alleged that on August 14, Somnath, who she was friendly with, promised to marry her and took her to his friend’s house, saying they will first live together for a month.There, he raped her for 11 days till she fled from the house on August 25 and returned home.Sub-inspector Kiranpreet Kaur of Focal Point police said the accused was a labourer. He has been booked for rape under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt was on for his arrest, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-father-of-four-rapes-19-year-old-neighbour-for-11-days-booked/story-bA511C1yXXyxCSvZIVBwbM.html
28-08-2020||City||Kashmir: Body, believed to be that of a Panchayat member, recovered from orchard in Shopian||A body believed to be that of a Panchayat member, who went missing on August 19, was recovered from an orchard in Jammu & Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday, a police officer aware of the matter said.The officer said the body was recovered from Dangam and seems to be of that Nisar Ahmed Bhat, who went missing after he was last seen on a motorcycle. Unidentified militants last week released an audio message claiming to have killed the panchayat member.The police had then said the clip seemed to be fake and added they were investigating the matter.In the 2.56-minute-long clip, they claimed that Bhat has been killed and buried at an unidentified place.An unidentified person was purportedly heard saying in the clip that the panchayat member was involved in “anti-movement” activities” and had met his fate. “We have been after him for a long time and finally got him.”The message claimed the body was not handed over to his family because of Covid-19 pandemic.Bhat went missing days after Shakir Manzoor, a Territorial Army solider, was abducted from neighbouring Kulgam district. His burnt vehicle was found later. A similar message was released which claimed that Manzoor was killed and buried at an undisclosed location.Over the last two months five Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including two sarpanches (village heads), have been killed in Kashmir. In July, Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita was killed in Anantnag district which forced many panchayat members to resign. Wasim Bari, a BJP functionary, was killed along with his father and brother in July.The government shifted dozens of panchayat members, majority of them from the BJP, to safer places after an evaluation of threats from militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-body-found-suspected-to-be-that-of-missing-panchayat-member/story-xnmuCXi5qRQfEQ2dbOMSpI.html
28-08-2020||City||Masseur booked for sexually harassing customer at Ludhiana salon||A masseur at a reputed salon on Malhar Road has been booked for sexually harassing a female client during a head massage.The accused, Shaan, was booked on the complaint of a 24-year-old woman, a resident of Sidhwan Bet.She told the police that her husband and she visited the salon on August 2. While her husband went for a haircut, she decided to get a head massage.The woman alleged that while giving her the massage, Shaan touched her chest and neck inappropriately. When she raised the alarm, he fled from the salon. Though she escalated the matter to the salon owner the same day, he did not provide his details to her. Therefore, she approached the police.ASI Gurcharanjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had booked Shaan under Section 354A (1-i) (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of the Indian Penal Code and working to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masseur-booked-for-sexually-harassing-customer-at-ludhiana-salon/story-1xVqRSBPGMHogU21ikqJHJ.html
28-08-2020||Pune||Vital signs of volunteers administered with Oxford Covid-19 vaccine normal, three more get doses in Pune||The two volunteers who were administered the ‘Covishield’ vaccine developed by Oxford University and being mass-produced by city-based Serum Institute of India (SII), as part of phase II clinical trial have reported being stable, even as shots were given to three more volunteers on Thursday. There were given the doses on Wednesday.According to Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, Katraj campus, the first two candidates, both men, aged 32 and 48 years, have not reported any complaints and all their vital parameters appeared to be normal even after 24 hours. “I have not reported any fever or pain since Wednesday. I have also started my routine work,” said one of the candidates who come from the health sector and was also a candidate for the swine flu vaccine in 2009. A day later, three more volunteers, two females and a male were given shots of the vaccine, which is one of the front-runners in global efforts of vaccines to prevent deadly virus Sars-Cov-2 which causes the Covid-19 infection. These were tested on Wednesday to ascertain if they have antibodies, the absence of which made them eligible to be a candidate for human trials. Besides Bharati Vidyapeeth, another city-based hospital KEM is involved in conducting human trials. The KEM hospital has carried out Covid and antibodies test on five volunteers and go ahead administering vaccine shots if they come negative at its Vadhu campus. All these candidates, according to Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, will once again be given another dose after a month. “We are in touch with the two candidates who were given vaccine doses. Neither of them has reported systemic illness or pain and fever in the 24 hours ending Thursday afternoon. We will continue to monitor all the candidates being given the shots,” said Dr Oswal. The hospital has deputed doctors to monitor the health condition of each candidate daily. All the five volunteers were allowed to go home within minutes of being administered the vaccine, said hospital’s medical director Dr Sanjay Lalwani. Serum Institute of India had asked the hospital to carry out clinical trials on over 300 candidates. “We are planning to inject vaccine doses in at least 25 candidates within a week,” said Lalwani. According to him, the eligibility criteria is that the person must be aged between 18-99 years without any co-morbidities. He or she has to be tested negative for the virus, and also for antibodies of the virus. So, the person must not be currently, or previously have been, infected by Covid. While candidates will not be given any compensation for trails, the hospital is bearing the cost of tests and trails along with any medical treatment to volunteers, if necessary. Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine-maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca Serum Institute of India in an email asked for restraint in disclosing the interim data about trials, which according to Vaccine manufacturer, will be concluded in the next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vital-signs-of-volunteers-administered-with-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-normal-three-more-get-doses-in-pune/story-n6emtI3ABEYo0ExGYfve7N.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||No Covid lockdown in Chandigarh this weekend||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration on Friday decided that there will be no weekend lockdown in the Union Territory. Shops and malls will remain open on Saturday and Sunday. The administration, however, decided to continue with the odd-even system that is operational in the city’s 11 congested markets. These decisions were taken at the war room review meeting on Friday. Reacting to weekend restrictions imposed in Punjab and Haryana in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT had on August 21 ordered the closure of all shops and malls on Saturday and Sunday in the city. With the Haryana government on Friday deciding to allow shops to open on weekends in the state, the UT also decided to follow it in Chandigarh. UT adviser Manoj Parida, said, “Haryana has opened its markets on Saturday and Sunday. The lockdown restrictions in the city won’t work unless the tricity (of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali) is closed.” Withdrawing the order on weekend closure of shops, Haryana has directed the closing of shops and malls on Monday and Tuesday instead. But the UT will not follow suit in this regard, Parida said. Stating that there is no proof that only markets spread coronavirus infection, Parida, said, “How long can restrictions go on? Our literate residents have got the message to behave hygienically.” PRESSURE FROM TRADERS The revival of economy and trade in the city also weighed in favour of the administration’s decision to allow the opening of shops and markets on weekends. The UT’s August 21 decision to shut shops on weekends had come under criticism from traders, who held protests and submitted memoranda to the administration. Traders said the weekend lockdown along with the odd-even system was causing loss to them. Trader bodies welcomed the administration’s decision on the withdrawal of the weekend lockdown. Charanjiv Singh, the chairman of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “There is no rush in the markets on both weekdays and weekends as the footfall has come down to 25% as compared to pre-Covid days. So, social distancing can be easily maintained. We also want the odd-even system withdrawn, too.” At present, the odd-even system is operational in the electronics market in Sector 18, Sector 8 internal market, Patel Market in Sector 15, Palika Bazaar and Sadar Market in Sector 19, Azad Market and Palace Market in Sector 20, Booth Market in Sector 21, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janta Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and market area near the old PNB Bank/Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk. The basements of seven shops in the mobile market will continue to remain closed, while the scooter market of Sector 43 will remain closed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-covid-lockdown-in-chandigarh-this-weekend/story-i1Mytbdrmya8RkwPwpX0KN.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Moderate rain in Mumbai, yellow alert issued for Saturday||Mumbai and its suburbs received continuous spells of light to moderate rain from Friday morning, interspersed with a few intense spells of rain.Against a light to moderate rain alert for Friday, the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 26.4mm rain while the Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 19 mm rain between 8.30am and 2.30pm. Over six hours, the eastern suburbs recorded the most rain with 91.4mm in Chembur while Thane and Navi Mumbai saw rainfall between 40-70 mm. Areas in central Mumbai such as Bandra Kurla Complex recorded 46.4mm of rain while northern and western suburbs recorded 10-20 mm of rain. Over the past 24 hours (8.30am Thursday to 8.30am Friday), Mumbai suburbs recorded 5.2mm of rain while south Mumbai recorded 6.4mm of rain.Also Read: August records 24% excess rain in India, highest since 1983The India Meteorological Department (IMD) updated its district-wise rain forecast at 1pm with a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) for the rest of Friday and for Saturday. IMD has issued an alert for Mumbai and Thane. It has also issued an orange alert (heavy to very rain) for Palghar and Raigad for Saturday, and heavy rain warning for Pune, Kolhapur, and the entire Vidarbha subdivision.KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said, “Monsoon conditions are active across coastal Maharashtra, closer to central India under the influence of a well-marked low pressure weather system over north Chhattisgarh adjoining east Madhya Pradesh. It is likely this system will move in the west-northwest direction over southern Uttar Pradesh over the next 48 hours, allowing the rain intensity to be similar to what is being observed over Mumbai on Friday. Additionally, convergence due to strong lower level southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal during this period would enhance rain activity.”He added that satellite and radar images indicated intense cloud formation over the north Konkan coast. “Dense cloud patches were observed towards the eastern suburbs, the Chembur rain figure indicates that,” said Hosalikar.Also Read: La Niña may develop between Sept and Nov; likely to hamper post-monsoon season in IndiaMeanwhile, Mumbai is just 20mm short of crossing the 3,000mm-mark this monsoon, with another month for the season to end.The forecast for the rest of Friday and Saturday read: “Generally cloudy conditions with moderate rain and possibly heavy spells at isolated areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/moderate-rain-in-mumbai-yellow-alert-issued-for-saturday/story-L8YHxmGxvW9vkMD8r5eDjP.html
28-08-2020||City||Jalandhar police fine 400 persons a day for not wearing mask||Jalandhar At a time, when discipline and resolve is the only real ‘vaccine’ against the coronavirus, Jalandhar, the district second on the list of covid-19 cases in the state, with around 59,000 patients and 1,374 deaths till Thursday is attaining the dubious distinction of residents flouting government directions not wearing masks. On an average, 400 people a day have been fined Rs 500 each for ignoring this critical norm since the outbreak of the pandemic. Police data show that since March 23 (around 150 days ago), around 58,000 persons have been fined for roaming in public places without wearing a mask. The City Police have issued 34,776 challans and imposed a fine of Rs 1.7 crore. Urban areas have more cases than the rural segments. The rural police have issued 23,142 challans to people roaming in public places without a mask and collected Rs 1.1 crore fine. Not only this, residents have also violated quarantine norms and other mandatory rules, even as the Congress government has called for war-like preparedness against covid-19.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said to date, a fine of Rs 86,000 had been imposed on 46 violations of home quarantine instructions, and 453 persons have been fined Rs 1.2 lakh for spitting in a public place.Bhullar added 236 people had been fined for violating social distancing norms and 77 four-wheelers and 34 auto-rickshaws had been penalised for transporting more number of persons than permitted. In rural areas, 39 persons have been fined for violating home quarantine, 105 penalised for spitting in public places and 43 fined for violating social distancing norms. A senior administration official said the casual and indifferent attitude of people was dangerous and increased the risk of infection for the entire society. Be it morning walkers or shopkeepers, those who resided in containment zones were also seen not covering their faces for protection. He added people wore the mask only when they spotted a policeman, which was counterproductive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-police-fine-400-persons-a-day-for-not-wearing-mask/story-fyypP3XNIu9SS7MlWJQNHK.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM leads Vidhan Sabha in paying tribute to Galwan Valley soldiers, unsung Covid warriors||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday led the Vidhan Sabha in paying tribute to 28 eminent personalities, including freedom fighters, Galwan Valley soldiers, political personalities besides the unsung Covid warriors, who had passed away since the last session of the assembly. On the inaugural sitting of the one-day monsoon session (12th session) of the 15th Vidhan Sabha, the House paid respects to former member of Parliament Gurdas Singh Badal, Harminder Kaur, the mother of Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, former MLA Chatin Singh Samao, former state minister Hari Singh Zira and justice Satpal Bangar (retired). The House paid tributes to legendary hockey Olympian Balbir Singh Senior and Golden Temple hazoori ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa along with naib subedar Mandeep Singh, naib subedar Satnam Singh, naik Rajesh Kumar, naik Rajwinder Singh, naik Salim Khan, naik Gurcharan Singh, sepoy Gurbinder Singh, sepoy Lakhvir Singh and sepoy Gurtej Singh. The House remembered freedom fighters Sucha Singh, Piara Singh, Takht Singh, Ajit Singh, Variam Singh, Santokh Singh and Dalip Singh. It paid tributes to artist Satish Gujral and engineer Jaswant Singh Gill. The House also remembered religious leader Acharya Mahapragya and Surinder Dogra, the mother of MLA Arun Dogra. The House paid homage to Covid victims. On the request of health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, frontline Covid warriors who had sacrificed their lives fighting the pandemic while going beyond the call of duty, were added in the list. On the request of AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, the name of litterateur Baldev Singh was added to the obituary list. A two-minute silence was observed in memory of the departed souls as a mark of respect during the obituary references. Meanwhile, Speaker Rana KP Singh proposed that homage be paid to all those members who had passed away since the previous session. After the obituary references, he passed a resolution for conveying the condolences of the House to their respective families. The resolution was passed by voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-leads-vidhan-sabha-in-paying-tribute-to-galwan-valley-soldiers-unsung-covid-warriors/story-so3egO991XofiCAYkaeTvM.html
28-08-2020||Bangalore||Flood relief for farmers: JD(S) to launch state-wide stir against BJP govt||Former Prime Minister and JD(S) leader H D Deve Gowda on Friday said his party would soon launch a state-wide protest against the BJP government for its ‘failure’ to provide relief to flood hit farmers of the state “The government has failed to provide relief to the farmers within a year. In this regard, we will soon launch a state-wide protest,” Gowda said.The JD(S) supremo stated this during a video conference with party leaders at the district and Taluk level, including defeated candidates in the previous elections, on the flood situation in Karnataka and the plight of farmers. Party leaders from Chikodi in Belagavi district, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Hubballi-Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttar Kannada participated in the meeting. Gowda alleged that the government had not paid compensation announced last year to affected farmers of North Karnataka, a region battered by floods for two successive years. He charged that the district in charge ministers were not responding to the grievances of farmers.The former prime minister said he would tour the affected districts along with his son and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy, once there is a decline in coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/flood-relief-for-farmers-jd-s-to-launch-state-wide-stir-against-bjp-govt/story-xZCC5flV5kI1he2QU20esM.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Wildlife regularly uses 27 overpasses built over Maharashtra canal: Irrigation department||Wild animals, including tigers, are using overpasses built atop an irrigation project on the Wainganga river in Maharashtra, underscoring the importance of built-in mitigation measures for linear infrastructure and other developmental projects.The state irrigation department informed a sub-committee of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) authorities during a meeting on Thursday evening that they had completed constructing 27 of 54 overpasses that are on average 30 to 50 metre (m) wide each. The underpasses are built over the 99-kilometre (km) Gosikhurd irrigation canal, which extends from Bhandara to Chandrapur districts. The canal passes through protected areas such as Umred Pauni Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary and Tiger Reserve as well as the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR).Irrigation department officials stated that tigers were using the overpasses across at least two locations in south Brahmapuri region surrounded by fragmented forest patches. They also shared photographs to bolster their contention. “We have documented tiger movement across Halda and Wandra areas in this region, where photographs have been taken over the past year at two specific overpasses. However, there are reports of several other areas, where local villagers have spotted tigers and other animals, including deer, boars, wild dogs etc, all using these overpasses,” said JM Shaikh, chief engineer (projects), Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC).The Gosikhurd project starts from Pauni in Bhandara district and it was inaugurated on April 22, 1988, to divert water to Wainganga, Wardha and Tapi basin and annually irrigate 3.38 lakh hectares (ha) in around 720 villages in western Vidarbha. The break-up of the areas irrigated annually in Bhandara, Nagpur and Chandrapur districts are 89,856 ha, 19,481 ha and Chandrapur 1,41,463 ha, respectively, in a bid to boost commercial crop production. This is the first irrigation project in Maharashtra that has built-in wildlife mitigation measures, the state forest department authorities said. “The feasibility of these overpasses shows that we need many more such structures to ensure the uninterrupted movement of big cats and other animals and are not deterred due to developmental models,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests (PPCF) (wildlife), Maharashtra. He claimed that this could be one of the first wildlife passages built over a canal in the country.The forest department has planned a study by setting up camera traps in the area. “Over six months, we hope to get an idea of how many tigers or other animals are using these structures,” said Kakodkar.A February 2020 report by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, had recorded 5,450 wild animal photographs captured through camera traps over a 10 month period – between March and December 2019 -- across nine underpasses along the National Highway (NH)-7 near the Pench Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra. The study documented 18 animal species using these mitigation measures, including 11 tigers using six of the nine underpasses.Kishor Rithe, member, SBWL, said, “At present, these wildlife overpasses are concrete structures. The fact that it is being used is the first step. We have suggested that there should be greening of these structures with soil and vegetation to resemble forest in a bid to encourage the animals to use them regularly. Besides, they should be made in such a way to discourage local villagers from using their vehicles. Boulders can be put up to ensure unhindered movement of animals.”Though the original proposal was to build 64 overpasses, it was realised that 54 overpasses were sufficient following site-specific studies, said Shaikh. While 27 have been constructed across the 99-km stretch since 2017, 10 are under construction ranging from 47 to 99 km. Of the remaining proposed underpasses, local villagers have opposed the construction of five that are located within the first 30 km. “However, three structures can be built,” said Shaikh.Kakodkar said, “The irrigation department has informed us about the opposition from local villagers due to fear of tigers and other carnivores entering the agricultural landscape leading to conflict.”Rithe said a team of non-government members and forest officials from the sub-committee would visit the site to assess alternate options for constructing the five overpasses.COMMITTEE ASKS MSEDCL TO ALLOCATE FUNDS TO ADDRESS ANIMAL ELECTROCUTION DEATHSAnother major issue discussed by the SBWL sub-committee on Thursday involved addressing cases of animal electrocution due to transmission lines in TATR buffer zone. In 2016 and 2018, 16 and 11 animal deaths, respectively, were electrocuted by live wires in agricultural patches that are located close to forest areas. Majority of these areas are located in the TATR buffer zone.In October 2016, the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had issued guidelines underlining safe practices to avoid animal deaths due to electrocution by power transmission lines.The ministry had directed electricity distribution companies to preferably use air bunching of cables (ABC), including both overhead and underground, as much as possible.The SBWL sub-committee in its previous meetings had directed the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Ltd. (MSEDCL) authorities to undertake ABC across the TATR buffer zone to address the electrocution issue. Though initially MSEDCL had identified 49 locations for this exercise, later it had whittled down its estimate. The cost of implementing ABC for 16 locations amounted to Rs 14.65 crore and the forest department was asked to bear the expenses, which coughed up Rs. 2.45 crore. Tenders were issued by MSEDCL using this Rs. 2.45 crore for two locations such as Chichpalli to Mamala and Padmapur to Mamala, while awaiting funds for the rest of the project.“We have asked MSEDCL authorities to explore the possibility of allocating funds for ABC,” said Kakodkar. Rithe objected to the paltry allocation for ABC by the wildlife department. Ultimately, it was decided that the matter would be taken up before a ministerial-level committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wildlife-regularly-uses-27-overpasses-built-over-maharashtra-canal-irrigation-department/story-Lil4nyfWFhptEQz5QI256N.html
28-08-2020||Dehradun||Jan Dhan Yojana has revolutionised lives of poor: Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday said the Jan Dhan Yojana is a scheme of financial inclusion that has revolutionised the lives of poor people across the country.Congratulating Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the completion of six successful years of the scheme, Rawat said it has brought about a revolutionary improvement in the lives of the poor as the money released by the government under different welfare schemes meant for them is now credited directly into their accounts.Noting that the poor in Uttarakhand have also benefitted immensely from the scheme, Rawat said the number of beneficiaries of the Jan Dhan Yojana in the state is 26,45,447 -- 17,52,536 in the rural areas and 8,92,911 in the urban areas.  The collective balance in their accounts amounts to Rs 1,345.42 crore, the chief minister said in a Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/jan-dhan-yojana-has-revolutionised-lives-of-poor-uttarakhand-cm/story-959B3IzzJdbv6Kf5e5HcXN.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra police records 346 fresh Covid-19 cases; two deaths||As many as 346 personnel of Maharashtra police tested positive for coronavirus, while two died of the infection in the last 24 hours, an official said on Friday.With the addition of the new cases, the state police’s Covid-19 tally has reached 14,641 and the casualties stood at 148, the official said.A total of 2,741 police personnel are currently undergoing treatment at various hospitals, whereas 11,752 have so far recovered from the infection, he said. Meanwhile, the police have registered 2,43,595 offences and arrested 34,017 persons for violating prohibitory orders, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-records-346-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths/story-ziPISMeti35TV1zcM8PkOP.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Inspired by ‘Special 26’ film, criminals dupe people by posing as ED and ACB officials||Bollywood flick Special 26 appeared to have inspired five men, who duped unsuspecting public until the law caught up with them on Thursday, Delhi Police said. The arrested accused took to the crime after they had lost their jobs in insurance companies about two years ago, the police said.The five men allegedly stole customers’ data while leaving their insurance companies to target the public and make a fast buck.The modus operandi was simple. Initially, they duped the victims on the pretext of offering hefty bonuses on their insurance policies. Later, they would extort money from them by posing as Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) officials and offering to help them recover their lost money, the police said. The racket was busted on Thursday after they had sent a fake notice in ED’s name to one of the victims, who alerted the authorities about a possible fraud. “The criminals had used fake addresses and identity proofs to get SIM (subscriber identification module) cards to make these calls and opened a bank account in which the booty made out of deceiving people was deposited. But they would use ATMs (automated teller machines) to withdraw the cash. The CCTV (closed-circuit TV) footage in the ATM booths provided us clues to their identities and we nabbed all five of them,” said Rajesh Deo, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (crime branch), Delhi Police. The five men, who are aged between 24 and 35, are residents of Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad in the national capital region (NCR).Delhi Police’s crime branch tweeted, “Crime Branch busted a gang of interstate criminals with the arrest of five. Inspired by Special 26 they were posing as officials of ED and ACB . ATM and SIM cards on fake KYC (know your customer) and laptop used in the crime recovered.”The police said that the crime was brought to the ED’s notice by a man, whose identity has been kept under wraps. The complainant had been purchasing insurance policies since 2013.Sometime last year, the complainant started receiving calls from people, who claimed to be insurance officials. “They told him that he had won a hefty bonus on his insurance policy, but had to pay an advance tax and a processing fee,” said the DCP. Over the next few months, the complainant received multiple such calls and finally deposited Rs 10.6 lakh in a bank account. Last August, he started receiving phone calls from people, who claimed to be ED officials. “Initially, they approached him on the pretext of helping him recover his lost money. Later, they tried to extort money from him by threatening him of action by ED,” said DCP Deo. They even sent him a fake summon in ED’s name in a bid to lend a credible ring to their con job.“When he received the summon, he contacted the ED authorities, who found the document to be fake. On August 17, the deputy director of ED brought it to our notice and we began our probe,” said the DCP. Though the SIM cards and the bank account were found registered against fake identities, Delhi Police focused on the cash withdrawal mechanism of the suspects that was found to be from ATMs in Delhi-NCR.“Clues from CCTV footage helped us track them down to Kaushambi (in Ghaziabad),” said the DCP. The officer said that the mastermind of the crime was Rahul Singh (30), who had earlier worked for a private firm in Noida that used to deal in insurance brokerage.“The firm was fined and had to shut down in 2018 after the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) hauled it up for violations. Singh had stolen the customers’ data before he had quit the company,” said the DCP. Singh also allegedly went on to rope in Shadab and Junaid, who, too, had lost their jobs in the same company. Soon, two other partners-in-crime -- Sumit Sharma and Naveen Kumar – joined them, as they had also lost their jobs at another insurance company, but had managed to steal customers’ data. “Since January 2019, they had been targeting unsuspecting insurance policyholders. In the beginning, some of them would dupe the customers on the pretext of offering hefty bonuses on their policies. Later, other members of the gang would pose as ED and ACB officials to further extort from their victims,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/inspired-by-special-26-film-criminals-dupe-people-by-posing-as-ed-and-acb-officials/story-Zj8hrvfCzoiie9iIiUPzxK.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh flags off corona mobile testing clinic and ambulance||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday flagged off a corona testing mobile clinic and ambulance with the potential to sample more than 1,000 people a day at their doorsteps in rural and far-flung areas of the state. The air-conditioned mobile unit, which has a separate ambulance zone to evacuate critical patients, was launched as part of the Mission Fateh Punjab initiative. Explaining features of the mobile clinic after donating it to Punjab, Vikramjit Singh Sahney, the chairman of Sun Foundation and the international president of World Punjabi Organisation, said that clinic is equipped with contact-less thermal testing and nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swab test facility. The CM said that the mobile testing bus would cover remote areas and ensure residents have access to testing, needed to identify infected people and break the Covid chain. At present, the state government has a capacity to conduct 24,000 tests a day and the target is to achieve 30,000 tests by next week. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal and Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, the special principal secretary to the CM, were present at the launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/captain-amarinder-singh-flags-off-corona-mobile-testing-clinic-and-ambulance/story-618ddtem8aSoxstbcVOKbP.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi government chalks out plan to ramp up Covid testing||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has started chalking out a strategy to double the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests per day within a week and a standard operating procedure (SOP) is likely to be shared with all 11 revenue districts over this weekend, officials in health minister Satyendra Kumar Jain’s office said.Also read: Five more candidates inoculated with Oxford Covid vaccine in PuneThe process was initiated on Friday, a day after Jain wrote to Union health secretary Ajay Bhalla urging him not to “interfere” in the state government’s Covid-19 management strategy. Jain cited a note issued by Vikram Dev Dutt, principal secretary (health), Delhi, who had proposed that the opinion of the central government’s committee led by Dr VK Paul be sought in this matter. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) dismissed the allegation as “false” and “baseless”.“Now, that there is clarity that the Delhi government will go ahead on this independently, a proper strategy is needed on how it is to be done. The work started from Friday followed a meeting chaired by minister Jain. The state government has decided to draft an SOP as well,” said the government official cited above.The decision to double the number of Covid-19 tests -- from around 20,000 being conducted at present to 40,000 per day -- was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this week following a spike in the viral infection in the national capital.Delhi recorded 1,840 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday -- the highest single-day spike in 48 days – as the average went up to 1,464 fresh cases for the past seven days.The Delhi government would also take into consideration formulating a strategy to ensure that real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are increased along with the rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests, which are less accurate but produce results in a brief span of time and also much cheaper..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-chalks-out-a-plan-to-ramp-up-covid-testing/story-zE8EXlB4Z5zWaeJ5iRpOiJ.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Yamuna water level nears warning mark||On Friday morning, the water level of the Yamuna river at Delhi’s Old Railway Bridge was recorded at 204.3 metres (m), which is close to the warning level of 204.5 m.The level rose after 11,055 cusecs of water was released from Haryana’s Hathni Kund Barrage into the Yamuna at 8 am on Friday. While the water level was slightly higher than Thursday’s 203.7 m recorded at 8 am, it was still lower than Monday’s level of 204.3 m -- the first time this year, when it was recorded to be close to the warning mark. The Delhi government’s Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC) department officials said that the level recorded is much below the warning mark and might go up only if a higher volume of water is released, or if the national capital is lashed by heavy rains. “Some parts of Delhi received light rainfall on Friday. If the intensity of the rainfall increases coupled with the release of more water from the barrage, the level may surge further,” said an official from the state flood control department. “The water is released into the barrage every four hours. On a regular basis, only 350 cusecs of water is being released. During monsoon, because of higher volume of water in the barrage coupled with rainfall in the hilly regions, more water is released. This leads to a rising water level in the Yamuna. It takes between 36 and 72 hours for the released water to reach the river in Delhi. We are continuously monitoring the water level,” he added.Last year, Haryana had released over eight lakh cusecs of water in a day into the river after which the water level had breached the danger mark of 205.3 m. I&FC officials said that preparations are underway in case a higher volume of water is released and evacuation operations needed to be initiated. “We have identified suitable locations for pitching tents. Since social distancing is a norm due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, we have identified schools that are closed because of the viral outbreak. The flood-hit people will be provided shelter in these closed schools while maintaining adequate social distancing norms,” the official said. Delhi had reported a major flood in 1978, when the river’s water level had risen to the highest ever at 207.4 m..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-yamuna-water-level-nears-warning-mark/story-zYcDnsDs59WfPFkmvv2rXK.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Raids in Chandigarh, Mohali to arrest former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini in murder case, hours before he gets court’s stay||Mohali: A special investigation team (SIT), led by superintendent of police (SP) Harmandeep Singh Hans, raided the residences of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in Chandigarh and Mohali early on Friday to arrest him in connection with the murder of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee in 1991. The raids were conducted at Saini’s residences in Sector 20, Chandigarh, and his farmhouse in Mohali but the SIT returned empty-handed. “When we arrived to issue summons to him at his residence in Sector 20 on August 21, he was not there. The summons were pasted outside the residence. We raided his residences on Friday morning, but he was not there again. We are hopeful of arresting him soon,” an SIT member said, requesting anonymity. Saini faces arrest for murdering Multani after the SIT added Section 302 (murder) of the IPC to the first information report against him after two co-accused turned approvers. Around 10am, the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Rajnish Garg granted stay on the arrest till the final orders are pronounced in the case involving the disappearance and subsequent murder of Multani. The next date of hearing has been fixed for September 1. Saini’s counsel APS Deol said: “In the orders on Thursday, the court missed the extension of the stay of arrest. Today, we approached the court, following which it granted stay on arrest till the final orders in the case are pronounced.” On Thursday, the court reserved its orders on Saini’s anticipatory bail petition for August 29 for staying his arrest. The judge has not passed any orders on the interim stay on the arrest of the ex-DGP. Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said this meant that Saini could be arrested, as the stay on his arrest ended on August 27. In previous orders, Garg had ordered the SIT to give three-day notice to Saini, after adding murder sections to the FIR. The three-day notice ended at 6pm on August 24 and before that Saini had filed an application seeking anticipatory bail. Multani was allegedly picked up by two officials in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, in which four policemen deputed in his security were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from its custody in Qadian, Gurdaspur. Former DSP Baldev Singh, Satvir Singh, a former inspector, Har Sahai Sharma, Anokh Singh, a former sub inspector, besides Jagir and Kuldip Singh were named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raids-in-chandigarh-delhi-to-arrest-former-punjab-police-chief-sumedh-singh-saini-in-murder-case/story-Ioe5GeV9Wjjf1ZtbGkmYZI.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Not allowed to reopen, Delhi gym owners begin protest||Members from the Indian Gym’s Welfare Federation gathered near Safdarjung Airport on Friday morning to stage a protest against the Delhi government and Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal for not allowing gyms and fitness centres to reopen in Delhi. Also read: Limited entry, exit once Metro restartsFederation president Sunil Kumar Tonk said, “While gyms in the neighbouring towns, including Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad, have opened up, lakhs of people employed in Delhi gyms are suffering. There are many who have to borrow from friends to run their houses. It has been more than six months that gyms have been shut. If all other places, including restaurants and salons, can open, why are they not allowing gyms to be opened in Delhi? We are ready with all precautions. It is a loss of livelihood for lakhs of people, the government must wake up now,” said Tonk. Over a thousand people had gathered for the protest. “There was no disruption until Friday morning and the beat police took stock of the situation,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). The group now plans to hold another protest at the chief minister’s house at Flagstaff Road, Civil Lines.There are over 6,000 gyms and fitness centres across Delhi employing over 100,000 people. Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said, “These people are suffering and many have had to sell their assets to make ends meet. The Delhi government just wrote a letter urging the L-G to open the gyms, but what about the electricity and water bills, which now run into thousands even as the establishments have been shut. The government must come out and support them by waiving their mounting bills and giving them some relaxation,” said Dutt, also a councillor from Andrews Ganj ward||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/not-allowed-to-reopen-delhi-gym-owners-begin-protest/story-LmjMKYCPhe1tPBSI7jO3VK.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cotton harvesting in Punjab to get delayed, picking begins from September 15||BATHINDA: Cotton harvesting in Punjab, particularly the south Malwa region, is set to commence after September 15, a delay of two weeks than the usual practice. Agriculture experts attribute the postponement in the raw cotton picking schedule to a delay in sowing period due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Cotton is the economic lifeline of farmers in the semi-arid belt of south Malwa as the crop is sown in eight districts, mainly in Fazilka, Mansa, Bathinda and Muktsar. The sowing period in the state starts from April 18 based on the recommendations of agriculture scientists. Amid the shortage of migrant farm workers due to the coronavirus outbreak, Punjab this year has set a record by bringing 5.01 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation, which is the highest since 2010-11 kharif or summer-sown crop season. State agriculture officials and farmers are hopeful of a bumper crop this season. Chief agriculture officer (Bathinda) Bahadur Singh said normally cotton picking starts by the end of August. “However due to pandemic, sowing began in the end of April and lasted till the first week of June. Braving challenging Covid time, our field teams ensured farmers get purchasing the right types of seed, and checking the crop regularly so that any pests spotted at an early stage can be managed accordingly,” he said. Bathinda is the leading district in cotton cultivation at 1.72 lakh hectares. A progressive cotton grower from Bajak village Baldev Singh said this season there was no major pest attack and a high yield is expected. “I saved on pesticides as there was no infestation of whitefly or other diseases in the crop fields,” he said. FAZILKA VILLAGES FLOODED Cotton and paddy fields at about 50 villages near Abohar town are flooded after a breach was reported in an overflowing Abul Khurana drain last week. Jalour Singh, who is officiating as Fazilka chief agriculture officer, said about 15,000-acre land had been affected and crop loss assessment is underway. “Efforts are being made to drain out water from these villages located in the low-lying areas. Excess water may not impact the rice fields but cotton plants will be adversely affected if water is not drained out in the next 2-3 days,” said Singh. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to buy cotton from Oct 1: State cotton coordinator Rajnish Goel said as the CCI will commence buying cotton on minimum support price (MSP) from October 1, farmers should bring crop in the mandis with 8-12% moisture for the best price. “A token purchase of 15 quintal cotton was recorded in Abohar on Monday. It was purchased by private traders at Rs 5,051 per quintal. But it should not be confused with regular cotton arrival. This is an annual feature as private buyers symbolically show cotton market functioning on before the rituals of shradh,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cotton-harvesting-in-punjab-to-get-delayed-picking-begins-from-september-15/story-WLCKnlMlu7BYrSZAtGlLLL.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR, brings down humidity level||Rains lashed parts of the national capital on Friday, bringing down the humidity level. The minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s average. Waterlogging and traffic jams have been reported in some areas.The humidity was 77 per cent. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy skies with the possibility of moderate rain towards evening. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 36 degrees Celsius.Thunderstorm with heavy to very heavy intensity rain would occur over Ghaziabad, Chapraula, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Meerut, Bagpat, Modinagar and isolated places of Delhi during the next 1 hour, said India Meteorological Department, according to news agency ANI. Delhi: Rain lashes several parts of the national capital, visuals from Rail Bhawan and Vigyan Bhawan areas. pic.twitter.com/gsTld6C7sqAn ‘orange’ alert has been issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Rainfall may impact traffic movement and the public must plan their commute in advance.An ‘orange’ alert is issued when an impact of the rainfall is expected such as minor traffic disruptions, increased chance of vehicle accidents and water accumulating in low-lying areas and on roads. The alert has been issued for Delhi and the national capital region (NCR).The IMD has also issued an advisory suggesting the public must check for traffic congestion on their routes before leaving for their destinations, follow traffic advisories and avoid going to areas that are prone to waterlogging.While the past week went dry, Delhi had received ‘heavy’ to ‘very heavy’ rainfall on August 20-21, that wiped away the rain deficit for this monsoon.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-last-part-of-delhi-ncr-bringing-respite-from-humidity/story-TIMfz3ktdGFJFDtxnh1yqL.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three killed as three-storeyed building collapses in Amritsar amid incessant rain||AMRITSAR: Three persons, including an eight-year-girl, died when a three-storeyed building collapsed amid incessant rain in Amritsar in the wee hours of Friday. Police said the incident occurred in the Kot Baba Deep Singh locality on Sultanwind road around 2.30am. Three residents of the building had a narrow escape. “Raman Kumar Sunny, 35, his daughter and their tenant Lal Singh, 85, died on the spot. Sunny’s wife and son escaped. Another tenant living with Lal Singh had a narrow escape,” station house officer Narinder Singh said. There was another building collapse in the same locality in Amritsar’s Walled City area on Thursday night. The lone resident, an elderly woman, was rescued by the fire brigade personnel in the nick of time. The area has several old buildings that are unsafe to occupy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-killed-as-three-storeyed-building-collapses-in-amritsar-amid-incessant-rain/story-ECKAuGU0ZcikuKEJJ2LydO.html
28-08-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Gehlot cancels all meets after 10 CMO staff test Covid-19 positive||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has cancelled all pre-scheduled meetings after 10 staff of Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and residence tested positive for Covid-19.“As a precautionary measure, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has cancelled all pre-scheduled meetings after 10 staff of Chief Minister’s Office and residence tested positive for Covid-19,” read a statement from Rajasthan government in Hindi. Visitors coming from different places are required to contact various personnel including security personnel at the CMO and CM’s residence before meeting Gehlot. The state’s Covid-19 tally has reached 75,303 with the addition of 633 new cases on Thursday, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-cancels-meetings-after-10-cmo-staff-test-covid-19-positive/story-ZLVqwRGj0LURPgOaPhJgqO.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Situation in Ladakh as severe as 1962, says Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena on Friday said that the current situation in Ladakh is as severe as that of 1962, apparently referring to India-China war, but asserted that the Indian Army will not allow the history to repeat.In its mouthpiece Saamana, the party said that Chinese “infiltration” and “land grabbing” activities have not reduced even as the country acknowledges India now has become more powerful.“The Chinese dragon’s actions there have not stopped, nor have their intentions changed. The Chinese and Indian Army may be undergoing discussions, but the guns of the two countries are stacked on each other along the Ladakh border. India is saying that China withdrew from Ladakh, while China is saying that India too should move from ‘finger four’ to its border first....,” the editorial said.“Today’s India is not that of 1962. It is much more powerful than that. Despite acknowledging this, Chinese infiltration and land grabbing activities have not reduced. Indian Army will not allow the repeat of the history of 1962. The situation in Ladakh currently is as severe as that of 1962. We cannot deny that,” it said. India and China remain in a standoff position in Ladakh after twenty Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan valley on June 15. Talks between both countries regarding disengagement are going on but it has not produced any fruitful results.The editorial said that China’s aggressive intentions became clear only after a “few kilometres of incursion” by the Chinese into Ladakh in June.“The army is fully prepared. Our army chief visited the entire border. The Prime Minister also went to Ladakh and boosted the morale of the soldiers. The new guest of the Hindustani Air Force ‘Rafale’ has challenged the Chinese dragon while monitoring the border,” it said.Sena also said that India has given economic shocks to China by banning many Chinese apps.“It became clear that China withdrew a few steps from the region in which the tension in the two countries reached a peak due to the conflict in Galwan valley. This may have made China a little bit, but it has softened, creating such a ‘feel good’ atmosphere across the country. But now Foreign Minister Jaishankar in Ladakh, speaking of the most serious situation after 1962, can shock this environment. That means China’s crisis remains on the Ladakh border,” the editorial said. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/situation-in-ladakh-as-severe-as-1962-says-shiv-sena/story-jycPzs3czCzRt2aUrex11N.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body asks private hospitals to refer critical patients to its Covid facilities||Private hospitals have been suggested to refer critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run Covid Care Centres (CCUs) and also government hospitals in a bid to bring down the fatalities caused due to the raging viral outbreak in Mumbai. BMC authorities said that Covid-19 patients, who are not showing any signs of recovery, must be shifted to dedicated hospitals for the viral infection at the earliest.Mumbai’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 5.3%, as compared to Maharashtra’s at 3.2%.BMC, which is aiming to bring down the CFR to below 3%, has found out that Covid-19-related fatalities are higher in private healthcare facilities.The civic body has been conducting weekly meetings with top 10 hospitals that have been registering higher Covid-19-related death rates. BMC data showed that Covid-19-related deaths in private hospitals rose to over 40% in August, as compared to between 15% and 20% in June.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health, BMC, said, “We have suggested private hospital authorities to refer critical Covid-19 patients to our major government-run hospitals and CCCs. They have also been directed to seek the opinion of external experts such as deans of government-run hospitals or members from the Maharashtra task force for Covid-19 management. This initiative is being done under our ‘Mission Save Lives’ strategy, where we want to bring down fatalities.”Mission Save Lives, which was launched on June 30, is a nine-point strategy. The initiative aims to reduce Covid-19 fatalities, including video surveillance of each patient, mandatory audit of every death and giving bedpans to those who are critically ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-asks-private-hospitals-to-refer-critical-patients-to-its-covid-facilities/story-f4RDzg6PMlxpE2Ah42aoQI.html
28-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Covid-19 patient flees hospital; remains untraceable for five days||A coronavirus (Covid-19) patient, who fled earlier this week from a hospital in Kalimpong, a hill station in north Bengal, remained untraceable until Thursday. Also read: Not wearing a mask can put flyers on no-fly list, says DGCASamden Dukpa, executive director, the department of health and family welfare, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), said, “The administration has launched a search operation. She is still untraceable.” Police said initially, 34-year-old Sunita Subba, a resident of Takvar in Darjeeling, was admitted to the Darjeeling district hospital. Later, she was shifted to a Covid-19 hospital at Tribeni in Kalimpong after she was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. She fled from the hospital on August 23. Subba is the third Covid-19 patient to have gone missing from hospitals in north Bengal. On Thursday morning, Hanif Mia (42) fled from a Covid-19 hospital at Tapsikhata in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district . He was, however, traced by villagers and put under home quarantine.In the first week of August, Covid-19 patient Bhim Rai (53), who was imprisoned for life, had escaped while he was being shifted to a hospital in Darjeeling. Rai was on parole. He was traced to a dense forest in Darjeeling hills after 11 days. He tested Covid-19 negative after he was intercepted. His parole was cancelled and he was back in jail. At least 22,825 people had tested positive for Covid-19 and 196 had died in the eight districts in north Bengal until Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-covid-19-patient-flees-hospital-remains-untraceable-for-five-days/story-rEsBgQxUPmDZyTNo4WaLcP.html
28-08-2020||Patna||SC asks Bihar governor to take a call on B.Ed entrance test within 5 days||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the governor-cum-chancellor of universities in Bihar to decide the mode of admission in B.Ed course across the state since the combined entrance test (CET) for admission to B.Ed (CET-B.Ed) courses for 2020-2022 session has remained stuck due to Covid-19 pandemic. “We have heard the counsels for all sides. The counsel, appearing for the state nodal officer for the exam, informs us that the chancellor can take a decision as to whether there ought to be a central qualifying examination or whether the marks obtained till graduation are sufficient for the purpose of entrance into the B.Ed,” said the bench of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and Justice Navin Sinha.The matter will come up on September 2 again for hearing.“The Chancellor is requested to positively decide and communicate his decision, given the serious pandemic situation and the flood situation in the State of Bihar, to the court within five days stating whether the Common Entrance Test ought not to be shelved for this year and as to whether the qualifying examination could be on some other basis,” the bench said.With the CET-B.Ed for 2020-2022 on hold, Bihar’s teachers’ training colleges and their teachers and employees have been facing as many difficulties as being faced by over 1.22-lakh applicants, fearing the loss of a session.OSD-Judicial at the Raj Bhawan, Vinod Tiwari, said that the Raj Bhawan would soon take a decision regarding admissions in B.Ed course and apprise the apex court about it. “We will work on it in a day or two in the light of the apex court’s order,” he added. Also Read: JEE-NEET: To hold or not to holdDue to the lockdown in the wake of Covid 19 pandemic and the subsequent rise of infections, the entrance examinations have been postponed thrice. The private B.Ed colleges have been demanding permission to admit students on the basis of marks received in their last qualifying examination. They wrote to the chancellor and also knocked on the doors of the Supreme Court for relief.Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, which is the nodal university for conducting 2020 CET-B.Ed, had also approached the apex court for further guidance.“We have proposed a tentative date of September 22 in anticipation that things will get better by then. We had made all the preparations for the test on March 29 itself, but the lockdown prevented its conduct. Later, we planned it on June 14, July 19, and September 13. Now, we will go by the SC order or the Raj Bhawan direction,” said LNMU nodal officer Ajit Kumar Singh.Watch: Odisha CM asks PM Modi to postpone JEE-NEET amid flood-like situation, Covid Officials in the Raj Bhawan said a way out of the current logjam would be worked out to hold the examination.As two-year B.Ed programme in Bihar is mostly run by the private colleges in self-financing mode on a fee of Rs 1.5-lakh-- fixed by the Raj Bhawan-- the institutions are hard pressed, fearing wash out of the session after having to bear with losses due to vacant seats for two consecutive years. Many proprietors of the B.Ed colleges said they were in no position to pay salary to their staff due to no admission in the current session. The Supreme Court, while hearing a case of a UP‘s Maa Vaishno Devi Mahila College in 2012, had ordered “adherence to admission schedule and strict conformity by all concerned, without exception”. “The authorities will also ensure that the students admitted complete the mandatory period of 200 days’ course in the B.Ed. as per norms of the NCTE,” it had observed. With the admission process likely to extend up to December, even if the exam is held on September 23, mandatory teaching for 200-days is just not possible. “Therefore, we urged the apex court to direct the authorities to take admissions on the basis of marks this year. The colleges are facing an acute financial crisis due to the lack of admissions. We have been suffering for the last two years due to one reason or the other,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar, convenor, Bihar state teachers’ training colleges association, who had approached the court for admission on marks-basis this year.In Bihar, there are around 350 teachers’ training colleges, out of which, over 90% are private institutions, employing over 5,500 teachers and around 3,000 non-teaching staff. Dhruv Kumar, head, department of education, Nalanda College, Bihar Sharif said that the new session should ideally begin in July first week. “Due to the extraordinary situation in the wake of the pandemic, there is no harm in allowing admissions on the marks-basis for the 2020-22 session. Some states like Chhatisgarh have already announced admission on the basis of marks this year, as conducting exams will not be easy due to high risks involved,” he added.The CET-B.Ed was an initiative of the Chancellor office to regulate the mushrooming of private teachers’ training colleges in the state. Compared to the first year in 2018, the number of candidates registered and appearing in the examination dropped last year. This year, 1.22-lakh candidates filled up the form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sc-asks-bihar-governor-to-take-a-call-on-b-ed-entrance-test-within-5-days/story-5pyZOnQbW35jjlcQCbBy2K.html
28-08-2020||Education||Mamata Banerjee to make NEET, JEE key issue on TMC students’ wing foundation day||The demand for postponement of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main will be in focus, when West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee celebrates the foundation day of the Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad (TMCP), the students’ wing of her party, on Friday. JEE-Main and NEET for undergraduate engineering and medical course aspirants, respectively, will be held between September 1 and 6 and on September 13, respectively. CM Banerjee has said that millions of students and parents accompanying them to examination centres would be exposed to the risk of getting infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders said that Banerjee would address a virtual rally on Friday afternoon and it is expected to be the party’s second big event during the Covid-19 pandemic after the annual Martyrs’ Day programme on July 21. Friday’s virtual rally will be broadcast live on social media. Also Read: JEE and NEET: 5 things you need to know todayWhile jointly convening a virtual meeting of CMs from non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states along with Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday, Banerjee proposed that these states should move the Supreme Court (SC). “Didi (Banerjee) is happy with the response from the other CMs. At the meeting she said that Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik (who did not attend the meeting) might join his counterparts. On Thursday, Patnaik, who heads the Biju Janata Dal (BJD), called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested him not to hold the examinations in September,” said a senior TMC leader, who did not want to be quoted. “This is Didi’s success,” he added. The BJP reacted sharply on Thursday. “WB CM Mamata Banerjee, after pleading inability to facilitate JEE/NEET exams, has now ordered a state-wide lockdown on September 11 and 12, to create difficulties for NEET examinees to reach the examination venue on September 13. In order to achieve her political goals, is she treading a dangerous path?” Amit Malviya, the head of the BJP’s national information technology (IT) cell, tweeted.Every year, TMC celebrates August 28 with a rally held near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the Maidan in central Kolkata. A small rally will be held on Friday morning because of the pandemic, when TMCP members will demand postponement of NEET and JEE. Other opposition parties in Bengal have also taken a stand, as the issue is expected to influence young and first-time voters in the assembly polls slated to be held next year. The Bengal unit of the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or the CPI (M), have demanded the postponement of the examinations. On Thursday, leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly and veteran Congress leader Abdul Mannan and CPI (M) lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty jointly wrote letter to Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, seeking postponement of NEET and JEE-Main examinations. Chhatra Parishad, the students’ wing of the Congress, will also celebrate its 67th foundation day through protests on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/mamata-banerjee-to-make-neet-jee-key-issue-on-tmc-students-wing-foundation-day/story-LGGWCrkw58YKC4P7EPxT7K.html
28-08-2020||Lucknow||BJP serves notice, asks Gorakhpur MLA to explain his social media posts||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) served a show-cause notice on its four-term Gorakhpur (city) member of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) legislative assembly (MLA) Radhamohan Das Agarwal, as the party is upset with his recent outbursts on social media.In the show-cause notice, issued on the instructions of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, party general secretary JPS Rathore said Agarwal’s social media posts were being construed as attempts to portray the Yogi Adityanath-led government and the organisation in a poor light. The notice described his social media posts as an act of indiscipline and directed him to explain his conduct within a week. Agarwal’s recent demand for the removal of public works department’s (PWD) assistant engineer for flooding and water logging on Deoria road was opposed by other Gorakhpur MLAs, including Mahendra Pal Singh, the Pipraich lawmaker; Vipin Singh, the MLA from Gorakhpur (rural); Sheetal Pandey, the MLA from Sahjanwa; and Fateh Bahadur Singh, the MLA from Campierganj. Agarwal had tweeted that the MLAs chose to side with a PWD official, when he had raised the issue of water logging and flooding. The MLAs had also written to UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in favour of the official, who was in Agarwal’s crosshairs.“It seems my fight against corruption is bearing fruit. When I raised the issue of flooding in residential localities and opposed the official in Vidhan Sabha, the MLAs from three different assembly segments wrote in his favour to the deputy CM,” Agarwal had tweeted.Agarwal had also posted strong comments on social media against the law enforcement authorities following the murder of a BJP worker’s relative in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-serves-notice-asks-gorakhpur-mla-to-explain-his-social-media-posts/story-fAmod9WBDp4LrIoRhdpceJ.html
28-08-2020||Bhopal||Bhopal police arrests 7 in fake Aadhaar card,voter ID scam||Bhopal cyber police has arrested seven persons, including a minor, who used to create fake Aadhaar cards and voter identity cards through a banned Chinese App to get SIM cards issued in different names. They would then provide the same to different gangs , said police. Also read: Police in Indore lodge FIR after man allegedly morphs of PM’s photoThe police seized as many as 800 fake voter ID-cards, 125 fake Aadhaar cards, 800 used SIM cards, 537 unsold SIM cards, a printer, 12 mobile phones and some other electronic gadgets from the gang members. The accused were Narendra Prajapati, 22, a resident of Gwalior; Mohit Gupta, 25, Mohan Gupta, 29, and Satish Dubey, 31, residents of Shivpuri; Krishnapal Singh, 23, Vikas Jain, 30 and a 16-year-old boy, residents of Dabra, Gwalior. They were booked under section 420 (fraud) of IPC and relevant sections of IT Act 2000 on Wednesday. One of the accused, Kaushal Singh Bais of Delhi, is absconding, said police. Bhopal additional director general of police Upendra Jain said, “A nine-month investigation into a case in which an agriculture department officer in Bhopal lost Rs 80,000 from her bank account led us to this crime. The officer, Bhawna Pandey, received a call in which the caller claimed to be a bank employee and said her credit card limit would be increased if she shared some details. Later, she lost Rs 80,000 from her account.” Cybercrime cell of Bhopal police, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Sandesh Jain said, “The team investigating the matter found links of the gang after tracing a mobile number issued from Gwalior on a fake ID.” “Mohit Gupta and Mohan Gupta, who are brothers, used to create fake Aadhaar cards and voter ID cards by using a fake ID-maker application. They used their own photos on the fake IDs. Then they used these ID cards to create fake SIM cards. Since the SIM cards were fake, there was no verification required by the telecom companies. Then, they created fake accounts of a renowned e-commerce payment system on the basis of the fake SIM cards. The gang used to sell these fake SIM cards and fake accounts of the e-commerce payment system to gangs involved in cyber crimes. For each of the SIM cards and the fake accounts, they got Rs 500 each,” said Jain. He said the gang used another modus operandi too to dupe people and had created three WhatsApp groups to keep in touch with criminals in the other states. The accused were produced before the court on Wednesday and the court sent them on a three-day police remand. Police are interrogating them and also getting details of people who were associated with this gang through the WhatsApp groups, said Sandesh Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bhopal-police-arrests-7-in-fake-aadhaar-card-voter-id-scam/story-Bjs27BGjpMVW0YdJqY5iGP.html
28-08-2020||Bhopal||BSP announces names of eight candidates for MP bypolls||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday announced its first list of eight candidates for the bypolls to Madhya Pradesh’s 27 assembly constituencies even as the Election Commission (EC) is yet to announce their schedule.The eight will contest seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region that are reserved for scheduled castes (SC), the party’s traditional voter base.Twenty-two Congress lawmakers resigned in March to bring down chief minister Kamal Nath’s government in the state and necessitated bypolls to the seats they vacated. The resignations paved the way for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s return to power in the state.Three more Congress lawmakers resigned from the state assembly and joined the BJP in July. The remaining two seats had fallen vacant due to the death of the sitting lawmakers. In the 230-member state assembly, the BJP has 107 lawmakers, Congress 97, BSP three and Samajwadi Party (SP) two. There are also four independent members in the House. After the bypolls, the majority mark in the state assembly will be 116.BSP, SP and three independent lawmakers announced their support to the BJP in March.State Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said even in 2018 the BSP contested elections against the Congress but got just three seats. “The voters of the Congress are committed and the BSP’s decision to contest the byelections will not affect our prospects.”BJP leader Rajneesh Agrawal said every party has the right to field its candidates. “But we are going to win all the seats in the bypolls.”State BSP office secretary CL Gautam said, “The next list of the candidates will follow. We will contest all the 27 seats.”The other parties are yet to announce their candidates for the bypolls that are expected to be held by September. Political analyst Bhagwandev Israni said, “There is not going to be a major difference in the political situation during the bypolls in comparison to what state witnessed during 2018 assembly elections. Though BSP has some base in Gwalior-Chambal region and it can affect the prospects of a few candidates in certain constituencies, the contest will be mainly between the Congress and BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bsp-announces-names-of-eight-candidates-for-mp-bypolls/story-z2FamdPiNNXnQEPUqYEyxN.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi robbers target taxi driver, visually impaired passengers; arrested within 20 minutes||Two men took advantage of two visually impaired passengers in a taxi to rob its driver of cash and mobile phone in south Delhi’s Mehrauli early Wednesday, the police said. They arrested two suspects within 20 minutes of the crime. Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south), said that the robbers wanted to rob the two visually impaired passengers as well, but they didn’t find any items on them during the hurried robbery. The crime took place around 12.30am on Wednesday. Two visually challenged men hired a taxi to go to Mehrauli. “When the taxi reached Mehrauli, neither the driver nor the passengers knew the route ahead. So, the driver offered his mobile phone to one of the visually challenged passengers to call someone and ask for help,” another police officer said. In the meantime, the two suspects, who were loitering in the area, realised that the passengers were visually challenged and decided to take advantage of the situation. “They turned off the car’s ignition, held the driver down by the neck, threatened him against raising the alarm, and robbed his phone and Rs 1,000 in cash. They then turned their attention to the two passengers, but couldn’t find anything valuable on them. They then ran away,” DCP Thakur said. As soon as they were gone, the driver Shiv Charan, began shouting for help. “Soon, a police van reached the spot. Realising that the robbers couldn’t have made it very far since they were on foot, they asked the driver to accompany them in the vehicle as they went about looking for the suspects,” said the DCP. Within 10 minutes, one of the suspects was found in a parked Gramin Sewa vehicle. He was nabbed and, at his instance, his alleged associate too was caught within 20 minutes of the crime. The robbed cash and phone were recovered from them. The nabbed suspects were identified as Akash Khatta and Rohit (who goes by his first name)—both 23 years old. While Khatta had four previous cases of robbery and snatching registered against him, Rohit had been involved in one other crime, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-robbers-target-taxi-driver-visually-impaired-passengers-arrested-within-20-minutes/story-pL8RXhk52k1KtcWfmHTzuO.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||One-day monsoon session of Punjab assembly adjourned sine die; SAD MLAs stay away, AAP legislators attend in PPE gear||Chandigarh: Fifty-two members of the Punjab assembly attended the day-long monsoon session amid the Covid-19 pandemic on Friday that saw chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh moving a resolution against the Centre’s farm ordinances in the absence of BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal. The truncated session began with obituary references at 11am and was adjourned for an hour after paying tributes to 28 personalities, including the Galwan bravehearts and former member of Parliament Gurdas Singh Badal. The assembly was convened amid the pandemic to fulfil the constitutional obligation of meeting within six months of the last session. SAD members skipped the meet due to the Covid-19 protocol after 30 state MLAs tested positive. Aam Aadmi Party legislators, however, chose to attend the session in personal protective equipment (PPE) gear. While 42 Congress legislators attended the session, six AAP MLAs, and two each from the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Lok Insaf Party were present in the House. Three AAP legislators, including leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, were not allowed in the House despite showing their Covid negative reports. The House was adjourned sine die at 2.10pm.AKALIS MISSED SESSION DELIBERATELY: CMMoving the resolution against the Centres’s farm ordinances, the chief minister said that the SAD should have attended the session. “They deliberately missed it as they knew this resolution will be passed in the assembly,” he said.Barring the BJP members, all MLAs unanimously supported the resolution.“Murder of democracy by Cong govt. Now police force posted outside SAD MLAs’ houses to prevent them from attending 1 hr assembly session. Such kind of oppression seen for first even though SAD announced it will act responsibly. We appeal to Governor, Pb to intervene & restore order,” Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said in a tweet.CLINICAL ESTABLISHMENT BILL PASSEDThe Punjab Clinical Establishment Bill, the Guru Teg Bahadur Bill and the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Amendment Bill were passed The AAP raised the issue of the post-matric scholarship scam with Master Baldev Singh asking Speaker Rana KP Singh to suspend cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Lok Insaf Party member Simarjeet Singh Bains also raised the issue and praised additional chief secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj for submitting a report against the minister.COVID PROTOCOL AND ADVICEEarlier, AAP MLAs, including leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Aman Arora, Meet Hayer and Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, reached the assembly wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Cheema, Hayer, Manuke and Baldev Singh held a protest outside the assembly, alleging that despite their negative coronavirus test reports, they were not being allowed to attend the session.On Thursday, the chief minister and Speaker had appealed to all legislators, who had come in contact with COVID-positive MLAs, to avoid attending the day-long assembly session. Of the 30 MLAs who have tested positive so far, 20 are from the Congress, six from SAD and four from AAP, including a party rebel. Of them, seven have recovered. However, the AAP legislators, whose three colleagues tested positive this week, decided to attend the session, ignoring their advice. “Barring those who have tested positive, the other nine party MLAs will attend the session. Besides coronavirus, there are other issues such as Scheduled Caste (SC) scholarships, illicit liquor, the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal and sand mafia that need to be raised. We took the decision at a virtual meeting,” Cheema said.Budhram and Manjit Singh Bilaspur, who have tested positive, had attended the AAP legislature party meeting three days ago in which seven other members were present. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislature group, on the other hand, decided not to attend the session as its MLAs had come in contact with their colleague Gurpartap Singh Wadala, who later tested positive. SAD legislature party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the party was following Vidhan Sabha rules and Covid-19 guidelines. The decision was taken at a meeting of the legislature party on Friday morning.The Speaker had given the advice after a group of AAP MLAs met him and the SAD legislature party leader wrote to him. According to the Covid-19 protocol, all contacts of positive persons have to quarantine themselves for 14 days. PROTESTS OUTSIDE THE HOUSELok Insaaf Party members Simarjeet Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains protested against the Scheduled Caste scholarship scam outside Punjab Bhawan. Both demanded the dismissal of social welfare minister Dharamsot.Though the SAD MLAs stayed away, youth Akali activists, led by state chief Parambans Banti Romana, were detained by Chandigarh Police for protesting outside the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-day-monsoon-session-of-punjab-assembly-begins-at-11am-under-covid-shadow-suspense-over-participation-of-aap-sad-mlas/story-UGyd0j2kkO65DEw36ploaK.html
28-08-2020||NA||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Karnataka to re-open colleges from October 1||BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it will reopen all colleges in the state starting from October 1 but will wait for the union government’s guidelines on restarting educational institutions and decide accordingly.According to reports, Deputy chief minister CN Aswath Narayan on Wednesday announced that the academic session of 2020-2021 will first begin with online classes from September 1 and regular classes will start from October 1.Narayan pointed out that the state government has drafted comprehensive preparations to start regular classes for students in accordance with the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC). He added that final-year exams including supplementary for all undergraduate, diploma and engineering students will be scheduled soon.The coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has led to shutdown of schools, colleges and universities across India. Students are now depending on the online medium to attend classes and appear for examinations rather than stepping outdoors.Karnataka on Thursday registered its highest-ever spike of 9,300 Covid-19 cases and 141 deaths which pushed the tally to over 3 Lakh. The total cases include 2.19 lakh discharges and 5,232 deaths. A total of 26.48 lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Karnataka till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/amid-covid-19-crisis-karnataka-to-re-open-colleges-from-october-1/story-pjlOSw1XlduBGHnTjN0A1N.html
28-08-2020||Lucknow||After 11-day prayers, 40 priests in Uttar Pradesh paid with coupon notes||In a reminder of a scene from the 1990 Bollywood movie ‘Dil’, of people chasing a man for distributing coupon (amusement) currency to beggars sitting outside a temple, some priests in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district were recently paid in coupon notes after performing prayers. Police said a woman distributed amusement currency notes or coupon notes to 40 priests, who she had invited to conduct 11-day long rituals in Sitapur’s Terwa Manikpur village. The priests have lodged an FIR of fraud and criminal breach of trust against the woman identified as Geeta Pathak, wife of GR Pathak, at Rampur Mathura police station. Inspector general (IG) of police, Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh said the woman had been taken into custody and quizzed about the incident. A large number of similar coupon notes, with Manoranjan Bank of India mentioned on them, were recovered from her vehicle. Also Read: A decade later, a school building in Uttar Pradesh is still in the making“As per the complaint of a priest Dilip Kumar Pathak of Bahraich, the woman hired him to conduct 11- day rituals in her village, promising him ₹9 lakh for all arrangements. After the rituals were completed, the woman handed Pathak and 39 other priests, who participated in the event, a bag allegedly containing currency notes as a gift. But when they checked later, they found that the notes placed on the top were real currency notes while the remaining were amusement notes of face value ₹5.53 lakh,” Singh said, adding, “These coupons were in the denominations of 2000, 500, 100 and 10”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-11-day-prayers-40-priests-in-uttar-pradesh-paid-with-coupon-notes/story-h7jOA3oEBtRdljJKAhjtaJ.html
28-08-2020||Lucknow||NEET, JEE amid pandemic leave UP candidates, parents a worried lot||The forthcoming Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) – to be held between September 1 and 6 and on September 13 for undergraduate engineering and medical course aspirants, respectively -- amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak have left several candidates and their parents a worried lot. Diwakar Gupta, the father of Dipesh Gupta, a NEET candidate and a resident of a village in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Sitapur district, has been anxious over the past few days. He has been in constant touch with a local taxi driver and sought his assurance to drive Gupta to his examination centre on the date of the examination on September 13, as the transportation facility from his native village is few and far between. Transport woes have further worsened because of the pandemic.“My NEET examination centre is around 60 kilometres (km) from my home. My father has booked a private vehicle since there is no direct transport between my home and the examination centre,” said Dipesh. Though Diwakar Gupta has already paid Rs 6,000 in advance to the taxi driver, he still can’t rest easy.“Will it be safe for my son to travel such a long distance, when Covid-19 cases are on the rise? Is it not like playing with the lives of our children?” he thought aloud. “The leaders, who have decided to go ahead with conducting these examinations, must review their decision and postpone it until Covid-19 is under control,” he added.National Testing Agency (NTA), the nodal body that conducts entrance tests for higher educational institutions, has assured taking measures to ensure safety of the candidates.The agency has increased the number of examination centres in a bid to enforce social distancing norms at each centres. Steps are also being taken to ensure candidates can appear at “centres that are close to their homes”. On Tuesday, NTA had issued a press statement that showed UP has the second-highest number of candidates, who are slated to appear for NEET. A total of 1,66,582 students will appear for NEET in 320 centres in UP on September 13, as compared 1,39,497 candidates in 188 centres last year. NEET is a pen-and-paper examination, unlike JEE-Main, an online exercise.JEE-Main will be conducted in 66 centres in UP between September 1 and 6 in shifts. A total of 1,00,706 candidates from UP are expected to appear for JEE-Main this year. Last year, 85,898 JEE-Main candidates from UP had appeared for the examination that was held in 47 centres, NTA data showed. The testing agency has claimed to have distributed the examination centres across UP, despite allegations of bias towards candidates from urban areas. Yashwant Singh, a JEE-Main candidate, who lives in a village in UP’s Badaun district, said, “I will have to travel over 120 km to reach the exam centre. This is a risky proposition amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Candidates, who live in urban areas, will have to travel a much shorter distance to reach their respective examination centres,” said Singh. Several students have claimed that their preparations for the upcoming examinations were affected because of the pandemic and many are still hoping that the examinations will be postponed owing to the pandemic..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/neet-jee-amid-pandemic-leave-up-candidates-parents-a-worried-lot/story-Jd0JVS0YLozQT4KbjHLKiO.html
28-08-2020||Lucknow||Markets to remain closed for 2 days per week for sanitisation: UP CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed district officials to ensure that all markets in state are closed down on Saturday and Sunday for sanitisation and fogging.These bi-weekly activities are helpful in not only curbing the spread of coronavirus disease but also reducing the risk of transmission of other communicable diseases, he added.Also read: UP announces ban on religious or public functions till September 30The direction came after CM Adityanath inspected the situation in state on Thursday in order to come up with a plan for systematic unlocking. He also expressed his satisfaction over the fact that Uttar Pradesh had conducted more than 50 lakh Covid-19 tests till date. Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Shahjahanpur districts were asked to maintain strict vigil in order to avoid spread of the disease and hospital should have enough ventilators, 24-hour oxygen backup and other necessary paraphernalia for treating Covid-19 patients.The CM also addressed issues arising out of floods that have ravaged parts of state in the last few days. The government has provided relief material for people in flood-affected areas, he said. People whose houses have been destroyed due to the floods will be compensated, he added.Those black marketing compost will be punished, he said, adding that the government will ensure that farmers have no shortage of compost during these times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/markets-to-remain-closed-for-2-days-per-week-for-sanitisation-up-cm-adityanath/story-3GVZvS3Y4MvwQfvOcM3DEJ.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Car falls 30-feet from flyover in west Delhi; 2 seriously injured||Two men were grievously injured after their car fell from the Janakpuri elevated flyover in West Delhi and landed on the service road below late on Thursday night, police said.According to Deepak Purohit, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West), the car, a Honda City, took nearly a 30-feet plunge after flying off the flyover and crossing over its side wall on the left.Also read: 20-year-old BBA student arrested after cyclist dies in accidentThe injured men have been identified as Anuj and his friend Vijay, both 29 and residents of outer Delhi neighbourhoods. “Given the manner of its fall, it appears the car was being driven at a high speed,” said the DCP. The blood test reports of the two men are yet to arrive so the police couldn’t immediately say if the person driving the car was under the influence.The accident occurred around 11 pm on Thursday, soon after the car climbed the flyover from Janakpuri side, the DCP said. “Fortunately, there was no vehicle on the service road below where it landed. The car was badly damaged. Our policemen rushed the injured men to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital,” said the DCP.The duo is in a critical condition and their families got them shifted to private hospitals for treatment.The DCP said that police would write to the civic agencies to get the side walls of the flyover raised as it was a matter of concern that its height wasn’t enough to prevent the car from falling down.A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered at Vikaspuri police station and the police are probing, said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/car-takes-30-feet-drop-from-flyover-in-west-delhi-s-janakpuri-2-seriously-injured/story-7Q4GMYesKtxieBQsLciZXI.html
28-08-2020||Lucknow||UP announces ban on religious or public functions till Sept 30||The Uttar Pradesh government has confirmed that it will not grant permission for holding religious or public programmes till September 30 keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic. According to additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, on Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanth, in a meeting with the senior officers, said the district magistrates should not give permission for religious or public programmes till September 30. Awasthi said that the state government had also instructed officials to ensure that the restrictions including closure of markets on Saturday and Sunday are strictly implemented. The administration has also asked for carrying out an intensive cleanliness, sanitization and fogging drive in all the districts during the weekly closure of the markets. The drive was important in attempts to break the coronavirus infection chain in the state, Awasthi said. Also Read: Cannot discriminate against Shia Muslims: Bombay high court directs state to allow Muharram ritualsAwasthi added that the state police had collected Rs 70 crore in penalty from people who flouted the rules and restrictions in place to contain the pandemic since end of March, when a nationwide lockdown was first clamped.The police have also seized 69,765 vehicles and registered FIR against 2.5 lakh people under section 188, he said. The number of containment zones in the state had increased to 15, 471 and the health teams had surveyed 14.35 lakh houses and 82.35 lakh people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-announces-ban-on-religious-or-public-functions-till-september-30/story-hp66WB986cA4C5pEFdS4oO.html
28-08-2020||Lucknow||A decade later, a school building in Uttar Pradesh is still in the making||A decade since it was sanctioned, the building of the proposed multi-storey school of state basic education department that was to come up at Kanshiram Awas Yojana in Phaphamau is yet not complete. The basic education department had paid Rs 32 lakh for the construction of the school building to Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) at the time but the building never got completed, officials of the education department admitted. Two multi-storey schools were sanctioned by the then Mayawati-led BSP state government in 2010-11 under the Sarwa Shiksha Abhiyan at Jhalwa and Phaphamau at Kanshiram Awas Yojana. The plan was to make available quality education to students of class 1 to class 8 under the same roof here. The state government had even sanctioned Rs 32 lakh each for the construction of the two school buildings. The task of the construction was entrusted to PDA (then Allahabad development Authority) which started the construction work of both buildings in 2011. By 2012, the multi-storey building of the school at Jhalwa got ready and students even started studying in it. Also Read: SP removes backward classes cell chief after anti-Ram remarksHowever at Phaphamau, boundary walls and ground floor were built but the roof over the rooms hasn’t been laid till now. “This is an old issue and I am not aware about its status. We will take it up afresh and find out as to why the construction work remains incomplete after so many years despite payment having been made in advance,” said Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha, Basic Shiksha Adhikari, Prayagraj. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh gets 18 air routes under Centre’s UDAN schemeBasic education department officials maintain that payment to PDA was made on the instructions of the then district magistrate but shortly afterwards, the contractor who was entrusted with the work got blacklisted and the construction work came to a standstill. The officials say that many reminders in this regard have been sent to PDA but to no avail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/a-decade-later-a-school-building-in-uttar-pradesh-is-still-in-the-making/story-FNfQwWPjFXWdvnrpgDWQ9O.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today||New Delhi: Delhi is likely to receive ‘light to moderate’ rainfall and thundershowers on Friday evening following a hot and humid week. An ‘orange’ alert has been issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Rainfall may impact traffic movement and the public must plan their commute in advance. An ‘orange’ alert is issued when an impact of the rainfall is expected such as minor traffic disruptions, increased chance of vehicle accidents and water accumulating in low-lying areas and on roads. The alert has been issued for Delhi and the national capital region (NCR). The IMD has also issued an advisory suggesting the public must check for traffic congestion on their routes before leaving for their destinations, follow traffic advisories and avoid going to areas that are prone to waterlogging. Also Read: Rainy weekend on the cards in Chandigarh“It is likely that the city receives light to moderate rain various parts, as the monsoon trough is close to Delhi. Over the past week, there was a forecast for light rain but it didn’t occur, as the trough had moved towards the foothills and is now again moving towards Delhi,” said a IMD scientist. While the past week went dry, Delhi had received ‘heavy’ to ‘very heavy’ rainfall on August 20-21, that wiped away the rain deficit for this monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-to-moderate-rain-likely-in-delhi-today/story-PCTkreAwcdXXDrg6kTztVL.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Five doctors at AIIMS, Bathinda, test positive for Covid-19 over past 10 days||Bathinda: Five doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bathinda have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 10 days. AIIMS director Dr DK Singh is among those in home quarantine after three doctors tested positive on Thursday. Official sources said the cases started surfacing after the AIIMS staff, including the management of the central institute, took part in the Independence Day function on the campus. Social distancing was not observed at the function and AIIMS staff was seen posing for photos without masks. Officials were seen interacting with colleagues and guests at the event. AIIMS deputy director Col Devender Rawat (retd) said on Friday that additional medical superintendent Dr Satish Gupta was the first person from the institute to test positive last week. He said eight staff members of the institute are in home quarantine though none of them has a serious health condition. The official said the report of more staff members is awaited. Rawat did not deny that Covid-19 guidelines were violated on the campus on August 15. “It is unfair to associate the triggering of infection cases with the Independence Day function. Had it been the case, several more of our team members would have been found infected by now. We have been taking all measures to check any Covid suspect on the campus,” he said. The AIIMS director and Dr Gupta were present at the function. Bathinda chief medical officer Amrik Singh Sandhu did not respond to phone calls and text messages to know precautionary steps being taken by the health department as the outpatient department service (OPD) is operational at AIIMS. After it resumed OPD services on April 7, AIIMS made arrangements where patients are attended only in the spacious reception area. Doctors listen to visiting patients through intercom phone lines placed outside rooms with glass partitions. Rawat said all precautions are being taken at the OPD and only doctors who are not showing any symptom of the infection, are put on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-doctors-at-aiims-bathinda-test-positive-for-covid-19-over-past-10-days/story-WHUecpEUOC9xbKAECfqCDO.html
28-08-2020||City||65-year-old duped of ₹1-lakh valuables at Navi Mumbai||A 65-year-old Nerul woman was duped of valuables worth ₹1.2 lakh by three men who allegedly asked her to put her jewellery in a plastic bag to “look poor” to get sarees, footwear and groceries from their employer, said the police. One of the accused, in his mid-twenties, was waiting near a ration shop in sector 11, Nerul, when the complainant, Mathura Patil, visited the shop. The police suspect that the men had chosen the location to target unsuspecting elderly women. Seeing the shop shut, the complainant was returning home with her neighbour Sindhu Nikam, also 65. After walking a little away from the shop, the first man approached the senior citizens, noticing that Patil was wearing gold bangles. He told them that his employer has been blessed with a son after 12 years and asked the women if they could come and give their blessings to the newborn.He also told them that his employer would be distributing sarees, footwear and groceries to the poor, said the police. Patil and Nikam agreed to go with the accused. He asked them to wait near a school, a few metres away from the spot he met them. “Two more persons then arrived there and took Nikam with them. When Patil was alone, the accused told her to keep her gold jewellery in a small plastic bag so it would make her look poor. When she kept her mangalsutra and bangles in the bag, the accused tricked her and managed to steal it,” said an officer from Nerul police station. The accused stole her two gold bangles worth Rs75,000 and her gold mangalsutra worth Rs45,000. After the three fled, Patil realised that her valuables were missing. The Nerul police have filed a case of cheating against the three unidentified men following Patil’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-duped-of-1-lakh-valuables-at-navi-mumbai/story-nCLPFid8SwDky5UNOfNGSL.html
28-08-2020||City||Paan stall owner held for killing employee near Mumbai||The Kalyan crime branch on Thursday arrested a 28-year-old paan shop owner for allegedly murdering his employee on August 21 on the suspicion that the victim stole money from his stall. The paan shop is located on the Manpada Road in Dombivli. The victim Surij Pal, 18, was a resident of Uttar Pradesh and had come to Dombivli seeking employment. He worked for the accused, Sunil Patel,along with two more employees, who are also allegedly involved in the murder. On August 21 between 2pm and 3.30pm, an argument broke out between Patel and Pal at the paan shop. Patel accused Pal of stealing money from the shop. During the argument Pal was assaulted with wooden sticks, gas pipe and belt and his head was also smashed to the floor and wall, leading to his death. To destroy the evidences, Patel along with the two other workers covered Pal’s body in a sack and carried it to the nearby lake and dumped into it. The crime came to limelight after police naik Rajendra Khilare of Kalyan crime branch unit 3 realised that Pal was absent at the shop from some days. He then began inquiring about Pal with his sources in the area. “I always saw Pal in the shop or the nearby areas. But as he was missing from the past few days, I enquired to others about him. Someone claimed that he was not well, so I offered to help as he was poor. However, when he could not be traced, I got suspicious and informed my seniors,” said Khilare. The crime branch then started investigating the case after Khilare’s report. Senior inspector Sanju John from crime branch, unit 3, said, “Some informers told us about the fight. So we searched for the paan stall owner and nabbed him from at Pandurang Vaze compound, Manpada, and interrogated him. During the questioning, he revealed that with the help of his other labourers, he killed Pal.” The crime branch is now searching for the other two accused. Patel will be produced before the Kalyan court on Friday. A case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered with the Manpada police station on Thursday. “After the revelations by Patel, the crime branch team searched the lake and found the sack with Pal’s body. The body was sent to Rukminibai Hospital in Kalyan for post-mortem,” added John. Kalyan deputy commissioner of police Vivek Pansare said, “Even though the crime took place a week ago, there was no missing report filed at the police station. The crime unfolded because Khilare managed to find out that Pal was missing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paan-stall-owner-held-for-killing-staffer/story-d1louAIxKwG3qW6R7jZKnM.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Chai served with a crossword puzzle||It’s like a crossword puzzle. Sirajuddin tea stall is one of the city’s most fascinating street-side chai stops. Its uniqueness is found in a shelf clamped onto the wall. This has wooden slabs running from top to bottom, and from left to right. This divides the shelf into an array of square-shaped spaces, making it look like the sort of crossword puzzles you often find in newspapers.Except, of course, that instead of alphabet letters, the little boxes are casually crammed up with tea things. One box has ginger sprigs and a pink mug. Another has a kettle, whose chipped texture is so evocative of the everyday chai civilisation that an Anand Niketan aesthete might feel like stealing it for her drawing room display. An adjacent box is filled with tea glasses, along with white China cups, while the box below is stocked with a tiny metal trunk—possibly a cash box. A box on the top row is over-crowded with rusting metallic tea carriers that can hold several chai glasses together.The stall was founded in 1977 in Old Delhi’s Turkman Gate bazaar by Muhammed Sirajuddin, who gave it his name. He lies buried in the Dilli Gate graveyard in ITO, and the little landmark is now run by his two sons. Alimuddin, who sits during the first half of the day, is full of jokes and gossip, but he is also capable of sudden flashes of anger—which however dissipate within moments. Younger brother, Sirajuddin, is quieter by contrast and mostly communicates via his gentle smile, as if he was secretly amused at the ways of the world.“Everything about this chai stall was set up by our father, including this wooden shelf,” confirms Alimuddin. The brothers’ home is just a few steps away.The stall has a couple of steps strung up beside it and one does see customers crowding upon them, enjoying their chai while watching the busy traffic of humans, goats, dogs, mules, cats and rats go by on the lively street.The more prestigious seating, though, is just across the lane, under a tree, on a platform beside an unknown person’s marble grave. The tea shop regulars sit there all day long, chatting with each other, over endless cups of Sirajuddin’s milky chai. The stall also serves the usual chai snacks such as fen and ‘biskuts’. The place serves daily from 5am to 10pm though it used to be open till late into the night during the pre-corona days.One rare afternoon, for some reason, the stall was found closed. The beautiful shelf was shut closed with a plain wooden lid. The sight was haunting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-chai-served-with-a-crossword-puzzle/story-UWsEVUIYQtju4TVmBBiiYI.html
28-08-2020||City||49-year-old teacher from Mumbai duped of ₹3.5 lakh on matrimonial site||Oshiwara police are on the lookout of a man who allegedly duped a 49-year-old teacher of ₹3.5 lakh after befriending her on a matrimonial site.The teacher in her complaint told police officers that her husband had passed away three years ago and she was staying with her 21-year-old daughter in Jogeshwari. She told the police that she was planning to remarry and had created her profile on a matrimonial site. On August 6, somebody sent her a request to connect on the site. The person introduced himself as Salman and told her that he is a doctor at New Jersey and was looking for a match to get married. The two began chatting over the phone and on August 11, Salman told her that he had sent a surprise gift to the woman but it had mistakenly reached Delhi airport. The complainant transferred money multiple times from her account to the account provided by the fraudster who asked to pay for custom duties, penalty etc. When he asked for more money, she realised that she was cheated and filed a complaint with Oshiwara police.An officer from Oshiwara police station said, “Following her complaint on Tuesday, we have registered a case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Information Technology (IT) Act for cheating and impersonation. We will be seeking details of the person from the matrimonial site and also the details of the beneficiary accounts from the banks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/49-year-old-teacher-from-mumbai-duped-of-3-5-lakh-on-matrimonial-site/story-xXrvxNzZhoWnWda2D14FgJ.html
28-08-2020||City||Restore water supply to Andheri building: High court to Mumbai civic body||Observing that a municipal corporation cannot discontinue water supply for non-payment of property taxes, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to immediately restore water supply to a commercial building at Andheri (West). The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhavan Jamdar directed the civic body to restore the supply to Oshiwara Link Plaza Commercial Premises Cooperative Housing Society, where 119 commercial units such as hotels, restaurant and shops did not get water for about a month. The society moved HC after the civic body discontinued its water supply on account of non-payment of property taxes. Their counsel, advocate Swarali Joglekar, pointed out that there were 28 major defaulters and because of their defaults in paying property taxes the action was taken by the corporation. Joglekar also pointed out that though BMC was citing non-payment of taxes as the reason for disconnecting water supply to the building, nine commercial tenements in the building are allotted to BMC, but the civic body has not paid a rupee towards maintenance charges to the society. A lawyer for BMC responded to the petition, pointing out that the action was taken, as huge amounts were outstanding against the society members. The lawyer said that property taxes to the tune of Rs2.65 crore and dues of the marketing department worth Rs86 lakh were outstanding since 1997, and therefore the action was taken. The civic lawyer, however, could not answer the court’s query as to whether a municipal corporation can discontinue water supply due to non-payment of property taxes. Observing that such action cannot be taken, HC directed BMC to forthwith restore water supply to the commercial building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restore-water-supply-to-andheri-building-high-court-to-mumbai-civic-body/story-3E0thOtfiA1eySbitES03N.html
28-08-2020||City||1,224 potholes repaired: Thane Municipal Corporation||With a lull in the rain activity, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has started the pothole-filling work across the city. The corporation has filled 1,224 potholes spread over 2,231.8 square metres until Thursday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the city on Monday, directed the civic authority to fill the potholes on the roads once the city witnesses dry spell. An official from TMC said, “The city had 1,323 potholes before we began the filling work. We have filled 1,224 potholes and only 156 potholes are now remaining. The city witnessed dry spell during which the work was carried out on war footing. If it does not rain heavily in the next two to three days, the roads will be in better condition.” Due to lack of pre-monsoon repair works, most roads in the city had developed potholes. The city witnessed protests over potholes in the past few weeks. Civic chief Dr Vipin Sharma had directed that action will be taken against the contractors and officials concerned if potholes on the roads are not filled. “We will be using cold-mix concretTe, cement concrete, paver blocks and bitumen, depending on the requirement and congestion on each of the roads, to fill these potholes,” the official said.Naupada and Diva have the maximum potholes in the city. The pothole-filling work is undertaken at Teen Hath Naka, Nitin Company junction, Louiswadi, Majiwada, Castle Mill, Modella Check Naka, Teen Hath Naka junction, Saket and Balkum areas among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-224-potholes-repaired-thane-municipal-corporation/story-7IfO5hkI4QWZJyPfpAwVXK.html
28-08-2020||City||21-year-old held in Thane for stealing goods worth ₹1.6 lakh||A 21-year-old man was arrested by Kasarvadavli police after he was found near Patlipada in Thane with a stolen two-wheeler. On probing further, the police discovered that the accused, Raunak Kumar Jha, had cheated e-commerce websites by posing as a fake delivery boy and had stolen goods worth Rs1.6 lakh. Assistant inspector Kuldeep More of Kasarvadavli police station, said, “We were on the lookout for a person who had cheated well-known e-commerce websites. We then came across a man with a two-wheeler that did not have any license plate. He was trying to escape but we nabbed him. He shared his personal details and also confessed that he stole the two-wheeler from a showroom in Mumbra.” The police interrogated the accused and also searched his belongings and found packages worth Rs78,000.“He confessed that he had forged documents of a person and posed as a delivery boy in two well-known e-commerce websites, from where he stole the goods meant to be delivered to customers,” added More. Jha has been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for cheating, theft and deceiving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-held-in-thane-for-stealing-goods-worth-1-6-lakh/story-d5x3LC5qhFBGJrxX0o2YiL.html
28-08-2020||City||Two labourers killed in mishap at construction site in Mumbai||Two labourers died after the goods lift at a 24-storey under-construction building site at Vikhroli’s Kannamwar Nagar collapsed on Thursday evening. The incident took place owing to a technical fault, the police said.The two labourers Bhola Yadav, 30, and Itwari Yadav, 35, who were in the goods lift sustained serious injuries and were rushed to Rajawadi Hospital, where the doctors declared them dead. The Vikhroli police is probing the matter and may register an offence against contractor or any other person if any criminal negligence is found on their part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-labourers-killed-in-mishap-at-construction-site-in-mumbai/story-fE2lyoldDkUHHQfqkdyY2J.html
28-08-2020||City||Maharashtra CM asks Centre to cover equal share of crop insurance premium||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray in a video conference with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday urged the Central government to restore the old policy of equal share of the state and Central government in the premium of crop insurance, as the new tweaked norms are leading to an additional annual burden of ₹600 on the state exchequer.The state government has also requested the Centre to lift the upper cap of 25% on the procurement of the pulses and cereals at the minimum support price. Thackeray, who participated in a video conference with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday, thanked the Centre for the two ordinances issued for the reforms in marketing in the agriculture produce. Thackeray has also urged the Centre for the district-level offices of the insurance companies to ensure easy redressal of farmers’ grievances related to the insurance scheme. The Centre was also requested for more steps for the timely crop loan supply to the farmers.“The central government has recently made changes in the cost sharing for the premium on the crop insurance, reducing its own share. The Centre now bears equal share upto 30% of the premium while the state is left to bear the remaining cost. We have requested the Centre to go back to the previous formula of equal sharing of the premium,” said Eknath Dawale, secretary, agriculture department. Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse demanded for the soft loan at 1% interest rate to the farmers, their produce companies for agriculture infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-asks-centre-to-cover-equal-share-of-crop-insurance-premium/story-1nEU1WOp18sXoiFOaU07iJ.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Decentralised debris processing first proposed in MMR 21 years ago, but Mumbai yet to get construction waste recycling plant: CSE report||Mumbai is yet to get its first operational debris recycling unit three years after the municipal corporation first proposed its inception, a report published on Wednesday by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Delhi, stated. Mumbai is among 40 cities across the country that is set to get the recycling units. The report showed cities such as Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Hyderabad, Indore, and Ahmedabad have at least one construction waste processing facility, operated either run by the civic body or on a public-private partnership. The report has stated that the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) was the first in India to come up with a decentralised solution for debris management in 1999 in Navi Mumbai, promoted by the non-governmental organisation (NGO) Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (Yuva) and the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) Ltd. The collaboration led to 1,500 tonnes of recycled construction and demolition (C&D) waste at Cidco Yuva Building Centre (CYBC). However, it was forced to shut down in 2012 after it failed to receive the policy or market support. “The C&D initiative had originally started with Mumbai. But the scale of transformation that should have happened unfortunately broke down. While work may have started, it needs to be ramped up with a clear roadmap in terms of utilisation and resource recovery,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, CSE. In 2016, the Union environment ministry notified the C&D Waste Management Rules, which stipulated that permissions for new constructions or redevelopment will be granted only after local civic bodies develop their own plan to treat and recycle waste and private builders submit a waste management plan to the civic body and state pollution control board. In February 2016, the Bombay high court (HC) imposed a two-year-old moratorium on new constructions in the city for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) failure to dispose C&D waste. The Supreme Court lifted the moratorium in March 2018. By 2017, 53 cities were expected to set up recycling facilities to recover material from the waste but only 13 have done so till date. In 2017 itself, BMC had proposed recycling 95% of the city’s C&D waste. Of the 1,200 tonnes of C&D waste generated per day, BMC planned a 2.7 hectare recycling unit at Mulund to treat 1,140 tonnes of waste into sand, clay and bricks. Its construction was expected to commence in 2018 but never took off. “Mumbai, with the richest urban local body, is still waiting to have an operational C&D waste recycling facility even after additional pressure from HC, which has issued multiple orders asking for urgent setting up of a C&D recycling facility in the city,” the CSE report highlighted. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said tenders issued in 2017-18 did not get the right response from bidders. “On Tuesday, I took a detailed review and have directed that the tender be re-floated after amending some guidelines. We are hoping that fresh tenders will be uploaded over the next two weeks, and are expecting better participation from the private sector. We will act as a facilitator by providing an area to the contractor to set up a plant. If private land is available, then the plant can be set up by a private party, and we will pay a tipping fee for taking C&D waste to it.” Kakani added that some sites had been earmarked at Deonar and Kanjur dumping grounds where C&D waste was being dumped. “The quantity is not more than 300 tonnes per day this year during the lockdown as no major construction works were underway. Only demolition of dilapidated buildings has been the source of this waste,” he said. Apart from starting a debris-on-call service (to identify illegal dumping of construction debris through complaints in 2015), BMC had also identified 14 sites (private areas) in MMR that were chosen to dump construction and demolition waste to ensure natural areas like river floodplains and mangrove patches were not used. Chowdhury said Mumbai has a collection system but needs to establish a protocol to ensure segregation right from the construction site (into concrete, metal, plastic etc.), identify collection points, and then take it to a recycling plant to produce new material (paver blocks, tiles etc.). “It needs to be brought back into construction to substitute naturally sourced material. This demands a circular economy that can turn C&D waste into a resource. The construction industry has to mandate that certain percentage of their building material needs to use recycled C&D waste,” she said. Improper C&D waste collection direct source of air pollution Heaps of concrete, bricks and metal waste from construction are choking water bodies, green areas and public spaces in cities Toxic dust particles from the debris are polluting air, at a time when cities have to reduce their particulate pollution by 20-30% by 2024, under the ongoing National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) The Swachh Bharat Mission has recognised the need for C&D waste management. Ranking points for C&D waste management for Swachh Survekshan2021 have been doubled to 100 points, divided equally between management infrastructure and waste processing efficiency The regions of Mumbai, Thane, Dombivli and other cities in the MMR have been witnessing a year-on-year increase in the concentration of particulate matter (PM) 10 (solid and liquid particles less than 10 microns suspended in the air) as a direct result of failure to control dust emissions from construction activities in MMR, transportation of C&D waste, condition of roads and ready-mix-concrete plants as major factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decentralised-debris-processing-first-proposed-in-mmr-21-years-ago-but-mumbai-yet-to-get-construction-waste-recycling-plant-cse-report/story-vK1XtjCW3KUjU1Tge9rhMM.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s new app to scan documents, read aloud contents using artificial intelligence||Two final-year BTech students from Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay’s (IIT-B) department of civil engineering have developed a free-of-cost mobile application that uses artificial intelligence (AI) to scan documents and read them aloud to the user. The AIR Scanner app offers document scanner features such as scanning, organising and sharing documents. What sets it apart from the existing document scanners is the AI-enabled reading assistant which understands words in a page. The students, Rohit Kumar Chaudhary and Kavin Agrawal, were inspired to create the application after the Centre banned several commonly-used Chinese apps. “The AI reading assistant has two significant features— a dictionary and a narrator,” said Chaudhary. With a single tap on word boxes, the user gets its full-fledged meaning including examples, synonyms, pronunciation and translation in over 40 languages. Users can also import e-books and newspaper snippets and have the mobile application read it aloud to them. “Currently the app supports only English language for assisted reading. But soon we will be rolling out an update that will support Hindi and other local languages,” said Chaudhary. The developers are mulling filing a patent for the technology. Meanwhile, the institute claimed that the application would give stiff competition to existing document scanning applications. “In the times of Covid-19 pandemic, along with the online education and work-from-home model, it can prove to be of great help,” said the institute in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-s-new-app-to-scan-documents-read-aloud-contents-using-artificial-intelligence/story-FbwRot6vMOXBttctAZPnYN.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi revamp to see more delay as Maharashtra govt plans to float new tenders||The Dharavi revamp project, which aims to transform India’s largest slum into a plush township, is likely to suffer a huge setback, as the state government is planning to scrap the existing tender, which was bagged by the United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based SecLink Technology Corporation (STC), and float a fresh tender.The ambitious ₹28,000 crore Dharavi revamp project, conceived 16 years ago, is likely to be delayed further if the new tenders are floated.The issue was discussed on Thursday by the committee of secretaries (CoS), which supported the view presented by advocate general (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni in January. The AG said that fresh tenders needed to be called for as the costs of the railway land and rehabilitation was added later and not incorporated in the original tender document.In February last year, the tender to revamp the 601-acre project was bagged by STC and funded by the UAE royal family. However, the problem emerged in March when the state government led by Devendra Fadnavis acquired a 45-acre railway land for ₹800 crore. As this was not mentioned in the tender, AG’s views were sought on the development. STC, which threatened to seek a compensation of ₹2,299 crore from the state if it was not awarded the contract, however, took a U-turn. “We will respect the government’s decision and bid again for the project,” said an STC spokesperson. Dharavi residents are disappointed over the plan to float new bids. “We have been shown dreams of new houses from the past 16 years and now when the project was about to start, they added a new clause and derailed it,” said Raju Korde, president, Dharavi Redevelopment Committee.He said the residents will approach the courts, as this is deliberately being done to deprive Dharavi residents of redevelopment.Baburao Mane, who heads the Dharavi Bachao Andolan, says it is doubtful if a new firm can bag the project. “What was the reason behind not giving a green signal to SecLink, considering it had bought in the money and had the competency to execute the mega project? Currently, no one has this huge capital to invest in Dharavi,” said Mane. Mane’s worry is legit as STC had deposited ₹28,000 crore in an escrow account in Dubai and was waiting for the green signal from the state.The Dharavi revamp project commenced on February 4, 2004, but has been marred with controversies, with one of the key issues being the eligibility for the redeveloped flats, as it was found that majority of the present residents did not qualify for the new houses. The constant flip-flops by the government have also driven away many builders.What is the Dharavi revamp scheme The ambitious Dharavi revamp project which started on February 4, 2004, envisaged a plush township by architect Mukesh Mehta. The slum was divided into five sectors and it was decided to issue tenders simultaneously for each sector. The state government formed the Dharavi Redevelopment Authority (DRA) and also floated a global tender for all the sectors in 2007. The response was outstanding, as 101 companies took part in the process. However, over the years, the project kept languishing and finally in 2011, the entire process was cancelled. The same year, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) was given Sector 5, while the tenders for the other sectors were floated for this year. In 2018, the sector plan was scrapped and it was decided to float tenders for the entire area.February 4, 2004 Dharavi Redevelopment Project planned by the state governmentJune 1, 2007 Global tenders for expression of interest invited for the Dharavi Project. Nineteen consortiums selected after due processMarch 2009 Global slowdown forces five firms to walk out of the process, citing lack of clarity and delay in implementationJuly 7, 2009 Expert committee debunks the project and passes adverse remarks against its consultant. The committee also calls the scheme a ‘sophisticated land grabOctober 16, 2009 Of the 14 bidders, only seven submit the memorandum of understanding (MoU) that they have signed with their foreign partners, leaving only such contenders in the frayOctober 16, 2009 BMC submits a preliminary survey report stating that 63% of the home seekers are found to be ineligible for the project. The projects suffer a setback as 37% buyers will get new housesFebruary 2, 2010 A sub-committee of secretaries recommend for sector-wise redevelopment of Dharavi June 11, 2010 Mhada submits proposal to the state, seeking to redevelop Sector 5 of Dharavi May 21, 2011 Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan clears the proposal Nov 1, 2012 Residents force Mhada to cancel the bhoomi pujanMay 3, 2016 266 families move to new houses constructed by Mhada in Sector 5July 31, 2016 Dharavi revamp fails to attract any bidder for the fourth timeJune 2017 DRA comes with a proposal to form 13 sub-clusters and float tenders for itSeptember 16, 2018 State decides to form special purpose vehicle (SPV) and floats tenders for entire DharaviOctober 2018 State government revives the revamp plan and scraps the sector-wise revamp and puts Dharavi as one unit. State announces that it will become a partner in the redevelopment processJanuary 2019 Two bidders— Seclink Technology Corporation (STC) and Adani Infrastructure — are shortlisted for the projectFebruary 2019 The empowered committee of secretaries selects STC for the revampMarch 2019 MoU signed with railway land development authority to procure 45 acres of land June 2019 As railway land is acquired, opinion sought from advocate general on the status of tenderJanuary 2020 Advocate general recommends retendering of the projectAugust 2020: Committee of secretaries recommends cancellation of 2019 tender and issuance of new ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-revamp-to-see-more-delay-as-maharashtra-govt-plans-to-float-new-tenders/story-78xAM7Ti6KoNybsIIBNj3O.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Tourism boost: Five-star hotels to come up at Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg, Tadoba reserve||In a bid to boost tourism in the state, the Maharashtra government on Thursday inked lease deed and memorandums of understanding (MoU) with two hotel groups to build five-star facilities at Sindhudurg and Tadoba national park near Chandrapur.Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) signed a deed with Indian Hotels Company Ltd, which runs Taj Hotels, for development of a five-star tourist facility at Shiroda-Velagar, Sindhudurg district, while the tourism department signed an MoU with Thriving Hotel Pvt Ltd for another five-star hotel around Tadoba reserve to boost tourism. The hotel groups are expected to construct the properties in a span of three years.“For us at the Tourism dept, it was a moment of pride. Our Mission Begin Again will get a boost as more hotel groups are coming to Maharashtra to give a boost to international tourism in Maharashtra… Both these hotels will bring more than ₹125 crore of investment to Maharashtra (sic),” State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted after the deals were inked at chief minister’s (CM’s) official residence Varsha. He added that the department, through its schemes and plans, will see to it that the tourism sector contributes the maximum in the state’s gross domestic product (GDP) in the next six months.The state cabinet on June 10 passed a proposal to allot 54.40-hectare land at Shiroda in Vengurla tehsil of Sindhudurg district for a five-star facility. With the deal signed on Thursday, the land has been given at 90-year lease at a nominal rent for tourism development in state’s tourism district.The land, according to officials, has been leased at a nominal rent of ₹1 and one-time premium of 110% of ready-reckoner rate.The proposal was stuck in limbo for over 25 years. After the decision to allot land to the Taj Group was taken in 1994, the land was acquired in stages till 1998 by MTDC. Part of the land is in the group’s possession, while it has been pushing for possession of the remaining land.“Taj Hotels Group has officially come to Sindhudurg now. The district, meant to be a tourism hub, was awaiting this crown for 2 decades. The MVA Govt resolved the issues in the first 3 months & today an MoU was signed. In 3 years’ time, a Taj Hotel will be running in Shiroda,” tweeted Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the state has several beaches, forts, forests and tigers in Tadoba reserve. “We should introduce these places before the world in the right manner. The state is always encouraging investment in the tourism sector. With Taj Hotels coming to Konkan, the world will know the splendour of Konkan,” Thackeray said in a statement from the chief minister’s office.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar added that the development in tourism will lead to an increase in employment opportunities in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tourism-boost-five-star-hotels-to-come-up-at-maharashtra-s-sindhudurg-tadoba-reserve/story-l3OTVq8v47YtxX4cJlJ7EK.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Junior college admissions in Mumbai: Despite good Class 10 results, few students from state board in top spots||Despite the number of students scoring 90% and above in their Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations of the state board increased substantially this year (a 191% jump from 2019), students from the other education boards dominated top berths in junior college admissions in the city. Data from the provisional general merit list for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions has revealed that of the top 100 students in the merit list for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), only 35 are from state board schools. While 52 students are from the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) board, 13 are from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Even among the top 50 students in the merit list, only 20 were from the state board. The state education department announced a provisional general merit list on its official website earlier this week. This year, 2.42 lakh students have applied for admissions to 3.20 lakh seats in MMR. Of these, 19,437 have scored 90% and above – a 20% rise from 2019. Similarly, 3,802 students have scored 95% and above, which is a surge of about 28%. While students from the state board make up over 90% (2.21 lakh) of the total applicants for FYJC admissions, when it comes to the top spots, they are still less in comparison to that from the other boards. Experts said that the other boards have a higher number of top scorers because the number of students studying in these boards is increasing in the city. “Earlier, we had only a few CBSE and ICSE schools in the city, but as the number is growing, so are students who are opting for these boards. Thus, the competition is bound to increase,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Churchgate’s Jai Hind College. The number of students from ICSE schools applying for admissions in junior colleges seat went up from 7,881 in 2019 to 11,110 this year. The number of CBSE students also increased from 5,969 in 2019 to 7,708 this year. “With so many top scorers vying for a select few colleges, competition is bound to get tougher. Not all high scorers would get the college of their preference,” said the principal of a suburban college. The first merit list for FYJC admissions would be declared on August 30. This year, the admission process will be ‘zero contact’ due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Students will get text messages on their phones, and colleges will also release a list of selected students once the merit list is announced. Students will be able to check the college allotted to them through the FYJC admission portal. 2.42 lakh Total applications Board-wise applications 2.21 lakh SSC 11,110 ICSE 7,708 CBSE 1,300 IGCSE (International General Certificate of Secondary Education) 992 NIOS (National Institute of Open Schooling) 545 Others Percentage-wise comparison 95% and above 3,802 2020 2,974 2019 90% and above 19,437 2020 16,188 2019 FYJC seats bagged by students Top 100 52 ICSE 35 SSC 13 CBSE Top 50 24 ICSE 20 SSC 6 CBSE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/junior-college-admissions-in-mumbai-despite-good-class-10-results-few-students-from-state-board-in-top-spots/story-hFetql1ATvS8Djps28Y6HJ.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: ED takes Rhea Chakraborty’s father to check family’s bank locker in Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday summoned actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father, Indrajeet Chakraborty, to access his family’s bank lockers to probe possible money laundering in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Indrajeet, who had sought police protection to be escorted to the bank, was taken to the Vakola branch of Axis Bank at 2.30pm and he returned to the family’s home in Santacruz at 9.30pm. He was summoned specifically with the locker keys, said ED officials, who were present at the bank. The central agency had, on July 31, registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the case after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed on July 28 by the Bihar police on basis of a complaint by KK Singh, the late actor’s father, against Rhea. Earlier on August 10, ED had questioned Rhea, Indrajeet and her brother, Showik Chakraborty. Later, her manager, Shruti Modi, and Rajput’s friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani, too, were questioned. Investigators had extracted information into the formation of four companies by Rajput and Chakraborty, and her family. Two of these companies were registered, while the other two were under the process of being registered. Investigators wanted to understand the terms mentioned in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed during the formation of these companies to understand how the profit sharing was designed. ED sources said Rhea had responded to all questions, but could not divulge details of the exact sequence of events. ED has also questioned Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Chakraborty’s chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah, and Rajput’s CA Sandeep Sridhar in the case. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. The probe was handed over to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of the Bihar Police’s FIR.The CBI started questioning Showik since Thursday noon, and at the time of going to press, he was still being quizzed. The agency also continued questioning Rajput’s cook, Neeraj Singh, domestic help, Keshav Bachner, and Pithani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-ed-takes-rhea-chakraborty-s-father-to-check-family-s-bank-locker-in-mumbai/story-RvQZk9CGMWEaNrLKWI3fSL.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses PIL questioning operation of PM Cares Fund||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the operation of the PM Cares Fund, created by the Central government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in India.The bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Anil Kilor found no substance in the PIL filed by Arvind Waghmare, a practicing lawyer from Nagpur. Waghmare had sought a direction to the chairperson of the fund, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to appoint three other trustees, with at least two of them from among opposition members of Parliament (MPs).He had also sought a direction to the fund to disclose on its website all the contributions received and outgoings and to update the information once a week to ensure transparency in the operation of the fund.Waghmare submitted that the scheme of the fund itself required it’s chairperson to nominate three eminent persons in the field of research, health, science, etc, as other trustees, but no appointments were made in terms of the trust deed. He had questioned the validity of the decisions taken so far by the fund, on this ground of non-appointment of other trustees.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh strenuously opposed the PIL, contending that it was “more of a publicity interest litigation with underlying political agenda”. He submitted that the improper intention of the petitioner could be gauged by the fact that he contributed an amount of ₹1,001 to the fund on May 8, and filed the PIL the next day as a ‘contributor’.As regards the appointment of trustees, the bench noticed that the chairperson has been vested with the power to nominate three eminent personalities as trustees. “The words ‘has the power to nominate’ are clearly enabling. They only confer capacity, power or authority and imply discretion. This provision nowhere says that it shall be mandatory for the chairperson to nominate three trustees. There is nothing in the provision which even hints at some duty to exercise the power,” the bench said.The bench accepted Singh’s contention that acceding to the prayer for appointment of two opposition MPs on the trust would amount to making changes in the trust deed and rejected the prayer.“The wish so nurtured by the petitioner in person, in our considered view, cannot be fulfilled as it has no mooring in law,” said the bench. It clarified that since PM Cares Fund is a charitable trust registered under the Registration Act, it required no further clarification from the court that such a body would be governed by its deed of trust. It added that if no provision was made in the trust deed to induct some members of the opposition parties into the board of trustees, “an outsider like the petitioner” cannot knock on the doors of the HC to indirectly get the trust deed amended.With respect to the relief about disclosures of receipts and outgoings of the fund, the bench said there can be no two opinions about the underlying object of public disclosure. It is to ensure proper utilisation of the fund money. However, the court added that this object can be seen to be more than fulfilled by registration of the fund as a charitable trust under the Registration Act, 1908, which contains adequate provisions for obtaining such information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-pil-questioning-operation-of-pm-cares-fund/story-AkMSBj32QeLY5UuWpuGCwL.html
28-08-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli tops in Covid-19 cases in Thane district; residents blame civic body||While most cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are showing a marked drop in Covid-19 cases and improvement in recovery rate, Kalyan-Dombivli continues to top the list of cases.On Wednesday, 517 cases were reported from the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits, taking the total to 30,699. While the neighbouring cities of Thane, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar and Badlapur have seen a drastic decrease in the number of cases, and some have a recovery rate of more than 90%, KDMC is struggling to maintain the recovery rate at 85%. Currently, the number of active cases in KDMC is 3,343. Residents blame lack of control over lockdown violators and inefficient crowd management for the rise. Civic officials, however, claim citizens ignore symptoms. Dr Prashant Patil, Indian Medical Association, Kalyan chapter, said, “With festivities and public holidays over the weekend, many ignored the symptoms to avoid testing. They only underwent tests when the symptoms aggravated. This led to fluctuation in numbers in the past two weeks. After the Independence Day weekend too, the number was in the range of 200 to 250 cases.” Rajat Rajan, social worker, Dombivli, said, “As per lockdown norms, pillion riders are not allowed, but we see even three people on two-wheelers. Similarly, people step out of their houses regularly to visit shops and markets. Very few housing societies check visitors. With no efforts towards crowd management, the number of cases in KDMC has not seen a decline yet.” Michael Gomes, 43, resident of Kalyan West, said, “Earlier, there were set timings, housing societies would open gates only for few hours in the day. This would ensure less movement of people and that too only for essentials. Now with offices and markets opening up, housing societies do not have any time limit.” He said: “The virus was initially restricted to slums or crowded pockets, but is now spreading to housing societies as well. Although KDMC seals the entire wing if a positive case is found, many societies manage to get away with it.” Activists claimed that the corporation should take a leaf out of neighbouring Bhiwandi and Thane cities to find solutions. “In Bhiwandi, the newly appointed commissioner took into confidence various social organisations and religious leaders to create awareness. In Thane city, various teams of volunteers who are a part of the survey and contact tracing give real-time updates. However, KDMC has not adopted any policy to take help of residents to curb the spread. Although people are cooperating there are at least 2% of them who end up crowding the markets or loiter around unnecessarily,” said Sriniwas Ghanekar, activist, Kalyan. KDMC officers claim they have been making awareness announcements in markets and public places for more than four months since the pandemic began. They have also roped in various volunteers to conduct door-to-door survey and contact tracing. Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC, said the cases are more due to increased tracing and testing. “We have taken various steps especially in the first week of August to contain the spread of the virus. The war rooms set up in each ward take necessary action. The daily reports on the cases in all wards are assessed and accordingly we also conduct testing camps.” Dr Pratibha Panpatil, pandemic officer, said, “We did not have our own testing laboratory initially which led to a delay of four to eight days to get the test results. After KDMC started its own testing facility, we are focusing on tracing high-risk contacts. We contact them directly and also offer swab collection facility at home. The rise in numbers depends on the number of tests on that day. Our recovery rate is improving as we are able to provide timely treatment.” She said that compulsory testing is also imposed on shop owners and grocery store workers through medical camps, while senior citizens are also given priority. “With increased screening, we are focussing on controlling the spread of the virus. Our initial focus was on improving treatment and recovery facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-tops-in-covid-19-cases-in-thane-district-residents-blame-civic-body/story-72ychLDc97kTIw1asoG31L.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||‘10 in every 100 Covid patients above 50 years in Mumbai succumbed’||Ten in every 100 Covid-19 patients above the age of 50 years in Mumbai have succumbed to the infection, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The case fatality rate in patients above 50 years is 10.64%, higher than Mumbai’s average of 5.4%, shows the data available for 132,221 cases and age-wise break-up for 7,419 deaths. Among those over 50 years, the 80-89 age group has the highest case fatality rate of 21.2% – 664 of the 3,131 who tested positive died. While 9,463 patients in the 70-79 age group tested positive, 1,496 died, with a case fatality rate of 15.81%. The highest number of deaths was recorded in the 60-69 age group – 2,122 deaths from among 18,454 patients, and a case fatality rate of 11.49%. The case fatality rate is lowest in children below 9 years (0.49%), with 12 deaths out of 2,439 cases. Doctors have attributed the higher fatality rate in older patients to a ‘compromised’ or ‘exhausted’ immune system, along with co-morbidity. Dr Shashank Joshi, a senior city-based doctor who was part of the Maharashtra government’s task force set up in April to reduce mortality in the state, said, “Senior citizens are more vulnerable because they have weaker immunity and their immune surveillance mechanism fails. There is something called as immunological aging. The body’s ability to mount a robust response becomes weak with age. Senior citizens also have higher incidence of co-morbidity such as hypertension, diabetes, heart diseases.” According to Dr Joshi, patients with co-morbidity are a vulnerable group, as they have a higher chance of getting a more severe infection. He said, “The Covid-19 virus docks in the ACE2 receptor, so there is local activation of some chemicals. It is an angiotensin converting receptor, which means it has a direct link to heart and diabetes, and the body’s metabolism. That is why they have a higher chance of getting a more severe disease, and the more severe the disease, the higher the chance of a patient passing away.” Children, on the other hand, have an organ called thymus which makes T lymphocytes, and is the main organ which fights respiratory viral infection. “Children are born with protection to clear the virus,” Dr Joshi said. Dr Om Shrivastav, a senior city-based consultant for infectious diseases, who was also part of Maharashtra government’s task force to formed in April to reduce the case fatality rate in the state, said, “The obvious reason is that as you get older, your immune system grows weaker, and that is the reason why you are not able to fight Covid. Immune systems in older patients behave in a more exhausted way. It is also due to co-morbidity and poor lifestyle. But it is not simply a matter of age and immunity, because there are younger people who have weak immune systems and older people who have strong immune systems.” A senior civic official said, “Testing on time and reporting symptoms like cough or breathlessness on time is crucial, especially in older patients. BMC is doing door-to-door surveys to locate senior citizens with co-morbidity and low oxygen saturation, so they can be made aware about the risk they have from the illness, and receive medical help on time.” So far, BMC has screened 874,275 senior citizens, and found 3,097 of them to have oxygen saturation less than 95. Of these, 5,036 senior citizens live in containment zones and five were found to have oxygen saturation less than 95. Mumbai on Thursday recorded 1,350 new cases, and 30 deaths due to Covid-19. The total number of cases has gone up to 140,888 and the toll is 7,535. There are 19,463 active Covid-19 cases. The case fatality ratio for Mumbai is 5.3%, and the discharge rate is 80%. Until August 25, Mumbai has done 725,519 tests, with a positivity of 18.9%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-in-every-100-covid-patients-above-50-years-in-mumbai-succumbed/story-xNO3hq2zQkdOa3pjdrBdoK.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway introduces QR pass scanning system at 15 railway stations to curb crowding||To control overcrowding and unauthorised travel on the local train network, Central Railway (CR) introduced QR-based e-pass scanning system at 15 of its suburban railway stations on Thursday. The systems will be introduced at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, Mulund, Kurla, Thane, Diva, Ghatkopar, Dombivli, Kalyan, Byculla, Wadala, Mankhurd, Panvel, Titvala and Badlapur.Two new local train services were also introduced on the harbour line on Thursday, in a move to control crowding in train compartments.Local train services were suspended from March 23 but were resumed on June 15 only for people working in essential services. Nearly 700 local train services are being operated on both the Central and Western Railway (WR) daily.CR and WR are currently undertaking trials of the QR code-based passes. If successful, use of the passes will be continued after resumption of local train services for the general public. A standard operating procedure (SOP) will be created at that time. The Railways, along with the state government, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Mumbai Police will prepare the SOP together.“We are trying our best to control crowding on the local train network. Presently, if we come to know about crowding, immediate measures are taken. We have also introduced two new local train services,” said Shalabh Goel, divisional railway manager, Central Railway.The Railways also plans to implement the system of social distancing currently in use. Passengers will have to stand in a queue and within drawn-out circles, to maintain distance. They will then be allowed to board the local trains.“We might also ask passengers to wait outside the railway station if there is crowding on the platforms or on the station premises. A complete SOP has to be prepared for the operation of trains for the general public.” said a senior CR official.CR in a pilot project will also be introducing automated control gates in September at CSMT and Churchgate railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-introduces-qr-pass-scanning-system-at-15-railway-stations-to-curb-crowding/story-0Q1ESTfdRkvCHR7UB2kMBM.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||BMC to extend rapid antigen testing across civic peripheral hospitals and dispensaries in Mumbai||To further boost Covid-19 testing in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to start Covid-19 diagnosis using rapid antigen testing kits across all civic-run peripheral hospitals and dispensaries. Since July, BMC has conducted more than 80,000 rapid antigen tests. In the next stage, to ramp up testing at secondary healthcare facilities, BMC will provide 500-1,000 rapid testing kits to all 175 civic-run dispensaries. Alongside, testing will also be initiated at 16 peripheral hospitals. “So far, most tests are being conducted at Covid care centres (CCC) and hospitals. Now, to test more people, we have decided to allow antigen testing at dispensaries and peripheral hospitals,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.For this purpose, more than 70 laboratory technicians have been trained in the first phase at the three major civic-run hospitals — King Edward Memorial (KEM), BYL Nair and Lokmanya Tilak General hospitals. “Our priority will be to test people with symptoms. Then we will test close contacts of positive patients,” added Kakani.BMC conducts more than 2,000 antigen tests daily. In the first instalment, the civic body procured 1 lakh antigen testing kits. Now, as 80% of the kits have been used, BMC has placed an order to procure another 50,000 kits. Health activists have welcomed the civic body’s move. Dr Ravikant Singh, health activist, said, “Even though the Covid-19 case curve has flattened in the city, it is important to stretch testing facilities in all corners of the city so that the civic body doesn’t lose any patient. This will also provide better access to people to get tested faster.”Till August 25, BMC has conducted a total of 725,519 tests that include antigen and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, of which 137,678 individuals have been diagnosed with Covid-19, bringing down the positivity rate to 18.97% from 23% in July.Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of non-profit Jan Arogya Abhiyan, said, “It is a welcome move by BMC, but they shouldn’t rely only on rapid antigen. The test often provides false negative reports which can prove disastrous and contribute in spreading the infection further. A balance should be maintained between RT-PCR and antigen testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-extend-rapid-antigen-testing-across-civic-peripheral-hospitals-dispensaries/story-yFAe5O8hiEOD8bNqOKhmyN.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Redefine role of SRA in Mumbai: Experts submit action plan to CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Covid-19 pandemic has laid bare the stark realities of high-density and unaffordable housing in Mumbai. To address these issues, noted experts have submitted an action plan to the state government to find a solution to the problem of housing for slum-dwellers, low and middle-income groups, single women, migrants and gaothans/koliwada in Mumbai. The recommendations are part of the ‘Resurrecting Mumbai’ report in which 24 academicians have targeted issues of transport, housing, health, education and economy.The report, which has been submitted to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, will be released on Friday. In it, experts have suggested redefining the role of the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA), wherein it fulfills its first objective of undertaking comprehensive planning of slum land by modifying development control regulations to enable the production of affordable housing through the slum redevelopment route. Experts believe that SRA is failing in its current role. In their report, they emphasise that any land which is currently occupied by slums should be reserved for affordable housing only.Dr Amita Bhide, dean and professor, school of habitat studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, said, “SRA today is not a public institution which people can approach. It is acting only as a liaison. Even the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) is not taking the lead in its central role for the provision of affordable housing. The role of both these institutions needs to be looked at again.”Other experts who looked at housing solutions for the report include senior urban planner Shirish Patel, senior architects PK Das and Neera Adarkar, and Gautam Chatterjee, chairman of the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority.The experts have suggested that Mhada take an active role in constructing social rental housing. The report stresses on density-based development policy and abandoning the concept of free housing. With 31,700 people per sqkm, Mumbai is the second densest city in the world after Bangladesh’s Dhaka.“The government has to play an active role in social rental housing. It needs to be subsidised and looked at as a social welfare program. We need a comprehensive policy to create affordable housing stock in the city,” said Das.The report further mentions that the government must consider a cafeteria approach while looking at the rehabilitation of slum-dwellers.“These could include rental housing, in-situ development, or even the option of buying extra space. Slum-dwellers need to be empowered and included in the decision making,” the report accessed by HT states.Prachi Merchant, urban planner and convenor for the project said, “The whole idea was to look at providing an action plan that can be implemented by the state government. We provided an outline of issues that the experts deliberated on.”The contributing experts have emphasised on “inclusivity” as a concept and also suggested formation of a “sectoral task force of experts” in Mumbai, who will help in strategic planning for the city. “This will put into momentum a participatory process of governance, which will help to initiate policy reforms, flagging governance issues and finally, in the formulation of new and disruptive ideas for the new normal,” the report states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/redefine-role-of-sra-in-mumbai-experts-submit-action-plan-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-mZBWsIGGWc6FCVuVy84epJ.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||HC seeks BMC’s explanation on suspending employee||A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employee who was suspended in April 2019 on the grounds that he had given statements as a witness in the industrial court without the permission of his superior has approached the Bombay high court (HC) seeking that his suspension order be quashed and action be taken against officials who issued the notice. The employee said his suspension was an act of vendetta for saying the truth, and hence the order should be set aside. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by Kiran Waghela, was informed by advocate Bhavesh Parmar that his client was an employee of BMC since 1995. In 2019, the industrial tribunal issued Waghela a witness summon and asked him to be present for the hearing of a case between the corporation and the employee union, filed in 2005. Parmar submitted that though Waghela had to depose before the court on April 20, 2019, he sought an adjournment till April 23 which was granted. Waghela then prepared an affidavit which included the contents of his deposition and forwarded it to his superior on April 22 for approval. The superior acknowledged the receipt of the copy but did not reply to it. On April 23, the industrial tribunal found the corporation to be in the wrong based on the affidavit and passed orders. Later that day, Waghela’s superior issued a suspension order. Referring to a 2015 Supreme Court judgement which states that an employee cannot be suspended for more than three months, Parmar submitted that his client approached the industrial court in June 2019 for reinstatement but his application has not been heard till date, hence he approached the HC. Parmar said that as Waghela was suspended for speaking the truth before the court, the action of his suspension was illegal and should be set aside. He also sought action against the officials who victimised Waghela for being truthful. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed BMC to file an affidavit explaining its stand and posted the matter for further hearing on September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-bmc-s-explanation-on-suspending-employee/story-fyASArhlit9b8RQIVOChGI.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Ahead of World Suicide Prevention Day, Aditya Birla school students write Letters of Hope||Ahead of the World Suicide Prevention Day on September 10, The Aditya Birla Integrated School (TABIS), Fort and Mpower collaborated for a campaign called Letters of Hope aiming to generate hope through a series of positive messages expressed via written letters, awareness posters, etc. While the initiative is led by the students of the school, TABIS also reached out to different communities, other schools and their students from Classes 6 to 12. A set of select letters will be compiled into an e-book that will be put up on Kindle and promoted by Mpower on World Suicide Prevention Day.Neerja Birla, founder and chairperson of Aditya Birla Education Trust, said, “Mental health concerns among children are increasing, especially behaviour disorders and suicides. The motive behind the campaign is to reach out and bring hope to anyone on the school campus who may be going through a hard time or is contemplating suicide. As much as 90% of suicides can be averted provided the signs are identified early and access to help is available.”Speaking about the initiative, Piya Marker, director-head of TABIS, said, “It is our endeavour to share positive experiences with anyone who needs to believe that this too will pass and it definitely does. The students along with their school counsellor initiated it in 2019. Encouraged by the response, our students collaborated with Mpower to take this endeavour to the next level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahead-of-world-suicide-prevention-day-aditya-birla-school-students-write-letters-of-hope/story-9VmggDYdCYro3NyCg6cwmK.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar asks Centre to compensate Maharashtra for ₹22K-crore GST losses||Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday urged the Central government for an early release of the pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) losses sustained by the state to the tune of ₹22,534 crore. Pawar, who participated in the 41th meeting of the GST Council headed by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday through video conference, said the Centre should raise loans from the market to pay GST compensation to states and then recover the amount from the cess it has been collecting on certain services.“Compensating state governments towards their losses in GST collection for five years and helping them in fighting the economic crisis is the responsibility shouldered by the Centre. Almost all the states are bleeding financially, not only because of the financial crisis due to the global pandemic but also owing to the delay in release of GST compensation which is resulting in setback to development works,’’ said Pawar who is also the state’s deputy chief minister. He added, “It is the responsibility of the Centre to match up the revenue losses owing to the introduction of the GST regime.” Pawar suggested that the Centre avail loans from the open market at cheaper rates than states. “By raising such loans, the states should be compensated for the losses in a timely manner. The Centre can repay its loans by extending the deadline for the collection of cess beyond June 2022,” he said. Amid the exhaustive drop in GST collection during the lockdown, Maharashtra collection has dropped by ₹22,534 crore from April to July 2020. According to the provisions in the Central GST Act, the Centre compensates states towards their losses in the collection. The responsibility has been taken for five years since the roll-out of GST regime on July 1, 2017. The Centre compensates states from the corpus fund accumulated from cess on tobacco, pan masala, cigarette, motor vehicles, petroleum products, etc. In the wake of the drop in cess collection during lockdown, the Centre has not been able to pay the compensations to states.The losses in GST collection in Maharashtra in April and May were ₹15,178 crore, while remaining ₹7,356 crore is from July. With the addition of August figures, the losses are expected to cross ₹28,000 crore. The monthly estimated GST collection in the state is ₹9,708 crore, according to an official from the finance department. The Centre had paid ₹19,233.65 crore to Maharashtra towards compensation for GST losses in 2019-20; the highest in the country. Most of the losses were sustained in March owing to the lockdown.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, expressed concerns on Wednesday over the delay in the release of GST compensation to the states and said there was a need to reconsider GST regime. He was speaking in a video conference convened by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi with chief minister of non-BJP state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-asks-centre-to-compensate-maharashtra-for-22k-crore-gst-losses/story-RlEcBlGjQnNAYyglwS2ieJ.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Medical students to study pandemic management in MBBS||Weeks after its decision to introduce a new pandemic management module for undergraduate medical students, the board of governors (BoG) of the Medical Council of India (MCI) on Thursday released the official document for colleges, directing them to start the module starting August 2020.“The pandemic management module is designed to ensure that the MBBS student acquires competencies in handling not only the illness but also the social, legal and other issues arising from such disease outbreaks,” states the foreword of the module. “The emergence of Covid-19 and its rapid spread across the globe has further underlined the need to develop these skills in our graduates. One of the desirable outcomes of the competency-derived education programme is to enable the medical graduate to be able to understand, investigate, treat and prevent new and emerging diseases,” added the foreword.The module was put together by a team of experts and the academic cell of MCI. The group of experts included former director and dean of KEM Hospital Dr Avinash Supe, along with senior doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute in Chennai, as well as officials from MCI.According to details mentioned in the newly-launched module, it has been arranged in a phase-based manner and is expected to be covered by an interdisciplinary team under the supervision of the Institute-level curriculum committee. The course not only covers disease/epidemic management, intensive care, research and control, but also includes a chapter in communication with media during a pandemic.“It is expected that this longitudinal module extending from the foundation course to the final-year graduate programme will help in ensuring the creation of a medical graduate who will serve as a doctor, leader and a healer during a pandemic,” highlights a statement from MCI.“Work on upgrading the MBBS curricula has been on for over two years and the fact that globally we have faced a series of pandemics in the last few years led to the need for an exclusive inter-departmental module on pandemic management,” said Dr Supe. He added that the module looks at minute details of how to be prepared for a pandemic. Experts are currently also working on putting together a module on psychological effects of a pandemic. “This too will be released soon,” he added.Parents and students feel this module will better prepare the future generations of doctors for such situations. “The initial phase of a pandemic is when it can be controlled best, and being prepared for such a pandemic is the necessity of current times. Hopefully this new module will help mould better-prepared doctors and health experts in the future,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of an MBBS student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-students-to-study-pandemic-management-in-mbbs/story-nYVo4ub54dBhcmOFda4sZN.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Two killed, three injured as parts of three structures collapse in Mumbai||Two people were killed and one injured after part of a cessed ground-plus-two structure collapsed in Nagpada of Byculla on Thursday afternoon. In two separate incidents, two people were injured in a balcony and house collapse in Chembur and Deonar. In Nagpada, around 1pm, a part of the toilet of Mishra building, collapsed and three persons got trapped. All three were residents of nearby structures and did not live in Mishra building. Of the three, two – Aliya Qureshi, 12, and Noor Qureshi, 70, – were declared dead at Sir JJ Hospital, while 35-year-old Saumita Banoo escaped with injuries. Mishra building is over 50 years old. Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) officials said they had issued a no-objection certificate (NOC) to the developer in 2017 for redevelopment of the structure, but he failed to start the redevelopment work. “We repeatedly issued notices to the developer for failing to initiate redevelopment. We will verify the reason for the delay and take action,” said Arun Borse, from the engineering department of Mhada. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, who visited the site, said, “Mhada and all other authorities have regularly issued notices to the developer, who is also the landlord of the structure. But he managed to get a stay from the court several times, due to which the whole process was delayed.” Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, of BMC’s D ward, under which the building falls, said, “It was a Mhada structure, and BMC has no role to play here. However, the building has been vacated. We are told some repair work was done in the building on Thursday morning, but we do not have any information.” Local Congress corporator Javed Juneja said, “The situation is the same everywhere. We always end up with deaths or injured residents in south Mumbai during the monsoon. The state government needs to have a holistic plan to protect those living in dilapidated or cessed structures. The residents have approached the Mumbai Police to take action against the builder.” Further, a part of a balcony wall collapsed in Chembur East around 11.42am. One person was injured in the incident and admitted to Rajawadi Hospital. The injured is admitted to the ICU in critical condition, BMC’s disaster management cell said in a statement. The statement added a ground-plus-one structure collapsed opposite Deonar police station collapsed. The incident was reported around 2.42pm. A woman suffered minor injuries and has been admitted to Shatabdi Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-killed-three-injured-as-parts-of-three-structures-collapse-in-mumbai/story-LQFHszcxBtvZh3eqKBaRlJ.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Varavara Rao discharged from Nanavati Hospital, returns to Taloja jail||Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, 81, one of the accused arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad case, was discharged from Nanavati Hospital on Thursday afternoon. Rao was admitted there on July 19 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He has been taken back to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he was earlier lodged.Deepak Pandey, inspector general (south region prisons) has confirmed the development.Rao was first taken to Sir JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. His family had alleged the 81-year-old was discharged hurriedly to obstruct his bail plea. “He was not normal at the time of discharge. June 2 was the date of the hearing on his bail application on health grounds in NIA special sessions court, and police argued against his bail showing [a] hospital ‘normal’ report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” read a statement from Rao’s family.Later, Rao continued to show signs of delirium, and after voices were raised from various quarters, he was admitted to Sir JJ Hospital again on July 13. After he tested positive for Covid-19 infection, he was shifted to St George Hospital.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also intervened and issued notices to the Maharashtra government to ensure the health conditions of Rao were taken care of and adequate medical facilities were arranged.The commission had also directed the state to constitute a medical board to examine Rao’s health condition. NHRC asked the state to provide Rao the best possible treatment at a private hospital and also to ensure that to bear all the medical expenditures. He was then shifted to Nanavati Hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/varavara-rao-discharged-from-nanavati-hospital-returns-to-taloja-jail/story-GPqF6YE0keHMHyoKjySEjI.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai tea stall owner arrested for trying to extort ₹35 crore from filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar||Officers of the anti-extortion cell (AEC) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested a 33-year-old Dharavi-based tea stall owner for allegedly trying to extort ₹35 crore from filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar by claiming to be gangster Abu Salem, who is in jail. The accused, Milind Balkrishna Tulsankar, told police that that he came up with the idea to make quick money after losing livelihood due to the Covid-19-induced pandemic.According to the police his tea business was shut down in the lockdown so he had no other means of earning. Tulsankar then moved to his village Khed in Konkan after seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases in Dharavi, but struggled to earn money there as well. He claimed he was fascinated about underworld and watched videos of gangster Abu Salem who is infamous for extorting money from Bollywood personalities. This gave him the idea and he chose to target Manjarekar as he was contesting the election. Tulsankar found his number on an election-related website.Tulsankar first called Manjrekar on August 23, but since the filmmaker did not take the call, he sent two threatening messages demanding ₹35 crore through hawala. He had also mentioned a hawala operator’s name, Abdul Rashid, in the message, said a police officer.After getting the message, Manjrekar lodged a complaint with Dadar police station. However, considering the seriousness of the incident, AEC started a parallel investigation.Inspectors Ajay Sawant, Sachin Kadam and assistant inspector Raju Surve’s team analysed the caller’s details and found his location. Following this, Tulsankar was detained and brought to Mumbai on Thursday. After he admitted to the crime, he was arrested. He further said that he was aware that Salem was in jail and that some gangsters operate their business from jails. He was produced before a local court on Thursday and has been remanded in police custody till September 2.So far, it has not been established that the accused has any connection with gangster Abu Salem or the underworld. However, the police would explore the angle in the probe, another officer said.HT tried to contact Manjrekar for a comment, but he had not responded to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tea-stall-shut-owing-to-lockdown-man-tries-to-extort-35-crore-from-filmmaker-mahesh-manjrekar/story-NDfzSyiGKv1AlJTZUUcFCM.html
28-08-2020||City||PSPCL, cops slug it out over power||Patiala A couple of days after Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) snapped the electricity connection of Model Town Police Chowki and Civil Lines police station for non-payment of bills and detected power theft at Police Chowki, Barnala, power games have begun between the two departments. The police department set up a check-point right outside the PSPCL headquarters on the Mall Road on Thursday. Over four dozen employees, including a chief engineer, were challaned. PSPCL director (commercial) Gopal Sharma’s car was also checked and the registration certificate (RC) of the vehicle seized. Around a dozen sub-divisional officers (SDOs), in private vehicles, were challaned while entering the office for ‘violating covid-19 directions by not wearing mask.SDO KPS Brar said, “I was wearing a mask, but they said a cloth-made one will not do and issued a challan.” “I was stopped and they took the RC of my car, but when I took up the matter with senior officials, they returned my RC,” said Sharma, director, commercial. Employee leader Manjit Singh Chahal said police was vindictive. “No law permits police to steal electricity and then not even pay the bill,” he said. SSP Vikramjit Duggal denied allegations that the department was settling scores. “It was a routine checking. Some senior officials of the PSPCL raised the issue with me. I have clearly told them there is nothing vindictive,” he said, adding that the police was only doing its duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-cops-slug-it-out-over-power/story-FZi4vInJgoIVDnsCwjTswM.html
28-08-2020||City||New twist to resolution seeking action against Jitin Prasada||CLAIM Party’s Kheri chief says it was passed on the directives of an office bearer of state unitLucknow: The controversy over a resolution demanding action against senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada has taken a new turn. Prasada was one of the 23 signatories to the letter that senior party leaders had sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a full-time, effective, “active” and “visible” party president.Now, Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress Committee (DCC) president Prahalad Patel has claimed the ‘resolution’ was passed on (Wednesday) on the directives of an office bearer of the state party unit and it was sent by a functionary close to the top party leadership.“Yes, the resolution was provided to us by Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee secretary incharge for Lakhimpur Kheri (Kumud) Gangwar,” said Patel.Although Patel refused to say anything beyond this, he is heard pointing towards the role of a party functionary close to the top leadership, in an audio clip being circulated on the social media.“I have been appointed the district president. I have to do whatever I am asked to do. This resolution condemning 23 leaders was sent by Dheeraj Gujjar. I refused to sign due to objections to some lines in the (draft) resolution. Three lines were removed thrice. Gangwar is in charge (of Lakhimpur Kheri) and he was also being pressured,” Patel allegedly said in the audio.Patel was also heard hinting at a turf war and the influence of a former MP’s son on the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC).When contacted UPCC secretary Kumud Gangwar said there was no question of any pressure on him or the DCC president.“I was present at the DCC meeting being incharge of the district. There was no pressure on me or the DCC. I spoke to DCC president after the audio came to notice. DCC president is denying saying anything,” said Gangwar.While the UPCC is keeping a close watch on the developments, other senior office bearers refused to say anything on record.“DCC’s resolution against Jitin Prasada is an expression of the feelings of partymen,” said a senior UPCC leader. Another leader said the resolution may have been the outcome of a turf war between Prasada and a former Congress MP from the region. In a tweet, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said, “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP. Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own.”Sibal, along with Prasada, was one of the 23 signatories to the letter sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Senior leader and former Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Raj Babbar too had signed the letter.“Yes, I had signed the letter. But the issue has been already resolved at the Congress Working Committee. I am not aware about the demand being made for action against Prasada,” said Babbar. Prasada too had on Wednesday said the issue was over after discussions before Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Earlier, Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress Committee, in its resolution passed on Wednesday, said: “Mrs Sonia Gandhi is the unanimous leader of the Congress. We fully trust the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. If there is any change in the leadership, Rahul Gandhi should be made the Congress president. These leaders have pointed fingers towards Mrs Sonia Gandhi’s leadership at this time of Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs Sonia Gandhi is not in good health and the BJP has been targeting the Congress governments in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Under such a situation, signing the letter indicates that they (leaders) don’t have any faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and the Congress. These leaders have done whatever the BJP is doing.” “The District Congress Committee (DCC) demands disciplinary action should be taken against all those who signed the letter and they should be expelled from the party….All over UP, there is only one leader, former minister Jitin Prasada, who has signed the letter. His family has been against the Gandhi family. His father, the late Jitendra Prasada, had contested election against Sonia Gandhi. Despite this, Sonia Gandhi gave him the Lok Sabha ticket and he was made a minister. His act is gross indiscipline and action should be taken against him,” read the resolution.Earlier, a day before the Congress Working Committee meeting, UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’, legislators and other senior party leaders too had signed a joint statement targeting those who had signed the controversial letter.“Some leaders claiming to be representing the feelings of partymen from across the country have sent a letter to the Congress president. The truth remains that they don’t represent feelings of workers and office bearers in different states. Congress workers across the country are fully aware that they have remained cut off from the Congress’ brave fight against the BJP and have derived maximum advantage from the Congress. Their claim to be representing the feelings of party workers was baseless and unnecessary,” said the leaders in their joint statement. “For all of us, this is the time to unitedly stand by the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and fight the forces destroying Constitutional values and democracy and we will fulfil this responsibility,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-twist-to-resolution-seeking-action-against-jitin-prasada/story-hTVRAzm4eZlUZCNSfEwsHO.html
28-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: State to survey comorbid patients; tally 733,568||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its second-highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 14,718 infections, taking the count up to 733,568. Active cases also rose to 178,234, accounting for 24.29% of the total. The death toll of the state went up to 23,444 after 355 deaths were reported, of which, 236 were in the past 48 hours, another 83 deaths were from past one week, while the rest 36 were from the period before that, health officials said.The recent rise in single-day toll numbers, including a record count of 422 on August 18, continues to pose a challenge for the state, which records the most fatalities in the country. To improve the situation, the state government is now planning to conduct a statewide survey in all households to identify comorbid patients in each and every district and cities. The idea is early detection and treatment of the most vulnerable section of society, so as to help reduce Covid casualties. The plan was discussed in the cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. The state is likely to start the survey from September 15.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray insisted that the state should take up a survey to identify comorbid patients. He was of the view that it will help us in close monitoring of these people, which will lead to early detection of Covid-19 and its treatment. It will further reduce number of Covid deaths in the state as well,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.“We are planning a survey, which will be conducted across the state with the help of Asha workers and others. We are doing micro-detailing of the survey and looking to start it from September 15,” Rajesh Tope, state health minister, told HT.“Ultimately, the purpose of conducting the survey is to reduce deaths as most of the people who have lost their lives due to Covid-19, of them, most were having co-morbidities. Early detection can save their lives,” he added. In the last 27 days (in this month), the state has reported 8,450 deaths, which is highest in a month so far. In July, a total of 6,988 deaths were reported, while in June, May, April and March, total number of deaths recorded were 5,638, 2,286, 449 and 10 deaths respectively.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded as 3.2% on Thursday. It is slightly less than Gujarat, which has highest CFR in the country as present. On Wednesday, Gujarat’s CFR was 3.27% with 2,945 deaths (89,994 cases), according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.“On an average, daily over 312 people are losing their lives in the state after getting infected with Covid-19. It is concerning that we could not control the deaths even after making so much of effort,” said a senior official from state health department.Besides, the peak in cases is yet not flattening. In fact, number of fresh infections is rising continuously. On Wednesday, it recorded its sharpest single-day spike with 14,888 cases. For the first time, the state has breached 3-lakh mark of Covid-19 cases in a month, owing to the surge. The total number of new cases reported in August till date is 311,750. With four more days to go, it is likely to rise even further as the daily cases are also going up. For comparison, the state has recorded 247,392 cases in July and 102,172 cases in June. In May, April and March, it had got 57,157, 10,196 and 302 cases respectively.There was also a projection that daily cases will rise in August. The state has maintained that peak is arriving in different areas at a different time. Further, they are conducting more tests than ever, which led to a rise in daily infections. The state health minister has recently said they expect the downward trend of the Covid-19 infections after mid-September. On Monday, Mumbai recorded 1,350 cases, taking its tally to 140,888. Of them, active cases are 19,463.On June 27, Mumbai had reported its highest single-day spike of 2,077 cases. It has been maintaining a sort of stability in fresh cases in the past more than a month. City toll stands at 7,535 after 30 deaths reported on Thursday.Pune city continued to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,772 cases on Thursday. Its tally stood at 94,897 cases. Nagpur city has become the third-highest contributor in daily cases with 1,086. Its tally stood at 17,865. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), recorded 1,085 cases, pushing its tally up to 44,092. Apart from them, Pune district, Nashik city, Jalgaon district and Satara district have recorded 819, 740, 603 and 532 cases respectively.On Thursday, it has conducted 68,157 tests and total number of tests conducted till date are 3,862,184.As many as 531,563 infected patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals across the state till date. On Thursday alone, 9,136 recoveries were reportedm taking the recovery rate of the state to 72.46%, against the national average of 76.24%.Currently, 33,641 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 1,324,233 people have been home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-state-to-survey-comorbid-patients-tally-733-568/story-uXYlrtvAiRxmafu4SJKeiI.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana restricts entry of visitors at civil secretariat||Twelve people succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Haryana on Thursday while the state logged 1,293 new infections, the health bulletin said. In view of the increasing risk of Covid-19 spread, Haryana government on Thursday announced to ‘restrict the entry of all visitors in Haryana civil secretariat’ here, except government officers/officials residing in the tricity till further orders, an official spokesperson said. As per the bulletin, in Rewari, Panchkula and Kurukshetra districts, two patients each died of the infection, while one death each was reported from Faridabad, Gurugram, Rohtak, Karnal, Jhajjar and Nuh. Two people also lost their lives to the virus in Panipat on Thursday, as per the local authorities. The death toll has risen to 646 (456 men, 190 women) and the cumulative number of people so far found Covid-19 positive has reached 59,298. Even though there has been a steady rise in the number of fresh cases, as many as 48,690 people have recovered from the infection. On Thursday, 1,077 patients — including 254 in Sirsa, 141 in Faridabad and 72 in Yamunanagar — were discharged/recovered. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 9,962 until Thursday evening. Panipat district had maximum 1,068 active cases, followed by 936 in Gurugram, while Nuh had the lowest active cases (67) in the state. On Thursday, Gurugram logged 141 new cases, Faridabad 96 cases, Sonepat 123, Rewari 75, Ambala 71, Rohtak 47, and Panipat 79. Karnal registered 37 infections, Hisar 61, Palwal 15, Panchkula 94, Mahendergarh 63, Jhajjar 24, Bhiwani 46, Kurukshetra 45, Nuh 18, Sirsa 47, Yamunanagar 81, Fatehabad 47, Kaithal 62, and Jind 21. The doubling rate further improved to 34 days on Thursday and the test per million count rose to 41,467. Meanwhile in Ambala, the municipal corporation has decided to ban public dealing at its office till August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-restricts-entry-of-visitors-at-civil-secretariat/story-ZlPKTf76FdPiE60bkYpTrN.html
28-08-2020||City||One-day assembly session was just a formality: Hooda||Accusing the treasury benches of suppressing the voice of opposition in the one-day monsoon session of Haryana assembly, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda termed it a formality.Hooda, who was interacting with mediapersons at Kurukshetra on Thursday, accused the ruling party of curtailing the session to a single sitting on the “excuse of eight to nine members getting infected with the virus”.He said the Congress had demanded that if the government wanted to complete the formalities, only the “very important” legislative functions should be dealt with and the remaining bills, attention calling proposals of the opposition, adjournment proposals and private member bills should be discussed in the presence of the chief minister.The former Haryana CM said the Congress had given attention and adjournment motions in the House, but the government did not allow discussion on these burning issues.He also raised question over the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis by saying, “If eight members of state assembly, including the CM and speaker, are found infected in a random test before the assembly session, what about the common man?” “This development has put a question mark over the health services in the state,” he added. Hooda wished the chief minister an early recovery and said the decision of the government to conduct JEE-NEET exams during the pandemic was shocking and disturbing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-day-assembly-session-was-just-a-formality-hooda/story-38hxBMVVnFbFQtrA1jeELI.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Congress MLA urges Haryana governor to withhold assent to bill validating de-licensing||The Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT, Neeraj Sharma, on Thursday urged Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya to withhold his assent to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment and Validation) Bill passed by the state assembly on Wednesday. Speaking at a press conference, Sharma said insertion of a new clause section 3 (a) in the Act which would give power to de-license land parcel has been done to favour influential people, including developers. “I have written to the governor, requesting him to withhold his assent to this bill which is not in public interest,” the first-time MLA said. He said that party MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra had also sought referral of the bill to a committee of the assembly before it was passed by the legislature. Batra had sought a review of the definition of vacant land under section 7-A of the bill, an argument supported by leader of the opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The assembly had on Wednesday passed the bill to validate past actions of the TCP department since 1975, including de-licensing of land taken under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act. The amendment and validation bill, if assented to by the governor, would come as a relief to the developers of Gurugram-based Ambience Mall besides several similar cases involving de-licensing of land. The Punjab and Haryana high court had in July quashed the TCP department’s October 18, 2001 and September 1, 2010 orders to de-license two chunks of land (eight acres and 3.9 acres) out of 18.98 acres approved for constructing Ambience Lagoon Island residential complex. The de-licensed land was then permitted by the department for raising a commercial complex, the Ambience Mall. De-licensing here meant that a part of the land for which a residential licence was issued was taken out of the purview of the residential licence. On HC’s orders, the CBI had also registered a criminal case in the matter. Officials said that over 54 similar cases of de-licensing were detected by the department after the HC ruling, which needed to be validated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-mla-urges-haryana-governor-to-withhold-assent-to-bill-validating-de-licensing/story-VJuwBQ6cYuj6oSUCKcseZO.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||No scam in excise department, more revenue generated than previous years in 1st quarter of 2020: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the revenue state excise department generated during the Covid-19 crisis was more than ever in the first quarter of the year. Reacting to the allegations of scam in excise department, Dushyant, who also holds the excise and taxation portfolio, said the department has made a new record in the excise duty collection. “The excise department has never made such a high revenue collection as during the Covid-19 crisis, which reflects that there is no scam,” the deputy CM said in a news conference. “Since the formation of the state till today, it is for the first time in this year that the government has collected additional excise duty of more than Rs 27 crore in the first quarter,” he added. Dushyant said the new excise policy could not be implemented in the state from April 1 due to the lockdown. The state government gave permission to open liquor vends from May 5 under ‘Unlock 1’. The cabinet has amended the policy and decided to implement it till May 5, 2021. The deputy CM said GPS tracking devices would be installed in the vehicles coming out of distilleries. He said by the end of September, all distilleries will have surveillance cameras.He said that during the lockdown, an inquiry has been conducted against the officers issuing permits and passes from March 27 to March 31 and action will be taken against those found guilty as soon as the investigation is completed. He said in yet another first, an additional retail license fee of Rs 62 crore was received in the first quarter. The deputy CM said during the pandemic, the state government has imposed ‘Covid’ cess on liquor. In the first three months of implementing the cess, the excise department has earned Rs 75 crore, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-scam-in-excise-department-more-revenue-generated-than-previous-years-in-1st-quarter-of-2020-dushyant/story-jerJY03Z4nb5ZmBU9NEt4M.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rainy weekend on the cards in Chandigarh||After 9.6mm rain till 6.30pm on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate rain up to 50mm in the coming days, with possibility of heavy rain as well.“Monsoon will remain active in the region in the next two days with chances of heavy rain over 60mm in isolated pockets of the city. Intensity will be highest on Friday and will decrease subsequently,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD Chandigarh.About the Long-Range Forecast for monsoon issued by IMD, Paul said monsoon will remain active in the region for the next two weeks. “Rain activity is likely to pick up in the first week of September owing to the La Nina current’s effect. But, it will lower after September 10. Due to the eastward movement of the monsoon trough, rain intensity will be low in the third and fourth week of September, the last month of monsoon.”Meanwhile, the maximum temperature decreased slightly from 34°C on Wednesday to 33°C on Thursday. On the other hand, the minimum temperature went up from 27.1°C to 27.6°C. The day temperature is expected to remain between 30 and 32°C in the next three days, while the nights will remain cool at 25 to 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainy-weekend-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh/story-fwL0CVFShoF7ClV7TV0CNJ.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance probe ordered into liquor smuggling in Haryana during lockdown||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the state government has ordered a vigilance probe into the findings of the special enquiry team (SET) constituted in May to investigate into the instances of pilferage of liquor from warehouses during the Covid-19 lockdown. The inquiry had revealed glaring deficiencies in the functioning of excise and taxation department and indicated collusion of officials in smuggling and the illegal sale of liquor. “There was no rationale for physical movement of stocks during lockdown… it is evident that there was huge unauthorised movement of liquor. The complicity of excise, police officials cannot be ruled out. Probe needed as movement of not a single soul, except those involved in essential duties, was permitted during lockdown,” reads the inquiry findings, for which an investigation by vigilance bureau has been ordered.“The state vigilance bureau will investigate the findings of the SET. We should trust the vigilance bureau,” Vij said in a veiled reference to deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s rejection of the SET findings. Explanation of officers soughtThe state government has also sought explanation from IAS officer Shekhar Vidyarthi, the present excise and taxation commissioner, and IPS officer of AGMUT cadre Pratiksha Godara, who is a former Sonepat superintendent of police. Godara, who was on an inter-cadre deputation to Haryana,is back to her parent cadre. Vidyarthi’s explanation has been called on the basis of SET findings as he had ordered closure of liquor vends during the lockdown by only giving verbal instructions. In the absence of written instructions, permits and passes for movement of liquor were issued during the closure period by some districts. Vidyarthi was also held responsible for dilly-dallying pieces of information sought by the SET and hampering the visit of the enquiry team to a distillery. Also, departmental inquiries have been ordered against excise and police officials mentioned in the SET report. The SET was mandated to check whether the stock of liquor that was there on the date of sealing a warehouse was actually available or not, to examine the cases of seizure of illicit/ non-excise duty paid liquor in Haryana between April 2019 and March 2020 by the police and excise departments separately, action and fines imposed by the excise department following liquor recovery. The probe team was also asked to collect and collate the results of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15, 2020 till April 10 for pilferage of liquor from L-1 and L-13 godowns and also from the police ‘malkhanas’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vigilance-probe-ordered-into-liquor-smuggling-during-lockdown/story-TCX4wjZqmged2XvSBAHENI.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Private job quota bill: Cabinet’s nod must to withdraw ordinance, says Haryana government||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s move to table a private sector job quota bill in the assembly on Wednesday did not come about as the state government will have to take the cabinet route to seek the withdrawal of an identical ordinance from the Centre. The governor had reserved the quota ordinance, approved by the cabinet, for the consideration of the President. The proposed legislation was sent to the Union home ministry by the Raj Bhawan for scrutiny by the central ministries concerned before the President takes a call. Dushyant, though, wrote to the governor to seek the withdrawal of the ordinance, top officials aware of the developments said the cabinet will have to sanction the move to withdraw the ordinance. “The ordinance has not been promulgated. Since it has been sent for the President’s consideration, the ordinance is still under a process. So unless it is withdrawn by the governor by writing to the Central government, a replica bill cannot be tabled. The move to withdraw it can only be approved by the cabinet,” said officials. Since chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar got indisposed due to coronavirus infection two days before the assembly session, a meeting of the cabinet could not be convened to seek the withdrawal of the ordinance. ‘An argument in favour of propriety’ Former advocate general Ashok Aggarwal said it is the government’s prerogative to introduce an identical bill.However, the decision not to do so when an ordinance is reserved for President’s consideration is a step in consonance with the highest traditions of constitutional propriety. “Once the governor has expressed an opinion for seeking the presidential assent, it is appropriate not to hurry up or to make an overreach by presenting a bill in the assembly. Let the higher constitutional functionary take a view,” Aggarwal said. The law expert said that the Supreme Court had held that an ordinance is also identical to a law passed by the legislature. The governor’s move to reserve the ordinance for the consideration of the President is being seen as a setback for Dushyant, whose Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) had made a poll promise to implement the quota. Article 201 of the Constitution says that the President can either declare that he assents to the proposed law or that he withholds assent. The President can also direct the governor to return it to the House for reconsideration. Why was it reserved for President’s consideration The ordinance was reserved for the President’s consideration as its section 23 gave it an overriding effect over other laws and has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana also was seemingly in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. The Constitution does not provide a time limit for the President to assent to a bill or withhold it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-job-quota-bill-cabinet-s-nod-must-to-withdraw-ordinance-says-hrayana-government/story-9laQfsEZktcAIYTerRwUdO.html
28-08-2020||City||Strengthen infra to monitor polluting units in Haryana: NGT to state board||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to strengthen the infrastructure to monitor and take timely action against the erring polluting units and submit a complete action-taken report. Hearing a petition via videoconference, the bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed, “We find that in the report of Haryana, only issue addressed is the frequency of inspections. There is no mention of strengthening of monitoring infrastructure, including laboratories.”The bench also raised questions over the report submitted by HSPCB mentioning the status of fluoride contamination and availability of potable water to the affected inhabitants.The HSPCB has been told to give the action-taken reports to the CPCB by December 31.The bench’s order came on the subject of revision of existing monitoring mechanism to oversee compliance with environmental norms by state pollution control boards, including duration for mandatory inspections of ‘highly polluting 17 category’, ‘red’ and ‘orange’ and ‘green’ category industries and policy of auto renewals of Consent to Operate under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act as well as the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. The matter was earlier taken up on November 5, 2019 and the NGT considered the findings in the report of the joint committee that the water quality had deteriorated in major parts of the state on account of non-compliance with environmental norms and absence of strict enforcement of law. The CPCB had recommended that HSPCB maintain regular vigilance and levy environmental compensation against violations in view of rampant non-compliances by the industries.HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “We have already taken up the issue of fluoride contamination and availability of potable water to any affected inhabitants with the PHED. All regional officers have been told to get the groundwater checked for all parameters, including fluoride content and its source. They have been asked to take action against the erring industrial units.”“As far as the infrastructure development, including the labs, is concerned, the board is vigorously working on it and we will submit the compliance report accordingly to the tribunal as well,” he added.It is worth mentioning here that in its July 10, 2019 orders, the NGT had directed the CPCB in coordination with the HSPCB to shut down polluting industries in ‘critically polluted’ and ‘severely polluted’ areas.As per the reports of polluted industrial areas or clusters monitored during 2018 by the CPCB, Gurugram is on the 9th rank, followed by Panipat (11) and Faridabad (63). As per the scores, Gurugram and Panipat are in the category of ‘critically polluted’ area, whereas Faridabad is in ‘severally polluted’ area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strengthen-infra-to-monitor-polluting-units-in-haryana-ngt-to-state-board/story-nS2ek5cVsVfSCiqtMPsV6N.html
28-08-2020||Gurugram||Haryana allows restaurants and hotels to serve alcohol at tables; bars to remain shut||The Haryana excise and taxation department on Thursday allowed restaurants and hotels to serve liquor at tables along with food, although bars will continue to remain closed. In an order issued by the department, restaurant and hotel owners have been asked to get their liquor licences renewed for the current financial year. The decision has been taken a week after Delhi made a similar move.In renewing the licence, the state has also decided to give a 20% rebate to those licencees who will deposit the fee for third quarter (October till December) and fourth quarter (January till March 2021) within the next 10 days. Currently, the annual liquor license fee is ₹18 lakh per annum. In the state, restaurants were permitted to resume operations at 50% capacity from June 8. But they were not allowed to serve alcohol. In July, the excise department allowed only star-rated hotels in the city to serve liquor in rooms. The permission was granted to three-star, four-star and five-star hotels, while restaurants, pubs and bars were prohibited. At that time, for hoteliers, one-third of the licence fee was waived off, bringing it down to ₹2 lakh for one-quarter.Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (east), said that the recent move will give the much-needed boost to the hospitality industry. “After Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi, Haryana too has decided to permit liquor being served at the table. Bars will remain closed following the guidelines by the Union ministry of home affairs. The licence renewal process for the second quarter could not be conducted due to the lockdown. Therefore, the licence holders can get their licences renewed for the second quarter which ends on September 31. Further, a 20% relaxation will be given to those paying fees for third and fourth quarter together.”Restaurant owners, however, have expressed concerns over state government’s decision keep shops and restaurants shut on weekends, which, they say, would impact their business. Sharad Batra, co-founder, Café Delhi Heights, said, “There is an intention on the part of the government to give a breather to restaurants and hotels. The decision is a welcome move to further revive the hospitality industry, which is one of the biggest revenue generator. Even the decision to give rebate will help the owners even if they have to take loans from the bank to pay the licence fees.”The only drawback Batra sees in the current situation is the weekend lockdown imposed in Gurugram. “The business was already impacted in the second quarter due to a nationwide lockdown. Now, Haryana has ordered to keep malls and markets to shut on weekends except those dealing in essential goods. Nearly, 60% of the monthly revenue, which is generated on weekend, is being affected. Our biggest worry has been that if lockdown is imposed again with increase in Covid-19 cases, how are we going to survive?”Sameer Dhar, owner of Nowhere Terrace BrewPub Cafe at Crosspoint mall, agreed with Batra. “The entire sector has incurred loss this year. Therefore, paying fees for the third and fourth quarter would be challenging, especially when the state government is not allowing us to work on Saturdays and Sundays,” said Dhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-allows-restaurants-and-hotels-to-serve-alcohol-at-tables-bars-to-remain-shut/story-vQyWEoVaiQDmPFs5OACPYJ.html
28-08-2020||Pune||With BJP, AIMIM, VBA on same page, Sena hints at reopening places of worship||Places of worship are likely to reopen as the state government has hinted of opening such places for the public in September.Right-wing outfits along with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi are on the same page when it comes to opening of religious places.Imtiyaz Jaleel, AIMIM, Member of Parliament from Aurangabad, wants the government to open all religious places by September 1. He said Muslims will offer prayers in a mosque if the Maharashtra government fails to open religious places, which have been shut due to Covid-19 pandemic.“State government’s insistence on keeping religious places shut lacks a logic when normalcy is returning. If the government fails to open these places from September 1, I will offer prayers in a mosque at Shahgunj in Aurangabad on September 2,” said Jaleel on Wednesday at Aurangabad.He said the Hindu community should also come forward to make the government open temples from the beginning of the next month.Sensing pressure building from all sides, the government has also hinted of opening places of worships in September. Sanjay Raut, a Rajya Sabha MP from Shiv Sena, said he believes the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will take a call on this issue in the first week of September.“As per my understanding, a decision on reopening gymnasiums and religious places of worship would be taken in the first week of September,” said Raut while interacting with reporters in Mumbai on Thursday.Sena along with Nationalist Congress Party and Congress share power in MVA government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Raut’s statement comes a day after BJP, which is Maharashtra’s prominent opposition party, has called for state-wide ghantanad (bell ringing) protest on August 29. According to state BJP president Chandrakant Patil, the state-wide protest will see participation from religious leaders and heads of temples.Besides BJP, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi president Prakash Ambedkar has also threatened to agitate in Pandharpur on August 31 to press the demand for the opening of lord Vitthal temple.Earlier the chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said he was not in a hurry to relax lockdown norms rising coronavirus pandemic cases in the state.Several temple trusts too have demanded reopening of places of worships citing that the closure has cost financial distress to thousands whose economy is dependent on temples. The Shirdi temple trust has claimed that the lockdown has led to a loss of Rs 1,000 crore to the temple town, whose economy is dependent on the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raut-says-mva-will-take-call-on-reopening-of-places-of-worship-in-first-week-of-sept/story-ZBjxNDNYr2IhUpgddKoBSL.html
28-08-2020||Noida||25-year-old housekeeping staff shot during a burglary bid in Noida’s Sector 80||A member of the housekeeping staff of a manufacturing company was shot at while trying to foil an alleged burglary attempt at the company’s premises in Sector 80 on Thursday.The police said the victim did not receive any major injuries and was discharged from a hospital after receiving treatment. A case has been registered int the matter at the Phase 2 police station.The victim, Narender (identified with a single name in police records), 25, works at a company that manufactures parts for air-conditioners and refrigerators. According to the complaint filed by the manager of the company, Indra Pal Sharma, an unidentified person had broken into the premises early Thursday morning around 1.24 am. “However, the thief was unable to take away anything at that time. Later at around 6am, a few staff members saw a man trying to peep inside the premises. When he was questioned, he fled the spot,” the complaint read. Sharma added in his complaint that a few workers tried to chase the man who then started firing at them.“A small fragment of the bullet ricocheted from the ground and hit Narender in his leg after which police were informed about the incident and the victim was taken to a hospital for treatment”, Sharma said.Police officers said that a probe in the matter is underway.“In the CCTV camera footage, a person is visible breaking in to the company’s premises. Prima facie, it seems that the same man returned to the unit probably trying to get a hold of some valuables. However, all angles are being probed,” said Raj Kumar, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.A case has been registered against unidentified persons under sections 457 (house-breaking in order to commit offence), 380 (theft in dwelling, house), 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonments) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/25-year-old-housekeeping-staff-shot-during-a-burglary-bid-in-noida-s-sector-80/story-9FJyUDzkJAq81GQvG5p0NM.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Limited entry, exit gates once Metro restarts||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has prepared a list of entry and exit points at each station on its 10 corridors across its 389-km network and plans to deploy officials to enforce social distancing rules when it resumes operations.Metro services in Delhi were shut on March 22 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). People familiar with the matter had indicated on Monday that the government may allow the resumption of Metro services after over five months in September, when the fourth phase of a plan to restart businesses and activities restricted in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) kicks in. The DMRC has prepared detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) and is ready to resume operations whenever the Centre decides, a DMRC official said on condition of anonymity. The SOPs, however, are subject to approval by the Union home ministry. Also Read: ICMR starts second all-India sero survey; results expected in SeptemberA DMRC spokesperson refused to officially comment on the preparations. As per the draft SOPs, customised entry/exit will be allowed at each station to control footfall. According to the draft, only 257 out of the total 671 entry/exit gates at 242 stations will be opened for passenger movement. Officials said initially, a maximum of two gates will be open, that too at stations with heavy footfall such as Rajiv Chowk and Kashmere Gate. Also, Metro officials in the rank of assistant manager, manager, senior supervisor in the operation and management and project department will be assigned ‘special duty’ to manage distancing norms inside stations and enforce Covid rules. “...They (the nominated officials) shall be fully responsible for station orderliness and shall visit at all places of public interface of their nominated stations at regular intervals,” the SOP document read. “(They will ensure) social distancing is maintained by staff and commuters at various places of metro station, i.e, at frisking points, at platforms, before entry/exit at AFC gates, in front of customer care/ticketing centres, at lifts and escalators etc,” it added. Also Read: Delhi tally hits 48-day high, 76k+ new cases across IndiaThe officials in-charge of maintaining social distancing in stations will work in two shifts, which ends at 8.30pm, as per the SOP document. This led to speculation that services could be curtailed. However, senior DMRC officials said the timings could only be made clear after the home ministry takes a call on the resumption of services. The officials, who will be deployed in the station premises, will also be tasked with ensuring that every passenger is scanned thermally at the entry, passengers and station staff wear mask at all times and that sanitisers are available at entry points. They will also supervise the cleaning of the station area. Senior Metro officials also confirmed that as per DMRC’s draft SOPs only three people will be allowed inside a lift, and all those using the elevators will have to maintain a gap of one step between themselves. Also Read: Rush at stops defeats social distancing in Delhi busesApart from ensuring social distancing within the station premises for the safety of passengers and staff, the DMRC has also given out an elaborate plan on the entry and exit of passengers. The draft SOPs show that at 31 stations on the Red Line (Shaheed Sthal to Rithala) 32 of the total 70 gates will remain open, on the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre), which has 38 stations, 39 out of 116 gates will be kept open for passenger entry. According to the plan, while stations such as Central Secretariat, AIIMS, Janakpuri West and Shivaji Park will be opened with just a single gate open for access, stations such as Noida City Centre, Mayur Vihar-1 and Kashmere Gate will have two entry/exit gates, one for each interchange line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/limited-entry-exits-at-metro-stations-special-officials-to-enforce-covid-rules/story-Ha7j82uq89rNXAwDBaODfK.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro stops work on Phase-4 line after notice over green rules violation||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday said it has stopped digging work on the Keshopur-Peeragarhi stretch of an upcoming corridor, days after the forest department accused it of violating environmental norms.HT had on Tuesday reported that the city forest department had pointed out multiple environmental violations on the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram phase-4 corridor, where the DMRC was working on the Krishna Park-Mukarba Chowk section. This is an area that has been marked as a deemed forest land and work continued despite multiple restraining orders from the city’s forest department. This includes the area around the Najafgarh drain, which is a birding hotspot since it is frequented by thousands of migratory birds.The report had highlighted that DMRC was issued at least two notices by the deputy conservator forests (west division) ordering them to stop work after trees on the stretch were damaged by digging work and by continuing work on a 5.34km deemed forest land without requite permissions from the central government under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. “We have stopped work on the Keshopur-Peeragarhi stretch and will resume work after all mandatory approvals are met,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said on Thursday. SK Muan Guite, DCF (west division) had told HT that the DMRC did not have requisite permissions to undertake work on a 5.34-km stretch on Road Number 26 between Meera Bagh and Mukarba Chowk and a portion of the Najafgarh drain, both of which are deemed forest areas. Hindustan Times visited the construction site at least five times between February and August and found that the DMRC has continued construction on the stretch despite the restraining orders.Multiple notices were issued between February and August, asking the DMRC “not to carry out any construction work on the portion of Road Number 26 and Najafgarh drain”. The department also filed an FIR against the DMRC on August 14 to stop work. Responding to the allegations, the Metro corporation had said, “The issue of deemed forest has come in only recently in the month of August as the same was never pointed out by the forest department in any visits conducted. The location of the same is also not established through any authenticated record. It is being established through Google Earth image only where the exact location of the 5.34 kilometres is not known. It may be outside the DMRC alignment as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-stops-work-on-phase-4-line-after-notice-over-green-rules-violation/story-Pga4F1WyddJdDNVBjk4dHJ.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Motor Accident Claims Tribunal awards ₹20 lakh to kin of Dera Bassi man who died by electrocution at work||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded Rs 20.25-lakh compensation to the family of a Dera Bassi man, who was electrocuted to death at work in 2018. The petition was filed by Harpreet Kaur, 28, a resident of Devi Nagar village, Dera Bassi, wife of the victim, Jone Singh, against the driver of a truck, Sonu Kumar Singh from Uttar Pradesh, and M/s Okara Roadways. The third party was the insurer of the truck - Oriental Insurance Company Ltd, Sector 17, Chandigarh. As per the petition, on June 23, 2018, Jone was at his workplace in M/s Computer Care in Jawaharpur village when he was asked by his manager to get a truck inside the premises. Jone warned the truck driver to take care of high-tension wires attached to the electric pole while moving the truck. However, the driver took a sudden turn, because of which the upper part of the truck came in contact with the wires. Jone got electrocuted and was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He was survived by his wife, two children, aged 8 and 5, and his mother, Bhupinder Kaur, 60.Alleging negligence by driver, the family made laid a claim of Rs 75 lakh. The driver and the owner submitted that no such accident took place and the insurer stated that the driver did not having a valid driving licence at the time of accident and was in violation of terms and conditions of insurance policy. After hearing the arguments, the tribunal partly allowed the claim petition and awarded compensation of Rs 20.25 lakh “in equal shares, along with 9% interest per annum from the date of filing the claim petition till payment”. The order read: “The payment is to be made by respondents jointly and severally, which shall be mainly indemnified by the third party, being the insurer of the offending vehicle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/motor-accident-claims-tribunal-awards-rs-20-lakh-to-kin-of-dera-bassi-man-who-died-by-electrocution/story-iBCivylPNlGNTGsbm70oIO.html
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Students in a fix as dates of JEE Main, NDA exam clash||Students desirous of taking both the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main exam, organised by the National Testing Agency (NTA), and the National Defence Academy (NDA) exam, which is conducted by Union Public Service Commission, on September 6 are in a dilemma as the dates and time of the two tests are clashing.Some students have written to the NTA asking that the exam dates be changed, but no communication has been received from their end.Ravi Kumar of Nayagaon wants to follow in the footsteps of his father and join the Indian Army. But his JEE Main and NDA exam have both been scheduled on September 6. “For the Indian Naval Academy and technical entries of the Indian Army, a good JEE score is required. Many students keep this as a backup in case they don’t clear the NDA exam. I will have no option but to skip the JEE exam, but it will hurt my chances of joining the army later.”EDUCATION MINISTER HAD ASSURED HELPIn July, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had assured students that those with overlap between the two exams will be accommodated, but now after the admit cards have been officially issued, the students have been left in a dilemma.Mandeep who hails from Mansa district in Punjab said, “Candidates [applying for JEE Main] were asked if they were also appearing for NDA. I had checked yes but still I was allotted a date clashing with the NDA exam.” The copies of his admit cards accessed by the Hindustan Times show that Mandeep is supposed to sit for his online JEE Main between 8am to 12pm, and for the written NDA exam between 10am-12:30pm and 2pm-4:30pm.Anuj Kaushik, another student who will be appearing for both the exams in Chandigarh said that he had sent two emails to the NTA with copies of his admit cards about a week back asking that the date for his JEE Main exam be changed, but no action was taken.‘4.5 LAKH STUDENTS APPEARING FOR NDA’Kunal Singh, who runs a coaching institute in Sector 34 for students appearing in both NDA and JEE exams, said, “Nearly 4.5 lakh students will be appearing for the NDA exam. Usually two exams are held per year, but this year only one will be held owing to the pandemic. Many students are likely to be affected by this mixup and they must speak up so that preventive steps can be taken before it is too late.”Kunal added that since the JEE Main exam was being held daily between September 1 and 6, NTA must adjust the exam date of affected candidates to prevent the clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-jee-mains-nda-exam-date-clash-cause-of-concern-for-students/story-AEU8GCp8rfr1noqf6QznvJ.html
28-08-2020||Pune||Devotees bid adieu to Gauri-Ganesh under safety cover in Pune||PuneThe Gauri Visarjan followed after the fifth day of Ganpati immersion at a quieter and well organised way, although in some parts of the old city, especially near the riverbed, there was some tussle among devotees and the police who were trying to keep them away from the river beds following the Covid-19 norms.“This year 90 per cent of the people have opted for home immersions for their Ganpati idols due to coronavirus pandemic and 10 per cent have approached the river bed or even utilised the mobile haud (tanks),” said Dynaneshwar Molak, head of the solid waste management department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).According to PMC, since August 22, 4,069 idols were immersed either at river bed or in mobile tanks, while 2,671 idols were given to the idol collection centre located at 187 spots across the city. The civic body also offered 150 metric tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate powder for free to devotees as it helps dissolve idols within 24 to 36 hours.On Thursday, people were seen biding adieu to Gauri along with Ganpati and it was a quite affair. “We decided to bid adieu to our Ganesh in our bucket of water. This year was in fact very pleasant and with everyone at home, it was a typical traditional way of celebrating the festival,” said Rashmi Ghodke, a resident of Hadapsar.Dhanashree Sant, resident of Kothrud will be using the mobile tank which has been allotted the street corner for her idol.Another resident Apurva Shukla said, “PMC has done a good job by sending these mobile hauds (tanks), this system has allowed citizens to see off their bappa at their doorstep for only one family member goes to hand over idol to collection personnel while other family members bid adieu from their balconies. The people collecting are following social distancing, wearing gloves, masks and aprons. They are also instructing devotees to maintain social distancing and immersion was done in a systematic manner at my residential society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/devotees-bid-adieu-to-gauri-ganesh-under-safety-cover-in-pune/story-2lXuL6T5mpFoz6SMAt5xHP.html
28-08-2020||Pune||Hit by Covid-19 pandemic, Pune libraries use every trick in the book to survive||First hit by the digital boom of ebooks and now, the lockdown necessitated due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reading and lending libraries in the city have been struggling for survival. Of the 190 libraries across Pune (100 privately-owned and 90 government libraries), at least 100 have witnessed reduced subscriptions and revenues over the past few months. Going online, waving off late fees and entry only on reservations- city libraries are now coming up with different ways to still be relevant. One of the city’s largest libraries, the British Council closed its Pune operations in June. The library is now online and informed its members of this decision via mail. The mail read, “As the coronavirus situation is evolving in India, the British Council supports and cooperates with national and state government authorities to put all necessary measures in place, and ensure the continued well-being of all whom we engage with in the course of our operations.  In light of the various state government advisories on closing all educational institutions and avoiding mass gatherings, British Council Library in Delhi, Kolkata, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune will remain closed for public access starting March 15 until further notice. We are also extending your library membership by six weeks and no overdue charges will be levied for the closure period for late return of books and other library materials; so you don’t face any inconvenience during this time.”Besides this library, 90 other libraries and reading rooms registered with the Pune district library officer will remain closed till August 31, following the Maharashtra government circular. However, with the constant support of bibliophiles, some of the privately-run libraries are braving the Covid-19 situation and opened to business in July. Apart from financial loses, libraries were losing at least 60 per cent of their members. Ulka Awasthi, owner of Reader’s Library in Aundh recalls how senior citizens started withdrawing their membership or putting it on hold when the lockdown was first announced. “It was a wave of panic when the lockdown was announced. Many, who were interested in reading books, took as many as 10 books with them, while some of them began withdrawing their membership or requested me to keep it on hold,” said Awasthi. Meanwhile, vorocious readers like N Varke from Aundh believe books are the best source of infotainment and had been patiently waiting for the library to open. “I am 70 years old and since my children live abroad, only my wife and I stay here. We tend to read a lot and are not interested in TV series. We feel that books are the best company we have. Hence, even though it is risky, we go to a library in Aundh.”“A few of the members wanted to stock up on books during the lockdown. I kept the library open for half-a-day in April, becuase if I closed it permanently, I would lose subscriptions. It helped me pay half the rent too. Now, the library is completely sanitised, however, some still do not come here. There are a few senior citizens, who are avid readers, who come to the library every alternate day and exchange books. The situation is tough for our business,” added Awasthi of Readers’s Library which offers children’s books and a vast collection of Diwali Ank for its readers at Rs 250 per month.Owner of Books Meridien, Dhiraj Kothari, suggests prior appointment to avoid crowds at the library. “Readers are a bit cautious, but book lovers can’t stop exchanging books. Hence to help them, we have online book reservations wherein they can simply pick up the book off the counter instead of spending time within the library. Due to the lockdown, I lost 60 per cent of my members, but now the situation is slightly better,” said Kothari.Seema Sharma is yet to visit her library in Kothrud as it will be closed till August 31. “I stay in Bavdhan and my library is in Kothrud. My son loves to read and because of Covid-19, we have not been able to go to the library to get books. He has finished reading his entire collection at home,” said Seema. Nagar Vachan Granthalaya, which is a 172-year-old library in the city, with five branches, opened for business after three months of lockdown in July. “We started operations on July 1 and received a good response from our members. Some were very grateful that we opened our doors and also ensured social distancing and sanitisation. Many members said that they were bored at home with books. Initially, we kept the library open between 10am and 2pm, but now it is open throughout the day. We even waived off the late fees for many of our subscribers who had books with them before the lockdown,” said Suvarna Jayant Joglekar, secretary of the Laxmi road branch. The library has 2,000 members and several new members joined post the opening of the library. It charges Rs 30 per month for books in English and Marathi and offers home delivery service, which is currently shut down due to Covid. Unfortunately, Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad library has not been able to open its doors for its members. “We are ready to welcome our members, but sadly we are following the government protocol to keep it closed till August 31. Most of our members, which are close to 1,000 who pay Rs 300 per month, are senior citizens who are vulnerable to Covid. Thus, we are closed but this closure is adding to our losses,” said VD Pingale, director of the library. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hit-by-pandemic-city-libraries-use-every-trick-in-the-book-to-survive/story-N1UT7Y1fUfFAXsAFrpVzHO.html
28-08-2020||City||Two dead in Panchkula, 18 Haryana secretariat staff among those positive||Two more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula on Thursday, taking the district toll to 15.The district also confirmed 94 fresh cases, bringing the tally to 1,923. The two deceased include a 75-year-old man from Sector 17 and a 60-year-old woman from Manakpur village. Among those tested positive on Thursday are 18 staff members of the Haryana Civil Secretariat. These include residents of Panchkula and other districts and states. Their contacts are being traced and sampled.The local cases are from Sectors 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12A, 14, 15, 15, 21 and 25, besides Nanakpur, Hangola, Pinjore, Kalka, Surajpur and Old Panchkula.Of the 1,923 persons tested positive in Panchkula district till date, 730 remain active, while 1,178 have been cured and discharged. Reports of 601 samples are awaited.50% STAFF FOUND INFECTED, ONLY COVID LAB SHUT DOWN Health authorities have shut down Molecular laboratory – the only Covid-19 testing lab in Panchkula – with half of its staff testing positive over the past three days.Of the 12 staff members, reports of six, including the laboratory in-charge, have come out positive.“We have shut down the lab for at least 48 hours for disinfection, and will also arrange additional staff,” said Dr Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer, Covid-19.Meanwhile, new samples are being sent to PGIMER and IMTECH, Sector 39, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-dead-in-panchkula-18-haryana-secretariat-staffers-among-94-ve/story-xnEJ6Qkcv908kMCp8UPvcJ.html
28-08-2020||Pune||Manache Ganpati mandals in Pune to perform immersion within temple or mandap||Pune: With the city celebrating the 10-day Ganpati festival in a subdued manner because of the Covid-19 situation, the five Manache (revered) Ganpati mandals on Thursday took the decision to carry out the 10th day immersion in a low-key manner.The prominent Ganpati mandals in the city are following the instructions of authorities to hold functions with minimum devotee participation to avoid crowding. The mandal organisers have decided to hold immersions of the Ganpati idol within the temple premises or inside the erected mandap.Shrikant Shete, president, Shri Kasba Ganapati; Rajabhau Tikar, president, Tambadi Jogeshwari Mandal; Prithviraj Pardeshi, president, Shri Guruji Talim Mandal; Vivek Khatavkar, president, Shri Tulshibagh Mandal; Anil Sakpal of Kesari Wada Ganpati; Sanjay Mate of Akhil Mandai Mandal; Shrimant Bhau Rangari Ganpati Mandal president Sanjeev Jawle; Puneet Balan, Nitin Pandit, Vikas Pawar, Rigveda Nirgudkar and Saurabh Dhadphale announced their decision to continue with the simplistic and traditional religious rituals for the immersions without any of the processions and dhol-tasha that the city is famous for.As per tradition, the mayor of Pune will garland and perform puja for Kasba Ganpati at 10.30 am following which the Ganesh idol will be immersed at 11.30 am, according to the organisers.It will be followed by immersion of Tambadi Jogeshwari Ganpati at 12.15 pm, Guruji Talim’s Ganpati at 1 pm, Tulshibagh Ganpati at 1.45 pm, Kesari Wada Ganpati at 2.30 pm, Shrimant Bhau Bhausaheb Rangari Ganpati at 3.15 pm, Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati at sunset, Akhil Mandai Mandal’s Ganpati will be immersed at 7 pm.“This year, the pandemic has brought in a shadow of gloom over the festivity and we want to avoid more cases in the city. Hence, we have decided to keep the festivities and its immersion simple,” said Shrikant Shete of Kasba Ganpati mandir trust.The organisers also appealed to devotees to minimise their visit to ghats and perform immersions within their homes or use the mobile tanks provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The office-bearers also said that on the occasion of the centenary year of Lokmanya Balgangadhar Tilak, on August 31, they will pay homage to Lokmanya by performing aarti at Kesari Wada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manacha-ganpati-mandals-decide-to-perform-immersion-within-temple-or-mandap/story-KZ6niNYnH5e0T3HXsGGnRP.html
28-08-2020||City||63-year-old woman becomes Mohali’s 68th fatality||The district’s Covid-19 toll rose to 68 on Thursday with one more person losing the battle against the virus. Of the total 68 fatalities, August accounts for 78% (53). Mohali also confirmed 128 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 3,165.The latest fatality is a 63-year-old woman from Mohali. She was admitted at Mayo Hospital, Sector 69, following a road accident and later tested positive for Covid-19.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the cremation was done under the observation of health officials as per protocol. Among the 128 fresh cases on Thursday, 36 are from Gharuan, 29 from Mohali city, 22 from Kharar, 19 from Dhakoli, 10 from Kurali, seven from Dera Bassi, three from Banur and two from Lalru. Thursday also saw 41 more recoveries, bringing down the number of active patients to 1,415. So far, 1,682 patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/63-year-old-woman-becomes-mohali-s-68th-fatality/story-3kT4fXWUlP0omboNa5UDiJ.html
28-08-2020||Pune||Travel agent held for strangling ‘second’ wife to death in Pune||A man was arrested for the murder of his ‘second’ wife over a domestic fight on Thursday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Aparna Mahadik (36) while the man was identified as Surendra Prakash Salunkhe (42), according to the police. Salunkhe worked as a tourism and travel agent, according to the police. The two were college friends and got married a few years ago. However, the accused was already married, according to the police. “He had kept his two wives at different places and used to visit them both. He has four children from his first wife. He lived with the deceased woman for the past eight years. They did not have children and he was against her having a job,” said senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of Hadapsar police station. Hearing commotion at the accused’s house in Sahara Corner in Hadapsar, where the deceased used to live, the neighbours alerted the police on Thursday afternoon. The police rushed to the spot and found the woman dead. The woman had allegedly been strangled to death. While her body was sent for post-mortem, the police nabbed the accused within hours of the crime. “Our primary probe reveals that the duo used to regularly fight about issues like her job and he doubted her character,” said Sathe. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/travel-agent-held-for-strangling-second-wife-to-death-in-pune/story-YIoc6HVQrWbScHVxMKvFUM.html
28-08-2020||Pune||Mgmt professional in Pune duped of Rs 5 lakh in job fraud||A 47-year-old management professional was duped of Rs 5 lakh in a job fraud. The complainant received a phone call from a number that offered a job in a foreign company, according to the police complaint. The woman was offered a job in an Australia-based construction company in the capacity of a human resource and administration executive by the caller, according to her complaint. The call to the complainant was placed in November 2019. After the call, she allegedly received an email with the job offer for the position. After the complainant accepted the fake offer, she was asked to transfer money to various bank accounts under the guise of charges for visa application, visa stamping, work permit, counsellor, health insurance, travel allowance, IELTS, work permit security bond, and bank account opening among other things, according to the police. The woman paid Rs 5,11,005 between November 16, 2019 and December 5, 2019, according to her complaint. “The complainant is an MBA graduate and works in a private company. She signed up on a website “freshersworld.com” looking for a job change and received three phone calls followed by an email. The money was transferred to one account. We are investigating the details,” said inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case. When the woman did not get any response from the caller for three months, she lodged a complaint with cyber crime police. A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act 2000 was registered at Vimantal police station against the unknown caller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-woman-in-pune-duped-of-rs-5-lakh-in-job-fraud/story-irrUzwWNVG517ckLT8i2qL.html
28-08-2020||Delhi||East Delhi Municipal Corporation terminates Tahir Hussain’s membership||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has cleared a proposal seeking termination of suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain’s membership. Hussain is currently in jail for his alleged involvement in the Delhi riots in February. The Delhi police have named Hussain as one of the prime conspirators of the riots that left 53 people dead and around 400 injured.The proposal to terminate Hussain’s membership was passed on Wednesday as he has not attended EDMC’s meetings during its three successive sittings.Nirmal Jain, EDMC mayor, cited the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and said if a councillor remains absent from meetings of the corporation for three successive times, without permission, his/her membership can be ended.“Tahir Hussain has not attended any of the House meetings in the last 3-4 months. He has not informed me or the corporation about the reasons behind his absence. So, on Wednesday in a House meeting of the EDMC, we have passed a proposal to terminate his membership on the grounds that he skipped at least three successive House meetings without informing the corporation.”Jain added the proposal will now be sent to the EDMC secretary for further administrative proceedings. A senior EDMC official said that invites of every house meeting were sent to Hussain’s office but there had been no response. He remained absent from the house meetings in January 2020, February 2020, June 2020 and July 2020. House meetings were not conducted in March, April and May this year due to Covid-19 pandemic.“Now that the house has approved the proposal, so his membership stands cancelled and his seat (ward 59E) can be considered vacant. The proposal will be sent to the lieutenant governor (Anil Baijal) to inform him about the decision,” the EDMC official said.Senior advocate KK Manan, Tahir’s lawyer, said that his client was in the police custody and the police should have taken him for the house meetings.The move was initiated after the Bharatiya Janata Party on August 11 demanded termination of Hussain’s membership.Hussain was elected as a councillor from the Nehru Vihar ward. AAP suspended him after allegations of his involvement in the north-east Delhi riots emerged.The Delhi police have said they found petrol bombs and explosives from the terrace of his house in Chand Bagh in Northeast Delhi. Hussain is in jail for the murder of Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma, who was killed during the riots, and conspiracy. Hussain has denied the charges and said he was being framed as part of an alleged political conspiracy.A Delhi court took cognisance last week of a charge sheet filed against him and is due to start his trial. The AAP refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/east-delhi-municipal-corporation-passes-proposal-to-terminate-tahir-hussain-s-membership/story-3Qb3oig8FiTHR88dUpTaYJ.html
28-08-2020||World||Thousands gather at March on Washington commemorations||Capping a week of protests and outrage over the police shooting of a Black man in Wisconsin, civil rights advocates began highlighting the scourge of police and vigilante violence against Black Americans at a commemoration of the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.An estimated thousands have gathered Friday near the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, where the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his historic “I Have A Dream” address, a vision of racial equality that remains elusive for millions of Americans.And they are gathering on the heels of yet another shooting by a white police officer of a Black man — this time, 29-year-old Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last Sunday — sparking days of protests and violence that left two dead.“I want to give space for Black people in the crowd to say they are not OK,” said Jumaane Williams, New York City’s public advocate, who addressed march attendees shortly after the program began.“We are like the nameless grandmothers who got in the streets and said, ‘We will make you live up to what America says she is,’” Williams said. “We are here. We’re not going anywhere.”Activist Frank Nitty, who said he walked 750 miles for 24 days from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to Washington for Friday’s march, spoke to the audience about persistence in the fight for justice.“Are y’all tired? Because I’m tired,” Nitty said. “They think this is a negotiation, but I came here to demand change. My grandson ain’t gonna march for the same things that my granddaddy marched for. This is a revolution.”March attendee Jerome Butler, 33, of D.C., echoed Nitty’s sentiment.“My hope is that my son doesn’t have to be out here in another 50 years protesting the same thing,” Butler said.Early on, the march was shaping up to be the largest political gathering in Washington since the coronavirus pandemic began. Many attendees showed up wearing T-shirts bearing the image and words of the late Rep. John Lewis who, until his death last month, was the last living speaker at the original March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, which went on to become one of the most famous political rallies in US history, and one of the largest gatherings at the nation’s capital with over 200,000 people advocating for social change.Participants streaming in for the march late Friday morning stood in lines that stretched for several blocks, as organizers insisted on taking temperatures as part of coronavirus protocols. Organizers reminded attendees to practice social distancing and wear masks throughout the program.Martin Luther King III, a son of the late civil rights icon and the Rev. Al Sharpton, whose civil rights organization, the National Action Network, planned Friday’s event, delivered keynote addresses that show the urgency for federal policing reforms, to decry racial violence, and to demand voting rights protections ahead of the November general election.“We’ve come to bear witness, to remain awake, to remember from where we’ve come and to carefully consider where we’re going,” King said. “Whether you’re here in person or watching on (television networks), thank you for joining us for this March on Washington.”“We’re taking a step forward on America’s rocky but righteous journey toward justice,” he added.“We didn’t just come out here to have a show,” Sharpton said. “Demonstration without legislation will not lead to change.”And to underscore the urgency, Sharpton assembled the families of an ever-expanding roll call of victims: Blake, George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Rayshard Brooks, Ahmaud Arbery, Trayvon Martin, and Eric Garner, among others.Arbery and Martin both were killed by white men who pursued them with guns.Following the commemorative rally, participants will march to the Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial in West Potomac Park, next to the National Mall, and then disperse.Turnout in Washington was expected to be lighter than initially intended due to city-imposed coronavirus pandemic restrictions that limit out-of-state visitors to the nation’s capital. To that end, the National Action Network organized a handful of satellite march events in South Carolina, Florida and Nevada, among others.Robbie Williams, 67, traveled to the march from Covington, Kentucky, and said attending was her way of “speaking to my children and my people.”“My message to my children is to stand up no matter what. And to the police: get some education and read your bibles,” Williams said, adding that she also wants Black communities to honestly confront internal violence and homophobia.Representation of Black lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and gender-nonconforming people in the movement was addressed by several march speakers, including David Johns, executive director of the National Black Justice Coalition, a Black LGBTQ civil rights organization.“I stand here in the spirit of our brother Bayard Rustin,” he said, referring to the King adviser who helped organize the original march. “Without his brilliance and his commitment to our intersectional social justice, there would not have been a March on Washington.”“If you care about Black people like I do, if you love Black people like I do, you’ve got to love and care about all of us,” Johns said.While participants march in Washington, Sharpton has called for those in other states to march on their US senators’ offices and demand their support of federal policing reforms. Sharpton said protesters should also demand reinvigorated US voter protections, in Lewis’ memory.In June, the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives passed the George Floyd Justice In Policing Act, which would ban police use of stranglehold maneuvers and end qualified immunity for officers, among other reforms. Floyd, a Black man, died May 25 after a white police officer in Minneapolis held a knee to the man’s neck for nearly eight minutes, sparking weeks of sustained protests and unrest from coast to coast.In July, following Lewis’ death, Democratic senators reintroduced legislation that would restore a provision of the historic Voting Rights Act of 1965 gutted by the US Supreme Court in 2013. The law previously required states with a history of voter suppression to seek federal clearance before changing voting regulations.Both measures are awaiting action in the Republican-controlled Senate.In her remarks at the march, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, whose Texas district includes Floyd’s hometown of Houston, referenced a line from the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” address that decries America for giving Black people “a bad check, a check which has come back marked ‘insufficient funds.’”“Today, we stop the insufficient funds and we put money in the bank,” Lee said, vowing to keep pushing for enactment of the federal legislation.Later in the evening, the Movement for Black Lives, a coalition of more than 150 Black-led organizations that make up the broader Black Lives Matter movement, will hold its virtual Black National Convention.The convention will coincide with the unveiling of a new Black political agenda intended to build on the success of this summer’s protests. The platform will deepen calls for defunding police departments in favor of investments to healthcare, education, housing and other social services in Black communities, organizers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-gather-at-march-on-washington-commemorations/story-Pq0ut7gyYQl3eSl0FtAfCO.html
28-08-2020||World||Israel lists first commercial passenger flight to UAE||Israel has listed an El Al flight taking off Monday for Abu Dhabi, which would be Israel’s first commercial passenger flight to the United Arab Emirates after the two countries agreed to a US-brokered deal to normalize relations.The confirmation of the flight comes as the latest concrete sign of a deal that saw Israel agree to halt plans to annex land sought by the Palestinians. It also brought into the open a long-standing relationship between Israel and the UAE that both countries hope now will benefit their economies and strengthen their ties to the US amid tensions with Iran.The website of the Israel Airports Authority listed the flight on Friday. It said the flight would be numbered LY971, a nod to the UAE’s international calling code number. A return flight to Tel Aviv’s Ben Gurion International Airport on Tuesday will be numbered LY972, Israel’s international calling code.Emirati officials and the US Embassy in Abu Dhabi did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The flight was not immediately bookable on the website of El Al, Israel’s flag carrier.However, US officials earlier said the anticipated first flight will include American officials led by President Donald Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner. Other US officials on board will include national security adviser Robert O’Brien, Mideast envoy Avi Berkowitz and envoy for Iran Brian Hook.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu earlier announced that his national security adviser, Meir Ben-Shabbat, will lead Israel’s delegation. A number of Israeli government ministries will also send representatives, including the directors of the foreign and defense ministries and the national aviation authority, he said.Private jets earlier flew between the two nations as their officials conducted covert talks. In May and June, Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways flew cargo freighters to Ben Gurion carrying aid for the Palestinians to combat the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Israel and the UAE agreed to normalize relations Aug. 13. By Aug. 16, telephone calls began ringing between the nations, marking the first concrete step of the US-brokered diplomatic accord.The historic deal delivered a key foreign policy victory to Trump as he seeks reelection, and reflected a changing Middle East in which shared concerns about archenemy Iran have largely overtaken traditional Arab support for the Palestinians.Palestinians maintain it puts a just resolution to the Middle East conflict even farther out of reach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-lists-first-commercial-passenger-flight-to-uae/story-RTOpJFamakK7xT4TR0qdaL.html
28-08-2020||World||‘He doesn’t understand presidency’: Biden, Harris hit back at Trump||Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for US president, countered President Donald Trump’s attacks on him from the convention with a string of tweets, pointing out the mushrooming Covid-19 cases and infections across the country. Biden held President Trump responsible for the protests that he sought to portray as lawlessness.Kamala Harris, Biden’s vice-presidential nominee, had laid out a more detailed critique of the president’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic and his response to the anti-racism protest in a prebuttal. She argued, “Trump doesn’t understand the presidency”.“Remember: every example of violence Donald Trump decries has happened on his watch. Under his leadership. During his presidency,” Biden shot back in a tweet, to Trump’s portrayal of them as harbingers of the kind of lawlessness and chaos that will take place on Biden’s watch.Also read: What the conventions reveal for Biden, Trump in final stretch to NovemberTrump has tried to position himself as a law-and-order president has used the anti-race protests to stoke fears about lawlessnesses tying them to the radical left-wing of the Democratic party, who he has argued, will be calling the shots in a Biden administration.In his counter-attack, Biden sought to keep the focus on Trump’s key vulnerability - the Covid-19 epidemic which has killed close to 180,000 Americans and infected 6 million.“From the moment COVID-19 emerged, President Trump downplayed the threat it posed, refused to listen to the experts, and failed to take action to contain its spread.,” he wrote in one tweet. “Now, we’re paying the price”.In prepared remarks for the prebuttal, Harris said, Trump had displayed “reckless disregard for the danger a pandemic would pose to American lives. For the devastation, it would do to our economy. For the damage, it would do to communities of colour who have been subjected to structural racism for generations”.“He never appreciated that a President swears an oath before God and country to protect America against threats seen and unseen. It’s his duty. It’s his obligation to protect us. And yet, he has failed. Miserably,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/he-doesn-t-understand-presidency-biden-harris-hit-back-at-trump/story-HeVbW0UUl2ZUGDdij1l4fJ.html
28-08-2020||World||Cambridge University kicks off vaccine race to fight all coronaviruses||The University of Cambridge on Wednesday confirmed plans to begin trials of a potential new vaccine not only against Covid-19 but all coronaviruses that may spill over from animals to humans in the future.The new vaccine candidate, DIOS-CoVax2, uses banks of genetic sequences of all known coronaviruses, including those from bats, believed to be the natural hosts of many relatives of human coronaviruses.A vaccine that clears all trials can then be delivered pain-free without a needle into the skin through a spring-powered jet injection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Our approach involves 3D computer modelling of the SARS-CoV-2 [Covid-19] virus’ structure. It uses information on the virus itself as well as its relatives – SARS, MERS and other coronaviruses carried by animals that threaten to ‘spill-over’ to humans again to cause future human epidemics,” said Professor Jonathan Heeney, head of the Laboratory of Viral Zoonotics at the University of Cambridge, and founder of DIOSynVax – a Cambridge spin-out company.“We’re looking for chinks in its armour, crucial pieces of the virus that we can use to construct the vaccine to direct the immune response in the right direction. Ultimately we aim to make a vaccine that will not only protect from SARS-CoV-2, but also other related coronaviruses that may spill over from animals to humans,” he said.Prof Heeney said his team’s strategy involves targeting those domains of the virus’ structure that are absolutely critical for docking with a cell, while avoiding the parts that could make things worse.“What we end up with is a mimic, a synthetic part of the virus minus those non-essential elements that could trigger a bad immune response,” he added.His team have developed libraries of computer-generated antigen structures encoded by synthetic genes that can train the human immune system to target key regions of the virus and to produce beneficial anti-viral responses.These immune responses include neutralising antibodies, which block virus infection, and T-cells, which remove virus-infected cells.This so-called “laser-specific” computer generated approach is able to help avoid the adverse hyper-inflammatory immune responses that can be triggered by recognition of the wrong parts on the coronavirus’ surface.“Most research groups have used established approaches to vaccine development because of the urgent need to tackle the pandemic. We all hope the current clinical trials have a positive outcome, but even successful vaccines are likely to have their limitations – they may be unsuitable for vulnerable people, and we do not know how long their effects will last for, for example,” said Dr Rebecca Kinsley, Chief Operating Officer of DIOSynVax and a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Cambridge.“Our approach – using synthetic DNA to deliver custom designed, immune selected vaccine antigens – is revolutionary and is ideal for complex viruses such as coronavirus. If successful, it will result in a vaccine that should be safe for widespread use and that can be manufactured and distributed at low cost,” she said.DIOS-CoVax2, which hopes to go into human trials by later this year, is the latest vaccine candidate to be backed by the UK government with 1.9 million pounds in funding as part of a collaboration between DIOSynVax, which is contributing an additional 400,000 pounds to the trial, the University of Cambridge and the University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust.The team say their proposed new vaccine can be freeze-dried as a powder and is therefore heat stable, meaning that it does not need to be cold-stored. This makes transport and storage much more straightforward, particularly important in low and middle income countries, and it can be delivered through PharmaJet Tropis intradermal Needle-free Injection System, which delivers the vaccine in less than a 1/10th of a second jet injection.Professor Saul Faust, Director of the NIHR Southampton Clinical Research Facility, said: “It is especially exciting that the clinical trial will test giving the vaccine through people’s skin using a device without any needles as together with stable DNA vaccine technology this could be a major breakthrough in being able to give a future vaccine to huge numbers of people across the world.”The news comes as the University of Oxford revealed that its trials of a potential vaccine against Covid-19 being developed with AstraZeneca could be put before regulators this year if scientists are able to gather enough data.The Oxford vaccine, as it is commonly known, showed early promise in the first human trial when it produced an immune response, underlining its position as one of the leading candidates in the race to help vaccinate humans against the deadly novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cambridge-university-kicks-off-vaccine-race-to-fight-all-coronaviruses/story-ZxxOYUFHyj7Ttowos2pRqO.html
28-08-2020||World||6 killed as hurricane Laura slams Louisiana||Hurricane Laura tore through Louisiana on Thursday, killing six people and flattening buildings across a wide swatch of the state before moving into Arkansas with heavy rains. Laura’s powerful gusts uprooted trees - and four people were crushed to death in separate incidents of trees falling on homes. The state’s department of health said late Thursday that there were two more fatalities attributed to the hurricane - a man who drowned while aboard a sinking boat and a man who had carbon monoxide poisoning caused by a generator in his home. In Westlake, a chemical plant caught fire when hit by Laura, and the flames continued to send a chlorine-infused plume of smoke skyward nearly 24 hours after landfall.Laura caused less mayhem than forecasts predicted - but officials said it remained a dangerous storm and that it would take days to assess the damage. At least 867,000 homes and businesses in Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas remained without power on Thursday afternoon.“This was the most powerful storm to ever make landfall in Louisiana,” Governor John Bel Edwards told a news conference. “It’s continuing to cause damage and life-threatening conditions.” Laura’s maximum sustained winds of 150 miles per hour (241 kph) upon landfall easily bested Hurricane Katrina, which sparked deadly levee breaches in New Orleans in 2005, and arrived with wind speeds of 125 mph. The NHC said Laura’s eye had crossed into southern Arkansas late Thursday afternoon and was heading to the northeast at 15 mph (24 kph). The storm could dump 7 inches (178 mm) of rain on portions of Arkansas, likely causing flash floods. Laura was downgraded to a tropical depression by the NHC at 10 p.m., and the forecaster said it will move to the mid-Mississippi Valley later on Friday and then to the mid-Atlantic states on Saturday.Chemical plumeLaura’s howling winds leveled buildings across a wide swath of the state and a wall of water that was 15 feet (4.6 m) high crashed into tiny Cameron, Louisiana, where the hurricane made landfall around 1 a.m. A calamitous 20-foot storm surge that had been forecast to move 40 miles (64 km) inland was avoided when Laura tacked east just before landfall, Edwards said. That meant a mighty gush of water was not fully pushed up the Calcasieu Ship Channel, which would have given the storm surge an easy path far inland. Tropical-force winds were felt in nearly every parish across Louisiana - and Edwards warned that the death toll could climb as search and rescue missions increase. Cleanup begins Residents of Lake Charles heard Laura’s winds and the sound of breaking glass as the storm passed through the city of 78,000 with winds of 85 mph and gusts up to 128 mph in the hour after landfall.National Guard troops cleared debris from roads in Lake Charles on Thursday afternoon. There were downed power lines in streets around the city, and the winds tipped a few semi-trucks onto their sides. The windows of the city’s 22-storey Capital One Tower were blown out, street signs were toppled and pieces of wooden fence and debris from collapsed buildings lay scattered in the flooded streets, video footage on Twitter and Snapchat showed. Lake Charles resident Borden Wilson, a 33-year-old pediatrician, was anxious about his return home after evacuating to Minden, Louisiana.“I never even boarded up my windows. I didn’t think to do that. This is the first hurricane I’ve experienced. I just hope my house is fine,” he said in a telephone interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/six-killed-as-hurricane-laura-slams-louisiana/story-XukGtt1Ovju3sVQaCakZ7I.html
28-08-2020||World||What the conventions reveal for Biden, Trump in final stretch to November||The back-to-back presidential nominating conventions that concluded with Donald Trump’s speech on Thursday showed both sides intend to fight for the sliver of independent and moderate voters that will decide the election, each with a wildly different strategy in the final sprint to Nov. 3.A self-styled showman, Trump used all of his reality-show talents during the Republican convention this week to try to win back supporters alienated by his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, with a dire warning of a lawless America if his Democratic rival Joe Biden takes power.That illustrated the Republican strategy for the next two months: change the subject from a pandemic that has killed 180,000 Americans and shackled the U.S. economy, and blame Democrats for the violence on the streets.Republicans largely abandoned talk of the health crisis as if it had abated, in favor of reminding voters of the robust economy that existed beforehand. During the Democratic convention the previous week, Biden put the focus on holding Trump accountable for his actions during the outbreak. “These two conventions have offered very different pictures of reality, in terms of where our country is now and what our future may hold,” said Christopher Devine, an expert in U.S. elections at the University of Dayton in Ohio.Trump’s convention depicted the president as a champion of “law and order,” taking aim at voters who do not approve of his divisive and inflammatory rhetoric but may be jittery about months of protests over racial injustice and police brutality that have sometimes turned violent.“This is their attempt to nail down the base and mobilize them to get out and vote,” said Kathleen Dolan, a political science professor at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.“But I do think he is trying to peel away some of those undecided women, the people who he’s calling the ‘suburban women.’“Biden holds a seven point lead over Trump nationally, about the same position he held before the conventions, according to the Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll conducted Aug. 19-25. But it showed the race for suburban voters narrowing, a worrying sign for the former vice president who had previously expanded his lead with the crucial voting group.Suburban women - a cohort considered key to the election - have become less critical of Trump than they were in June, and Biden’s advantage with this group has narrowed to nine points in the latest poll, compared to a 15-point advantage over Trump in a similar Reuters/Ipsos poll in June.The August poll also showed Biden with a 5-point lead with college-educated white Americans, compared with his 7-point lead in July and an 11-point advantage in June.But in reaching out to suburban voters with unapologetic tough-on-crime messages, while showing little empathy for the protesters who demand racial justice, Trump may have further bolstered Black American support for Biden, already strong.Trump’s message would have been more powerful before the pandemic, said Kyle Kondik, an analyst for the University of Virginia Center for Politics.“It could be successful if Covid is not as much of a focus in the fall as it is now. That seems hard to imagine, but it’s possible,” he said.Pitch to the middleWhile lauding Trump at every turn, his convention was just as much about convincing wavering Republicans or undecided voters that Biden - who ran largely as a centrist candidate in the Democratic primary - would be beholden to the far-left elements of his party.A bevy of speakers accused Biden of turning a blind eye to the crime and violence that have marred mostly peaceful protests over racial justice, sparked by the police killing in May of George Floyd, a Black man in Minneapolis. The latest police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, in Kenosha, Wisconsin, led to a fresh wave of protests. Ford O’Connell, a Republican consultant close to the Trump campaign, said much of the convention’s programming was directed at voters who “might have soured” on Trump because of his divisive style or were still looking for reasons to support him.First lady Melania Trump expressed sympathy for those who had suffered because of the pandemic, a gesture of solace that her husband has rarely shown, and Vice President Mike Pence offered a more statesmanlike critique of Biden that may have appealed to Republicans weary of the president’s invective. Liam Donovan, a Republican strategist in Virginia not affiliated with the Trump campaign, said the unrest this week in Kenosha, a small city in Wisconsin, may bolster Trump in ways other protests have not.With the pandemic still raging and the economy struggling, “chaos and uncertainty are the best friend he has,” Donovan said. Violence as strategy?Speaking at a fundraiser on Thursday, Biden too suggested Trump welcomed chaos. “The violence you’re seeing is in Donald Trump’s administration, Donald Trump’s America. Did they forget who’s president?” Biden said. “Violence isn’t a problem in Trump’s eyes. It’s a political strategy.”The protests have been a thorny issue for Biden, who would rather keep the focus on the virus. While showing solidarity with demonstrators, he has also criticized the destruction of communities and has not backed the de-funding of police departments as called for by activists in his party.But Jim Messina, who was President Barack Obama’s campaign manager for the 2012 reelection, said Republicans’ fiery rhetoric against protests, which have been mostly peaceful despite sometimes violent clashes, could turn off independents who want an end to the bitter polarization.“Trump has gone so far right that he’s left the middle for the taking,” he said.Biden’s convention underscored profound fears within the party that voter turnout may be depressed by the pandemic as well as Trump’s efforts to limit mail-in voting, which Trump has denounced as prone to fraud despite no such evidence. Former first lady Michelle Obama urged Americans to “vote for Joe Biden like our lives depend on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-the-conventions-reveal-for-biden-trump-in-final-stretch-to-november/story-vqiXgHH4aOTZqBd5igSVqM.html
28-08-2020||World||UN rights office says Blake shooting was ‘excessive’||The UN human rights office said on Friday that the images of the shooting of Black man Jacob Blake in Wisconsin appeared to show that the police officer had used “excessive” force that was likely discriminatory in nature.“From the images available that we’ve seen at this point, the police appear to have used force against Jacob Blake that would seem to be excessive,” Rupert Colville said at a virtual briefing in Geneva, saying the use of force did not appear to comply with international standards.“It also seems highly possible that the force used against Blake could be discriminatory in nature,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-rights-office-says-blake-shooting-was-excessive/story-9lAXDHRctXbiHXLVWekiQK.html
28-08-2020||World||International reaction to resignation of Japan’s PM Abe||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the nation’s longest serving premier, said on Friday he is resigning due to health reasons.Here is what some internatinoal leaders and businesspeople are saying about Abe:Taiwan President Tsai ing-wen“Prime Minister Abe was always friendly to Taiwan, whether on policy or the rights and interests of Taiwan’s people – he was extremely positive. We value his friendly feelings towards Taiwan and hope he is healthy.”South Korea Presidential Blue House spokesperson Kang Min-seok“We regret the sudden resignation announcement of Prime Minister Abe, who has left many meaningful achievements as Japan’s longest-serving prime minister, and has also especially played a large role for development in South Korea and Japan’s bilateral relations.“We wish the prime minister a quick recovery. Our government will continue cooperation with the new prime minister and the new cabinet for improved ties with Japan.” Kwong Tae-shin, vice chairman of the federation of Korean industries, a South Korea business lobby group“President Moon Jae-in and Abe do not have good personal relationship, which contributed to adverse bilateral ties. When a new leader takes office in Japan, he can give momentum to improving bilateral relations. The two countries acknowledge that unnecessary diplomatic and trade conflicts would not help each other at a time when Covid -19 further adds difficulty to trade and business activities globally.”Marcus Schurmann, CEO, German chamber of commerce and industry in Japan“He did a lot of good with regards just to the fact that he was one of the key promoters for multilateralism and free trade and did a lot to move to Japan back onto the world stage. Japan recovered the visibility and recognition the third-largest economy in the world deserves.“We have FTAs and he also tackled a lot of difficult problems. Just thinking about relations with China, relations also with Russia, and also the difficult relationship with the U.S. at least since Trump came into power.“I do not want to say he failed, but at least what is an unsolved problem is the relationship was Korea. I think that’s the kind of problem which his successor has to work on.“He succeeded in bringing the Olympics to Tokyo. I think this is also a major achievement we should not forget.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/international-reaction-to-resignation-of-japan-s-pm-abe/story-Vz1pp6XOs7U0uygMNH5s6N.html
28-08-2020||World||Coronavirus lockdown brings new misery to long-suffering Gaza Strip||Ahmed Eissa, a father of two living in the Gaza Strip, was already struggling to make ends meet on USD 7 a day, dealing with frequent electricity cuts and worried that another war might break out.Then the coronavirus found its way into the impoverished Palestinian territory, just as Israel was tightening its blockade in a standoff with Gaza’s militant Hamas rulers, and a strict lockdown has confined everyone to their homes.Now Eissa doesn’t know how he will feed his family.“I don’t have savings and I don’t have a job, so no one would lend me money,” he said. “I won’t beg from anyone.” The restrictions imposed by Hamas are aimed at averting what many fear would be an even bigger catastrophe: a wide-scale outbreak in a population of 2 million people confined to a territory where the health care system has been devastated by years of war and isolation.The lockdown was triggered by the discovery earlier this week of the first locally spread cases, after months in which infections were confined to quarantine facilities where all returning travelers were forced to isolate for three weeks. Authorities have not yet determined how the virus made its way into the general population.Israel and Egypt imposed a crippling blockade on Gaza after Hamas seized power from rival Palestinian forces in 2007. Israel, which has fought three wars and countless smaller battles with Hamas since the takeover, says the closures are needed to prevent the militants from importing and manufacturing arms. Critics view it as a form of collective punishment.The blockade, the periodic fighting and a longstanding feud between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority in the occupied West Bank have devastated the local economy, which suffers from roughly 50% unemployment.In recent weeks, Hamas-linked groups have sent incendiary balloons and rockets into Israel in a campaign aimed at pressuring it to ease restrictions and allow large-scale development projects. In response, Israel launched airstrikes targeting Hamas military infrastructure, sealed off Gaza’s fishing zone and closed its sole commercial crossing. That forced Gaza’s only power plant to shut down for lack of fuel.Most Gazans now get just four hours of electricity a day, leaving them without refrigeration, air conditioning or electric fans for hours on end as temperatures hover around 32 degrees Celsius (about 90 degrees Fahrenheit).Eissa’s wife, Majda, says it’s “unbearable.” They struggle to sleep at night because of the heat and humidity. Her daughters sleep on the tile floor because it’s cooler. They change rooms, they open and close windows, trying to catch the occasional breeze.The water pump in their building runs on electricity, so the taps run dry when the power goes out.“The dishes and laundry are piling up in the kitchen,” she said. “Everything gets dirty, and I have to keep scrubbing and cleaning using a bottle of water. I can’t bear to stay at home anymore.” Eissa used to buy from fishermen and then resell the fish in local markets, work that he says brought in around 25 shekels ($7) a day. But the fishermen are marooned by the Israeli closures, and he’s not allowed to leave home because of the lockdown to look for other work.On Thursday, his parents, who live downstairs, sent him a pot of stew for lunch.“I don’t know what or how we will eat tomorrow,” he told The Associated Press by phone from his home in the Nusseirat refugee camp in central Gaza. He complained that he has not seen a serious government plan on how to cope with the crisis.In recent days, authorities have detected 80 cases of local transmission and two people have died from Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus. Hamas has extended the lockdown until Sunday, forcing most businesses to close and setting up checkpoints to limit movement.“We may have to shut down entire neighborhoods and lock up residents in their houses while providing them with what they need,” Tawfiq Abu Naim, the head of Hamas’ security services, told reporters.Many Gazans live day-to-day on meager wages earned at markets, shops, restaurants and cafes, all of which are shuttered.About two thirds of Gaza’s population are refugees whose families fled or were driven out during the 1948 war surrounding the creation of Israel. More than a million receive food aid from the U.N. agency for Palestinian refugees, but it has been forced to suspend food distribution due to the pandemic and is now providing only health care and basic sanitation.“We are aware that food is even more critical during such a period, and are working hard on finding a modality that will allow us to resume this massive food operation in the very near future in a safe way,” said Matthias Schmale, the UNRWA director in Gaza.UNRWA launched a program to deliver food to people’s homes in March, at the start of the global pandemic, but ended it when an initial lockdown was lifted.The electricity crisis also poses challenges, Schmale said.“If we’re not able to run our generators this would be a major challenge for continuing essential services, and in particular, health,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-lockdown-brings-new-misery-to-long-suffering-gaza-strip/story-tzKVED5Piu9RnZKDUlm8ZN.html
28-08-2020||World||UN chief asks G20 nations, including India, to invest in clean transition as they recover from Covid||UN chief Antonio Guterres on Friday renewed his call on India and other G20 countries to invest in a clean and sustainable transition as they recover from the Covid-19 pandemic, expressing deep concern over the continued support for polluting fossil fuels by nations across the world. UN Secretary-General Guterres, virtually delivering the 19th Darbari Seth Memorial Lecture by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), said that clean energy and closing the energy access gap are good business. “They are the ticket to growth and prosperity. Yet, here in India, subsidies for fossil fuels are still some seven times more than subsidies for clean energy,” he said. Coal subsidies in 2019-20 amounted to USD 2.06 billion, with overall subsidies to fossil fuels at USD 11 billion, he said. Guterres praised India for raising the proportion of renewable energy in its total consumption to 24 per cent from 17 per cent despite the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that coal-fired power use has declined by 10 per cent to 66 per cent from 76 per cent. The UN chief said that investments in renewable energy generate triple the number of jobs created by investments in fossil fuels. “With the Covid-19 pandemic threatening to push many people back into poverty, such job creation is an opportunity that can’t be missed,” Guterres said. Apart from issues of job creation and concerns about pollution and climate change, coal power plants are likely to become “stranded assets,” he said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar presided over the event and delivered the Presidential Address. The UN chief described as “deeply troubling” the continued support for fossil fuels in so many places around the world. “I have asked all G20 countries, including India, to invest in a clean, green transition as they recover from the Covid-19 pandemic. This means ending fossil fuel subsidies, placing a price on carbon pollution and committing to no new coal after 2020,” Guterres said. The Secretary-General elaborated that in India, 50 per cent of coal will be uncompetitive in 2022, reaching 85 per cent by 2025. “This is why the world’s largest investors are increasingly abandoning coal. They see the writing on the wall. It spells stranded assets and makes no commercial sense. The coal business is going up in smoke,” he said. Guterres said that he is “increasingly concerned” about the several “negative trends” and pointed out that G20 recovery packages show that twice as much recovery money has been spent on fossil fuels as clean energy. “In some cases, we are seeing countries doubling down on domestic coal and opening up coal auctions. This strategy will only lead to further economic contraction and damaging health consequences. “We have never had more evidence that pollution from fossil fuels and coal emissions severely damages human health and leads to much higher healthcare system costs,” Guterres said. India in June launched the auction process for coal blocks for commercial mining. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining, a move that opened India’s coal sector for private players, and had termed it a major step in the direction of India achieving self-reliance. Presently, despite being the world’s fourth largest producer, India is the second largest importer of the dry-fuel, Modi had said. “Allowing private sector in commercial coal mining is unlocking resources of a nation with the world’s fourth-largest reserves,” he had pointed out. Modi had said that the launch of the auction process not only marked the beginning of unlocking of the country’s coal sector from the lockdown of decades, but aimed at making India the largest exporter of coal. Guterres lauded the developed economies and many developing nations for leading by example by shifting to green solutions to meet their energy demands amid the pandemic. He cited the example of South Korea, the United Kingdom and Germany, as well as the European Union for speeding up decarbonisation of their economies in their domestic stimulus and investment plans in response to Covid-19. He noted that these countries are shifting from unsustainable fossil fuels to clean and efficient renewables, and investing in energy storage solutions, such as green hydrogen. Nigeria too has recently reformed its fossil fuel subsidy framework, Guterres said. With outdoor air pollution, largely driven by high-emitting energy and transport sources, leading to damaging pulmonary diseases – asthma, pneumonia and lung cancer, Guterres said researchers in the United States have concluded that people living in regions with high levels of air pollution are more likely to die from Covid-19. “If fossil fuel emissions were eliminated, overall life expectancy could rise by more than 20 months, avoiding 5.5 million deaths per year worldwide. Investing in fossil fuels means more deaths and illness and rising healthcare costs. It is, simply put, a human disaster and bad economics,” he said. The cost of renewables has fallen so much that it is already cheaper to build new renewable energy capacity than to continue operating 39 per cent of the world’s existing coal capacity, Guterres said, adding that this share of uncompetitive coal plants will rapidly increase to 60 per cent in 2022. PTI YAS CPS AKJ CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-asks-g20-nations-including-india-to-invest-in-clean-transition-as-they-recover-from-covid/story-zw1oY6u7bgLA0IHDJFQVTM.html
28-08-2020||World||Covid-19: UK steps up quarantine enforcement With 4,200 police referrals||UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said about 4,200 people have been referred to the police over potential coronavirus quarantine breaches, as he responded to criticism that enforcement has been too lax.The transport secretary was asked on TalkRadio on Friday about the ease with which people can ignore requirements to self-isolate for 14 days following their return from abroad, including by falsely claiming they had visited a country deemed safe by the UK government.“If people think they’re doing that risk-free, they’re not,” Shapps said. “It’s not just the fine for not quarantining, you can actually get a criminal record,” he said adding there’s also the “social risk” of passing coronavirus on.Shapps spoke a day after the UK removed Switzerland, Jamaica and the Czech Republic from its quarantine exemption list, meaning returning travellers will need to self-isolate. The UK’s top two holiday destinations -- Spain and France -- have also been designated as quarantine countries in recent weeks.The transport secretary has drawn criticism for the speed at which new restrictions are brought in, leaving holidaymakers little time to return in order to avoid having to quarantine. Airlines, airports and travel companies have said he’s killing demand in their industry and have called for a program of virus testing at airports to replace quarantine rules.But Shapps told the BBC on Friday that airport testing isn’t a “silver bullet” because it won’t catch many asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, and defended the speed with which the government has been forced to act when reviewing infection data from other countries.“You have to act once these things happen, because we’ve worked very hard to get to a situation of having reasonably low levels at home,” he said. He warned British holidaymakers “to go away with your eyes open” given they may be required to self-isolate on their return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-steps-up-quarantine-enforcement-with-4-200-police-referrals/story-vIYziDqHn6RPWTB3jONy8I.html
28-08-2020||World||Key dates in tenure of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe says he will step down due to his health.Some key dates in his life and career:Sept. 21, 1954 — Shinzo Abe is born to parents who both came from political families, and his father, Shintaro Abe, later became foreign minister.1977 — Graduated from Seikei University in Tokyo.1979 — Starts working at Kobe Steel.1993 — First elected as legislator from the southwestern prefecture of Yamaguchi.2005 — Appointed chief Cabinet secretary under Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.2006 — Is elected leader of the governing Liberal Democratic party, making him prime minister.2007 — Resigns as prime minister, citing health reasons.2012 — Starts his second stint as prime minister.2013 — Embarks on his “Abenomics” policies to encourage growth through easy lending and structural reforms.2017 and 2019 — Holds meetings with U.S. President Donald Trump, including golfing.Aug. 24, 2020 — Becomes Japan’s longest-serving prime minister by consecutive days in office, surpassing his great uncle.Aug. 28, 2020 — Abe announces he will step down, citing health reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-dates-in-tenure-of-japanese-prime-minister-shinzo-abe/story-0KmUnOGmX1uFnScF9sBJaM.html
28-08-2020||World||Abenomics, stable rule and defence spending: A look at Shinzo Abe’s 3-decade career||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Friday stepped down from his duties after a record-breaking tenure over health problems.Abe, who is the country’s longest-serving Prime Minister, has been battling with a chronic disease, ulcerative colitis, for many years. He had stepped down from office in 2007 over the issue after he became Japan’s youngest serving Prime Minister at the age of 52 in 2006 since the Second World War. Also read: Japanese PM Abe resigns over worsening healthAmid the government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis and a chain of scandals, which included the arrest of former justice minister Katsuyuki Kawai, the public support for Abe has been fading in recent months.Here’s a look at Abe efforts to follow the roadwork his family laid for Japan:* Shinzo Abe was first elected to parliament in 1993 after his father’s death and gained national recognition as he adopted a tough approach towards the doubtful neighbour North Korea as the two nations were engaged in a fight over the kidnapping of Japanese citizens by Pyongyang decades ago.* After becoming the Prime Minister in 2006, he brought in several steps to balance the country’s budget. A year later, before his resignation, he proposed a bill to instil nationalism among the Japanese youth.* In 2007, he also initiated the Qualteral Security dialogue- an informal strategic forum between United States, India, Australia and Japan through summits, military drills and information exchanges.Also read: Yen jumps as Shinzo Abe’s resignation sparks political uncertainty* Five years after stepping down from the office due to health reasons, Shinzo Abe led his conservative Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), which was ousted in 2009, back to victory in 2012 and was elected as the Prime Minister for a second time by Diet on December 26. From there on, he launched a three-pronged Abenomics strategy to beat persistent deflation and revive economic growth.* Under Abenomics, the first stage was easing of monetary policy to achieve a target of 2% inflation. The second stage was a fiscal policy which comprised providing financial assistance for small businesses, increased defence spending and a reduction in foreign aid. The third and the final stage was structural reforms which included measures such as establishing de-regulated economic zones, facilitating the digital sale of drugs and many more.* Abe boosted defence expenditure and reached out to other nations in Asia to combat China’s growing influence. He persuaded for laws to be formed that allowed Japan to exercise the right of “collective self-defence”.* Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Japanese government and the International Olympic Committee decided to postpone the 2020 Olympics to next year. However, Abe persuaded that the event should not take place until and unless the situation is contained and athletes and audience can safely be a part of it.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/abenomics-stable-rule-and-defence-spending-a-look-at-shinzo-abe-s-3-decade-career/story-DoheeOrtf06DJVTSd9vgHK.html
28-08-2020||World||Shinzo Abe, Japan’s longest-serving PM, quits||Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Japan’s longest-serving premier, said on Friday he was resigning because of poor health, ending a stint at the helm of the world’s third-biggest economy during which he sought to revive growth and bolster its defences.“I cannot be prime minister if I cannot make the best decisions for the people. I have decided to step down from my post,” Abe, 65, told a news conference.Abe has battled the disease ulcerative colitis for years and two recent hospital visits within a week had fanned questions on whether he could stay in the job until the end of his term as ruling party leader, and hence, premier, in September 2021.ALSO WATCH | Japan’s longest-serving Premier Shinzo Abe resigns over health issues As news of the resignation spread, Japan’s benchmark Nikkei average fell 2.12% to 22,717.02, while the broader Topix shed 1.00% to 1,599.70. The selling wiped $4.7 billion off Tokyo’s $5.7 trillion stock market value, which had more than doubled during Abe’s tenure.The resignation will trigger a leadership race in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) - most likely in two or three weeks - and the winner must be formally elected in parliament. The new party leader will hold the post for the rest of Abe’s term.Whoever wins the party poll is likely to keep Abe’s reflationary “Abenomics” policies as Japan struggles with the impact of the novel coronavirus, but may have trouble emulating the political longevity that may be Abe’s biggest legacy.“The broad picture remains in tact. In terms of economic and fiscal policy, the focus remains very much on reflation,” said Jesper Koll, senior adviser to asset manager WisdomTree Investments.“Longevity will be a struggle.”On Monday, Abe surpassed a record for longest consecutive tenure as premier set by his great-uncle Eisaku Sato half a century ago.Also read: How possible successors stack up if Japanese PM Shinzo Abe resigns“As head of the ruling party he worked hard on Abenomics for eight years,” said brokerage employee Naohito Kojima, 55.“There were various problems but if someone else had been leader, it’s questionable whether they could have maintained a stable government as long as Mr Abe. He did various diplomatic negotiations and I think the pros outweighed the cons.”Abe’s resignation also comes amid an uncertain geopolitical environment, including an intensifying confrontation between the United States and China and ahead of the U.S. presidential election in November.FALLING SUPPORTThe conservative Abe returned as prime minister for a rare second term in December 2012, pledging to revive growth with his “Abenomics” mix of hyper-easy monetary policy, fiscal spending and reforms. He also pledged to beef up Japan’s defences and aimed to revise the pacifist constitution.Under fire for his handling of the coronavirus and scandals among party members, Abe has recently seen his support fall to one of the lowest levels of his nearly eight years in office.Japan has not suffered the explosive surge in virus cases seen elsewhere, but Abe had drawn fire for a clumsy early response and what critics see as a lack of leadership as infections spread.In the second quarter, Japan was hit by its biggest economic slump on record as the pandemic emptied shopping malls and crushed demand for cars and other exports, bolstering the case for bolder policy action to avert a deeper recession.Abe kept his promises to strengthen defences, boosting spending on the military after years of declines and expanding its capacity to project power abroad.In a historic shift in 2014, his government re-interpreted the constitution to allow Japanese troops to fight abroad for the first time since World War Two.A year later, Japan adopted laws scrapping a ban on exercising the right of collective self-defence or defending a friendly country under attack.But Abe proved unable to revise the U.S.-drafted, post-war constitution’s pacifist Article 9, a personal mission that also eluded his grandfather, Nobusuke Kishi, who quit as premier in 1960 because of uproar over a U.S-Japan security pact.Abe resigned from his first stint as prime minister in 2007, citing ill-health after a year plagued by scandals in his cabinet and a huge election loss for his ruling party. He had since kept his illness in check with medicine that was not previously available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shinzo-abe-resigns-as-japan-s-prime-minister/story-FjY1dpvamrujzjaO5cPHSK.html
28-08-2020||World||New Zealand PM takes mask making into her own hands ahead of Covid measure||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Friday she was making her own face covering to help stop the spread of the coronavirus, raising the profile of a public health measure which will become mandatory across the country next week.The Pacific nation of 5 million people had seemed to stop community transmission of Covid-19 due to tough lockdown measures but reintroduced restrictions in its largest city, Auckland, this month following a fresh outbreak.With restrictions to scale back on Sunday, Ardern said in a Facebook post she was taking matters into her own hands before masks become compulsory on public transport across the country the following day.At a meeting with local community health leader Dave Letele, “one of the things we talked about was face coverings, and how to make your own at home,” Ardern, who faces a general election in October, wrote in the post.“I had a go at making one,” she added, alongside a photo of a patch of fabric, scissors and two elastic hair ties.A follow-up video showed her crafting a simple red mask, the colour of her Labour Party.“That’s my first time crafting,” she said. “I’m going to pull out my glitter gun later.”About 150 people have been diagnosed as part of the cluster that originated in Auckland, which is home to 1.7 million people, but daily new case numbers have slowed to single digits this week.On Friday, New Zealand reported five new cases in Auckland and seven more in quarantine after arriving from overseas.The country has so far recorded just under 1,400 Covid-19 cases, including 22 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-pm-takes-mask-making-into-her-own-hands-ahead-of-covid-measure/story-fcKZWOlPPjz2TJFTA5EclJ.html
28-08-2020||World||How possible successors stack up if Japanese PM Shinzo Abe resigns||Japan’s longest-serving prime minister, Shinzo Abe, was set to resign, national broadcaster NHK said on Friday, saying he wasnted to avert problems for the government from a worsening health condition. Abe has battled the chronic disease ulcerative colitis for years. If Abe resigned, he would probably stay on until formally replaced, which requires the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to pick a new leader to be formally elected in parliament.Here are details of some likely contenders to take the helm of the world’s third-largest economy. TARO ASOFinance minister Aso, 79, who also doubles as deputy prime minister, has been a core member of Abe’s administration. Without a clear consensus on who should succeed Abe, LDP lawmakers could elect Aso as a temporary leader if Abe resigns.In 2008, Aso was elected LDP leader and hence, premier, in hopes that he could revive the long-dominant party’s fortunes. Instead, the LDP was ousted in a historic election defeat in 2009, languishing in the opposition for the next three years.The grandson of a former premier, Aso mixes policy experience with a fondness for manga comics and a tendency towards gaffes.SHIGERU ISHIBAA hawkish former defence minister and rare LDP critic of Abe, Ishiba, 63, regularly tops surveys of lawmakers whom voters want to see as the next premier, but is less popular with the party’s lawmakers.The soft-spoken security maven has also held portfolios for agriculture and reviving local economies.He defeated Abe in the first round of a party presidential election in 2012, thanks to strong grassroots support, but lost in the second round when only MPs could vote. Then, in a 2018 party leadership poll, Ishiba lost heavily to Abe.He has criticised the Bank of Japan’s ultra-low interest rates for hurting regional banks and called for higher public works spending to remedy growing inequality.FUMIO KISHIDAKishida, 63, served as foreign minister under Abe from 2012 to 2017, but diplomacy remained mainly in the prime minister’s grip. The low-key lawmaker from Hiroshima has been widely seen as Abe’s preferred successor but ranks low in voter surveys.Kishida hails from one of the party’s more dovish factions and is seen as less keen on revising the post-war constitution’s pacifist Article 9 than Abe, for whom it is a cherished goal.The BOJ’s hyper-easy monetary policy “cannot go on forever,” Kishida has said.TARO KONODefence Minister Taro Kono, 56, has a reputation as a maverick but has toed the line on key Abe policies, including a stern stance in a feud with South Korea over wartime history.Educated at Georgetown University and a fluent English speaker, he previously served as foreign minister and minister for administrative reform.He has differentiated his conservative stances from those of his father, former chief cabinet secretary Yohei Kono, who authored a landmark 1993 apology to “comfort women”, a euphemism for women forced to work in Japan’s wartime military brothels.YOSHIHIDE SUGASuga, 71, a self-made politician and loyal lieutenant since Abe’s troubled term as premier in 2006 and 2007, was among a band of allies who pushed Abe to run again for the top post in 2012.Back in office, Abe tapped Suga as chief cabinet secretary, acting as top government spokesman, coordinating policies and keeping bureaucrats in line.Talk of Suga as a contender bubbled up in April 2019 after he unveiled the new imperial era name, “Reiwa”, for use on Japanese calendars after the enthronement of the new emperor.Suga’s clout was dented somewhat by scandals that toppled two cabinet ministers close to him last October.SHINJIRO KOIZUMIThe name of Koizumi, 39, now environment minister and the son of charismatic former premier Junichiro Koizumi, is often floated as a future premier, but many consider him too young.He shares some of Abe’s conservative views and has paid his respects at Tokyo’s controversial Yasukuni Shrine for war dead.Koizumi has projected a reforming image on the basis of efforts to cut Japan’s backing for coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel, but has typically taken care not to offend party elders.KATSUNOBU KATO, YASUTOSHI NISHIMURAAs health minister, Kato, 64, was in the limelight in the early days of Japan’s coronavirus outbreak but then Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, 57, a former trade official, emerged as point person on virus policy.In 2015, Kato, a father of four, was handed the portfolio for boosting Japan’s rock-bottom birth rate, a task that met little success. He is a former official of the finance ministry.SEIKO NODANoda, 59, has made no secret of her desire to become Japan’s first female premier. An Abe critic, the former internal affairs minister, who also held the portfolio for women’s empowerment, fell short of backing to join the race for party leader in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-possible-successors-stack-up-if-japanese-pm-shinzo-abe-resigns/story-ldVdlC0u1Sh2DpKjOOF4kL.html
28-08-2020||World||Trump accepts nomination, calls Biden ‘destroyer of American greatness’||US President Donald Trump on Thursday accepted the Republican party nomination to run for a second term with an expansive criticism of Joe Biden, his Democratic challenger, who, he said, “will be the destroyer of American Greatness” rather than the “savior of America’s soul” he is touting to be.Trump sought to portray Biden as weak on China, immigration, foreign policy and a “Trojan horse” for the radical left wing of the Democratic party that, he argued, reprising a central theme from the Republican party’s case against the former vice-president, will drive the country to utter lawlessness and chaos.The President defended his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was the central criticism of his presidency at the Democratic party’s convention the week before to nominate Biden and Kamala Harris, a historic pick as the first Indian American and Black woman to run for vice-president.Trump framed the November 3 elections as a choice between “two parties, two visions, two philosophies, or two agendas” and portrayed the second — Biden’s — as dark and dystopian, as argued by speaker after speaker at the convention, citing the anti-racism protests.Republicans have sought to blunt the Democrats’ criticism of the Trump administration’s widely acknowledged mishandling of the response to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has infected close to 6 million Americans and killed close to 180,000, by stoking fears of lawlessness citing the protests.“This election will decide whether we will defend the American Way of Life, or whether we allow a radical movement to completely dismantle and destroy it,” Trump said in the speech, at a political event held for the first time on the premises of the White House, which as the “people’s house”, is neutral ground.“Biden is a Trojan horse for socialism,” Trump said, echoing a characterisation of Biden that was first used by vice-president Mike Pence in his acceptance speech Wednesday. The insinuation is that Biden, who has been a lifelong moderate with an ability to reach across the aisle, will be under the influence of the Democratic party’s progressive wing led by Bernie Sanders, an independent senator, and young members of congress such as Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Ilhan Omar.“If Joe Biden doesn’t have the strength to stand up to wild-eyed Marxists like Bernie Sanders and his fellow radicals, then how is he ever going to stand up for you?”The president spoke for over 70 minutes, covering the entire range of the Republican party’s case against not only Biden but Democratic candidates down the ballot. At stake is not only the White House, but the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives and the Republican-led senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-accepts-nomination-calls-biden-destroyer-of-american-greatness/story-5j4PvkKIbYhA7lhxIAmtaM.html
28-08-2020||World||Japan PM Shinzo Abe to resign over his health: Reports||Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has expressed his intention to step down due to his declining health, according to reports on Friday by NHK and other Japanese media.The Prime Minister’s Office said the report could not be immediately confirmed, but that Abe was believed to be meeting top ruling officials at the party headquarters. The Liberal Democratic Party spokesman did not answer the phone.Also read: At India-Japan Summit next month, Modi and Abe to sign off on key military pactConcerns about Abe’s chronic health issues, simmering since earlier this summer, intensified this month when he visited a Tokyo hospital two weeks in a row for unspecified health checkups.Also Watch | Amid China tension, India & Japan talk business as Delhi seeks investmentsAbe, whose term ends in September 2021, is expected to stay on until a new party leader is elected and formally approved by the parliament.He had abruptly resigned from his first stint in office in 2007 due to his health, which was fueling concerns about his recent condition.Abe on Monday became Japan’s longest serving prime minister by consecutive days in office, eclipsing the record of Eisaku Sato, his great-uncle, who served 2,798 days from 1964 to 1972.But his second hospital visit on Monday eclipsed festivity for his record and has accelerated speculation and political maneuvering toward a post-Abe regime.Abe has acknowledged having ulcerative colitis since he was a teenager and has said the condition was controlled with treatment. He has not made clear if it is related to his recent health issues or hospital visits.After his recent hospital visits were reported, top officials from Abe’s Cabinet and the ruling party said Abe was overworked and badly needed rest.Also read: Japan PM Shinzo Abe may call off India trip amid protests in Assam over citizenship law: ReportHis health concerns added to speculation that Abe’s days in office are numbered, when his support ratings are already at their lowest levels due to his handling of the coronavirus pandemic and its severe impact on the economy, on top of a slew of political scandals.Shigeru Ishiba, a 63-year-old hawkish former defence minister and Abe’s archrival, is a favorite next leader in media surveys, though he is less popular within the ruling party.A low-key former Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida, Defence Minister Taro Kono, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, and economic revitalisation minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, who is in charge of coronavirus measures, are widely speculated in Japanese media as his potential successors.The end of his scandal-laden first stint as prime minister was the beginning of six years of annual leadership change, remembered as an era of “revolving door” politics that lacked stability and long-term policies.When he returned to office in 2012, Abe vowed to revitalise the nation and get its economy out of its deflationary doldrums with his “Abenomics” formula, which combines fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and structural reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-pm-shinzo-abe-to-resign-over-his-health-reports/story-Fv6jZTJ8qt1CXD9PsaoGIM.html
28-08-2020||World||National Guard deployed to Wisconsin city as racism protests continue||About 150 National Guard troops deployed to Kenosha, Wisconsin, on Thursday, part of a massive effort to ensure a second night of calm after demonstrations over the police shooting of a Black man that led to the deaths of two people earlier this week.Evening fell in the community on Lake Michigan with tensions rising after police on Thursday afternoon arrested some activists protesting the shooting of 29-year-old Jacob Blake, who was paralyzed after a white officer shot him seven times in the back.“We’re here to preserve public safety and keeping the peace,” said Major General Knapp of the Wisconsin National Guard. “That is the bottom line.”     The shooting of Blake Sunday night reignited protests in several US cities over the police killings of Black men. The death in May of George Floyd after a Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck sparked demonstrations across the globe.Right-wing counter-protesters, at times armed, have also come out in Kenosha and elsewhere, claiming they are keeping the peace and trying to stop looting and rioting. In violent clashes in Kenosha on Tuesday, a 17-year-old armed with a long gun killed two anti-racism protesters and wounded a third.The teen, Kyle Rittenhouse of Antioch, Illinois, was charged Thursday with two counts of homicide as well as attempted homicide and recklessly endangering the lives of others.    “I would like to dis-invite those people running around with long guns for no apparent reason,” Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers, a Democrat, said Thursday. “Stay home. Let people here protest peacefully.”     Officials said on Thursday that Arizona, Alabama and Michigan would be sending National Guard troops to augment security forces in the city, which until Wednesday night had been the scene of clashes between protesters and police, as well as protesters and members of a mostly white armed militia.As night fell, protests had begun, with added tension over reports that some protesters had been taken into custody during the day. A Reuters witness saw about a dozen law enforcement vehicles surround a van carrying some of the leaders of prior protests, taking the driver into custody.    “We’re all headed over to the jail to find out why,” said Clyde McLemore, president of the local chapter of Black Lives Matter. “We always do peaceful marches and that’s what we intend for tonight.”McLemore and others are calling for criminal charges to be filed against Rusten Sheskey, the officer who fired seven shots point-blank into Blake’s back. Wisconsin state police said Blake’s encounter with local officers began after a woman called for help, saying that her boyfriend was not supposed to be on the premises. Wisconsin’s attorney general, Josh Kaul, said a knife was found on the floor of Blake’s car.Sheskey was suspended for one day in 2017 for a driving-related infraction, but records disclosed so far do not indicate any pattern of excessive force.. Shockwaves from the events in Kenosha were felt across the United States as professional athletes, starting with National Basketball Association players, went on strike and anti-racism protests intensified in other cities. Republican President Donald Trump criticized the boycotts on Thursday, saying the NBA had become “like a political organization.”Democratic Senator Kamala Harris, who is running with former Vice President Joe Biden to unseat Trump in the Nov. 3 election, on Thursday praised the NBA players and addressed the shooting of Blake. “It’s sickening to watch. It’s all too familiar. And it must end,” Harris said in a speech. At a news conference on Thursday, civil rights leader Jesse Jackson blamed Trump for creating a culture in which police were encouraged to use excessive force.Players on strikeThe strike by NBA players, led by the Milwaukee Bucks, triggered a wave of similar boycotts across various professional sports on Wednesday. NBA Executive Vice President Mike Bass said games could resume on Friday or Saturday, after players agreed not to boycott the rest of the season.Civil rights attorney Ben Crump, one of the lawyers representing Blake’s family, disputed the attorney general’s report that Blake had a knife and said he posed no threat.They also referred to video footage that showed Rittenhouse, the white gunman who had just fired on protesters, walking past a battery of police without being arrested, saying it showed the stark contrast between how the police treated Blake and self-described militia members bearing firearms.The American Civil Liberties Union on Thursday called for the resignations of Sheriff David Beth, Kenosha Police Chief Daniel Miskinis and Kenosha Mayor John Antaramian, arguing they had mishandled the response to Blake’s shooting and resulting unrest.Beth, who in 2018 apologized for saying that five people of color who had been arrested for shoplifting “just need to disappear,” did not respond to a request for comment. Miskinis and Antaramian also did not reply to emails seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/national-guard-deployed-to-wisconsin-city-as-racism-protests-continue/story-tX2SuusDzN8hoLT2KYIekO.html
28-08-2020||World||China’s missiles warn United States aircraft carriers to stay away||China’s latest volley of missile launches into the world’s most hotly contested body of water served as a warning to two key US targets: aircraft carriers and regional bases.The missiles launched into the South China Sea on Wednesday included the DF-21D and DF-26B, the South China Morning Post reported, citing a person close to the People’s Liberation Army. Those weapons are central to China’s strategy of deterring any military action off its eastern coast by threatening to destroy the major sources of US power projection in the region.“China is signaling to the US, its allies and partners that China has an answer to America’s aircraft-carrier strike groups, an answer that is always available and not dependent on deployment schedules,” said Carl Schuster, an adjunct faculty member of Hawaii Pacific University’s diplomacy and military science program and a former operations director at US Pacific Command’s Joint Intelligence Center. “In effect, China is saying, ‘If the US puts two carriers in the South China Sea, we send aircraft carrier-killer missiles there.’”The launches show the US the growing cost of any armed conflict, with a high-profile reminder of China’s increasing arsenal of medium- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles. President Xi Jinping rolled out the new PLA Rocket Force as part of a massive military parade in October, showcasing a capability that is challenging American military superiority in Asia for the first time since World War II. Researchers at the University of Sydney warned last year that Chinese missiles could wipe out US bases in the “opening hours” of any conflict.A US defense official who asked not to be identified told Bloomberg News that China fired four medium-range ballistic missiles during a series of military exercises this week. They landed in the sea between China’s southern Hainan Island and the disputed Paracel chain near Vietnam, the official said, not far from where US carriers conducted drills in recent weeks to back up the Trump administration’s decision to challenge Beijing’s sovereignty claims.“Conducting military exercises over disputed territory in the South China Sea is counterproductive to easing tensions and maintaining stability,” the Pentagon said in a statement Thursday. China’s “actions, including missile tests, further destabilize the situation in the South China Sea.”The Chinese Defense Ministry reiterated its contention that the exercises weren’t directed at any one nation Thursday, without mentioning the missile launch. Still, ministry spokesman Senior Colonel Wu Qian accused “some US politicians” of trying to provoke a conflict between the two nations, telling a briefing in Beijing that China was “not afraid.”On Thursday, China’s military issued a statement saying it expelled a US Navy guided-missile destroyer that “trespassed” into waters near the Paracel Islands, calling the ship’s move “provocative.”On Thursday, China’s military issued a statement saying it expelled a US Navy guided-missile destroyer that “trespassed” into waters near the Paracel Islands. “We urge the US to stop this kind of provocative acts, to strictly manage maritime and air military operations and strictly restrain its frontline troops, so as to avoid accidents,” said Li Huamin, a spokesperson for the Chinese army’s Southern Theater Command.The missile tests appeared intended for US consumption, rather than a domestic audience, with coverage on the country’s heavily censored internet largely limited to foreign media reports. Earlier this week, China protested an American U-2 spy plane’s flight near the exercise zone in the East China Sea, presumably to glean intelligence about the country’s capabilities.“The aim is to test the capability of the troops,” said Li Jie, a Beijing-based naval expert, who stopped short of confirming the missile test. “You could say it is sending a warning to the US, as the US has increased its military activities in the South China Sea.”While the two nuclear-armed powers have many incentives to avoid a clash, the risk of escalation is growing as the US and its allies seek to push back against a more assertive Beijing. The US has in recent weeks carried out a series military exercises around the region and approved a landmark fighter jet sale to Taiwan -- against the backdrop of a national election President Donald Trump has attempted to focus on China.The US Navy’s recent exercises in the South China Sea have included joint operations by the USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan carrier strike groups last month and separate drills by the Reagan this month. Those moves followed Secretary of State Michael Pompeo’s July 13 announcement clarifying US legal opposition to Chinese claims over most of a vital shipping lane, parts of which are also claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.The real risk is a US-China conflict over Taiwan escalating to nuclear war, in part because the DF-26 can be armed with both nuclear and conventional warheads, said Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in California.“If the US were to see DF-26 missiles mobilizing to strike US aircraft carriers, the president would have to order strikes against missile bases throughout all of China, not just coastal areas,” Lewis said. “The United States would likely be striking China’s nuclear forces. It would be very hard to keep such a conflict limited.”China launched at least one other DF-26 missile in recent weeks, in what the Communist Party’s Global Times newspaper characterized as a response to the US carrier operations. The paper had earlier touted its “carrier-killer” missiles on Twitter -- drawing a terse rebuttal from the US Navy, which noted that the warships were nonetheless “still there.”Although China has yet to prove the ability to sink a moving warship, the cost of losing a $10 billion aircraft carrier, the troops and hardware on board -- and all the American military prestige they represent -- would be immeasurable. That threat is causing Pentagon planners to consider less conspicuous ways of projecting force, with an internal Defense Department study recommending reducing the country’s carrier fleet to nine from 11 now, Defense News reported in April.The PLA’s missile arsenal is among the many factors driving the US’s shifting security posture in Asia, with the Pentagon cycling B-1 bombers to and from Guam, where they’re more vulnerable to attack. Concern about the threat also contributed to the US’s decision to withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty with Russia and seek three-way arms talks with China.Even before this week’s launches, China had quietly ramped up tests of ballistic missiles, in an apparent attempt to gauge their operational capabilities. The country fired off in excess of 100 ballistic missiles last year, more than three times North Korea’s record tally, Kyodo News reported in February, citing people familiar with the matter.China possesses what former Pacific Commander Harry Harris has called “the largest and most diverse missile force in the world,” with scores of different weapons in development. The DF-21D can travel more than 1,500 kilometers (900 miles), while the DF-26 can deliver warheads an estimated 4,000 kilometers, far enough to reach Guam.There are “real questions” about whether China’s carrier-killers actually work, said Ankit Panda, a Stanton senior fellow with the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The latest tests may provide the US a chance to better understand their performance.“The People’s Liberation Army Rocket Force has a busy testing schedule and this was likely operational training,” Panda said. “But certainly it’ll be a reminder to folks in Washington that China’s military continues to modernize and can deny access to the US Navy in parts of the Asia-Pacific.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-missiles-warn-united-states-aircraft-carriers-to-stay-away/story-hr1v8S1CCiKJ1IOhpdxFVN.html
28-08-2020||World||Joe Biden will be destroyer of American greatness: Donald Trump||Seeking another four years in the White House, US President Donald Trump has slammed Democratic rival Joe Biden’s record as a “shameful roll call of the most catastrophic betrayals” and said his victory will endanger the nation and destroy the American greatness.Speaking from the South Lawn of the White House, Trump, 74, said that no one will be safe under a Biden administration.Launching a blistering attack on his November challenger, Trump said: “Joe Biden is not the saviour of America’s soul.” “He is the destroyer of America’s jobs, and if given the chance, he will be the destroyer of American greatness.” “Biden’s record is a shameful roll call of the most catastrophic betrayals and blunders in our lifetime. He has spent his entire career on the wrong side of history,” Trump said in his acceptance speech after the Republican Party re-nominated him as its presidential candidate.Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are being challenged by Biden and his Indian-origin running mate Senator Kamala Harris in the November 3 election.“Biden voted for the NAFTA disaster, the single worst trade deal ever enacted; he supported China’s entry into the World Trade Organisation, one of the greatest economic disasters of all time. After those Biden calamities, the United States lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs,” Trump alleged.During the 2016 campaign, Trump had pledged to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Trump later replaced it with the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). Trump said that despite all of the American greatness as a nation, everything that the US has achieved is now endangered.“This is the most important election in the history of our country. At no time before have voters faced a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, or two agendas,” he said.“This election will decide whether we save the American dream, or whether we allow a socialist agenda to demolish our cherished destiny. It will decide whether we rapidly create millions of high paying jobs, or whether we crush our industries and send millions of these jobs overseas, as has foolishly been done for many decades,” he said.Trump told Americans that their vote will decide whether they protect law-abiding Americans, or whether they give free rein to violent anarchists, agitators, and criminals who threaten the citizens.“And this election will decide whether we will defend the American way of life, or whether we allow a radical movement to completely dismantle and destroy it,” he said.Referring to the last week’s Democrat National Convention, Trump said that Biden and his party repeatedly assailed America as a land of racial, economic, and social injustice.“So tonight, I ask you a very simple question: How can the Democrat Party ask to lead our country when it spends so much time tearing down our country?” he asked.“In the left’s backward view, they do not see America as the most free, just, and exceptional nation on earth. Instead, they see a wicked nation that must be punished for its sins. Our opponents say that redemption for you can only come from giving power to them. This is a tired anthem spoken by every repressive movement throughout history,” he said. Trump alleged that for 47 years, Biden took the donations of blue-collar workers, gave them hugs and even kisses, and told them he felt their pain – and then he flew back to Washington and voted to ship their jobs to China and many other distant lands.“Joe Biden spent his entire career outsourcing the dreams of American Workers, offshoring their jobs, opening their borders, and sending their sons and daughters to fight in endless foreign wars,” he alleged.“Four years ago, I ran for President because I could not watch this betrayal of our country any longer. I could not sit by as career politicians let other countries take advantage of us on trade, borders, foreign policy and national defence,” he said.Trump alleged that as vice president Biden supported the Trans Pacific Partnership which would have been a death sentence for the US auto industry.“He repeatedly supported mass amnesty for illegal immigrants. He voted for the Iraq War; he opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden; he opposed killing (Qasem) Soleimani; he oversaw the rise of ISIS, and cheered the rise of China as “a positive development” for America and the world. That’s why China supports Joe Biden and desperately wants him to win,” he said.“China would own our country if Joe Biden got elected. Unlike Biden, I will hold them fully accountable for the tragedy they caused,” Trump said.He called Biden a Trojan horse for socialism. “Make no mistake, if you give power to Joe Biden, the radical left will defund Police Departments all across America. They will pass federal legislation to reduce law enforcement nationwide. They will make every city look like Democrat-run Portland, Oregon. No one will be safe in Biden’s America,” he said, referring to violent protests there.On November 3, he urged his countrymen to send the Democrats led by Biden a thundering message they will never forget! “Joe Biden is weak”.“He takes his marching orders from liberal hypocrites who drive their cities into the ground while fleeing far from the scene of the wreckage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-will-be-destroyer-of-american-greatness-donald-trump/story-rsqio1DotvSPrFx03NCAZM.html
28-08-2020||World||Singapore battles record dengue outbreak with more mosquitoes||From the high balcony of a Singapore public housing block, an environment official steadies his mosquito launcher, the latest contraption authorities have devised to combat a record outbreak of the tropical disease dengue.With the click of a button and a whirr of a fan, a hatch opens and 150 lab-reared male mosquitoes are sent flying, off in search of a female companion with whom they can mate but not reproduce.The dengue virus, which in rare cases can be fatal, is carried and spread to humans by infected mosquitoes.But Singapore’s specially bred mosquitoes carry a bacteria that prevents eggs from hatching, and “compete with the wild type,” leading to “a gradual reduction of the mosquito population,” said Ng Lee Ching, the official heading the Wolbachia project, named after the bacteria.Some areas with high mosquito populations have seen up to 90% declines using this technique, she added.Singapore - a tiny Southeast Asian island nation of 5.7 million people - has recorded more than 26,000 dengue cases this year, surpassing the previous annual record of around 22,000 in 2013 with four months still remaining.Twenty people have died of the disease this year, which can cause extreme fever that leads to internal bleeding and shock. By comparison, only 27 people have died of the coronavirus in the city-state out of more than 56,000 infections.A new strain of the disease, combined with unseasonably wet weather and coronavirus lockdowns that left construction sites and other mosquito breeding grounds undisturbed, are all seen as factors behind the dengue outbreak.That has put the onus on traditional deterrents like fogging, fining people for flouting anti-mosquito regulations like leaving plant pots full of stagnant water, and deploying novel techniques such as the Wolbachia project.In government laboratories, scientists breed the bacteria-carrying mosquitoes in rows of pallets - separating the male pupae for release in the worst-hit dengue areas. Wolbachia mosquitoes can’t transmit diseases such as dengue, and only female mosquitoes bite humans. When male Wolbachia mosquitoes mate with females that don’t carry the bacteria, none of the resultant eggs will hatch. The strategy has been successful in Australia but some experts say it might have its limits in dense urban areas such as Singapore. “You’ve got to flood the island with these mosquitoes, and people get annoyed,” said Paul Tambyah, senior consultant at Singapore’s National University Hospital.“They’re not going to grab the mosquito and examine and see whether it’s a male or female. They’re going to swipe them away, and that kind of defeats the purpose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-battles-record-dengue-outbreak-with-more-mosquitoes/story-r0OuSVw6jLxLfb9iSnQdcM.html
28-08-2020||World||California, Florida, New York, Texas will not follow new US Covid-19 testing plan||Several large US states are not heeding new federal health officials’ calls to reduce Covid-19 testing of some exposed to the virus, joining a broad rebuke of the Trump administration by public health leaders.Arizona, California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Texas, New Jersey and New York all plan to continue to test asymptomatic people who have been exposed to Covid-19, despite new guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suggesting that such tests may not be needed. “The current Texas guidance recommends testing for all close contacts of a confirmed case because it allows for early case identification among people who are at a higher risk of infection,” a spokesman for the Texas Department of State Health Services in a statement. “There’s not a planned change at this point.”California and New York made similar statements. The Florida Department of Health said asymptomatic testing was continuing while the new CDC recommendations were evaluated, and Texas also said it would evaluate. The CDC said this week that people exposed to Covid-19 but not symptomatic may not need to be tested, shocking doctors and politicians and prompting accusations the guidance was politically motivated.Even before the CDC guidance, coronavirus testing in the United States had dropped. The United States tested on average 675,000 people a day last week, down from a peak in late July of over 800,000 people a day.Nationally, cases have fallen for five weeks in a row but infections are surging again in the U.S. Midwest with four states reporting record one-day increases in cases on Thursday as the U.S. death toll climbed above 180,000. The CDC had previously recommended testing of all people who had close contact with someone who was diagnosed with Covid-19. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the state of New York would not be abiding by the new guidance and challenged the assertion that politics played no role in the change.“This 180-degree reversal of Covid-19 testing guidelines is reckless, and not based on science and has the potential to do long-term damage to the (CDC’s) reputation,” Cuomo said in a joint statement, along with the governors of New Jersey and Connecticut, who also said their states would not be following the CDC’s guidance. Admiral Brett Giroir, the assistant secretary for health at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), said there was no political pressure from the administration. He said that testing asymptomatic patients too early could produce false negatives and contribute to the virus’s spread. CNN and The New York Times reported on Wednesday that U.S. public health officials were ordered by high-level members of the Trump administration to push forward with the changes. CDC Director Robert Redfield issued a statement on Thursday that “everyone who needs a Covid-19 test, can get a test,” but “everyone who wants a test does not necessarily need a test.”Globally, many nations advocate early testing. The World Health Organization (WHO) on Thursday said that resources permitting, people exposed to the novel coronavirus should be tested even if they do not show immediate symptoms of infection.European governments have used broad testing and isolation to control the virus. France, for instance, recommends that anyone who thinks they need a test should get one and in Germany, people with close contact of 15 minutes or more with a person with Covid-19 are advised to have a test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-florida-new-york-texas-will-not-follow-new-us-covid-19-testing-plan/story-1hWa1cYDqYLqKj5xSZJwTL.html
28-08-2020||World||Bill Gates’ nuclear venture plans reactor to complement solar, wind power boom||A nuclear energy venture founded by Bill Gates said Thursday it hopes to build small advanced nuclear power stations that can store electricity to supplement grids increasingly supplied by intermittent sources like solar and wind power.The effort is part of the billionaire philanthropist’s push to help fight climate change, and is targeted at helping utilities slash their emissions of planet-warming gases without undermining grid reliability.TerraPower LLC, which Gates founded 14 years ago, and its partner GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy, plan to commercialize stations called Natrium in the United States later this decade, TerraPower’s President and Chief Executive Chris Levesque said.The project has not previously been reported.Levesque said the companies are seeking additional funding from private partners and the U.S. Energy Department, and that the project has the support of PacifiCorp, owned by billionaire Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, along with Energy Northwest and Duke Energy.If successful, the plan is to build the plants in the United States and abroad, Levesque said. By 2050 “we would see hundreds of these reactors around the world, solving multiple different energy needs,” Levesque said. The 345-megawatt plants would be cooled by liquid sodium and cost about $1 billion (760 million pounds) each. Nuclear power is a top source of virtually emissions-free electricity, but many plants are shutting in the United States because of high costs and competition from solar and wind. Critics of advanced nuclear have also warned that smaller nuclear is even more expensive than conventional. The new plants, however, are designed to complement a renewable power because they will store the reactor power in tanks of molten salt during days when the grid is well supplied. The nuclear power could be used later when solar and wind power are low due to weather conditions.Molten salt power storage has been used at thermal solar plants in the past, but leaks have plagued some of the projects. Levesque said the Natrium design would provide more consistent temperatures than a solar plant, resulting in less wear and tear. Gates, chairman of TerraPower’s board, said in a statement that Natrium innovation was “extremely difficult” but its team had “the expertise, commercial experience, and the resources necessary” to develop viable reactors.Levesque said Natrium plants would first be built in the United States and other developed countries, but could later spread to countries that do not have yet have nuclear power. Nonproliferation experts have warned that advanced nuclear projects could become targets for attack because their uranium fuel would be more highly enriched and more easily converted to fissile material than conventional fuel. Levesque said the plants would reduce proliferation risks because they reduce overall nuclear waste. Gates had initially hoped to build an experimental nuclear plant near Beijing with state-owned China National Nuclear Corp. But last year, TerraPower was forced to seek new partners after the Trump administration restricted nuclear deals with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bill-gates-nuclear-venture-plans-reactor-to-complement-solar-wind-power-boom/story-fwjwmnZXq43UebVUNEoDKK.html
28-08-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi, White House call on Covid-19 aid ends without a breakthrough||A telephone call on coronavirus economic relief between US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and an adviser to President Donald Trump ended on Thursday with no breakthrough, and Pelosi said talks would not resume until the Trump administration agreed to $2.2 trillion in aid.Pelosi and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows spoke by phone for about 25 minutes, the first chance in weeks to resume stalled Covid-19 aid negotiations. But the two sides soon appeared to be as far apart as ever. “This conversation made clear that the White House continues to disregard the needs of the American people as the coronavirus crisis devastates lives and livelihoods,” Pelosi said in a statement following her conversation with Meadows. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We’re willing to come down - meet them in the middle - that would be $2.2 trillion, and when they’re ready to do that we’ll be ready to discuss and negotiate the particulars,” the top Democrat in Congress told reporters.“But we can’t go any less because we have to meet the needs of the American people. We will not shortchange them, we will not nickel and dime them.”Asked in an interview on Fox News about the talks, Meadows said he sought funding for enhanced unemployment benefits, help for small businesses and money for schools and daycare. “What did we get from her is 25 minutes of nothing,” he said.Meadows and Pelosi are two of the four negotiators who were involved in talks on legislation to help Americans and businesses suffering from a coronavirus pandemic that has now killed nearly 180,000 people. The others are Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer. The talks broke down on Aug. 7, with the sides far apart on major issues including the size of unemployment benefits for tens of millions of people made jobless by the pandemic, aid for state and local governments and funding for schools and food support programs. The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives in May passed a $3.4 trillion coronavirus relief bill, but Pelosi offered to reduce that sum by $1 trillion. The White House, which had proposed $1 trillion in aid, rejected the offer. Democrats have since demanded that the White House agree to “meet in the middle.” The Pelosi-Meadows phone call came hours before Trump was due to accept his party’s nomination on Thursday evening for a second term. Some Democrats have said they did not expect the White House to resume negotiations in earnest until after this week’s Republican National Convention. On Wednesday, Meadows said in an interview with Politico that he was not optimistic negotiations would resume soon.US airlines have warned that massive layoffs will be coming without further aid during the pandemic.They are hoping a fresh stimulus bill will extend for six months $25 billion in payroll aid that expires on Sept. 30 under legislation approved earlier this year.The head of the union representing American Airlines pilots, who are facing 1,600 furloughs, sent a letter to Trump on Wednesday urging action to extend the package and prevent tens of thousands of layoffs on Oct 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-white-house-call-on-covid-19-aid-ends-without-a-breakthrough/story-TwF0QEyvBhkO6TpUOM64NM.html
28-08-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic deepens Mexico’s homeless crisis||After he lost his job because of the coronavirus pandemic, Andres Hernandez suddenly found himself trying to survive on the streets with his wife and children, joining Mexico’s growing ranks of homeless.Their story is an increasingly common one in a country where poverty was rampant and many jobs were precarious even before the disease tore through the economy.“It never crossed my mind that it would happen to me,” Hernandez said. “I never thought of it and I ended up on the street.”The printing workshop where Hernandez was employed closed in March, and the 50-year-old had to move out of the room he rented near Mexico City.He travelled with his family to the capital to look for work, initially sleeping in an area of a hospital where relatives of coronavirus patients spent the night.But when they became scared of falling ill themselves, they moved to a nearby park where life became even tougher.“Many lowlifes asked us (for money) for soda, but we didn’t have any, and they got aggressive. They even stole my shoes,” said Hernandez, who now wears women’s sneakers that he was given.He was later separated from his wife and children, who were taken by volunteers to a Christian shelter in the state of Hidalgo, north of the capital.Millions of jobs lost The coronavirus has killed more than 60,000 people in Mexico and ravaged its economy, the second-largest in Latin America.More than a million formal jobs have been wiped out, according to the Mexican Institute of Social Security.The informal sector, which employs more than half of all workers, was hit even harder.Around 12 million Mexicans stopped working in April after quarantine measures were introduced, official figures showed, although the situation has since improved as the economy gradually reopens.The authorities estimated that 2.8 million people were out of work in June.Those with no safety net are in danger of falling into a new life for which they are unprepared.“These stories are very hard,” said Luis Enrique Hernandez, whose non-profit group El Caracol helps Mexico City’s homeless.People who are used to living on the street “learn to survive, but these people don’t,” he said.Gabriel Contreras eked out a living helping on street stalls until the virus arrived and he was thrown out of the cheap hotel where he was staying.“They told me that I couldn’t live there anymore, because I might bring the virus back from the street,” the 38-year-old said. Soaring poverty The economic crisis has taken a heavy toll on Mexico’s poor, whose numbers are rapidly swelling.The number of people living in poverty could climb to 62.2 million in 2020 -- almost half the population -- from 52.4 million in 2018, according to Mexico’s National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy.Across the region, the pandemic is expected to impoverish 45 million people, raising the total to 231 million, around 37 percent of the population, according to the UN Economic Commission for Latin America.While Hernandez is still unemployed, Contreras recently began working at a pizzeria that hires homeless people.The two men sleep in a small room paid for by El Caracol in the working-class neighborhood of Nezahualcoyotl in the urban sprawl surrounding Mexico City.Their neighbors, 35-year-old Claudia Garcia and her husband Alberto, used to sell ice creams, but their merchandise was confiscated due to a lack of permits a few months ago.After the hostel where they were staying for 900 pesos (around $40) a week was closed because of the pandemic, they began living in a park, where someone tried to rape her.“It was very difficult because one day you’re sleeping in your bed and the next in the grass, in the street,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-deepens-mexico-s-homeless-crisis/story-0mqdSOr9pBrpaOHTCPTZ0J.html
28-08-2020||World||South Korea stops short of toughest coronavirus measures despite case rise||South Korean authorities stopped short of shifting the country up to the highest level of social distancing measures on Friday, despite recording another triple-digit increase in daily new coronavirus cases.Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun instead said the government would extend the current Phase 2 social distancing, which was due to expire this weekend, for at least another week.“Phase 3 social distancing is the choice of last resort given the economic and social ripple effect,” Chung said at a government meeting.The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) reported 371 new coronavirus cases as of midnight Thursday, bringing the country’s total to 19,077, including 316 deaths.After using aggressive tracing and testing to contain a large outbreak earlier this year, South Korea suffered a setback this month after a church cluster spread to a political rally.Health authorities had reimposed Phase 2 social distancing rules on Aug. 16 in the Seoul metropolitan area, expanding the measures nationwide last week.Earlier this week, Seoul officials ordered the closure of most schools in the capital and surrounding areas. Seoul has also mandated that masks to be worn in both indoor and outdoor public places, and has ordered places like churches, nightclubs, karaoke bars and other high-risk venues closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-stops-short-of-toughest-coronavirus-measures-despite-case-rise/story-BL61CoiDREIgsAym0zsnTP.html
28-08-2020||World||Those exposed to Covid-19 but without symptoms should be tested: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) reiterated its advice on Thursday that resources permitting, people exposed to the novel coronavirus should be tested even if they do not show immediate symptoms of infection.The comments come after the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said this week that people exposed to Covid-19 but not symptomatic may not need to be tested, surprising doctors and politicians and prompting accusations the guidance was politically motivated.Maria Van Kerkhove, a WHO epidemiologist, said the UN agency recommended suspected cases and their contacts be tested, if possible, but the focus should be on people displaying signs of infection. “Our recommendations are to test suspect cases, and we have definitions for those. We have definitions of contacts, and who contacts are of confirmed cases, and make recommendations that contacts, if feasible, should be tested regardless of the development of symptoms,” Van Kerkhove told a news briefing.“The focus, though, is on those that do develop symptoms.”Mike Ryan, head of WHO’s emergencies programme, said there was a rationale for testing asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic people, in particular where clusters of infections were emerging, but that broad population testing was costly and unrealistic. “It absorbs huge amounts of resources,” Ryan said. “So we need to focus on testing the right individuals, we need to focus on maximizing the testing in the clusters, and we need to focus on the quality of the testing, and the speed of the turnaround.”WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said an international mission the agency is organising to travel to China to investigate the virus’s origin would go to Wuhan, where the first infections were detected late last year. Tedros added that an advance team that went to Beijing in July had been in touch with the Wuhan Institute of Virology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/those-exposed-to-covid-19-but-without-symptoms-should-be-tested-who/story-exxNDIjNhk0i0ATEhjwR5K.html
28-08-2020||World||New Zealand mosque shooter can serve life term in homeland: Australian PM Morrison||Australia’s prime minister said Friday he was open to allowing an Australian who slaughtered 51 worshipers at two New Zealand mosques to serve his life sentence in his homeland, but the victims’ wishes were paramount in any decision.Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 29, was sentenced Thursday to life in prison without parole after pleading guilty to the Christchurch massacre in March last year.Prime Minister Scott Morrison said while no official request had been made by New Zealand authorities for Australia to take Tarrant back, the Australian government was open to such a proposal.“I’m pleased that that terrorist will never be released anywhere ever again,” Morrison said. “We’ll have an open discussion and look at the issues around this.”“Most of all, we’re concerned about what the views of the families would be for those affected, and we want to do the right thing by them,” he added.New Zealand Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters is among the most vocal proponents for Australia taking responsibility for imprisoning Tarrant and taking the cost off New Zealanders.Tarrant is the first person to be denied a possibility of parole in New Zealand, and he has to be kept under enhanced security for his own safety.Peters said lawmakers could only consider making a request to Australia since Tarrant was sentenced.Also read: ‘I looked him in the eyes’: Pakistan family watches mosque shooter face justice in New Zealand“Given this unprecedented circumstance and all the regard to the cost of looking after the victims in our country who survived and their families and also the 50 million New Zealand dollar plus ($33 million) downstream in real terms of providing safety for this terrorist, then the sound, reasonable, logical thing to do would be to ask Australia to step up,” Winston told Nine Network television.Winston said sending Tarrant back could require the parliaments of both countries to pass special laws because the near-neighbors do not have a legal framework for prisoner transfers.Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton said he would take legal advice on whether Tarrant might become eligible for parole if he entered Australia’s prison system.“We’d have to look at what happened in terms of parole or the way in which our legal system would work here,” Dutton said.“First priority is to keep him in jail for the rest of his life, and we’ll work very closely with New Zealand on any request that they provide,” Dutton added.New Zealand has criticized Dutton for deporting increasing numbers of New Zealander criminals once they have been released from Australian prisons, accusing the minister of exporting Australia’s problems.Some criminals have lived in Australia since childhood and have no family or social networks in their homeland. The New Zealand government argues that Australia should take responsibility for them turning to crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-mosque-shooter-can-serve-life-term-in-homeland-australian-pm-morrison/story-tzd4nnJy1oRN00TPCBUVtK.html
28-08-2020||World||Hurricane Laura thrashes Louisiana, but damage is less than predicted||One of the strongest hurricanes ever to strike the US, Laura barrelled across Louisiana on Thursday, shearing off roofs, killing at least six people and maintaining ferocious strength while carving a destructive path hundreds of miles inland.A full assessment of the damage wrought by the Category 4 system was likely to take days. But despite a trail of demolished buildings, entire neighbourhoods left in ruins and more than 875,000 people without power, a sense of relief prevailed that Laura was not the annihilating menace forecasters had feared.“It is clear that we did not sustain and suffer the absolute, catastrophic damage that we thought was likely,” Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said. “But we have sustained a tremendous amount of damage.”He called Laura the most powerful hurricane to strike Louisiana, meaning it surpassed even Katrina, which was a Category 3 storm when it hit in 2005.The hurricane’s top wind speed of 150 mph (241 kph) put it among the strongest systems on record in the US Not until 11 hours after landfall did Laura finally lose hurricane status as it plowed north and thrashed Arkansas, and even by Thursday evening, it remained a tropical storm with winds of 40 mph (65 kph).The storm came ashore in low-lying Louisiana and clobbered Lake Charles, an industrial and casino city of 80,000 people. On Broad Street, many buildings had partially collapsed, and those that didn’t were missing chunks. Windows were blown out, awnings ripped away and trees split in half in eerily misshapen ways. Police spotted a floating casino that came unmoored and hit a bridge. At the local airport, planes were overturned, some on top of each other.In front of the courthouse was a Confederate statue that local officials had voted to keep in place just days earlier. After Laura, it was toppled.“It looks like 1,000 tornadoes went through here. It’s just destruction everywhere,” said Brett Geymann, who rode out the storm with three family members in Moss Bluff, near Lake Charles. He described Laura passing over his house with the roar of a jet engine around 2 a.m.“There are houses that are totally gone. They were there yesterday, but now gone,” he said.Not long after daybreak gave the first glimpse of the destruction, a massive plume of smoke visible for miles began rising from a chemical plant. Police said the leak was at a facility run by Biolab, which manufactures chemicals used in household cleaners such as Comet bleach scrub and chlorine powder for pools.Nearby residents were told to close their doors and windows and turn off air conditioners. State and federal aircraft headed into the skies over the coast to look for signs of any other industrial damage.The fatalities included a 14-year-old girl and a 68-year-old man who died when trees fell on their homes in Louisiana, as well as a 24-year-old man who died of carbon monoxide poisoning from a generator inside his residence. Another man drowned in a boat that sank during the storm, authorities said.No deaths had been confirmed in Texas, which Republican Gov. Greg Abbott said would amount to “a miracle.” Chevellce Dunn considered herself among the fortunate after a night spent huddling on a sofa with her son, daughter and four nieces and nephews as winds rocked their home in Orange, Texas. Left without power in sweltering heat, she didn’t know when power might be restored.“It ain’t going to be easy. As long as my kids are fine, I’m fine,” Dunn said.President Donald Trump planned to visit the Gulf Coast this weekend to tour the damage.More than 580,000 coastal residents evacuated under the shadow of a coronavirus pandemic and calls for masks and social distancing to combat its spread. It was the largest evacuation order since the pandemic began and many people followed it, filling hotels and sleeping in cars. Although not everyone fled from the coast, officials credited those who did leave for minimizing the loss of life.Forecasters had warned that the storm surge of 15 to 20 feet would be “unsurvivable” and could push 40 miles inland. Edwards said the storm surge wound up being measured in the range of 9 feet to 12 feet — still bad, but far from the worst forecast. He was hopeful that damaged homes could quickly be made habitable.The priority, Edwards said, was search and rescue, followed by efforts to find hotel or motel rooms for those unable to stay in their homes. Officials in Texas and Louisiana have both sought to avoid traditional mass shelters for evacuees over fears of spreading Covid-19, and Edwards was concerned that the storm would inhibit coronavirus testing as schools and universities are reopening.Bucky Millet, 78, of Lake Arthur, Louisiana, considered evacuating but decided to ride out the storm with family due to concerns about the coronavirus. He said a small tornado blew the cover off the bed of his pickup and made him think the roof on his house was next.“You’d hear a crack and a boom and everything shaking,” he said.The force of Laura’s winds blew out every window of the living room in the Lake Charles house where Bethany Agosto survived the storm with her sister and two others. They sought safety in a closet when the hurricane was at its worst.“It was like a jigsaw puzzle in this closet. We were on top of each other, just holding each other and crying,” Agosto said.The storm was so powerful that it could regain strength after turning east and reaching the Atlantic Ocean, potentially threatening the densely populated Northeast.Laura hit the US after killing nearly two dozen people on the island of Hispaniola, including 20 in Haiti and three in the Dominican Republic, where it knocked out power and caused intense flooding.It was the seventh named storm to strike the US this year, setting a new record for US landfalls by the end of August. The old record was six in 1886 and 1916, according to Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach.Laura was tied with five other storms for fifth most powerful US hurricane, behind the 1935’s Labor Day storm, 1969’s Camille, 1992’s Andrew and 2004’s Charley, Klotzbach said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-laura-thrashes-louisiana-but-damage-is-less-than-predicted/story-3QISa3NcS1sW5dsCSHz6VK.html
28-08-2020||World||Court panel allows federal execution of Kansas girl’s killer||A panel of federal appeals court judges is letting the US government proceed with the planned execution of a man who kidnapped, raped and killed a 10-year-old Kansas girl.The three-judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on Thursday evening acted to let the execution of Keith Dwayne Nelson go forward Friday afternoon as scheduled. The court acted less than 24 hours after a lower court judge had halted his execution, saying the law requires the government to get a prescription for the drug it plans to use.In an opinion early Thursday, US District Judge Tanya Chutkan said a federal law that regulates drugs requires the government to get a prescription for the lethal injection drug pentobarbital, which it plans to use.But in a brief, unsigned order Thursday evening, the panel of three appeals court judges acted to let the execution go forward, saying “there are insufficient findings and conclusions that irreparable injury will result from the statutory violation found by the district court.” The panel included two judges appointed by President Barack Obama, Cornelia Pillard and Robert Wilkins, and Neomi Rao, who was appointed by President Donald Trump.Nelson attorney Dale Baich in an email to The Associated Press: “We are carefully reviewing the order and considering the options available to us.”Nelson’s execution is scheduled to be the fifth carried out this year by the federal government at the death chamber of the federal prison in Terre Haute, Indiana. The executions followed the Trump administration’s announcement last year that it would resume executing death row inmates for the first time since 2003.Nelson was sentenced to death after pleading guilty to the 1999 kidnapping, rape and killing of Pamela Butler. The 10-year-old was rollerblading in front of her Kansas home when Nelson abducted her. He later raped her before strangling her to death with a wire.Chutkan’s 13-page opinion putting Nelson’s execution on hold came hours after the government carried out the execution of Lezmond Mitchell, the only Native American on federal death row, despite objections from many Navajo leaders. With Mitchell’s execution, the federal government has now carried out more executions in 2020 than it had in the previous 56 years combined. Two more executions are scheduled for September. All of the executions have been carried out using pentobarbital.Though the inmates who were put to death by the federal government have sought to halt their executions, challenging the drug’s use, among other things, the Supreme Court has sided with federal officials, in two cases reversing lower court orders keeping the government from carrying out scheduled executions.Chutkan, who was nominated by President Barack Obama, said in her opinion that it is “undisputed that a prescription is required to dispense pentobarbital in the ordinary course.”“It is also undisputed,” she wrote, “that the government has not obtained a prescription — nor does it intend to — for the use of pentobarbital in Nelson’s execution.”But Chutkan said that under previous court decisions, when pentobarbital is being used for an execution it is still subject to the requirements in the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act so a prescription is required.The government has argued that pentobarbital is not subject to the act when used for lethal injections.Pentobarbital depresses the central nervous system and, given in a high dosage, causes the heart to stop. It doesn’t have widespread medical uses, though is often used by veterinarians to anesthetize or euthanize animals.For three federal executions in the early 2000s, the government used different drugs, but pharmaceutical companies later refused to allow those drugs to be used in executions, forcing the federal and many state governments to seek an alternative. Attorney General William Barr last year approved reworked execution protocols that called for using pentobarbital alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/court-panel-allows-federal-execution-of-kansas-girl-s-killer/story-nMfubaklIEgKvQ7Xppo3KO.html
28-08-2020||World||Teenager in Wisconsin shootings charged with six criminal counts||Kyle Rittenhouse, a teenager arrested and charged in the shootings in Wisconsin that led to the death of two people and injury of another, faces six criminal counts, according to a court document released on Thursday.The charges against Rittenhouse in Kenosha County include first degree intentional homicide in the death of Anthony Huber, who was carrying a skateboard when he was gunned down. A conviction on that charge alone carries a life sentence.Also read: Police shooting lays bare Wisconsin’s deep partisan divideRittenhouse, 17, is being held in Illinois where he lives. He has a court hearing on Friday for his requested extradition to Kenosha. The public defender assigned to his case in Lake County, Illinois has declined to comment.The charges were detailed in a criminal complaint released by Kenosha County’s clerk of courts. The document is the first detailed disclosure of the case against Rittenhouse for his role in the violence that erupted on Tuesday night when armed militia members clashed with protesters in the city.The protests started after Jacob Blake was shot multiple times in the back by a police officer on Sunday afternoon.Rittenhouse was also charged with causing the death of Joseph Rosenbaum, a 36-year-old demonstrator who he shot in the parking lot of a used car dealer just before midnight on Tuesday, according to the complaint, which draws on multiple cell phone videos and witness accounts.Also read: Police shooting of Black man stirs unrest in Wisconsin cityOne video records Rittenhouse saying “I just killed somebody” after shooting Rosenbaum, the complaint says.Rittenhouse was carrying a Smith & Wesson AR-15 style rifle and “was not handling the weapon very well,” one witness states in the complaint. “The recovered magazine for this rifle holds 30 rounds of ammunition,” the complaint says.The complaint says one video shows Huber, with a skateboard in his right hand, approaching Rittenhouse when he was on the ground. Huber appears then to try and grab the gun from Rittenhouse with his left hand before Rittenhouse fires.“Huber staggers away, taking several steps, then collapses to the ground. Huber subsequently died from this gunshot wound,” the complaint says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/teenager-in-wisconsin-shootings-charged-with-six-criminal-counts-complaint/story-zMAuMFjDn0LiK8s5nl9ElL.html
28-08-2020||World||Another UK honour for Indian-origin spy Noor Inayat Khan||Noor Inayat Khan, the Indian-origin British spy who worked as an undercover radio operator in Nazi-occupied France in 1943, was captured and killed in the Dachau concentration camp in 1944 at the age of 30, is to be honoured through another London landmark on Friday.The Bloomsbury home of Khan – 4, Taviton Street – will be marked prominently with a ‘blue plaque’ by English Heritage, a charity organisation that manages and cares for over 400 historic monuments, buildings and sites.Founded in 1866, the ‘blue plaques’ scheme celebrates links between notable figures of the past and the buildings in which they lived and worked. Khan was posthumously awarded the George Cross and the French Croix de Guerre, and in 2012 Princess Anne unveiled her bust in Gordon Square Gardens.Born in Moscow in 1914 to a Sufi teacher and an American mother, Khan was educated in London and Paris. She worked for the Special Operations Executive in Paris in 1943 during the Second World War.Khan evaded capture by the Nazis and continued to send messages to London for far longer than expected, but was betrayed, arrested and interrogated, but refused to give up secrets. She has been described as “one of the silent heroes of the Second World War”.The blue plaque will be unveiled on Friday by Khan’s biographer, journalist-writer Shrabani Basu, which will be webcast on Facebook at 7 pm UK time, English Heritage said.Basu, said: “When Noor Inayat Khan left this house on her last mission, she would never have dreamed that one day she would become a symbol of bravery. She was an unlikely spy. As a Sufi she believed in non-violence and religious harmony. Yet when her adopted country needed her, she unhesitatingly gave her life in the fight against fascism”.“It is fitting that Noor Inayat Khan is the first woman of Indian origin to be remembered with a Blue Plaque. As people walk by, Noor’s story will continue to inspire future generations. In today’s world, her vision of unity and freedom is more important than ever,” she added.Several Indians have been honoured through ‘blue plaques’ over the years on London houses and venues with which they were associated, including Rammohun Roy, Mahatma Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel and B R Ambedkar.Anna Eavis of English Heritage said: “We’re so pleased to be able to continue unveiling our 2020 blue plaques with this virtual ceremony after a very quiet few months. I am particularly delighted to start with Noor Inayat Khan, whose courage was unfaltering even in the face of such extreme danger.”According to a brief account of Khan’s work, on June 16, 1943, she was flown to France to serve as a wireless operator for the largest Resistance organisation in Paris. Soon after her arrival, the network collapsed and the Gestapo made multiple arrests.Khan chose to stay in order to keep communications open with her French comrades; she was by this time the only transmitting agent in Paris. By keeping on the move and changing her appearance, she was able to evade the Germans for three-and-a-half months while continuing to transmit messages.As Paris became increasingly dangerous, she prepared to leave for England in mid-October. She may well have succeeded had she not been betrayed on October 14 and taken with her transmitter to the Gestapo’s Paris headquarters.She escaped at least twice only to be recaptured and, after refusing to agree not to try again, became the first agent to be sent to Germany ‘for safe custody’. At Pforzheim Prison she was considered highly dangerous and kept in isolation with only short periods out of chains but despite beatings refused to cooperate.On September 11, 1944 she was sent with three other female agents on the 250-mile journey to the Dachau concentration camp. Evidence given at the War Crimes trial and by surviving prisoners revealed that Khan was singled out for a night of torture and then, like her comrades, was shot in the head.Some witnesses said that the women were still alive when they were cremated on the morning of September 13, 1944. Khan had revealed nothing to her captors, not even her real name, and her last word was said to have been ‘Liberté!’She was awarded the Croix de Guerre with Gold Star on January 16, 1946 and the George Cross on April 5, 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/another-uk-honour-for-indian-origin-spy-noor-inayat-khan/story-idy1Cn7HDm8ZQ5sQoUVbUO.html
28-08-2020||World||Kim Jong Un says Typhoon Bavi caused little damage: Report||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said Typhoon Bavi had caused only minimal damage to the country after making landfall early on Thursday, state news media KCNA reported on Friday.Kim, who visited South Hwanghae province southwest of Pyongyang, had issued an alert to prevent crop damage and casualties from the typhoon, which made landfall near the capital, dumping heavy rains and uprooting trees.“He said that the scale of damage from Typhoon No. 8 is smaller than expected, adding that he had worried a lot and he feels it is fortunate to have that amount of damage,” said KCNA, referring to Kim’s remarks.North Korea, which has also been stepping up efforts to combat the novel coronavirus, had referred to Typhoon Bavi as the No. 8 storm.Kim’s visit came after the KCTV state television showed scenes of damage from the storm. Heavy rains earlier this month that caused flooding and damaged crops have raised concerns about food supplies in the isolated country.Kim praised party officials for taking measures to reduce casualties and minimize damage from the storm. The state news agency did not give further details on the scale of the damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-says-typhoon-bavi-caused-little-damage-report/story-uzeJbliZa8ZWMgPfzzGwGM.html
28-08-2020||World||China’s missiles warn US aircraft carriers to stay away||China’s latest volley of missile launches into the world’s most hotly contested body of water served as a warning to two key US targets: aircraft carriers and regional bases.The missiles launched into the South China Sea on Wednesday included the DF-21D and DF-26B, the South China Morning Post reported, citing a person close to the People’s Liberation Army. Those weapons are central to China’s strategy of deterring any military action off its eastern coast by threatening to destroy the major sources of US power projection in the region.“China is signaling to the U.S., its allies and partners that China has an answer to America’s aircraft-carrier strike groups, an answer that is always available and not dependent on deployment schedules,” said Carl Schuster, an adjunct faculty member of Hawaii Pacific University’s diplomacy and military science program and a former operations director at US Pacific Command’s Joint Intelligence Center. “In effect, China is saying, ‘If the U.S. puts two carriers in the South China Sea, we send aircraft carrier-killer missiles there.’”The launches show the US the growing cost of any armed conflict, with a high-profile reminder of China’s increasing arsenal of medium- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles. This is challenging American military superiority in Asia for the first time since World War II. President Xi Jinping rolled out the new PLA Rocket Force as part of a military parade in October, showcasing a capability that researchers at the University of Sydney warned could wipe out U.S. bases in the “opening hours of a conflict.”A US defense official who asked not to be identified told Bloomberg News that China fired four medium-range ballistic missiles during a series of military exercises this week. They landed in the sea between China’s southern Hainan Island and the disputed Paracel chain near Vietnam, the official said, not far from where US carriers conducted drills in recent weeks to back up the Trump administration’s decision to challenge Beijing’s sovereignty claims.The Chinese Defense Ministry reiterated its contention that the exercises weren’t directed at any one nation Thursday, without mentioning the missile launch. Still, ministry spokesman Senior Colonel Wu Qian accused “some U.S. politicians” of trying to provoke a conflict between the two nations, telling a briefing in Beijing that China was “not afraid.”The tests appeared intended for US consumption, rather than a domestic audience, with coverage on the country’s heavily censored internet largely limited to foreign media reports. Earlier this week, China protested an American U-2 spy plane’s flight near the exercise zone in the East China Sea, presumably to glean intelligence about the country’s capabilities.“The aim is to test the capability of the troops,” said Li Jie, a Beijing-based naval expert, who stopped short of confirming the missile test. “You could say it is sending a warning to the U.S., as the U.S. has increased its military activities in the South China Sea.”While the two nuclear-armed powers have many incentives to avoid a clash, the risk of escalation is growing as the US and its allies seek to push back against a more assertive Beijing. The US has in recent weeks carried out a series military exercises around the region and approved a landmark fighter jet sale to Taiwan -- against the backdrop of a national election President Donald Trump has attempted to focus on China.The US Navy’s recent exercises in the South China Sea have included joint operations by the USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan carrier strike groups last month and separate drills by the Reagan this month. Those moves followed Secretary of State Michael Pompeo’s July 13 announcement clarifying U.S. legal opposition to Chinese claims over most of a vital shipping lane, parts of which are also claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.China launched at least one other DF-26 missile in recent weeks, in what the Communist Party’s Global Times newspaper characterized as a response to the US. carrier operations. The paper had earlier touted its “carrier-killer” missiles on Twitter -- drawing a terse rebuttal from the US Navy, which noted that the warships were nonetheless “still there.”Although China has yet to prove the ability to sink a moving warship, the cost of losing a $10 billion aircraft carrier, the troops and hardware on board -- and all the American military prestige they represent -- would be immeasurable. That threat is causing Pentagon planners to consider less conspicuous ways of projecting force, with an internal Defense Department study recommending reducing the country’s carrier fleet to nine from 11 now, Defense News reported in April.The PLA’s missile arsenal is among the many factors driving the US’s shifting security posture in Asia, with the Pentagon cycling nuclear-capable B-1 bombers to and from Guam, where they’re more vulnerable to attack. Concern about the threat also contributed to the US’s decision to withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty with Russia and seek three-way arms talks with China.Even before this week’s launches, China had quietly ramped up tests of ballistic missiles, in an apparent attempt to gauge their operational capabilities. The country fired off in excess of 100 ballistic missiles last year, more than three times North Korea’s record tally, Kyodo News reported in February, citing people familiar with the matter.China possesses what former Pacific Commander Harry Harris has called “the largest and most diverse missile force in the world,” with scores of different weapons in development. The DF-21D can travel more than 1,500 kilometers (900 miles), while the DF-26 can deliver warheads an estimated 4,000 kilometers, far enough to reach Guam.There are “real questions” about whether China’s carrier-killers actually work, said Ankit Panda, a Stanton senior fellow with the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The latest tests may provide the US a chance to better understand their performance.“The People’s Liberation Army Rocket Force has a busy testing schedule and this was likely operational training,” Panda said. “But certainly it’ll be a reminder to folks in Washington that China’s military continues to modernize and can deny access to the U.S. Navy in parts of the Asia-Pacific.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-missiles-warn-us-aircraft-carriers-to-stay-away/story-ZxpmQppvPeUpzrVcp17KsM.html
28-08-2020||World||Covid-19: Infected UK low-wage earners to be paid to stay home||Individuals infected by coronavirus who are employed or self-employed and unable to work from home are to be paid £130 (approx. Rs 13,000) for their 10-day period of self-isolation from September 1, the Boris Johnson government announced on Thursday.The opposition Labour criticised the amount, saying it is “nowhere near far enough”, while other critics alleged it is a “slap in the face” of those infected. As of Wednesday evening, there have been 41,465 deaths and 328,846 cases in hospitals and care homes the UK.The payment will be trialled in Blackburn with Darwen, Pendle and Oldham in north England, where infections have risen in recent weeks, before being rolled out across the country, the Department of Health and Social Care said.Health secretary Matt Hancock said eligible individuals who test positive will receive £130 for their 10-day period of self-isolation. Other members of their household, who have to self-isolate for 14 days, will be entitled to a payment of £182 (approx. Rs 18,000).Non-household contacts advised to self-isolate will also be entitled to a payment of up to £182, tailored to the individual length of their isolation period. The payment will be available to people receiving state financial benefits such as Universal Credit or Working Tax Credit.Hancock said: “The British public have already sacrificed a great deal to help slow the spread of the virus. Self-isolating if you have tested positive for Covid-19, or have come into contact with someone who has, remains vital to keeping on top of local outbreaks”.“This new payment scheme will help people on low incomes and who are unable to work from home to continue playing their part in the national fight against this virus”.However, Mohammed Iqbal, leader of the Pendle borough council, told The Guardian: “I welcome the fact that there is a financial package in place but the figures that the government has introduced are really a slap in the face for those people who sadly test positive.”Jim McMahon, Labour MP for Oldham West & Royton, said it was nowhere near enough to replace the lost income of people such as taxi drivers, warehouse workers, delivery drivers and security operators.Andy Burnham, mayor of Greater Manchester, said the amount was “nowhere near far enough” and would “leave people without enough to live on”, adding: “The health secretary has already said that he couldn’t live on statutory sick pay at £95 a week. So how can an announcement like this work?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-infected-uk-low-wage-earners-to-be-paid-to-stay-home/story-51SKEnbjGhLEIVGwmooHXN.html
28-08-2020||World||Donald Trump says India 2nd largest country to conduct Covid-19 tests after US||President Donald Trump has said that the US has conducted the highest number of Covid-19 tests, much more than any other country with India being the second largest. Trump, in his acceptance speech to the Republican National Convention which re-nominated him as the Republican Party’s presidential candidate, said that the US has conducted 40 million more tests than the next closest nation which is India. “We developed a wide array of effective treatments, including a powerful antibody treatment known as convalescent plasma,” he said on Thursday night. “You saw that on Sunday night when we announced that we’ll save thousands and thousands of lives. Thanks to advances, we have pioneered the fatality rate. And you look at it and you look at the numbers, it has been reduced by 80 per cent since April,” Trump said. Trump delivered his speech to a group of over 1,000 supporters on the South Lawn of the White House. Many did not wear face masks and were seated close together. The US is among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country anywhere in the world, Trump said. “The European Union’s case fatality rate is nearly three times higher than ours, but you don’t hear that. They don’t write about that. They don’t want to write about that. They don’t want you to know those things. “All together, the nations of Europe have experienced a 30 per cent greater increase and excess mortality than the United States,” said the president. In recent months, the United States and the world has been hit by the once-in-a-century pandemic that China allowed to spread around the globe. “They could have stopped it but they allowed it to come out. We are grateful to be joined tonight by several of our incredible nurses and first responders. Please stand and accept our profound thanks and gratitude,” he said. Criticising his Democratic Party rival Joe Biden, Trump said unlike the former vice president, his administration focuses “on the science, the facts and the data” to handle the coronavirus pandemic. “If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died.,,,,” Trump, who had earlier dismissed the pandemic as not a major health issue for the country, said. Many Americans, including him, sadly lost friends and cherished loved ones to this horrible disease, Trump said. “As one nation, we mourn, we grieve, and we hold in our hearts forever the memories of all of those lives that had been so tragically taken. So unnecessary. “In their honour, we will unite. In their memory, we will overcome. And when the China virus hit, we launched the largest national mobilisation since World War II. Invoking the Defence Production Act, we produced the world’s largest supply of ventilators. Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator which is a miracle,” Trump added. More than 180,000 people have died from the coronavirus pandemic since the start of the outbreak in the US, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Nearly 5.8 million cases have also been confirmed nationwide, making America the worst-hit country in the world after the disease emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan last year. Trump repeatedly claimed there would be a coronavirus vaccine by the end of the year, and also implied it could be available sooner.“We are delivering life-saving therapies, and will produce a vaccine before the end of the year, or maybe even sooner,” Trump said at one point.“We will defeat the virus, end the pandemic, and emerge stronger than ever before.“Nobody thought it could ever be done this fast. We are producing them in advance, so that hundreds of millions of doses will be quickly available,” Trump said.“We will have a safe and effective vaccine this year,” Trump assured, “and together we will crush the virus.” “Unfortunately, from the beginning, our opponents have shown themselves capable of nothing but a partisan ability to criticise,” Trump said. “When I took bold action to issue a travel ban on China, Joe Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic. If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died,” he said. According to the India’s Union Health Ministry data, India’s Covid-19 tally stands at 33,87,500 while the death toll at 61,529. A cumulative total of 3,94,77,848 samples have been tested up to August 27 with 9,01,338 samples being tested on Thursday in India, according to the ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-india-2nd-largest-country-to-conduct-covid-19-tests-after-us/story-72TiUspnCzJMokmA8q99GL.html
28-08-2020||India||Sonia urges Centre to listen to students, party holds protests||New Delhi: The Congress on Friday held nationwide protests over the Centre’s decision to hold the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September, with party chief Sonia Gandhi urging the government to listen to the voices of students and act according to their wishes. Opposition parties such as the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha have demanded that the NEET and JEE exams be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country. However, the central government has repeatedly made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions. Separately, six ministers of opposition-ruled states – West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry – moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking a review of its order allowing the Centre to hold the NEET and JEE exams. The Congress also held an online campaign -- “Speak Up For Student Safety” – with the party’s leaders and workers extending support to students on social media. “I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up, is the most important issue, not only for you but for your family,” Sonia Gandhi said in her video message to the students. “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding students’ future, it is important that it is taken with your concurrence,” she added. “I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government,” Sonia Gandhi said in the nearly minute-long video posted on the party’s Twitter handle. The NEET is slated to be held on September 13, while engineering entrance exam JEE-Main is scheduled between September 1 and 6. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also urged the government to hold a conversation with students and take a decision after arriving at a consensus. “NEET-JEE aspirants’ safety should not be compromised due to the failures of the government. Government must listen to all stakeholders and arrive at a consensus,” he tweeted. Rahul Gandhi also tagged a video of him urging the government to listen to students.“You are the students and you are going to take this country to new heights. Everybody understands what has happened over the last three or four months,” he said. “Everybody understands the mishandling of Covid-19, the devastation that has been caused, the economic destruction, the pain that this country has had to bear. Now what I don’t understand is why you should be held responsible and why further pain should be imposed on you,” Rahul Gandhi told the students. He said the government has been incompetent, and asked why the Centre should force anything on students. “It is important that the government listens to the students, they are wise, they have the interest of this country at heart and any decision that is made with regard to these exams is made after a conversation and after a consensus has been developed and this is my message to the government,” he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government cannot ignore the voices of students and those of their parents. “They are the future of our country. With the rising scale of the pandemic, is it fair to expose them to infection in this manner? Are they not our children, too?” she asked. Among the Congress leaders who joined the party’s online campaign by posting their messages and videos on social media were Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Jitin Prasada and Raj Babbar.Later, addressing a joint virtual press conference with Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said that the Centre had claimed that thousands of students have downloaded their admit cards. “I don’t understand what kind of argument is this. If that is the case, then if someone has the life insurance, does it mean that he will die soon?” he asked. Singhvi said that the students were under tremendous pressure. “The mental status of our students is probably more important than physical constraints. They are under pressure, they are under pain, they are under fear, with 6 months of Covid and they are suddenly forced because you threw yourself into a corner…without thinking of alternatives for 3-4 months, into a sudden press button….start giving exams from September 1,” he said. O’ Brien said the petitioners do not want the students to lose the academic year and the petition aims to ensure better safety and security measures for the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-urges-centre-to-listen-to-students-party-holds-protests/story-3shbMacWG0wR5qP7CSyPFI.html
28-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh gets additional 1.50 crore man-days under MNREGA||Union rural development ministry has agreed to increase man-days under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGA) for Chhattisgarh, officials said on Friday.As per a press note issued by the Chhattisgarh government, the Central government gave the approval for these man-days on Friday. The Chhattisgarh government had earlier written to the Centre and demanded additional man-days.“Now the total target for financial year 2020-21 will be 15 crore man-days which was earlier 13.50 crore. This decision was taken during a meeting of the state panchayat department and Union panchayat officials via video conferencing,” said the state government.Officials further informed that so far 9.46 crore man-days have been used and more than 48.70 lakh people in over 26 lakh families have been employed in Chhattisgarh. “About 79,000 families have received over 100 day employment,” the statement claimed. Chhattisgarh Panchayat minister TS Singh Deo had written a letter to the Central government for the increase in man-days in May.The state minister had said that a minimum of 200 days should be mandated with prompt payment. In normal times, Chhattisgarh has an average of 32 to 36 workdays per card which has a limit of 100 days. About 3% job card holders do 100 days. Hence for the really needy and marginalised, it is a just requirement to be provided 200 days’ option, the minister stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-gets-additional-1-50-crore-man-days-under-mnrega/story-lfCzJw2hvrG3V3N7rlxPrI.html
28-08-2020||India||7 injured in acid attack over dairy dispute in Madhya Pradesh||As many as seven persons sustained injuries when attacked by two brothers with acid at a village in Sehore district, the neighbouring district of Bhopal, on Thursday night, said police on Friday. The injured include Pradeep Bairagi, Babloo, Gurucharan, Deependra Kuldeep, Bindu Dangi and Rameshwar Mongia, all residents of Khaikheda village under Amhadpur police station. They were referred to a Bhopal hospital after their initial treatment in Sehore. Their condition is said to be out of danger, said police. Sameer Yadav, additional superintendent of police, Sehore, said, “The attack was allegedly made by Deepak Thakur and his brother Rahul Thakur who are residents of the same village and run a dairy at the village when the two groups had an altercation over some petty issue at the dairy. The victims sustained injuries on their faces.” The police officer said, “An FIR has been lodged against the accused and one of them has been arrested. A manhunt has been lodged to arrest the other. We are trying to gather information as to from where the accused got the acid and for what purpose. The investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-injured-in-acid-attack-over-dairy-dispute-in-madhya-pradesh/story-jGGPrqyn1hrfwR98LmsKfP.html
28-08-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate college building of agricultural university in Jhansi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the college and administration buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University through video conferencing on Saturday. The university is located in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi district.“At 12:30 PM tomorrow, the College and Administration Buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi would be inaugurated. This would improve the education infrastructure & contribute to cutting edge research in agriculture as well as further farmer welfare,” PM Modi said in a tweet. At 12:30 PM tomorrow, the College and Administration Buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi would be inaugurated. This would improve the education infrastructure & contribute to cutting edge research in agriculture as well as further farmer welfare.During the inauguration event, PM Modi will also interact with students of the university.The university started its first academic session in 2014-15 but was functioning from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute as the current buildings were under construction.It offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-college-building-of-agricultural-university-in-jhansi/story-VzDGACShrgQiYuIxMkkIQM.html
28-08-2020||India||Odisha faces flood-like situation, NDRF and Rapid Action Force on standby||With water level continuing to rise in major rivers of the state, including Mahanadi, Brahmani and Subarnarekha, a medium to large scale flood is expected in coastal Odisha even as floodwaters wreaked havoc in Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore districts, officials said on Friday.Jyotirmaya Rath, engineer-in-chief, water resources department, said around 200 mm average rainfall was recorded in the upper catchment areas of Mahanadi in Chhattisgarh in the last 24 hours, 40 sluice gates from the Hirakud reservoir in Sambalpur district have been opened. Around 10.5 lakh cusec floodwater released from Hirakud Dam to the river will reach Mundali barrage in the next 36 hours and cause the flood in Cuttack, Khordha, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Nayagarh districts.“Due to heavy rainfall in the upstream catchment of Hirakud dam and heavy inflow into the reservoir, release of water from the dam through the spillway will exceed 11 lakh cusec by midday of August 29,” cautioned Rath.Odisha special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said 39 units of National Disaster Response Force, Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and Fire Services have been stationed in 11 districts. Five more teams of the NDRF would be deployed by Saturday morning.As many as 1,276 villages of 54 blocks in 10 districts - Angul, Bolangir, Balasore, Boudh, Cuttack, Jajpur, Dhenkanal, Nuapada, Deogarh and Sonepur - have been affected by the floods. Nearly, 3, 83,046 people in 552 villages are now marooned and 2,757 houses have been damaged, as per the preliminary assessment by officials.Meanwhile floodwaters continued to wreak havoc in Jajpur district where a swollen Brahmani river entered villages of Bari and Rasulpur block. In Bari block, firemen rescued two families including a two-month-old baby from their houses submerged under floodwater in Bari block. Around 10 Test Relief Embankments in Bari and one in Duttapur in Jajpur district have breached leading to submergence of villages. In Bhadrak district, the situation was grim in seven blocks of the district, including Bhandaripokhari and Dhamnagar. A team of the NDRF in Bhandaripokhari block of Bhadrak rescued a 28-year-old pregnant woman from her home.In Balasore district, a swollen Subarnarekha river submerged 10 Gram Panchayats under Baliapal block and five GPs under Bhograi block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-faces-flood-like-situation-ndrf-and-rapid-action-force-on-standby/story-lfWBHsXIkqlBrTYuKxkxKJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Man hit by car, dragged on bonnet in Delhi||A motorcyclist was injured after being hit by a car and dragged on its bonnet in Delhi’s Vikaspuri area, police said on Friday.The victim Chetan, a resident of Pankha Road, Uttam Nagar, was riding his motorcycle on Thursday night when he was hit by the car on Najafgarh Road, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said.He along with the pillion rider confronted the car driver and the passenger identified as Durgesh Tiwari (31) and Karan Sethi (44), however, they refused to step out. Chetan then stood in front of the car in a bid to block its way and force the driver to come out, Purohit said.However, the driver pressed the accelerator and hit Chetan who fell on the bonnet and grabbed the wipers while the vehicle started moving towards Janakpuri.Few minutes later, he lost grip, fell down and got stuck under the car but the driver refused to stop the vehicle and dragged him for around 150 metres even as Chetan cried for help. The car was forced to stop by some people but the driver and the passenger managed to flee only to be caught by police later.Chetan, who has a shop in Uttam Nagar, was taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital from where he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital, they said.A case under sections 279 (Rash driving) and 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on the statement of Chetan and both the have been arrested in connection with the incident, the DCP said. The officer said both the accused are car dealers and stay in Uttam Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-hit-by-car-dragged-on-bonnet-in-delhi/story-geDfXNSEmqdg1eSwCcmXQN.html
28-08-2020||India||Parents, Lucknow made me what I’m today, says Pushpendra||Popular adage, ‘you can’t take Lucknow out of a Lucknowite,’ stands true with writer-director Pushpendra Nath Misra. The maker of the feature film ‘Ghoomketu’ and web series ‘Taj Mahal 1989’ credits his upbringing for his success which reflects in his work as well. Praising his hometown the filmmaker said, “Besides, parents, the city of Lucknow too has been like a guardian to us! It’s a city of subtle and fine people. ‘Hum log bahut bareekiyon wale log hain’ (We take care of very finer nuances). A city of quality and taste. And, that’s why once a Lucknowite always a Lucknowite.” He remembers Bashir Badr’s couplet which he feels is apt for the city: ‘Koi Haat Bhi Na Milayega Jo Gale Milogo Tapak Se Miloge, Yeh Naye Mijaz Ka Sheher Hai Jara Fasle Se Mila Karo.’ “That’s what you inherit when you grow up in the city of nawabs,” he said. Alumni of Mahanagar Boys Inter College, Pushpendra joined National School of Design, Mumbai in 1992. “We were six siblings. My father RN Misra was a government advocate where as my mother Manorama Misra Shastri was a homemaker with Prabhakar and DLit degrees in Sanskrit. So, I had Hindi in my blood. The understanding of writing came from her, the craft of speaking and dialogue writing came from my father. And, humour came from the city of Lucknow,” he shared. He recalls an incident from school days, “My family has been very progressive. My elder brother Amrendra Nath Misra got me ticket of Mira Nair’s film ‘Salam Bombay’ when I was in class eighth. This film opened my mind and inspired me towards filmmaking.” After NID he worked with film maker/designer Muzaffar Ali while he was making ‘Daman’. Telling us more about his early days, he said, “During NID I also wrote and directed some plays where I got to discover myself in this field. Then I joined an ad agency and after few years I launched my ad company Flying Saucer and we made over 400 commercials in 16 years.” Later, Pushpendra decided to try hand in long format projects, “I wrote ‘Ghoomketu’ and directed it. Since, it got stuck so I wrote ‘Taj Mahal’ which we shot last year in Lucknow. Today we have a writer’s room where we are developing new plots for web series as well as feature films. Next in pipeline is a web series in 2020.” His first film released four years after it was made. “Sometimes, commercial aspect of the release does not work in favour of the content. For all kinds of films theatre was not being conducive but OTT has given the range and variety. This enabled interesting ideas to come to the fore which were earlier blocked somewhere. ‘Taj Mahal 1989’ released in February but I’m still getting positive messages from across the world,” Pushpendra said. On a concluding note, Pushpendra remembers few lines from the poem he wrote in school, “Woh unchee minaare, woh bhari bazaarein, woh Chowk ki galiyan, woh gulab ki kaliyan, woh Raja ki thandai, woh khoye ki mithai, woh mandir ka bhikari, woh ikkey ki sawari, woh hawaon main khushboo, woh Salma ke abbu, ba adab yeh zabaan, Masjid ki wah azaan, ba husne yeh bahaar, yeh logon main pyaar…Meri muchoon ka tav hai yeh sheher Lucknow!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/parents-lucknow-made-me-what-i-m-today-says-pushpendra/story-Cl67Ee7tPFjxC4tRJOJvdM.html
28-08-2020||India||Jharkhand allows intra-state bus services, cites upcoming exams||With two major entrance exams lined up next month, the Jharkhand government has allowed opening of the hospitality services and intra-state bus transport in the state even as it extended the lockdown related restrictions, under which several economic activities would continue to remain on the banned list, till September 30. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday issued fresh directions for implementations of the guidelines during the unlock period as the number of Covid-19 cases continue to witness steep hike in the state. Several activities such as large gatherings for social, political and religious functions, schools, colleges and educational institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, gymnasium, parks, theatre, auditoriums and assembly halls would continue to remain shut. Inter-state bus transport and religious centres, barring those allowed by the Supreme Court, would also remain shut.“A number of national competitive examinations are scheduled in September which necessitates the resumption of public bus transport and also the opening of hospitality units in view of the large number of examinees and their guardians,” said the state government in a statement. The notification underlined that all standard operating procedures (SOP) fixed by the union home ministry for public transport and hospitality units would have to be followed. Sharing a copy of the notification on social media, chief minister Hemant Soren appealed to people to practise social distancing and take preventive measures such as usage of face masks besides abiding by the lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-allows-intra-state-bus-services-cites-upcoming-exams/story-FhBIkzS9pepvBHCpi7uohN.html
28-08-2020||India||Minister invites suggestions for ‘people-centric’ science and tech policy||To ensure a wide-ranging consultation process for the country’s fifth science, technology and innovation policy (STIP 2020), the union science minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday inaugurated an interactive session with thought leaders and a web portal seeking inputs from people. The minister urged the stakeholders and the people of the country as well as those living abroad to participate in the process of developing the bottom-up policy to support the rapidly changing science, technology and innovation ecosystem. “The entire science, technology and innovation ecosystem has undergone rapid transformation in terms of relevance, scope, and scale in the recent years. These must be captured into a policy to develop a long development trajectory and vision for the country. Moreover, Covid-19 has introduced some new learning and added dimensions to the STI system,” he said. With the Prime Minister calling for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, the minister said that there was a greater need to focus on the development of indigenous technologies and encourage grassroots level innovation. “For the last six years, the departments of sciences have been working on enhancing the quality and relevance of science and technology, translating the science to innovation that will reach the society, connecting the whole ecosystem – academia, industry, start-ups, and aligning science to national priorities. Currently, Covid-19 and other areas such as water, energy, waste processing are challenges of the future. STIP 2020 will be an overarching policy to guide this,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology in the first ‘in conversation with’ series. The STIP 2020 will follow the core principles of being decentralised, evidence-informed, bottom-up, experts-driven, and inclusive. “India’s first science policy came in 1958 that focussed on promoting a scientific temperament in the country, the second one in 1983 came when India was denied technologies after Pokhran and aimed at making the country technologically self-reliant, the third came in 2003 and for the first time focussed on connecting science and technology to the society. The fourth policy came in 2013 during the international decade of innovation,” said Dr Akhilesh Gupta, head of the STIP secretariat. “Although the last two had some bottoms up approach and wider consultations, the 2020 policy will be completely decentralised and focus on the five core principles or the pillars,” he said. The STIP 2020 formulation policy has been divided into four interlinked tracks. Track-I involves extended public and expert consultation and creates a repository of voices; Track-II will focus on experts-driven thematic group consultations for evidence-informed recommendations. For this, 21 thematic groups with over 150 experts have already been constituted. Track-III connects ministries, departments, and States/UTs to create regional ecosystems and action plans. Track-IV will integrate inputs from all the tracks and engage stakeholders at national and global levels. “In the new policy, people will need to contribute. It has to be people centric – look around us and discuss with people how to best use science and tech to find solutions to their problems. Even a layman can sometimes give the best of solutions. The policy will help us in blending research and development with indigenous thinking. There are already so many things delivered within labs but in the journey from labs to industry and to the people at affordable prices there are bottlenecks,” said Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-invites-suggestions-for-people-centric-science-and-tech-policy/story-r4t7j5sc9Ul9HiQouWaIDI.html
28-08-2020||India||Row over Sudarshan TV programme reaches court; SC and high court give different orders||A private television channel’s controversial programme which claimed a ‘big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’ Friday came under judicial scrutiny before the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court.The apex court refused to restrain pre-broadcast ban on Sudarshan TV from telecasting ‘Bindas Bol’ programme but the High Court in an interim order stayed the telecast of the show which was scheduled for today itself at 8PM.The news on the issue came from the high court where a bench of Justice Navin Chawla restrained the Sudarshan TV from telecasting its programme on the petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia University.It also emerged that the matter was also dealt by an apex court bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph which said it has to first circumspect in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views.A lawyer said going by the judicial discipline and precedence, the apex court order would prevail on the Delhi high court’s order and in all likelihood the matter can be transferred to the apex court on upcoming dates of hearing.The apex court bench said “At this stage, we have desisted from imposing a pre-broadcast interlocutory injunction on the basis of an unverified transcript of a forty nine second clip. The Court has to be circumspect in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views.“We note that under statutory provisions, competent authorities are vested with powers to ensure compliance with law, including provisions of the criminal law intended to ensure social harmony and the peaceful coexistence of all communities,” the bench said while hearing the petition filed by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan.However, before the high court advocate Shadan Shadan Farasat, appearing for petitioners, showed a video clip of the trailer that has been released by the TV channel for the programme and said the trailer itself shows that the programme could be in complete violation of the Programme Code and succeeded in getting a stay order on the airing of the programme.In the apex court, notice was issued to the Centre, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association and Sudarshan News.In the viral clip, channel’s Editor-in-Chief Suresh Chavhanke had alleged a conspiracy in the “overwhelming” number of Muslim students clearing the Union Public Service Commission exams and was scheduled to broadcast big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’. While the apex court has fixed next date of hearing on September 15, the high court will hear the matter on September 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-tv-controversial-programme-reaches-sc-delhi-hc/story-W5zPzZu4NIRgZHD2X0i3fI.html
28-08-2020||India||Amarinder Singh goes into quarantine after meeting 2 Covid +ve MLAs||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday went into a seven -day quarantine after he met two Congress MLAs who tested positive for coronavirus. He met the MLAs at the one-day session of the state assembly. Chief minister’s media advisor Raveen Thukral tweeted the development. The two Congress MLAs were Kulbir Singh Zira and Nirmal Singh Chuttrana. Vidhan Sabha secretariat had made it mandatory for MLAs to bring their Covid-19 negative report to enter the assembly premises and, as per a senior government functionary, both the MLAs showed their Rapid Antigen Test report for the entry. However, as they were also sampled for the RT-PCR test, they tested positive. In a picture that went viral, Zira is seen touching the feet of the chief minister during the proceedings with Amarinder patting his back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-goes-into-quarantine-after-meeting-2-covid-ve-mlas/story-VjOu7bY2XsnVK85mqUGJHN.html
28-08-2020||India||Ministry of Home Affairs gave nod to double Covid-19 testing in Delhi: Satyendra Jain||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had given instructions to double the Covid-19 testing but due to the pressure from the Home Ministry, officials were not doing so, said Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, adding that now the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given a nod to double testing in the national capital. “Delhi Chief Minister gave instructions to double the Covid-19 testing but due to pressure from the Home Ministry, officials were not doing so. I am happy that after my letter, MHA has clarified and cleared it and I am hopeful that testing will be doubled soon,” said Jain. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Home Ministry should first see Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and rest of India, then talk about managing Delhi. This is unfortunate that despite Delhi CM’s approval for doubling the testing, the order had to be cleared by MHA also,” he added. However, MHA on Thursday strongly refuted allegations levelled by the Delhi government who had claimed that the Union Home Ministry is not allowing them to increase per day Covid-19 testing limit.The Health Minister informed that so far 167,604 people have been infected, out of which 150,027 have recovered. Almost 90 per cent of the people have been recovered across the national capital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-home-affairs-gave-nod-to-double-covid-19-testing-in-delhi-satyendra-jain/story-X4TDJFXhrPkCWjYFBfRfgI.html
28-08-2020||India||JEE-NEET row: ‘Listen to students’ voices,’ Sonia urges Centre as Cong holds nationwide protests||The Congress on Friday held nationwide protests over Centre’s decision to hold the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September. Party chief Sonia Gandhi urged the government to listen to the voices of students and act according to their wishes.Opposition parties such as the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) have demanded that NEET and JEE exams be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country.However, the central government has repeatedly made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions.Six ministers of opposition-ruled states – West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand - on Friday also moved the Supreme Court seeking review of its order allowing the Centre to hold NEET and JEE exams.The Congress also held an online campaign - ‘Speak Up For Student Safety’ – with its leaders and workers extending support to the students on the social media. Also read: JEE-NEET row - Mamata challenges PM Modi to take impromptu opinion of students on ‘Mann ki Baat’“I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up is the most important issue, not only for you but for your family,” Sonia Gandhi said in her video message to the students. “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding students’ future, it is important that it is being taken with your concurrence,” she added.“I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government,” Sonia Gandhi said in the nearly a minute-long video posted on the party’s Twitter handle.The NEET is slated to be held on September 13, while engineering entrance exam JEE-main is scheduled between September 1 and 6. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying, a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also urged the government to hold a conversation with students and take a decision after arriving at a consensus.“NEET-JEE aspirants’ safety should not be compromised due to the failures of the government. Government must listen to all stakeholders and arrive at a consensus,” he tweeted.Rahul Gandhi also tagged a video of him urging the government to listen to students and take a decision only after reaching a consensus. “You are the students and you are going to take this country to new heights. Everybody understands what has happened over the last three or four months,” he said.“Everybody understands the mishandling of Covid-19, the devastation that has been caused, the economic destruction, the pain that this country has had to bear. Now what I don’t understand is why you should be held responsible and why further pain should be imposed on you,” Rahul Gandhi told the students.He alleged that the government has been incompetent, and asked why should the Centre force anything on students.“It is important that the government listens to the students, they are wise, they have the interest of this country at heart and any decision that is made with regard to these exams is made after a conversation and after a consensus has been developed and this is my message to the government,” he said.Rahul Gandhi urged the government to have a conversation with students and resolve this issue peacefully.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government cannot ignore the voices of students and those of their concerned parents. “They are the future of our country. With the rising scale of the pandemic, is it fair to expose them to infection in this manner? Are they not our children too?” she asked.Among those who joined the party’s online campaign by posting their messages and videos on the social media were senior party leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Jitin Prasada and Raj Babbar.Later addressing a joint virtual press conference with Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the Centre claims that thousands of students have downloaded their admit cards. “I don’t understand what kind of argument is this. If that is the case, then if someone has the life insurance, does it mean that he will die soon?” he asked.Singhvi said these six states represent not only 30 percent of India’s population, but also represent 30 percent of India’s geographical area.“The mental status of our students, mental situation, mental illness and mental situation is probably more important than physical constraints. They are under pressure, they are under pain, they are under fear, with 6 months of Covid and they are suddenly forced because you threw yourself into a corner, without thinking of alternative for 3-4 months, into a sudden press button, magic button kind of thinking - start giving exams from September 1,” he said. O’ Brien said the petitioners do not want the students to lose the academic year and the petition aims to ensure better safety and security measures for the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-row-listen-to-students-voices-sonia-urges-centre-as-cong-holds-nationwide-protests/story-Dc9tXbhIHmvzVnP8dyhRSK.html
28-08-2020||India||Kerala Congress chief steps in after party leader attacks Shashi Tharoor||Shashi Tharoor, one of the 23 dissenters who wrote to Sonia Gandhi for changes in the party, has been labelled a “guest artist and immature politician” by a senior leader of the Kerala Congress. Kodikunnil Suresh’s comments angered many young leaders who rallied behind Tharoor and took to social media in a big way to vent their anger. Later, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Mullappally Ramachandran, who was first to attack Tharoor, requested all leaders to treat the issue as closed and not to air opinions freely.“Tharoor’s contributions are immense and he is an inspiration for youngsters. No doubt, he is a global citizen. His contacts really helped the state during the trying time of the pandemic. He might have different opinions on issues like airport privatisation but these things will have to be sorted out through discussion,” young legislator KS Sabarinathan wrote on Facebook supporting him. “It is not good to single out and attack a person like Tharoor. Need of the hour is unity. The Kerala unit always stood with the position taken by senior leader AK Antony. But it is not fair to attack Tharoor like this,” said another legislator PT Thomas.What really angered some of these leaders is blunt criticism of Kodikunnil Suresh. “Tharoor is not a politician. For the party, he’s only a guest artist. He is immature and yet to learn to work well within the party framework. It is not right for him to take different positions thinking that he is a global citizen,” said Suresh, criticising his fellow MP from the state.Earlier, the PCC chief and senior leader K Muralidharan had also slammed Tharoor.The party has 15 MPs from the state, including Rahul Gandhi - who is representing Wayanad in Lok Sabha.“I am not a global citizen. But the so-called letter at this juncture created a lot of confusion and it gave a good stick to our opponents. It should have been avoided,” said Muralidharan, son of party legend late K Karunakaran, adding Sonia Gandhi led the party effectively in trying times and the party’s future was secure in her hands. Before the letter controversy, many senior leaders were upset with Tharoor for his “daring apolitical positions”.Last week, when the Centre decided to lease out Thiruvananthapuram airport to a private firm Congress leaders opposed the move along with the ruling front. However, Tharoor supported it, saying it was much-needed for the development of his constituency. He enjoys good support especially among youngsters due to his proactive position on development and other issues. When the airport issue fuelled much anger, he reminded party leaders that he was consistent with his position from day one and he can’t change his opinions to suit occasions.The party was also upset when he congratulated state health minister KK Shailaja when she was lauded by some international publications for her spirited fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-congress-chief-steps-in-after-party-leader-attacks-shashi-tharoor/story-a9EdUEWjreC9FoWUvQyrSM.html
28-08-2020||India||Sero survey suggests 7.75% people in Indore have Covid-19 antibodies||A sero survey report on Madhya Pradesh’s Indore made public on Friday suggested that as many as 7.75 percent people of the city have developed antibodies against Covid-19. This brought a sense of relief in the administration and the government that there was no community spread of the disease, but at the same time raised concern too that a huge population in the city is still vulnerable to the disease.As per 2011 census, Indore’s population was 1.94 million. However, the present population in the city is supposed to be 2.6 million which suggests 203,160 people in the city have developed antibodies, officials said. Commissioner of Indore division Pawan Sharma shared the sero survey report with the public during a programme on Friday and said, “The survey was conducted in the city from August 11 to 23 during which samples of 7,103 persons were collected. About 95 percent people cooperated with the survey for which 85 teams were engaged.”The ward-wise breakup of the results showed that there are at least five wards which were worst affected by Covid-19 where more than 20 percent of people were found to have developed antibodies.Also read: With Covid-19 cases nearing 1 lakh, Assam mulls another lockdownSpeaking on the occasion, deputy director of National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, Dr Meera Dhuria said, “After the report, citizens of Indore should not think that they have developed herd immunity and that there would be no cases of infection. The report suggests the government and the administration took effective measures to control the spread of the virus but people are required to continue to follow non-pharmaceutical safety measures like sanitisation, mask, social distancing etc. Studies suggested that the virus spread was much more in crowded places in the cities as in slum areas of Mumbai.” State additional chief secretary, health, Mohd Suleman said, “The report suggests that our containment strategy worked well in the city and it corroborates our claim that there was no community spread of the disease. Certain localities which we had identified earlier had a prevalence of the disease on a higher side but with an effective strategy, the spread of the virus was controlled from spreading to other localities.” However, he added, “the report also suggests that there are more than 92 percent of people who are still susceptible to the disease and we have to be prepared to deal with the situation accordingly. The battle is going to be a long one and we have to continue to implement our strategy as effectively as we have done it till now.”Dean of MGM Medical College, Indore, Dr Jyoti Bindal and head of the respiratory department of Shri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS), Indore, Dr Ravi Doshi expressed similar concerns. A pulmonologist who didn’t want to be named said, “The survey results should be analysed comprehensively to arrive at a conclusion. A low percentage of 7.75 percent doesn’t mean that the virus spread was not much prevalent in the city. It may vary from locality to locality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-suggests-7-75-people-in-indore-have-covid-19-antibodies/story-H2D04J5v4opxI9U6L3oedL.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Supreme Court junks demand to stay Bihar elections due to Covid-19 pandemic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court junks demand to stay Bihar elections due to Covid-19 pandemicA three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed a PIL filed by a Muzaffarpur resident Avinash Thakur seeking postponement of Assembly elections due in October this year. Read more‘Paints itself as victim, shelters terrorists’: Jaishankar pans PakistanExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday criticised Pakistan for portraying itself as a victim of terror while grudgingly acknowledging the presence of wanted terrorists and crime leaders on its territory due to sustained international pressure. Read more‘He doesn’t understand presidency’: Biden, Harris hit back at Donald TrumpJoe Biden, the Democratic nominee for US president, countered President Donald Trump’s attacks on him from the convention with a string of tweets, pointing out the mushrooming Covid-19 cases and infections across the country. Biden held President Trump responsible for the protests that he sought to portray as lawlessness. Read moreIPL 2020: India cricketer among several CSK members to test positive for Covid-19At least 10 members of the MS Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings contingent which is currently stationed in Dubai have tested positive for Covid-19, making it the first such case among the eight teams which are in UAE for the 2020 Indian Premier League. Read moreKaranvir Bohra, Teejay announce pregnancy: ‘We are beyond grateful that He has chosen us to become parents again’TV actors Teejay Sidhu and husband Karanvir Bohra are all set to welcome their third child and shared the news on Instagram. The couple already have four-year-old twin daughters Vienna and Raya Bella. Read moreOvernight oats: Benefits for health, weight loss, and recipesEven if you are new to the whole fitness scene, chances are one of the first things you hear about are the benefits of eating oats, not just for its health benefits but also how it aids in weight loss. Read moreDell XPS 13 (2020) review: No space for nonsenseThe new laptop joins Dell’s efforts over the years to deliver a highly optimised laptop without demanding more real estate or cutting corners of any sort. We reviewed it. Read moreWatch | ‘Majority students want NEET & JEE as per schedule’: IIT director on protestsA massive row has started over conducting the JEE & NEET exams amid the Covid pandemic. The opposition parties are holding protests to corner the Modi government over the issue. Six non-BJP ruled states have also approached the top court seeking a delay in the examinations. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-supreme-court-junks-demand-to-stay-bihar-elections-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8wZ9DuQGdIfzd64reuS9NO.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress MP H Vasanthakumar dies of Covid-19 at Chennai hospital||Congress MP from Tamil Nadu’s Kanyakumari, H Vasanthakumar succumbed to Covid-19 disease on Friday . The first time MP from Tamil Nadu, Vasanthakumar was being treated at the Greams Road facility of the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was in critical condition after contracting severe Covid-19 pneumonia. Mourning the 70-year-old leader’s demise, Prime Minister Modi tweeted, “During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion towards Tamil Nadu’s progress. Condolences to his family and supporters.” Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri H. Vasanthakumar Ji. His strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion towards Tamil Nadu’s progress. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/SmuAK8ufAx“Sad to know the passing of Shri H. Vasanthakumar, MP from Kanyakumari. An entrepreneur and social activist, he earned his name in the world of politics and business. His devotion to people’s cause in Tamil Nadu was inspiring. Condolences to his family, friends and followers, ” said President Ram Nath Kovind on Twitter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also expressed his condolences.The news of Kanyakumari MP, Shri H Vasanthakumar’s untimely demise due to Covid-19 has come as a shock. His commitment to the congress ideology of serving the people will remain in our hearts forever. Heartfelt condolences to his friends and family members. pic.twitter.com/oqhrfQXEUDRecalling his close association with the leader, state chief minister V Narayanasamy said, “the TNCC (Tamil Nadu Congress Committee) has lost a great and dedicated leader.”Vasanthakumar was a hard working entrepreneur who contributed a lot to the Congress, the chief minister also said.Vasanthakumar was a two-time MLA and elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2019 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-h-vasanthakumar-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-NjlOGGDGrEfyZO7RtMW4YO.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Paints itself as victim, shelters terrorists’: Jaishankar pans Pakistan||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday criticised Pakistan for portraying itself as a victim of terror while grudgingly acknowledging the presence of wanted terrorists and crime leaders on its territory due to sustained international pressure.Jaishankar didn’t directly name Pakistan in his remarks while presiding over the Darbari Seth memorial lecture. He described the 9/11 terror attacks in the US and the Covid-19 pandemic as “stand-out moments that disrupted the trajectory of human society”.Nineteen years after the 9/11 attacks and 12 years since the 2008 Mumbai attacks, the world has a range of mechanisms to counter terrorism, including the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), several UN sanctions committees and the Counter Terrorism Executive Directorate, he said. However, it lacks a comprehensive convention on international terrorism as members of the UN are still “wrestling with certain foundational principles”, he added. “All the while, states that have turned the production of terrorists into a primary export have attempted, by dint of bland denials, to paint themselves also as victims of terror,” Jaishankar said, a clear reference to Pakistan’s use of terrorism as an instrument of state policy.“But as we have seen last week, sustained pressure through international mechanisms to prevent the movement of funds for terror groups and their front agencies can work. It has eventually compelled a state complicit in aiding, abetting, training and directing terror groups and associated criminal syndicates to grudgingly acknowledge the presence of wanted terrorists and organised crime leaders on its territory,” he said. Weeks ahead of an expected assessment of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing regime, Islamabad issued two notifications on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions on hundreds of terrorist individuals and entities, including Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim. One of the documents listed three addresses in Karachi for Ibrahim, wanted by India for his role in the 1993 Mumbai bombings.After the issue was widely reported in the Indian media, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement the notifications didn’t amount to “Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory”.Jaishankar acknowledged the “struggle against terror and those who aid and abet it is a work in progress”. He said, “It remains for the international system to create the necessary mechanisms to shut down the structures that support and enable terrorism, whether in South Asia or across the globe.”The world, he said, also faces a structural challenge in improving the global architecture used to fight pandemics. In similar crises over the past century, the outbreaks occurred in remote sites or the monitoring systems managed to head off a crisis. “This time, however, the international warning systems, reporting protocols and response mechanisms were unable to prevent the spread beyond ground zero,” he said.This has highlighted the need for a more enlightened and responsive multilateral system, and a “new, inclusive and non-transactional approach to multilateralism”, he said. “The reform of international organisations is not merely desirable but imperative. We need to modernise the international system, step by step, to make it fit for purpose, beginning by making each entity relevant to the age in which we live, not when it was created,” he added. This will require revisiting membership and structures of control, reorienting operational principles and rules, and rebuilding resourcing channels of key pillars of multilateralism, Jaishankar said.Strengthening skill sets and creating a better enabling environment are the goals of the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign since India can make a difference at the global level only by scaling up its capacities, he said.The spirit of local action for global outcomes is reflected in India’s work with France to create the International Solar Alliance, whose framework agreement has so far been ratified by 67 countries, and the launch of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, Jaishankar said. The memorial lecture was delivered by UN Secretary-General Antonio Gutteres, who said India has all the ingredients for exerting leadership at home and abroad. He added the drivers are poverty alleviation and universal energy access – two of India’s top priorities.“Scaling up clean energy, particularly solar, is the recipe for solving both. Investments in renewable energy, clean transport and energy efficiency during the recovery from the pandemic could extend electricity access to 270 million people worldwide – fully a third of people that currently lack it,” he said. He added, “These same investments could help create nine million jobs annually over the next three years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paints-itself-as-victim-shelters-terrorists-jaishankar-pans-pakistan/story-W7UzvUDhwNbjTe7IvMA2xK.html
28-08-2020||India||With Covid-19 cases nearing 1 lakh, Assam mulls another lockdown||With around 2,000 new cases getting reported daily from across the state and Covid-19 tally nearing 1 lakh cases, Assam is now mulling another lockdown to control the spread of the infection. State chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna indicated on Friday that if the current trend doesn’t subside and people continue to flout social distancing and safety norms, another lockdown could be imposed in the state. “At present, Assam is going through a phase of unlock which will end on August 31. We are mulling over what to do after that. We have been noticing that most people don’t wear masks in public,” he told journalists in Guwahati. “I fail to understand why they have such a carefree attitude. Noticeably, we are also witnessing around 7-8 deaths daily across all age groups. If people don’t wear masks and the Covid-19 figures keep rising, we might be forced to enforce another lockdown,” Krishna added. Also read: ‘No room’ - Trains bound for Mumbai, Delhi are running jam-packedAssam has recorded 98,807 Covid-19 positive cases till date with 79,307 recoveries and 278 fatalities. Over 25,000 of these cases have been reported from Kamrup Metropolitan district which includes the state’s biggest city Guwahati. Due to the sharp rise in cases, the state government had imposed a complete lockdown in Kamrup Metropolitan district from June 28 to July 19, but that didn’t result in any noticeable decrease in Covid-19 numbers. At present, three districts in Barak Valley - Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi - are under total lockdown for ten days from August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-cases-nearing-1-lakh-assam-mulls-another-lockdown/story-RpMpQCIigqCkgm7EBkgwHP.html
28-08-2020||India||TDP leaders under house arrest for protest against alleged Dalit atrocities||Scores of Telugu Desam Party leaders, including former minister Amarnath Reddy, were kept under house arrest and several others were taken into preventive custody, while they were on their way to the house of a Dalit youth who died a few days ago in Chittoor district.Om Pratap, a Dalit auto rickshaw driver, died by suicide at his home in Kanduru Bandakadapalli SC colony of Somala block in Chittoor district on August 24, a day after his selfie video strongly criticising the liquor policy of the Jagan government went viral on social media.For the last three days, Chandrababu Naidu and his party leaders have been using the youth’s death as a rallying point to protest against the alleged atrocities against Dalits in the state.Even as the Chittoor police conducted a re-post mortem of Pratap’s body in the afternoon, the TDP leaders alleged that the Dalit youth had resorted to extreme step following threats from YSRCP leaders. “In a way, it is a murder by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government,” senior TDP politburo member and MLC Varla Ramaiah alleged.On Thursday, Ramaiah lodged a complaint with the National SC Commission that the ruling YSRCP leaders’ vindictive action was responsible for the untimely death of Om Pratap. He requested that the commission order an inquiry and take immediate action against the ruling party leaders to prevent them from continuing their spate of atrocities against the weaker sections.The TDP on Thursday also brought out a 27-page booklet titled “Dalitulapai Damanakanda-Dalita Drohi Jagan” (Atrocities on Dalits – Jagan, a betrayer of Dalits), listing out a series of atrocities allegedly being perpetrated on Dalits during the last 15 months of the YSRCP rule in the state.Some of the alleged atrocities on Dalits mentioned in the booklet are: suspension and torturing of an anaesthetist Dr Sudhakar in Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam, tonsuring and beating of a youth Varaprasad for allegedly questioning the sand mafia in East Godavari district, beating to death of another youth Kiran Kumar from Chirala in Prakasam for not wearing a face mask and killing of a TDP worker by YSRCP leaders in Gurajala in Guntur district etc.“Over 100 such incidents of atrocities on Dalits took place during the YSRCP government rule over the last 15 months. Unfortunately, the police had been silent and not taken any action on the perpetrators of atrocities,” Naidu said.However, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy underscored that there was no question of sparing anybody, irrespective of their stature, if there were allegations against them of indulging in atrocities against Dalits.At a review meeting held a couple of days ago, Jagan said his government was not sparing even senior police officials and booked them under SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act. “There were four or five such instances of atrocities against Dalits and immediate action was initiated against the accused,” he said.The chief minister said all the policemen down from constables should be given orientation classes and sensitised to face the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-leaders-under-house-arrest-for-protest-against-alleged-dalit-atrocities/story-iHrdbKbcUfMRQHo6kcKCPK.html
28-08-2020||India||HC adjourns hearing on Lalu Yadav’s bail plea for September 11||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday adjourned hearing on bail plea moved by RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav in connection with a fodder scam case in which the Bihar politician was convicted on corruption charges and sentenced to five years of imprisonment in January 2018.The bench comprising justice Aparesh Kumar Singh adjourned the hearing and fixed next date on September 11 after the CBI informed that its counsel assistant solicitor general Rajiv Sinha was unwell.Prasad, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, moved the bail application on the ground that he had already completed half of the sentence in the aforesaid case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore from Chaibasa treasury over fictitious spends on fodder and other expenses for cattle.Prasad had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from the Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.Also read: Hotel owner, manager booked for allegedly offering room to Lalu Prasad Yadav’s son Tej PratapThe former Bihar chief minister’s trouble renewed again after December 23, 2017, when he was convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick successions. Since then, he has been in jail.Of these three cases, he had secured bail in one of them last year on the ground that he had served half of the imprisonment awarded to him.“In the second case, Prasad had completed half of the 5-year sentence in June this year. We, therefore, applied for aforesaid bail in July but it was heard for the first time on Friday,” said Prasad’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar.He added that another bail application in the third case would likely be filed in November this year.After spending the initial two months - from December 2017 to February 2018 - in Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, Prasad had developed health complications in March 2018 and was moved to a hospital. Since then, he never returned to jail.After a steep surge in Covid-19 cases in August, Prasad was moved from RIMS paying ward to the hospital’s director’s bungalow early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-lalu-yadav-s-bail-plea-for-september-11/story-nmZdVmZEqEVlOifzjF3sEO.html
28-08-2020||India||JEE-NEET row: Mamata challenges PM Modi to take impromptu opinion of students on ‘Mann ki Baat’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring students on his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ and ask them impromptu questions about their opinion on holding JEE-NEET amid Covid-19 pandemic. She also announced that final year examinations in state-run colleges and universities will not be held in September because of the pandemic. The chief minister asked the state education minister to announce the dates by next week. “Bring in students at Mann ki Baat. Don’t stage it. Ask them impromptu questions and not rehearsed questions to find out what they think about holding JEE-NEET during the pandemic. We will accept what they say,” Banerjee said on Friday. Also read: Uttar Pradesh backs Centre’s decision to hold NEET, JEE’ - CM Yogi AdityanathSix opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, on Friday, filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its order allowing the central government to hold the NEET and JEE in September. Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi had jointly convened a meeting of chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states on Wednesday to demand the postponement of the JEE-NEET examinations. On Friday, the apex court upheld a July 6 directive of the University Grants Commission (UG) to hold terminal semester exams in universities and colleges by September 30 but gave states the liberty to defer such exams beyond the September 30 deadline. “We will not hold the final exams in our colleges and universities in September for sure. The state education minister will discuss the matter and see whether the exams could be held before the Pujas (scheduled in October-end). The dates would be announced by next week,” said Banerjee. The Trinamool Congress supremo expressed questioned how will the students reach the examination centres for the JEE-NEET exams. She also made it clear that her salvo was not targeted against the Supreme Court and that it was against the centre and the UGC. The chief minister’ nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who heads the party’s youth wing, also lashed out at the centre over the JEE-NEET issue. “Before conducting the exams, the centre should give an undertaking that swab tests would be conducted for 30 lakh students appearing for the exam, provide them with insurance cover and that the government will take full responsibility if any student gets infected or if anything happens to them. What happened to digital India? If the USA can hold online exams, why can’t we?” Abhishek Banerjee questioned. The chief minister led a scathing attack against the BJP on multiple fronts including NRC and CAA. “The NRC and CAA have been suppressed due to the pandemic. But they (BJP-ruled government) will start it all over again once the pandemic is over. She also announced that her government would celebrate Students’ Day on August 9 every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-row-mamata-challenges-pm-modi-to-take-impromptu-opinion-of-students-on-mann-ki-baat/story-JZ4YtDyvskmhiLjYxNJxIN.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Pained’: PM Modi tweets to ‘dear friend’ Shinzo Abe, praises his leadership||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who shares personal chemistry with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said he was “pained” to hear about the outgoing Japan prime minister’s ill health and credited him for cementing relations between the two countries.PM Modi tweeted to PM Abe hours after the Japanese prime minister announced his decision to resign from the top post due to his health condition. “Pained to hear about your ill health, my dear friend @AbeShinzo,” PM Modi said in a tweet. Pained to hear about your ill health, my dear friend @AbeShinzo. In recent years, with your wise leadership and personal commitment, the India-Japan partnership has become deeper and stronger than ever before. I wish and pray for your speedy recovery. pic.twitter.com/JjziLay2gDPM Modi also tweeted a 2018 photograph of the two leaders at an informal meeting during the 13th India-Japan Summit that took place at a resort near Mount Fuji in Japan in October 2018.The next summit level meeting was scheduled to be held in December in Assam’s Guwahati but was deferred due to the protests against the anti-citizenship law. PM Abe and PM Modi were expected to hold the 14th India-Japan Summit via video conference on 10 September. But there is no clarity if the two countries, who were expected to seal a crucial military logistics pact, would be able to stick to this schedule in view of PM Abe’s health condition.PM Modi credited PM Abe with playing a lead role in strengthening relations between the two countries. “In recent years, with your wise leadership and personal commitment, the India-Japan partnership has become deeper and stronger than ever before. I wish and pray for your speedy recovery,” PM Modi said.PM Modi is known to have been an admirer of the Japanese prime minister long before he moved from Gujarat to New Delhi in 2014. By all accounts, it was mutual. PM Abe was one of the first global leaders to congratulate Narendra Modi for his gigantic victory in 2014 well before all the votes were counted. Modi was also only one of the three people that PM Abe followed on Twitter back then. That number has still gone up to 18. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has been the other addition from India since then. As prime minister, Modi had made Japan his first port of call outside south Asia in September 2014 once he assumed charge in New Delhi.PM Abe’s announcement to step down comes just days after he surpassed a record for longest consecutive tenure as premier set by his great-uncle Eisaku Sato half a century ago. He had then stressed that what was important was what a leader did in the top post, not the duration.As PM Abe announced his decision to exit the government at a news conference on Thursday, he underlined that he could not be the prime minister if he could not make the best decisions for the people.“I cannot be prime minister if I cannot make the best decisions for the people. I have decided to step down from my post,” Abe, 65, told a news conference.Abe has battled the disease ulcerative colitis for years and two recent hospital visits within a week had fanned questions on whether he could stay in the job until the end of his term as ruling party leader, and hence, premier, in September 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pained-to-hear-about-your-ill-health-pm-modi-wishes-speedy-recovery-to-shinzo-abe/story-pv0AL4qnZul6L7S0CdnZFP.html
28-08-2020||India||In poll-bound Bihar, Rahul Gandhi to address virtual rally; 100 online events planned||In a bid to revive the electoral fortunes of Congress party in Bihar, former party chief Rahul Gandhi will address a virtual rally to address to the party cadres and people in Bihar.Apprising the media of the party’s preparedness for the upcoming Bihar assembly election, election in-charge and national secretary Ajay Kapoor said that from September 1 to 21, Congress will conduct 100 virtual rallies throughout the state.“Each rally will be addressed by two national leaders, five state leaders and 10 district-level leaders who will talk about people’s cause and how the Congress would provide redressal of public issues. To mobilise the masses for this program, a missed call campaign will also be launched,” he added.On campaign strategy, he said that the party has also planned a virtual rally of Rahul Gandhi, which will reach more than 5 lakh people.Taking a jibe at the current NDA government in the state, Kapoor alleged that the government had failed on every front whether it is Covid-19 or recent floods.Kapoor said that the people of Bihar wanted change and were looking towards Congress for a viable and trusted alternative.“Party workers and leaders will fight for the people with full strength to recreate the old aura of the party in the state,” he added.On the question of seat distribution in the grand alliance, he said that it was up to the high command to decide on such matters. “It will be amicably done in the atmosphere of mutual respect,” he added.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) campaign committee chief Akhilesh Prasad Singh also said that an intensive campaign would be launched across the state to bolster the party’s electoral prospects for the next assembly elections.With the announcement of the election likely in early September, the seat-sharing talks in the grand alliance will be crucial due to several constituents, including the likely induction of the Left parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-bihar-rahul-gandhi-to-address-virtual-rally-100-online-events-planned/story-D8JT5gOj0FxCIlIDDVm5ZI.html
28-08-2020||India||As water levels rise in lakes, BMC says ‘no water cut in Mumbai from Saturday’||There will be no water cut in Mumbai from Saturday as the water levels in the 7 lakes that supply water to Mumbai have reached 95.19 percent. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced the withdrawal of the water cut on Friday afternoon.On August 5, the BMC had imposed a 20 percent water cut in Mumbai, the seven lakes had 37.36 percent useful water content as opposed to the same time in 2019 when the lakes had 89.96 percent useful water content. This was reduced to a 10 percent water cut on August 21, after the water levels in the seven lakes crossed the 85 percent mark. The seven lakes are Tansa, Bhatsa, Middle Vaitarna, Upper Vaitarna, Tulsi, Vehar and Modak Sagar.On Friday, the BMC announced, “Due to heavy rains in the last few days, water storage has increased in the catchment area of 7 lakes which supply water to the BMC area. As of 6 am today (Friday), the total water storage in all the seven lakes has reached 95.19 percent. Taking this into consideration, the BMC administration has decided to withdraw the water cut which was implemented from 5th August 2020. Accordingly, regular water supply will be provided to BMC area from 29th August 2020.”Also read: 346 policemen in Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19 in last 24 hoursThe BMC also decided to regularize the water supply to villages and areas in Thane and Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation that receive their water supply from the Mumbai civic body’s lakes.As of Friday morning, there was 13,77,690 million litres of water in the seven lakes, amounting to 95.19 percent of useful water content. This is as opposed to the 13,95,663 ML water or 96.43 percent available the same time last year.The BMC supplies 3,850 million litres per day (MLD), against a demand of 4,200 MLD. After the 20 percent water cut, the BMC supplied 3,080 MLD of water to Mumbai, according to information from the BMC.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems: the Vaitarna system, which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system which supplies water to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-water-levels-rise-in-lakes-bmc-says-no-water-cut-in-mumbai-from-saturday/story-7yuflcd3m11rwSfrg2omgN.html
28-08-2020||India||All Lok Sabha MPs will be requested to undergo Covid tests, says Speaker||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has requested all MPs willing to participate in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament to undergo RT-PCR test. Massive changes and logistics overhaul in Parliament have been planned to tackle any possible spread of Covid pandemic. At a preparatory meeting, chaired by Birla on Friday, it was decided that the RT-PCR test that usually takes 24-48 hours to come up with the results will be conducted.Officers attending the session and journalists who are covering the session will also undergo Covid tests, it was decided at the meeting attended by union health ministry, officials from the Indian Council of Medical Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation, AIIMS and the Delhi government.The session will start on September 14 and run till October 1. The two Houses - Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha - will operate in shifts with the Lower House starting at 9 am and the other at 3 pm. A senior official added that the proceedings may even spill over to weekends if the agenda requires extra time. Earlier, Uttar Pradesh assembly had asked all its MLAs to undergo Covid test when it met recently amid the pandemic but Chhattisgarh assembly withdrew its circular asking for a similar test for all its lawmakers. It was also decided to set up a Covid test facility in Parliament itself where the MPs and others can come and get tested, said a senior official. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, recommended that the session should last from September 14 to October 1, according to people familiar with the matter. The dates will now have to be approved by the cabinet, which will then forward them to the President. It has also suggested 18 sittings as the government has a total of 11 ordinances to clear, the people cited in the first instance added on condition of anonymity. The government is also bracing for a demand from Opposition parties to debate the India-China border conflict, the Covid situation, the state of the economy, problems of migrant workers and the recent allegations against social media giant Facebook. The Houses are being prepared for the session with measures such as ultraviolet germicidal irradiation of the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceeding, placards to indicate names of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking the two Houses. While ministers, former PMs and floor leaders will get preference in the main chamber, many party MPs — even from the ruling party — will be accommodated in the galleries. The government will aim to replace 11 ordinances during the session. This includes a cluster of agriculture-related ordinances promulgated during the Covid pandemic to help Indian farmers such as the Farmers Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) and the Farmers (Empowerment And Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance And Farm Services Ordinance and essential commodities amendment ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tests-for-all-mps-participating-in-monsoon-session-says-speaker-om-birla/story-Fbt7mao3xjyQvb6QHVyXVP.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Uttar Pradesh backs Centre’s decision to hold NEET, JEE’: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the state government supports Centre’s decision to conduct National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE).The chief minister also said all activities should be carried out while following the Covid-19 protocol, adding that the B.Ed (Bachelor of Education) entrance examination was conducted for five lakh candidates in the state on August 9 and there were no complaints about the Covid-19 infection during that exam.The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) should also conduct its examinations in a similar manner, he said. Adityanath was reviewing the Unlock-3 situation at a high-level meeting at his official residence in Lucknow on Friday.Also read: 6 non-BJP states file review petition in SC for NEET, JEE postponementThe National Testing Authority (NTA), the nodal body to conduct examinations, and the central government plan to hold JEE-Main between September 1 and 6 and NEET on September 13. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively.A review petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday by ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states challenging an August 17 order of the Supreme Court which had allowed the central government to hold NEET and JEE in September despite the prevailing Covid-19 situation.These six states are West Bengal, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Maharashtra.Yogi Adityanath reiterated his directive for 1.50 lakh Covid-19 tests per day in the state.All efforts should continue to break the chain of Covid-19, he said, adding that there should be an increase in medical testing with a special increase in the number of rapid antigen tests per day. The number of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests per day should also go up and there should be an increase in the required manpower for the purpose, the chief minister directed officials.He also said district magistrates should focus on pandemic work between 9 am to 10 am, inspect offices between 10 am and 11 am and redress grievances of people in their offices between 11 am and 1 pm.The chief minister also asked additional chief secretaries/principal secretaries to carry out inspection of offices functioning under them. He said barring the employees on leave or those who were sick, 50 percent of attendance should be ensured in all the offices and action should be taken against those found absent at 9.30 am. Adityanath also said an inspection system should be implemented at the tehsil and development block levels. The same system should be followed by the police officers as well, he added.“In the absence of district magistrates and subdivisional magistrates, any other responsible officer should follow the schedule at various levels,” he said.Besides improving surveillance, the arrangements at the integrated command and control centres should be increased. People should be made aware of Covid-19 in such a manner that they did not feel afraid to come forward for treatment, he said.Work on the paediatric institute coming up in Gorakhpur should be completed in time, he said. The chief minister noted that cases of malaria had been reported from some districts. He said special medical teams should be sent and necessary arrangements for medical treatment should be made available there.Arrangements for the distribution of fertilisers should be smooth and monitored regularly, he said. He also directed officials to take action against sugar mills owners who are not clearing the dues of cane growers.The distribution of relief and compensation to people in the flood-affected areas should be timely ensured, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-backs-centre-s-decision-to-hold-neet-jee-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-9b0aQtItaOvwLf5hPK8dLN.html
28-08-2020||India||4 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian encounter, 1 surrenders||Four terrorists were killed in an encounter that took place in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday, while another surrendered. Security forces launched a joint search operation in Kilora area in south Kashmir after receiving information about suspected presence of terrorists in an orchard.A gunfight broke out between the terrorists and the forces during which four terrorists were killed while one surrendered, the official said.“One terrorist (has) surrendered. Two AKs and three pistols (were) recovered (from the encounter site),” Srinagar-based Defence Spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia told PTI.Meanwhile, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said one of the killed militants was Shakoor Parray, the district commander of Al-Badr outfit.“Terrorist Shakoor Parray and another terrorist Suhail Bhat who abducted and killed Khanmoh’s Panch were neutralised in Friday’s encounter,” the IGP told PTI.A body believed to be that of a Panchayat member, who went missing on August 19, was recovered from an orchard in Jammu & Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday.The body was recovered from Dangam and seems to be of that Nisar Ahmed Bhat, who went missing after he was last seen on a motorcycle, a police officer aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-shopian-encounter-after-forces-launch-joint-operation/story-Z9WCAmpEJdXWgjePyjtBLP.html
28-08-2020||India||Kerala finance firm goes bust, 2 directors detained while fleeing country||A well-known finance firm in central Kerala, Popular Finance, which has 247 branches across the state, has closed its operations and moved an application to declare it bankrupt while its two directors fleeing the country were detained by the Delhi police on Friday. Based on preliminary investigation findings, Pathanamthitta police superintendent KG Simon said that proprietors might have swindled around Rs 2,000 crore. Rinu Mariyam Thomas and Ann Mariyam Thomas, daughters of Managing director Thomas Daniel, were detained at the Delhi international airport while trying to flee to Australia. The Kerala police had issued a look-out notice against family members on Thursday. A Kerala police team are on their way to Delhi to take their custody.Police said they received more than 100 complaints and their numbers will grow substantially as most of the investors are NRIs. They said investors had started noticing major changes in the past one week and later some of the officials have left fearing backlash. “We have sealed all offices and frozen bank accounts of family members. We are getting enough complaints from abroad also,” said the SP. The firms had more than 1,500 employees.Some of the customers said the firm failed to pay interest from April onwards and when they enquired they were told it will be paid after Covid-19 situation normalised. The firm was into gold loan, chitty fund and vehicle financing. There are around 2,000 investors in the firm besides many small-time regular account holders. “I have deposited my retirement benefit of Rs 30 lakh and I was getting 12% interest all these years without any fail. But since April, employees have started behaving indifferently and some of them left without any notice. I don’t have any other means to live,” said one of the investors. Konni MLA Janeesh Kumar said it was a credible finance firm with more than 50 years of experience and nobody has any idea how it collapsed. A Thrissur-based firm, Goodwin Jewellers and Financiers, had gone bust in similar fashion in Maharashtra a couple of months back, and later the Mumbai police had arrested two of its directors. Most such firms do attract gullible investors with attractive packages and high-interest rates and later collapse when their money rolling chain breaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-finance-firm-goes-bust-2-directors-detained-while-fleeing-country/story-eJvwwIVKQiJ29yxhRphSBL.html
28-08-2020||India||CBI books ex-NIA officer for illegally procuring call detail records to help IRS officer, wife||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Jalaj Srivastava, a former Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), for fraudulently obtaining call detail records (CDRs) to help a tainted Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Sansar Chand and his wife Avinash Kaur, who were arrested by the probe agency in February 2018. At present, Srivastava is back with his parent cadre, Border Security Force (BSF) and is posted in Imphal, Manipur. Srivastava had allegedly obtained two CDRs in 2017 and 2018 on the request of Kaur by accessing the email of his senior in the NIA, AD Negi, an Indian Police Service (IPS) official without the latter’s permission. Later, he had allegedly shared the CDRs with Kaur. The director-general (D-G), NIA, referred the matter for investigation to CBI following which the agency has booked Srivastava for criminal misconduct and under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988. Officials familiar with the development said Srivastava, who is posted with the 182nd battalion of BSF, knew Chand and Kaur because they used to live in the same housing society and, as a result, decided to help them in the CBI case. Kaur had asked for the CDRs of one Sudesh Saini that Srivastava had obtained illegally for her. The first information report (FIR) against Srivastava stated though he had obtained two CDRs, there was also a failed bid. Chand, a 1986-batch (IRS) officer, who was posted as a Goods and Services Tax (GST) official in Kanpur, was arrested in February 2018 for allegedly taking bribes from businessmen by threatening to take action against them. CBI officials said they have taken necessary sanction from BSF before filing a corruption case against Srivastava, who would be interrogated soon. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-ex-nia-office-for-illegally-procuring-call-detail-records-to-help-irs-officer-wife/story-feW0h5IKoLo8pYr3XUqzfN.html
28-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi reaches out to students over NEET, JEE; offers advice to Centre||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday asked the Centre to listen to students and act upon their wishes over holding the Joint Entrance Exams (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) next month amid the coronavirus pandemic.The Congress and other opposition parties have raised their voices against the entrance exams, held for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and medical colleges across the country, in September. Ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states have filed a review petition before the Supreme Court challenging its August 17 order which had allowed the central government to hold NEET and JEE in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situation.“My dear students, I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up and where, is the most important issue not only for you but your family too,” Gandhi said in a video message.ALSO WATCH | Rahul Gandhi slams govt on NEET & JEE; 6 opposition ruled states move SC “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding your future, it is important that it is being taken with your concurrence. I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and act upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government. Thank you. Jai Hind,” Gandhi said in the message tweeted by her party.She had held a meeting with the chief ministers of seven states earlier this week over the issue during which West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh called for moving the Supreme Court.The ministry of education has said JEE Main and NEET-UG will be conducted in September as scheduled amid a growing chorus for postponing the crucial tests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6 and NEET is planned on September 13. Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Main and 15.97 lakh have registered for NEET.Before Sonia Gandhi’s message, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged people to raise their voice against the Centre’s decision to hold the exams next month.“Unite your voice with lakhs of suffering students. #SpeakUpForStudentSafety from 10am onwards. Let’s make the Govt listen to the students,” Gandhi tweeted in the morning.The government, on its part, has said that more than 1.7 million candidates have already downloaded their admit cards for JEE and NEET, which shows students want the exams to be conducted.“National Testing Agency (NTA) officials told me that over seven lakh candidates have downloaded the JEE-Main admit cards while over 10 lakh aspirants have downloaded the NEET admit cards. This shows that the students want the exams to be held at any cost,” Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” said on Thursday.“We have received mails from students and parents who are in favour of holding the exams, as they have been preparing for the exams for at least two to three years. The Supreme Court too opined that a full academic year cannot be wasted. After two deferments, the exam dates have been finalised,” he added.The Supreme Court last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, saying a “precious” academic year of students “cannot be wasted” and that life has to go on.NTA has said it will increase the number of examination centres, put in an alternative seating plan with fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit for safely conducting NEET and JEE in September.The exams have been deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The JEE-Mains was originally scheduled to be held from April 7 to April 11 but was postponed to July 18-23. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3 but was pushed to July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-reaches-out-to-students-over-neet-jee-offers-advice-to-centre/story-EOuHIREVJM6vtPq9On2iiK.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 400 million poor now have access to banks, says finance ministry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 400 million poor now have access to banks due to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: Finance ministryThe Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the country’s financial inclusion initiative that was launched six years ago, has more than 403.5 million accounts with total deposits in excess of Rs 1.30 lakh crore, the Union finance ministry said. Read more6 non-BJP states file review petition in Supreme Court for NEET, JEE postponementA review petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday by ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states challenging an August 17 order of Supreme Court which had allowed the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situation. Read moreCustoms grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling caseKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former IT fellow, Arun Balachandran, appeared before the customs on Friday afternoon in Kochi for questioning in the sensational gold smuggling case following reports that he had played an important role in arranging for a flat right outside state secretariat for one of the main accused Swapna Suresh. Read moreNational Sports Awards: Rohit, Ishant to miss ceremony; three awardees test positiveKhel Ratna Rohit Sharma and Arjuna Award winner Ishant Sharma, who are both in the United Arab Emirates for the Indian Premier League, will miss the National Sports Awards ceremony on August 29. Read moreSanjay Dutt wishes sister Priya Dutt on her birthday: ‘Thank you for always being a constant in my life’Sanjay Dutt has shared a sweet birthday wish for his sister Priya Dutt on her birthday. The actor shared a lovely picture of them together on Twitter to wish her on the occasion. Read moreRhea Chakraborty speaksI assume that at least some of you watched the interviews Rhea Chakraborty gave to various TV channels on Thursday. I watched Sonia Singh’s excellent interview with Rhea on NDTV first and then Rajdeep Sardesai’s extensive and detailed Hindi-English interview on India Today. Read moreKia Sonet fuel economy revealed ahead of launchKia Motors globally revealed the upcoming Sonet compact SUV earlier this month. Its bookings have already commenced in the Indian market and Kia has announced that Sonet is off to a flying start with over 6,500 units booked on the opening day. Read more‘What do you desire?’ asks Lucifer in this Instagram post by Netflix India. The answers are beyond hilariousNow and again, Netflix India uses its social media presence to make netizens chuckle with some clever memes and witty pop culture references. Their recent Lucifer post is no different and is making many Instagram users giggle, expectedly. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-over-400-million-poor-now-have-access-to-banks-says-finance-ministry-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hLeJpe3LZ9jUNJQJ4x4yHO.html
28-08-2020||India||346 policemen in Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19 in last 24 hours||Three more policemen died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Maharashtra, with the latest being a 45-year-old police constable attached with Charkop police station in Mumbai. Also, 346 fresh cases of the policemen contracting the virus was reported in Maharashtra police force in the last 24 hours.According to the state police department in Maharashtra police, so far 14,614 policemen have contracted the virus. Of this, 11,752 policemen have recovered and 2,741 are undergoing treatment at various Covid Care Centres (CCC). Till date, 148 policemen have lost their lives to coronavirus in Maharashtra police force. So far, over 4,700 police personnel in Mumbai have got infected by the contagious disease. Of this, around 4,000 have recovered. According to Mumbai Police, 45-year-old constable Samir Harishchandra Pawar, who was attached with the Charkop police station, died from the infection. According to the police, Pawar was staying with his wife and a son at Gorai, Borivali (west).Also read: ‘No room’ - Trains bound for Mumbai, Delhi are running jam-packedAn officer from Charkop police station said, “On August 6, he was not able to breathe properly hence he was admitted to Oscar hospital, Kandivali. As his health condition started worsening, he was moved to Seven Hills hospital, Andheri (east).”However, his condition did not improve and he succumbed to death at around 9:30 pm. Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration) said, “there are 69 policemen from Mumbai police who have lost their lives to Covid-19.”Most of the deceased policemen aged between 45-58 years and also suffered from other comorbidities such as hyperglycemia, hypertension, etc., the police said. The state government is giving Rs 50 lakh as compensation and a government job to one member of the families of those policemen who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/346-policemen-in-maharashtra-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-last-24-hours/story-Bz3YVha5R4zlLZ3D0jI8bL.html
28-08-2020||India||ED summons Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Mumbai/Panaji: Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have issued a summons to a Goa-based hotelier, Gaurav Arya, and have called him to Mumbai for questioning on Monday in an alleged money laundering case against the associates of the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The ED officials visited Hotel Tamarind at Anjuna, a coastal village in Goa, but found the property to be shut.Hotel Tamarind has been shut since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in March-end to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The officials have stuck the notice on the door of the closed hotel.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty quizzed by CBI for first timeThe notice stated that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11 am in Mumbai on Monday in connection with a case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.Arya runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa that are both shut because of the pandemic.He has been summoned by ED after his name had cropped up in a WhatsApp chat with Rhea Chakraborty, who is at the centre of the Rajput death probe. The purported WhatsApp chat was regarding drugs.ED officials refused to comment if there was any financial transaction between Arya and Rajput, or if the Goa-based hotelier had any financial transaction with Rhea or others that the agency had filed in its Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) on July 31.Earlier on Thursday, ED had questioned Rhea’s talent manager Jaya Saha and later on the same day her father Indrajeet Chakraborty was also summoned in a bid to access the family’s bank accounts to probe a possible money laundering angle in connection with the Rajput death case.Indrajeet was taken to the Vakola branch of the Axis Bank on Thursday around 2:30 pm, where ED officials were also present. He returned home at around 9:30 pm.On August 10, ED had questioned Rhea, Indrajeet and her brother Showik Chakraborty.Later, Rhea’s manager Shruti Modi, and Rajput’s friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani were also quizzed by the agency. Rajput’s father KK Singh had filed a first information report against Rhea in Bihar on July 28 following which ED had registered the ECIR three days later. Investigators had gathered information about the formation of four companies by Rajput and Rhea, and Showik. Two of these companies were registered, while the other two were in the process of getting registered.ED wanted to go through the Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed during the formation of these firms to ascertain their profit-sharing agreement. ED officials familiar with the development said that Rhea had responded to all the questions, but could not divulge details of the exact sequence of events leading to Rajput’s death.ED had also questioned Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Rhea’s chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah, and Rajput’s CA Sandeep Sridhar in the case. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which also has registered an FIR following a Supreme Court (SC) last week, has started questioning Rhea, Showik, Pithani, Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Keshav Bachner in Santacruz (East) since Friday morning.Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what Mumbai Police had said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week lull, a political controversy erupted over Rajout’s death. A Bihar Police team was constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family.Bihar Police alleged that it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena, as the SC was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Rhea’s families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry in Mumbai split vertically.The case opened up a raging debate about the industry, degenerating into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers).Rhea and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections that are slated to be held on schedule in October-November, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-goa-hotelier-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-HYrlzYQlbuyNvQibijjF9L.html
28-08-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty speaks: Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and India’s obsession with the SSR case||I assume that at least some of you watched the interviews Rhea Chakraborty gave to various TV channels on Thursday. I watched Sonia Singh’s excellent interview with Rhea on NDTV first and then Rajdeep Sardesai’s extensive and detailed Hindi-English interview on India Today.Bear in mind that I watched these interviews from a position of ignorance. I haven’t followed the allegations and accusations hurled by Sushant Singh Rajput’s family against Rhea. Nor have I kept up with the investigations conducted by the sleuths from our TV channels.So, I have no way of knowing how convincing Rhea’s responses were on the substantive issues or whether what she said was at variance with the facts. But she struck me ---- as I imagine she struck most open-minded people --- as being genuinely shocked at the suggestion that she may have had anything to do with Sushant’s death and shattered by the campaign that has been run against her on both social and mainstream media.But even as I watched Sonia Singh‘s interview with Rhea, I tried to work out why the case has obsessed so many Indians. So great is the interest that news TV viewership has soared and every channel is trying to find its own ‘exclusive’ or special angle to attract more viewers.Here are some tentative theories about why India is so fascinated by the case.Anything to do with Bollywood fascinates people. For most Indians, the only sources of entertainment are Bollywood and “news” channels. Put them together and you have an irresistible mix. All of us are fed up of the lockdown. The isolation has got to us and though we may be unwilling to say so openly, there are high levels of uncertainty and insecurity about the future. We welcome any distractions and some of us need something to obsess about so that we don’t focus on our own grim reality. Put sudden death and Bollywood together and you always have the makings of a great TV story.When the actress Sridevi died in Dubai a few years ago, the country was saddened. But it was also intrigued by the circumstances of her sudden and unexpected death. Then too, the channels suggested that her death had not been an accident and that perhaps there had been foul play.Bollywood itself has become increasingly isolated from its audience. There was a time when people could identify with the stars and relate to their stories. But these days, too many Bollywood figures are children of the industry. There is nothing for ordinary viewers to identify with.ALSO READ: The Rise And Fall Of Amar SinghThere are two other factors, both of which are controversial. In the heyday of Bollywood, even the top stars seemed rooted in the Hindi/Punjabi heartland. Amitabh Bachchan is an extremely sophisticated man who speaks excellent English but he is also proud of his roots as the son of one of India’s greatest Hindi poets. His whole image and the way he is perceived has changed after KBC, where he interacts happily with people from modest backgrounds and small towns. These days, much of India’s first generation middle class, brought up in non-English-speaking households, sees shows like Koffee with Karan and wonders what it has in common with the sophisticated, English-speaking stars with their designer clothes and in-jokes. The distance between Bollywood and its audience has never been greater.Those who indicate that they are different and not part of the cool gang, such as Kangana Ranaut, become heroines in the heartland. And those like Amitabh, who have forged a new connect, remain relatable within the heartland.The second factor is more controversial but, I think, as true. To many bigots (and their number is growing) Bollywood is run by too many Muslims and gay people, Look at the targets of social media campaigns over the last few years and you will see how this element of the anti-Bollywood feeling surfaces again and again in every controversy.In this environment, Sushant Singh Rajput is seen as a representative of un-cool India, a boy from the heartland who was victimized by the in-club of homosexuals and dynasts who, some believe, run much of Bollywood.In all the trending narratives about his death, his career is made out to be in much worse shape than it really was. That he earned crores per movie, travelled first class or by private plane etc. is rarely emphasized.The Sushant who is at the centre of the current narrative was a poor boy from Bihar who was crushed by the Bollywood Mafia.ALSO READ: The sovereign state of FacebookThe heartland vs. elitist Bollywood storyline suits politicians. There is an election coming up in Bihar. What could be better for the incumbent government than the tale of a bright young Bihari boy who was finished off by the Mumbai mafia? The state government tried to avenge Sushant by sending Bihar’s policemen. And when that did not work, they took the case out of the hands of the Mumbai police and got it transferred to the CBI.A second motive lies within Maharashtra politics where the BJP and its former ally the Shiv Sena are at war. It suits the BJP to suggest that the Thackerays are in bed with Bollywood and that, even if they were not involved in Sushant’s death, are covering up the truth.And then, there is Rhea herself. Every successful scandal needs a femme fatale. As most people knew nothing about her till she began giving interviews, Sushant’s family and the media were able to portray her as a scarlet woman who took their son away from them, dominated his life and stole all his money.If what she says in the interviews is true then it should be quite easy to establish that these charges are not accurate. But till that happens, social media will portray her as a good time girl of doubtful virtue and will look for photos of her in bikinis and other revealing clothes.The misogyny in all this is self-evident. And yet it surprises me how many women are willing to say the worst possible things about Rhea without any evidence at all.That, in fact, is the defining characteristic of mob hysteria. People who do not know the individuals involved and have only a rudimentary grasp of the facts, jump to conclusions with a terrifying ferocity and demand ‘revenge’.They project their own fears, hopes, prejudices and aspirations on to a situation and then work on the basis of that alternate reality.I have no idea what the truth of this case is. Perhaps Sushant did commit suicide. Perhaps he was murdered. Perhaps powerful people were out to get him.These are matters that professionals should investigate on the basis of evidence and now that so many agencies are involved I hope we will get to the bottom of this case.But in times of hysteria, hatred and innuendo on social media, we have already reached rock-bottom for our society.To read more on The Taste With Vir, click hereFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-speaks-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-and-india-s-obsession-with-the-ssr-case/story-RLdnXMvqXNCpurneQsC0fM.html
28-08-2020||India||Two men allegedly shot dead by bike-borne assailants in Varanasi||Two men were allegedly shot dead by two bike-borne unidentified miscreants in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi. Another person was injured near a water tank under Jaitpura police station area in Varanasi on Friday, the police said. Additional director-general of police (zone) Braj Bhushan, who inspected the site of the crime, said prima facie the incident appeared to be a fallout of a rivalry. He said instructions had been issued to the police officers to ensure the arrest of the assailants as soon as possible. Bhushan further said that strict action would be taken against the assailants.A police officer said one Abhishek Singh aka Prince, 36, a resident of Shivpur and his friend Deepak Kumar, 25, were on their way to Chauka ghat on a bike on Friday.As per locals, two-bike borne assailants came from behind and hit Singh’s bike. As Singh and his friend fell off the bike, one of the assailants opened fire at the duo.Also read: Mehul Choksi’s plea seeking pre-screening of Netflix series dismissedA bullet also hit a passer-by named Balmiki. The assailants fled the scene after committing the crime. All three were rushed to government divisional hospital where Abhishek and Balmiki were declared dead. Deepak was under treatment in a critical condition.On receiving information, Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak and Superintendent of Police (city) Vikash Chandra Tripathi, along with a police force, also reached the spot. Meanwhile, a probe was underway to establish the motive for the crime.Student murdered in GhazipurIn another incident, Surendra Singh Yadav (19), an undergraduate student, was allegedly stabbed to death by unidentified assailants outside his native Bharawalia village in Dildar Nagar area of Ghazipur district on Thursday evening, police said.Dildar Nagar police station in-charge Dharmendra Pandey reached the spot along with a police force and took the body into possession. Later, the body was sent for a post mortem examination.A case is being registered in this connection following a complaint lodged by the kin of the student who said the youth did not have any enmity with anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-allegedly-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-assailants-in-varanasi/story-hzzWNIzLN52vKBfxNWWckI.html
28-08-2020||India||Bombay HC disposes of Vernon Gonsalves, Anand Teltumbde’s petition for Covid-19 test||A division bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday disposed of the petitions filed by Vernon Gonsalves and Dr Anand Teltumbde, both accused in the Elgar Parishad case, seeking direction for them to be tested for Covid-19. Their petitions were disposed of by justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht after the state submitted their reports where they had tested negative for the virus. The report was also handed to their families as well. Gonsalves and Teltumbde are currently lodged in Taloja jail. The state in an earlier hearing had submitted the Covid-19 negative reports, however as there was a discrepancy in the report of Dr Teltumbde, the bench had asked the state to submit a correct report to the court and to the family. The bench while hearing the petitions was informed by advocate Devyani Kulkarni that though the court had directed the state to hand over the Covid-19 test reports to the families, it had not done so. She even submitted that it seemed that the correct report of Dr Teltumbde was also not prepared and hence the state should be directed to comply as soon as possible. She further submitted that the state had only handed over a cover letter to the lawyers which stated that the Covid-19 tests were conducted and the reports were negative. She said that the detailed report was not received. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare for the state sought time and submitted that the Covid-19 report of Gonsalves and the corrected report of Dr Teltumbde would be handed over to the families and hence the matter be placed for hearing after the lunch hour, which the court agreed. After lunch when the petition came up for hearing, Kulkarni informed the bench that they had received medical reports of both Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde, and were satisfied and hence the petitions could be disposed of. After hearing the submissions the court disposed of the petitions. Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had moved the petition for getting themselves tested for Covid-19 as they had been in close contact with Telugu poet P Vara Vara Rao who is a co-accused in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case while he was being treated in the Taloja jail hospital.After Rao tested positive for Covid-19, both Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had sought to be tested due to their advanced age and comorbidities and for the safety of other inmates of the jail. Both had been shifted to an isolation unit after they were tested and until the reports came.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-disposes-of-vernon-gonsalves-anand-teltumbde-s-petition-for-covid-19-test/story-RPW0gn4TIoJslOLdj9hkkI.html
28-08-2020||India||SC asks Centre to respond on PIL for statewise identification of minorities||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice seeking the Centre’s response to a public interest litigation (PIL) demanding the classification of religious minorities based on their population in each state. The PIL seeks guidelines to enable minorities establish and run institutions under the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (NCMEI) Act. A three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul issued a notice to three Central government ministries—Home, Law & Justice, Minority Affairs—based on the PIL filed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The matter will be heard after six weeks. The PIL specifically challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the NCMEI Act 2004, which, the petition stated, gives unbridled powers to the Centre to restrict minority benefits to five religious communities—Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees. In addition, the PIL demanded the Centre lay down guidelines for the identification of minority communities at the state-level “to ensure that only those religious and linguistic groups which are socially, economically, politically non-dominant and numerically inferior, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.” In December 2019, Upadhyay had approached the top court with a similar request wherein he challenged the classification of five religious communities as minorities under Section 2(c) of the National Commission of Minorities (NCM) Act 1992. This was based on a government notification of October 23, 1992 classifying Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees as minority groups based on their national population. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had then dismissed the petition, observing, “States were formed on linguistic basis but religion has to be pan-India.” The present petition has revived the same issue but via a different route. Instead of challenging the NCM Act, the petitioner has challenged the classification of minorities under the NCMEI Act. Upadhyay has cited a 2002 ruling of the top court in the TMA Pai cas, which states that for indentifying linguistic minorities, a state must be treated as the basic unit. According to the petition, the classification of minorities under the NCMEI Act violates this judgment given by an 11-judge bench. Speaking to HT, Upadhyay said, “My fresh petition is different from the earlier petition. In this petition I have challenged the classification of minorities under the NCMEI Act.” On February 20, Upadhyay had approached the apex court yet again with a request to declare Hindus as a minority in eight states/union territories where their population is less. A bench headed by justice RF Nariman allowed Upadhyay to withdraw his petition and approach the individual high courts. Based on this order, Upadhyay approached the Delhi High Court with the same prayer. On February 28, the HC issued a notice to the Centre, seeking its response. The PIL is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-pil-for-statewise-identification-of-minorities/story-DaOGD3QYcZPYhOLxCVWRoI.html
28-08-2020||India||Main accused in Ballia scribe’s murder arrested||Heera Singh, the main accused in the murder of journalist Ratan Singh was arrested in Ballia on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh police said.Six others were arrested earlier in connection with the crime.Deputy inspector general of police, Azamgarh range, Subhash Chandra Dubey said action would be taken against all the accused under national security act (NSA) and their properties will be attached under Section 14 (1) of the Gangster Act.Journalist Ratan Singh (45), who worked with a Hindi news channel, was allegedly shot dead in Phephna area of Ballia on August 24. Chief minister Adityanath had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the family of the slain journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/main-accused-in-ballia-scribe-s-murder-arrested/story-15wNhhzuJkxDF7OOTNxVNP.html
28-08-2020||India||‘No room’: Trains bound for Mumbai, Delhi are running jam-packed||At a time when the fear of Covid-19 is still forcing people to stay back home, the majority of trains heading towards metro cities like Delhi and Mumbai, besides cities in Gujarat, are running packed. Railway officials call it a possible reverse migration that has left the majority of Mumbai and Delhi bound trains with ‘no room’.The rush is so much that northeastern railways (NER), Lucknow division, which is currently plying six pairs of trains, including two pairs for Delhi and four for Mumbai, has urged the Railway Board to increase the number of trains on these routes.“In the present ‘Unlock’ phase, six pairs of special trains are operating from our division. Of them, two pairs are Delhi bound and four pairs, including the prestigious Pushpak, are Mumbai bound,” said Monica Agnihotri, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow division, NER.As per some senior officials of the NER, around 18,750 passengers board these trains daily from Lucknow and other cities of the division on an average.Also read: 6 non-BJP states file review petition in Supreme Court for NEET, JEE postponementAs per the current scenario, all four Mumbai-bound trains, including 02541 Gorakhpur-Mumbai LTT, Pushpak Express, Gorakhpur Bandra Terminus Avadh Covid-19 Special and Kushi Nagar Express, have long waiting list. Similarly, two Delhi-bound trains of NER’s Lucknow division too have a long waiting list.Both Delhi and Mumbai bound trains of the NER, Lucknow division, have witnessed a formidable rise in the occupancy rate in the last three months.“In June, the passenger occupancy rate in all six trains, including Pushpak, originating from Lucknow was 89 percent. However, in July and August, the occupancy rate in all the trains touched the 100-percent mark,” a senior official said.“Following the high occupancy rate in the trains going towards Mumbai, the division has moved a proposal to the Railway Board, seeking more trains on the particular route in order to cater to the rise in the number of passengers,” said DRM, Lucknow division. “At the same time, we are strictly ensuring that the Covid-19 protocol is followed and social distancing is maintained,” she added.Other than the NER, a similar trend is observed in the 5 pairs of trains being operated by the Northern Railway from its Lucknow division. Of them, two each are bound for Delhi and Mumbai while one is for Gujarat. These include Delhi-bound Gomti express special, Ahemdabad-bound Sabarmati special, Mumbai-bound Kamayani express special, Mumbai-bound Mahanagri special train and Delhi-bound Mahanama express.The officials, however, said barring June, when the passenger occupancy rate was low, the occupancy rate in trains was 100 percent in July and August. Moreover, some railway officials call it a reverse migration of labourers and workers that is leaving no room in trains.“It was expected. The migrants who returned during lockdown are now going back to their workplaces which is causing rush in trains,” a railway official said. One Irshad Alam of Siddharthnagar, on his way to Surat in Gujarat by Muzaffarpur Bandra terminus Avadh Covid-19 special train, said, “Nothing like spending time with family and working in our own hometown. But due to fewer job opportunities here, we are forced to migrate for work. I think I may end up getting jobless if I don’t go back.” Besides him, there were several other migrants who claimed they were moving back to their workplace. “I returned from Shramik special train on May 19. Since then, I was sitting idle. Hence I decided to head back to work. In Gujarat, the working conditions are good and so is the remuneration—Rs 400 per day along with accommodation,” said another worker Raghuraj Singh from Devari village in Kasganj district. He said he worked at a brick kiln in Gujarat.On being asked what wage was offered to a worker at his native place, he said it was quite low without further elaborating.During a massive drive launched during the lockdown, the UP government had brought back over 20 lakh migrants from across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-room-trains-bound-for-mumbai-delhi-see-jam-packed-rush/story-rEjjJAyKRjBM8gSQ9tAm3O.html
28-08-2020||India||Guhar, an app that helps Bastar residents file complaints in Halbi and Gondi||Bridging the language divide, an engineering student of Bastar in Chhattisgarh has developed a language translator mobile application called “Guhar” or prayer, through which the locals can lodge their complaints in their local dialects-- Halbi and Gondi—while the government departments receive them in Hindi.The app also helps local tribes in lodging complaints through a text or voice message in their own languages, which gets translated into an official language before reaching the inbox of a government official in the Bastar region.“The problem was getting the codes for the local dialects,” said Ankur Sinha, student of a local engineering college, who developed the application. “Last year, I along with my team met the district administration offering a grievance-reporting application and then we developed ‘Guhar’. The idea is to redress the problem of those who are unable to reach government offices,” Sinha said and added that Guhaar was being offered in multiple languages. He says the application is a block-chain based portal in which all the complaints are traceable and can be lodged from smart phones and feature phones. Guhaar also has a voice addition feature for recording the complaint with photos.“Soon a WhatsApp feature is being introduced to file complaints.” Sinha said. Till now, more than 500 complaints filed through the app have been resolved by the district administration of Bastar including directions to include certain families in the public distribution system and issuance of caste certificates, apart from addressing social issues like ill-treatment of senior citizens.Bastar administration believes that the application has a strong grievance redress mechanism.“Through this application, we are trying to bridge the gap between the common citizen and the administration. In the coming time, we will put all complaints which come to us through various portals or departments under one umbrella,” said collector Bastar, Rajat Bansal.Also Read: Chhattisgarh records 1,108 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deathsProbationary IAS officer posted in the district, Abinash Misra, the brain behind the application, said the idea is to reduce unnecessary rush of people every day at various government offices. As people travel long distances, they lose their wages also. Through Guhaar, people can file their complaints easily,” he said.Misra said, through this app, senior officers can also fix responsibility of the personnel, who do not act on the complaint in a time bound manner. Earlier, complaints used to remain in files for years.Also Read: Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel asks Modi not to privatise Nagarnar steel plant Shubhrashu Chaudhary, an activist and a writer, who is also working with this project by providing transcripts of local dialects, says ‘Guhar’ in its current form helps only the privileged few. “The application can have a good reach if we provide Bluetooth, locally called Bultoo, linkage to help people to send messages where internet connection is poor,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guhar-an-app-that-helps-bastar-residents-file-complaints-in-halbi-and-gondi/story-bCNsSQimFTuyAlfeLbnfAM.html
28-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh student develops app for tribals to register grievances with administration||Ankur Sinha, an engineering student of a government engineering college in the Communist Party of India (CPI-) (Maoist)-hit Bastar district in Chhattisgarh, has developed a mobile application “Guhaar” for the local administration through which the tribals will be able to directly lodge their complaints or get any help in their dialects such as Halbi and Gondi. Also read: Cyber police stations to be set up in each range headquarters of ChhattisgarhThe complaints can be lodged via a short message service (SMS) or a voice message in their own dialects that will be registered with the district authorities following a translation.Over 500 complaints, primarily in Hindi, have been filed and resolved by the Bastar district administration to date. Commonplace problems include an apathetic public distribution system (PDS), water woes, errors in caste and birth certificates. Social issues like ill-treatment of ageing parents also find a mention among the complaints with the district authorities.The app allows a complainant to update the complaint and the person can also give ratings whether h/she is satisfied with the grievance redressal mechanism.“Last year, my team members and I had met the district administration. We had held talks on Guhaar that seeks to redress complaints. The basic concept is to redress the issues that might have escaped the state government’s attention or have been unattended for long,” said Sinha. Sinha said that Guhaar would be offered in multiple languages and dialects soon. “At present, the app provides support in Hindi and English. But come September, it will be offered in Gondi and Halbi dialects for which we taken help from the experts,” he added.“Guhaar is a blockchain-based app, where all the complaints are immutable and traceable. Every complaint carries a fingerprint. Complaints can be lodged via a smartphone and a feature phone. Soon, a WhatsApp feature will be introduced. Guhaar also has an additional feature of recording a voice message along with the complainant’s photograph in a bid to put a face to a name,” Sinha said. The district administration is all praise for the app.“We are trying to bridge the communication gap between the local tribals and the district administration, thanks to this app. We plan to aggregate all complaints in one place shortly,” said Rajat Bansal, district collector (DC), Bastar.“Guhaar is a strong public grievance redressal system launched by the district administration. It empowers local tribals to file a complaint, which is now at their fingertip,” said Abinash Misra , a probationary Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted in Bastar district. Misra waxed eloquent about Guhaar’s ability to fix accountability on state government officials. “Guhaar takes a dispassionate view as far as accountability is concerned. Each complaint will be forwarded to the respective state government department, where officials need to resolve it in a timely manner. The district collector will monitor the grievances on a weekly basis. Pendency will attract a penalty and its modalities are in the works,” said Misra. Shubhrashu Chaudhary, an activist and writer, who is also working on this project by providing transcripts of local dialects, said Guhaar in its current avatar helps only the privileged few. “We are trying to make it more inclusive. Work is in progress for a two-way linkage with the Bultoo app, where people living on the wrong side of the digital divide can also participate. We want to ensure that they can report the complaints in their own dialects such as Gondi and Halbi. We are also using songs in local dialects in a bid to break the vicious cycle of hopelessness, the main ingredient of violence and violent ideology in the region,” said Chaudhary, who has developed the Bultoo app that is inspired by bluetooth, a wireless technology. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-student-develops-app-for-tribals-to-register-grievances-with-administration/story-1JkX73KbzpusGrSotK6sFL.html
28-08-2020||India||Bombay HC says hospitals can’t be closed down without due process of law||Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, a hospital cannot be shut down without following due process of law, Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court said on Thursday while striking down an order passed by local authorities, shutting down a hospital at Jalna abruptly.“If a particular procedure is prescribed for initiating appropriate steps with regard to complaints against a hospital, such procedure has to be necessarily followed and a drastic order of closure of the hospital cannot be passed under the pretext of Covid-19 Pandemic,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Shrikant Kulkarni.The bench struck down an order issued by the district administration on August 21, 2020 cancelling registration of Arogyam Hospital, run by Dr. Ritesh Agrawal, after finding out that no notice was issued to the doctor before issuing the shutdown order. The bench rejected submissions advanced by government pleader DR Kale that a large number of complaints were received about malpractices in the hospital while Covid-19 pandemic was spreading its tentacles and there was a public uproar over the alleged mismanagement at the petitioner’s hospital.“It was in these peculiar circumstances that a show-cause notice of hearing before the issuing of the order of closure could not be given,” Kale had said.Also Read: Bombay HC dismisses PIL questioning operation of PM Cares FundThe bench, however, refused to accept the explanation in view of an order pronounced by the HC in December 2018, holding that under provisions of the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949, a notice is required to be issued before cancelling registration of a hospital, and registration cancelled without giving hearing to the concerned is not legally sustainable.Also Read: ‘10 in every 100 Covid patients above 50 years in Mumbai succumbed’HC has now directed that the order dated August 21 be treated as a show cause notice to the hospital administration and the competent authority under the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949, shall pass a fresh order on complaints received against Arogyam Hospital by September 19, after granting the hospital an opportunity to file a reply to the notice and the hearing.On the request of the government pleader, the bench has restrained the hospital, where nine patients are admitted for treatment, from admitting any other patient till a fresh order is passed by the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-says-hospitals-can-t-be-closed-down-without-due-process-of-law/story-Z1R5iosPAy4ehsnFdbUcmL.html
28-08-2020||India||Hotel owner, manager booked for allegedly offering room to Lalu Prasad Yadav’s son Tej Pratap||The owner and the manager of hotel Capitol Residency at Ranchi’s station road were booked for allegedly offering room to Tej Pratap, former Bihar health minister and son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, on Thursday evening, police said.The FIR was lodged against them at Ranchi’s Chutia police station on a written complaint of circle officer (CO), Ranchi, Prakash Kumar. In his complaint, Kumar said that when he visited room no-507 of the hotel around 9 pm on Thursday, Tej Pratap was found staying there, which was a violation of the government order during the Covid-19 pandemic.Officer-in-charge of Chutia police station Ravi Thakur said, “Hotel manager Dushyant Kumar and the owner have been booked under sections 188 and 34 of Indian Penal code (IPC).”He said hotels have not been permitted to operate in Jharkhand yet amid the pandemic. “In such a case, they cannot offer rooms to anyone. It is a violation of lockdown rules,” he said.Pratap was in Ranchi on Thursday and met former Bihar chief minister and his father Lalu Prasad Yadav at Kelly’s bungalow located in the premises of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Yadav is undergoing medical treatment there. An accused in the fodder scam, the RJD president was serving jail terms and has been admitted to RIMS since December 2018 for the treatment of is critical illness.Pratap told media persons that he met his father to enquire about his health and discussed political issues as well. Before meeting Lalu, Pratap underwent rapid antigen test and was allowed to meet his father after testing negative for SARS-Cov-2.When Jharkhand RJD president Abhay Singh was contacted for his comment over FIR, he said, “I have no official information of any such development. As far as I know, Tej Pratap had left the city on Thursday night.”State BJP spokesperson, Pratul Shahdeo, however, alleged that the hotel owner was made a scapegoat, as the government did not dare to take any action against Tej Pratap who openly flouted the lockdown norms.“Over 60 vehicles entered the city with the RJD leader. A large contingent of party workers from Bihar and Jharkhand accompanied the leader in an open violation of social distancing and other Covid-19 norms in the hospital and around the city, but the administration took no action. To save its skin, the police filed FIR against the hotel owner. It should be probed under whose pressure did the hotel owner give a room to Tej Pratap,” Shahdeo said.Reacting to the development, the federation of Jharkhand chamber of commerce and industries (FJCCI) office-bearers said the FIR was uncalled for. “Hotel owners know that offering rooms to anyone during lockdown is a violation of Covid-19 protocol. But, the situation for them turns tough when leaders like Tej Pratap seek room. The administration should take care when any such leaders come to Ranchi,” said Dheeraj Taneja, FJCCI general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotel-owner-manager-booked-for-allegedly-offering-room-to-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-son-tej-pratap/story-bySTo0Fnz5Sonsc8rPfVvM.html
28-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews prep for Aero India-2021 amid Covid-19||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday reviewed the preparations for Asia’s largest air show, Aero India, to be staged at the Yelahanka air base outside Bengaluru next year in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with development said on Friday. Also read: IAF to formally induct Rafale jets on September 10The biennial air show will be staged from February 3 to 7 with all the necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the disease, the officials said. Singh is monitoring all developments related to the international aerospace and defence exhibition. The defence ministry’s spokesperson on Friday tweeted that the air show is taking wings and the minister reviewed the roadmap for Aero India-2021. “All precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 will be followed. It’s a prestigious event and will be held as planned. Top defence firms have shown interest in taking part in the show,” the officials said.The air show is a significant event in the defence ministry’s calendar, given that self-reliance in the sector is a top priority for the government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India had the potential to become a reliable weapons supplier to friendly foreign countries and strengthen its strategic partnerships as it takes strides towards self-reliance in the defence sector. India has taken several key steps to boost self-reliance in the defence sector such as creating a separate budget for the purchase of locally-produced military hardware, notifying a negative import list and raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit. Earlier this month, the government announced a separate budgetary outlay of Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement and came out with a negative import list. Indian announced on August 9 that it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years --- from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles. The PM said more defence items would be progressively added to the negative import list to encourage the domestic industry that can look forward to more orders in the coming times as a result of initiatives taken to boost self-reliance. The government is likely to notify a second negative import list early next year. Ahead of Aero India-2021, the defence ministry is likely to issue a request for proposal for building next-generation submarines in the country, one of the costliest Make in India programmes in the military sector. Six advanced submarines will be built under Rs 50,000-crore project P-75I to scale up the navy’s undersea warfare capabilities and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The project will be pursued under the government’s ‘strategic partnership’ (SP) model, which seeks to provide fillip to the government’s Make in India programme. The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with foreign vendors are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-prep-for-aero-india-2021-amid-covid-19/story-TufH9GeSvCHjoSw8G4umEO.html
28-08-2020||India||Customs grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling case||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former IT fellow, Arun Balachandran, appeared before the customs on Friday afternoon in Kochi for questioning in the sensational gold smuggling case following reports that he had played an important role in arranging for a flat right outside state secretariat for one of the main accused Swapna Suresh.It is suspected that the location of the flat was aimed at facilitating smooth smuggling operations by creating a perception of proximity to power.Balachandran, who is believed to be close to the former private secretary of the CM, told officials that he was asked to arrange a flat for Swapan Suresh by the former secretary, M Shivashankar, who is under the scanner in the case.20 persons have been arrested so far and 5 are absconding or are to be extradited in the gold smuggling case, which is being probed by several agencies including the National Investigative Agency (NIA).NIA has claimed that the smuggling network was linked to anti-national activities and possibly terror-funding. The smuggling case has cast a shadow on the left front government in Kerala. The case surfaced on July 5 after 30 KG gold was seized from baggage that arrived from UAE in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.Also Read: Kerala secretariat fire: State govt constitutes panel to probe incidentRecently, Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel’s name, too, got dragged into the matter upon revelation that another consignment to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in March weighing more than 4,000 kg had been received by him. Jaleel’s name also figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh. However, the minister has denied any wrongdoing and said the consignment contained the holy book of Quran which was distributed among people in his constituency.Also Read: Opposition steps up pressure on Pinarayi Vijayan-led govtWith the state assembly elections just eight months away, the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have announced a series of protests seeking the resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is on the back foot due to the gold smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-grilling-kerala-cm-s-former-it-fellow-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-joCGyOiD8cLtrdvVVT52LL.html
28-08-2020||India||Delhi High Court dismisses Mehul Choksi’s plea to pre-screen Netflix series||The Delhi high court (HC) on Friday dismissed a plea by Mehul Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Nirav Modi, seeking a pre-release screening of a docu-series “Bad Boy Billionaires” to be aired on Netflix, an over the top (OTT) platform, on September 2. Justice Navin Chawla said that Choksi, through his counsel, advocate Vijay Aggarwal, is allowed to file a civil suit as what is being alleged as infringement by him is a private right and cannot be granted by the court. Referring to an earlier order, passed by a division bench of the Delhi HC in another matter, the court refused to grant him a pre-release viewing while reiterating that there are no regulations to control the content on OTT media services. Choksi had moved the Delhi HC against a docu-series to be aired by Netflix. “Bad Boy Billionaires” focuses on the alleged fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in India. The poster, released by Netflix, shows Choksi’s nephew Modi, among other businessmen, who have been arrested by investigating agencies, according to advocate Aggarwal. On Friday, Aggarwal, appearing for Choksi, said that he may be given a pre-release screening to see if the docu-series contains any material that might malign his client. However, countering his submissions, senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for Netflix, said that there is no regulation in India to control OTT content. He said that only two minutes have been dedicated to Choksi in the episode on Modi in the docu-series. He submitted that in the two minutes on Choksi, several interviews that he had given to news channels and media outlets have been showcased and all of them are in public domain. He also contended that there is no relevance to Choksi’s court cases in the docu-series.Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, the counsel for the filmmakers, said that Choksi is a fugitive and has taken the citizenship of another country. He said Choksi must be barred from seeking legal relief in India because he took the citizenship of another country.Krishnan also submitted that though Choksi knew about the docu-series since 2018, he chose not to move court and avail relief for the past two years.The court dismissed the plea and asked Choksi to approach the appropriate forum.Choksi, in his petition, had stated that he got to know of the docu-series’ release on August 24, when he saw the trailer following which he was flooded with phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-dismisses-mehul-choksi-s-plea-to-pre-screen-netflix-series/story-fYrITIwPonGeTJ024jwVkK.html
28-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries near 26 lakhs, active cases at 22%||After 60,177 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 recoveries are nearing 26 lakh and there are only 22 per cent active cases in the country, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) informed on Friday. “With more patients recovering and being discharged from home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases) and hospitals (severe and critical cases), India’s Covid-19 recoveries are nearing 26 lakh. 60,177 have recovered in the last 24 hours. With these national figures, the Recovery Rate amongst the Covid-19 has touched 76.28 per cent,” read a release by the Ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The number of recoveries is nearly 3.5 times the active cases, which comprise 21.90 per cent of the total cases,” it said. The gap between recoveries and active cases now increased to 18,41,925.The Union Health Ministry said that the early focus on surveillance and contact tracing through house-to-house survey was continuously strengthened with an increase in testing for ensuring early identification of positive cases.“This has ensured prompt isolation of the confirmed positive cases either in supervised home care for the mild and moderate cases, and hospitalisation in case of those who are exhibiting critical symptoms,” it said.The Centre has led the country-wide response and management with steady ramping up of the hospital infrastructure through the three-tiered Dedicated Covid facilities- Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) with ICU bed, ventilators etc., for critical care management;Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) with oxygen beds and doctor on call facility; and Covid Care Centres (CCCs) with isolation beds.As on date, the country has 1723 Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs), 3883 Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) and 11,689 Covid Care Centres (CCCs) with a total of 15,89,105 isolation beds, 2,17,128 oxygen supported beds and 57,380 ICU beds, as per the ministry’s data. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has dropped at 1.82 per cent.India witnessed a record single-day spike of 77,266 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours.With 1,057 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 61,529.The country’s coronavirus count stands at 33,87,501 including 7,42,023 active cases, 25,83,948 cured/discharged/migrated.9,01,338 samples were tested on August 27 while overall over 3.94 crore samples have been tested so far, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-near-26-lakhs-active-cases-at-22/story-fMLnn7YCWUpGzuKDaKOi5N.html
28-08-2020||India||6 non-BJP states file review petition in SC for NEET, JEE postponement||A review petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday by ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states challenging an August 17 order of Supreme Court which had allowed the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situation.The review petitioners stated that the Supreme Court, in its August 17 order, failed to consider the safety and security of students who are slated to appear for NEET and JEE and also failed to take into account the logistical difficulties in conducting the examinations. “If the order of August 17, 2020 is not reviewed, then grave and irreparable harm and injury will befall the student community of our country and not only will health, welfare and safety of students appearing for NEET/ JEE stand imperilled but also the public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid -19 pandemic times,” the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes said. The six ministers who have filed the petition are Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Dr. Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Dr. Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab) and Uday Ravindra Samant (Maharashtra).NEET for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses is scheduled to be held on September 13 and the JEE for those aspiring to join top engineering schools is scheduled to be conducted from September 1 to 6.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra had, on August 17, rejected a plea filed in August by 11 NEET/ JEE candidates seeking postponement of the exams until after the Covid-19 crisis has passed.Justice Mishra, while hearing that case on August 17, had said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with the decision of the National Testing Agency (NTA) to hold the examinations in September.“Life has to move on even in Covid times. Covid may continue but postponement of exams is a loss for the country. Are you (petitioners) ready to waste a whole year,” justice Mishra had said.On July 3, the NTA, the central government body tasked with conducting JEE and NEET, came out with public notices to hold the exams in September.“The career of students cannot be put in peril. We find no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, had ordered on August 17.The review petition filed on Friday stated that the Supreme Court’s order of August 17 failed to consider that the decision to conduct examinations amid the ongoing pandemic increases the vulnerability of the students and their families to the risk of infection.It was further submitted that the Centre had adequate time to make preparations for safe and successful conduct of the examinations but the intervening months from April to September were characterized by inaction and lethargy.“Now the Union government has suddenly woken up to realise that their inertia is going to cost lakhs of students their academic year and therefore as a knee jerk reaction, the Union government has haphazardly and hurriedly fixed the dates of examinations,” the petition said. Further, the petition also said that students from rural areas and semi-urban areas might be forced to use unsafe modes of transportation to reach examination centres and would thereby expose themselves and everyone else to Covid -19.Besides, students residing in distant placed will find it it difficult to reach examination centres due to limited availability of transportation services during Covid -19.“Students in tribal pockets and remote areas will face an unfair hurdle to reach and stay at the examination centres compared to those already residing in urban areas or in the vicinity of exam centres,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-ministers-from-non-bjp-states-file-review-petition-in-supreme-court-for-postponement-of-neet-jee/story-9zNsgnsf3SQ5cVRAV6USOJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Over 400 million poor now have access to banks due to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: Finance ministry||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the country’s financial inclusion initiative that was launched six years ago, has more than 403.5 million accounts with total deposits in excess of Rs 1.30 lakh crore, the Union finance ministry said.The scheme, which has become the basis of direct transfer of cash subsidy to the poor, was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech on August 15, 2014, and was launched on August 28 that year.“Today, six years ago, the PMJDY was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked. This initiative has been a game-changer, serving as the foundation for several poverty alleviation initiatives, benefitting crores of people,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday.The government is planning to expand the scheme to provide insurance coverage to PMJDY account holders. “Eligible PMJDY account holders will be sought to be covered under PMJJBY [Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana] and PMSBY [Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana]. Banks have already been communicated about the same,” it said in a statement.The government is also planning to promote digital payments, including RuPay debit card usage, among PMJDY account holders through creation of acceptance infrastructure across the country and provide access of the account holders to micro-credit and micro investment facilities, it added. According to the statement, as on August 19, out of the total PMJDY account holders, 63.6% were in rural areas and 55.2% accounts belonged to women. “Thanks to the PMJDY, the future of several families has become secure. A high proportion of beneficiaries are from rural areas and are women,” the PM said in another tweet.Financial inclusion is a national priority of the government, as it is an enabler for inclusive growth, the finance ministry said. “It is important as it provides an avenue to the poor for bringing their savings into the formal financial system, an avenue to remit money to their families in villages besides taking them out of the clutches of the usurious money lenders,” it added.“The PMJDY has been the foundation stone for the Modi government’s people-centric economic initiatives. Whether it is direct benefit transfers (DBTs), coronavirus disease (Covid-19) financial assistance, PM-KISAN, increased wages under the MGNREGA [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005], life and health insurance cover, the first step was to provide every adult with a bank account, which PMJDY has nearly completed,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.The PMJDY became an important instrument to expeditiously provide relief to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package that was announced on March 26. The package provided an amount of Rs 500 per month for three months to women PMJDY account holders. “A total of Rs 30,705 crore have been credited in accounts of women PMJDY account holders during April-June,” the statement said. Besides, about 80 million PMJDY account holders receive DBT from the government under various schemes.The scheme involves opening of basic savings bank deposit accounts with minimal paperwork. The process of account opening is simple with relaxed know-your-customer (KYC) norms. These accounts are zero balance and zero charge accounts. Account holders are issued indigenous debit cards with free accident insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh.In August, about 86.3% (348.1 million) accounts were operative, the statement said. As per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), a PMJDY account is treated as inoperative, if there are no customer induced transactions in the account for over a period of two years. At present, these accounts have a deposit balance of Rs 1.31 lakh crore, with an average deposit of Rs 3,239 per account. The average deposit per account has increased 2.5 times, which indicates increased usage of accounts and inculcation of saving habit among the account holders, it said.The PMJDY account holders can also take help of ‘Jan Dhan Darshak App’, a mobile application, for locating banking touchpoints such as bank branches, automated teller machines (ATMs), Bank Mitras and post offices, it said.There are over eight lakh banking touchpoints, it added.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said by opening nearly 17 crore bank accounts in the very first year under PMJDY, the government had demonstrated its resolve, but it has to be taken forward. “However, the job is only half done... Other schemes such as Bharatnet [rural broadband network] have to be parallely and vigorously implemented to achieve the optimum benefit. Increasing digital literacy, rural banking facilities and internet connectivity would be crucial in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-400-million-poor-now-have-access-to-banks-due-to-pradhan-mantri-jan-dhan-yojana-finance-ministry/story-V7ZTGA4VES6PqUIbG8kAOJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Lalu Yadav’s bail plea adjourned; Jharkhand high court to hear it on Sept 11||The Jharkhand high court (HC) on Friday adjourned the hearing of a bail plea moved by Lalu Prasad Yadav, the chief of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), in connection with a case related to the Rs 950-crore fodder scam. Also read: BJP alleges Lalu has set up ‘darbar’ in hospital, violates jail manualPrasad was convicted on corruption charges in the fodder scam and sentenced to five years of imprisonment in January, 2018. The HC bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh adjourned the hearing and fixed the next date for hearing on September 11 after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed that its counsel, assistant solicitor-general (ASG) Rajiv Sinha, was absent since he was unwell.Prasad, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, moved the bail application on the ground that he had completed half of the five-year jail term in the case. He was found guilty of fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore from Chaibasa treasury by furnishing fictitious expenditure for cattle, such as fodder, medicines and miscellaneous items. Earlier, the former Bihar CM had suffered a jolt in the case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi had held him guilty in the first of the six cases against him. He was convicted for five years, was disqualified from Parliament and also banned from contesting elections in the future. Later in December 2013, he had obtained a bail from the Supreme Court.He has been in jail since December 23, 2017, after he was convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick succession. He had obtained bail in one of the cases last year on the ground that he had served half of the 3.5 years jail term awarded to him.“Since Prasad had completed half of the five-year imprisonment in June, we had filed a bail application in July. However, his bail plea came up for hearing for the first time on Friday,” said Prabhat Kumar, Prasad’s lawyer.“The bail application in the third case is likely to be filed in November,” Kumar added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-yadav-s-bail-plea-adjourned-jharkhand-high-court-to-hear-it-on-sept-11/story-DYCwldQ2YKWi1DcwQOetLP.html
28-08-2020||India||Months after oath-taking ceremony, Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar share dais in Pune||After the hurried, early morning oath-taking ceremony of BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis as Maharashtra chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar as his deputy last year in November, the two leaders shared the stage again - this time for the inauguration of a Covid-19 hospital in Pune.Pune Municipal Corporation’s multi-storey Covid-19 hospital was inaugurated by the leaders. Bhartiya Janta Party’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil was also present along with Fadnavis and Pawar.As Pawar and Fadnavis attended the hospital event, eyebrows were raised among the political circle. Interestingly, Fadnavis appreciated the work carried out by Pawar in Pune district but was quick to criticise the state government and Shiv Sena on the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai.Also read: Mumbai civic body asks private hospitals to refer critical patients to its Covid facilitiesRecently Ajit Pawar’s son Parth Pawar, who was defeated from Maval Lok Sabha constituency, supported the BJP’s stand to conduct a CBI inquiry into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Pawar got upset with Parth’s stand and publicly called his son as immature.Even after the CBI inquiry was initiated in the case, Parth tweeted, “Satya Mev Jayate.”Despite the president’s rule in force, Ajit Pawar had rebelled from the NCP and joined hands with the BJP last year. Maharashtra governor conducted his oath-taking ceremony during the wee hours on the morning of November 23, 2019. But the alliance could not prove the majority. Both Fadnavis and Pawar had to serve their resignations. Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress joined hands to form the Maha Vikas Agadhi government in the state with Uddhav Thackeray as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/months-after-last-year-s-oath-taking-ceremony-devendra-fadnavis-and-ajit-pawar-share-dias-in-pune/story-dFGOTtKIVXY2dzUF4GalnL.html
28-08-2020||India||Covid 19: Home quarantine allowed in Jammu after top hospital starts bursting at seams||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday quashed an earlier order, considered discriminatory, and allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic Covid 19 cases in Jammu province like it is being done in the Kashmir Valley. “Govt’s major decision--All asymptomatic Covid positive cases in Jammu province to be in home isolation with conditions as in Kashmir--free oximeter, compulsory, Arogya Setu & proper isolation space with a poster outside the house. Those presently in hospital to wait till they test negative”, the department of information and public information posted a tweet on Friday. However, in a striking contrast to government’s claims of augmenting health infrastructure to effectively tackle Covid 19 pandemic in Jammu and Kashmir, the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in Jammu is bursting at the seams during these testing times. GMCH Jammu is a major referral hospital where patients from all the 10 districts of the region are referred and treated.“Government medical colleges and hospitals in nine other districts of Jammu province are referring even asymptomatic Covid cases to us. At least such cases can be retained and treated in their respective district hospitals”, said a senior doctor of the GMCH Jammu explaining the reason behind overcrowding at the hospital.Citing the pressure on GMCH, senior doctors have been questioning the logic for the two yardsticks for asymptomatic cases in Kashmir and Jammu regions.Also Read: ‘Jammu and Kashmir, 9 states account for 89% of Covid-19 deaths’: Govt “In Kashmir, the administration is allowing home quarantine of asymptomatic cases contrary to the situation in the Jammu region. As a result there’s 100 percent bed occupancy in GMCH Jammu,” he said.From 28 Covid cases on March 28, the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has now gone up to 35,135, out of which 26,721 have been cured while 671 have died. Also Read: Over 77,000 Covid-19 cases recorded for the first time, tally goes up to 3.38 millionAnother doctor said that nearly six months on since the first Covid 19 case was detected in Jammu on March 8, the GMCH Jammu was bursting at the seams. He also questioned the logic of hospitalizing asymptomatic health staff, who could have looked after themselves and saved some hospital beds.“Since the anomaly has been removed by the government allowing home quarantine in Jammu province, things will improve for us and people as well,” he noted in relief after the administration allowed home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-home-quarantine-allowed-in-jammu-after-top-hospital-starts-bursting-at-seams/story-LwgkAGVFTl8JxmQyzqAaCP.html
28-08-2020||India||Ex-soldier fires in air to scare away Ganesh puja revelers in Hyderabad||The Cyberabad police in Hyderabad took a retired soldier into custody for opening fire twice in the air after an altercation with a group of youth who were partying in his apartment block ahead of Ganesh immersion ceremony late Thursday night. Police said the incident happened at a residential apartment Hyder Shah Kote area under Narsingi police station in the city’s outskirts. The accused was identified as Naga Malleshwar Rao (50). Narsingi police inspector Gangadhar told reporters that a group of around 40 youth associated with a broadband service company, whose office was in the same apartment block had installed a Lord Ganesh idol in the premises. They were planning to immerse the Ganesh idol on Thursday night. Before that, they organised a party in the premises. They were reportedly drinking alcohol and dancing to loud music. Though some residents in the housing society objected to it, the youth told them that they would disperse soon. But when the party continued with loud music till late in the night, Malleshwara Rao rushed to them and shouted at them for disturbing everybody. This led to an argument between him and the youth. “After some time, some of the youth went to Rao’s flat and entered into an altercation. The furious retired jawan pulled out his weapon and fired two rounds in the air. One of the bullets reportedly went past the ear of one of the youth. All the employees of the company fled the spot,” the police said. On receiving a complaint from the apartment residents, a police patrol rushed to the spot, detained Rao and seized his weapon. The police also cordoned off the area where the firing took place and searched for clues. “We have registered a case under Arms Act. We have also booked a case against the youth for violating Covid-19 norms. Further investigation is on,” the police inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-soldier-fires-in-air-to-scare-away-ganesh-puja-revelers-in-hyderabad/story-hDgCKzmI74Jw59uH57JqnN.html
28-08-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally rises to 94,668; death toll mounts to 456||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally on Friday rose to 94,668 with the highest single-day spike of 3,682 fresh cases.The death toll mounted to 456 as eight more patients succumbed to the disease, a health department official said.“Regret to inform the demise of eight #COVID-19 positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the Health and Family Welfare Department said on Twitter.Ganjam accounted for 185 of the 456 Covid-19 deaths reported in Odisha so far, followed by 59 in Khurda district, Of the fresh cases, 2,241 were detected in quarantine centres, while 1,441 people tested positive for the infection during contact tracing, an official said, according to PTI.The state had registered its previous highest-single day spike of 3,384 new cases on Thursday.Odisha has 28,836 active cases at present, while 65,323 patients have recovered from the disease so far.The state has so far tested 16,12,097 samples for Covid-19, including 58,840 on Thursday, the official added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-94-668-death-toll-mounts-to-456/story-vYHKoeaKtOZTrPYk41FUQI.html
28-08-2020||India||Crisis within Manipur unit of National People’s Party continues||A day after National People’s Party’s (NPP) national president and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma expelled the party’s Manipur unit president for allegedly acting against the constitution of the party, expelled state unit chief Thangminlien Kipgen said that he never acted in the said manner and will never go against the constitution of the NPP.In a statement and a video released on Thursday, Kipgen said, “I have never acted against the constitution of the party as alleged by the national president as I have already stated earlier, the national president was misled by some individual for their personal gain. The recent constitution of the state election authority was also done in accordance with the party’s constitution since the present tenure of my presidentship is about to expire on 26 August 2020.”On Wednesday, Sangma had announced the expulsion of NPP Manipur unit president Thangminlien Kipgen from the party after he was re-elected uncontested for a three-year term, saying the process of his election violated the party’s constitution.Also read: NPP expels newly elected state president in ManipurHe said, “In order to ensure that the (party’s Manipur) office continues, we appointed N Kayisii who is also the tribal affairs minister in the state of Manipur as the interim president.” The election to the state unit of Manipur will take place very shortly following all the procedures of the constitution of the NPP, he added.Reacting to Sangma’s statement, Kipgen alleged that the appointment of the interim president is not line with the party’s constitution as he, N Kayisii, has failed to renew his party membership. “Thus, he is no longer a member of the NPP Manipur,” he said. “Therefore, on the recommendation of the disciplinary committee under Article 19 of the party’s constitution, I expel him (Kayisii) from the party for 6 years,” he added.He also claimed that the constitution of the NPP referred by the national president is neither found in the ECI website as well as in the NPP office in Manipur. Despite the show-cause notice issued by the NPP national secretary on August 20, asking him to respond within 15 days from the date of issue of the notification, he was expelled on August 24 which is unconstitutional, unbecoming and uncalled for, he claimed.It may be noted that 4 legislators of NPP, which became a national party in June last year, are ministers in the BJP-led government in Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crisis-within-manipur-unit-of-national-people-s-party-continues/story-Xcfq6nZQUMGggN0sEVG6kO.html
28-08-2020||India||Postpone NEET, JEE: Congress pickets outside education ministry||Over 50 Congress supporters and party members on Friday camped outside Shastri Bhawan, the office of the Union ministry of education, demanding that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Exams (JEE)-Main be postponed because of the nationwide raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The National Testing Authority (NTA), the nodal body to conduct examinations, and the central government are adamant to hold JEE-Main and NEET between September 1 and 6 and on September 13, respectively. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary, who led the demonstration, said that the party was in solidarity with millions of students, who would have to risk their safety and future to appear for these competitive examinations.Also Read: JEE and NEET: 5 things you need to know todayProtesters held placards that read, “Modi sarkar hosh mein aao (wake up Modi government)” and “students’ safety, our priority”. Some also carried bundles of books over their heads as a mark of protest. The protests were held in the national capital following a call by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, urging the students to unite and demand that NEET and JEE examinations be postponed owing to the pandemic. Gandhi had tweeted that the country must unite and support the students in their cause. “Let’s make the government listen to the students,” he had tweeted.The Congress has organised nationwide protests on Friday against the centre’s decision to hold these examinations amid the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpone-neet-jee-congress-pickets-outside-education-ministry/story-3QTF31YMpUuogR1614gG9J.html
28-08-2020||India||Ceasefire violations in J&K rose by 60 times since 2010: Home ministry in response to RTI query||Pakistani troops have resorted to at least nine ceasefire violations daily over the last three years and left 119 people, including 63 civilians, dead along the 198-km long International border and 744-km de facto frontier, or the Line of Control (LoC), with Pakistan in Jammu & Kashmir, according to information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.As many as 8,571 ceasefire violations have been reported between January 1, 2018, to July this year, the Union home ministry said in response to information activist Raman Sharma sought under the RTI Act.The ministry said 308 civilians and 300 security force personnel have also been injured in firing and shelling from across the border during this time. It added compared to 2010, the ceasefire violations in 2019 increased by around 50 times and till July by 60 times. In 2010, 70 such incidents were reported. They went up to 3,479 in 2019. Until July this year, 2,952 ceasefire violations have been reported.The ministry said since 2010, 11,572 ceasefire violations have been reported that have left 122 civilians and 118 security force personnel dead. It added 673 civilians and 594 security force personnel were also wounded in firing and shelling from across the border during this period.In 2010, two civilians and five security force personnel were killed in 70 such incidents. The number ceasefire violations increased by around 50 times (3,479) in 2019 and left 18 civilians and 19 security personnel dead.This year till July, 2,952 ceasefire violations have claimed lives of 15 civilians and eight security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ceasefire-violations-in-j-k-rose-by-60-times-since-2010-home-ministry-in-response-to-rti-query/story-nKgrZekhHxzvmaVKUvDOgP.html
28-08-2020||India||Tripura woman whose newborn died after swab collection files complaint||Almost two weeks following the death of a three-day old baby who died shortly after his swab samples were taken for Covid-19 test, the baby’s mother filed a complaint with the police against doctors at the hospital and accused them of negligence.According to the complainant, the baby was healthy till the collection of his swab samples after which he started bleeding from the nose. Although the doctors assured the family that he would be alright, the baby died after sometime.Police said that the woman lodged the complaint on Thursday from the baby’s mother and they have already started an investigation.“The incident happened earlier this month. We have started investigation under Section 157 CrPc,” said Subimal Barman, officer in-charge of New Capital Complex police station.He added that the woman had been admitted to the hospital as she had tested positive for Covid-19 positive. She lodged the complaint after she was released from the hospital recently.The baby was born at the state-run Govind Ballabh Panth (GBP) hospital on August 10 and he died on August 12. Samples of the baby were taken as his mother was then Covid-19 positive. The woman was recently released from the hospital after she was tested negative. A day after the baby’s death, the state government constituted a three-member team for a departmental inquiry into death of the baby.“The committee submitted its report based on its inquiry to the state government recently. The report is with the government,” said director of Directorate of Health Services Dr. Subhasish Debbarma. Earlier on August 02, a two-day old baby girl, the youngest Covid-19 patient, died. Tripura’s Covid-19 tally stands at 9,927 out of which 6,839 have recovered. The death toll in the pandemic is 89 while two others died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-woman-whose-newborn-died-after-swab-collection-files-complaint/story-nK8lbSZ4FXhv7tMQytepZK.html
28-08-2020||India||Delhi high court dismisses Mehul Choksi’s plea seeking pre-screening of Netflix series||The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Mehul Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Nirav Modi, seeking a preview of a series to be aired by video streaming platform Netflix next month.The series, ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, focusses on the fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in India. The poster released by Netflix shows Choksi’s nephew Nirav Modi, Subrata Roy of the Sahara Group, chairperson of the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines , Vijay Mallya, and Ramalinga Raju, the former chairperson and CEO of Satyam Computer Services.The high court said Choksi can file a civil suit as what is being alleged as an infringement by him is a private right and can be exercised in a civil suit. It also refused to grant him a preview stating that there are no regulations to control the content being streamed on OTT platforms, citing a similar order passed by the division bench of the high court in a different matter.ALSO WATCH | BJP’S ‘take tuition’ jibe at Rahul Gandhi; Congress says fugitives protected Choksi had sought the postponement of the series, which is slated to be released on September 2. The petition, filed by lawyer Vijay Aggarwal, said that Choksi got to know of the documentary’s release on August 24 when he saw the trailer. He started receiving phone calls from across the world, including from Delhi, asking him whether he was part of the documentary and to solicit his comments.Choksi further discovered, says the petition, that one of the persons seen speaking in the trailer was the writer of the book titled “Flawed: The Rise and Fall of India’s Diamond Mogul Nirav Modi” where his name had been co-mingled with Nirav Modi.The petition said that Choksi fears his name may have been used in connection with Nirav Modi in the series even though his relation to the fugitive diamantaire is only that of an uncle and nephew. It also said that the series might have an episode on Choksi which has the potential of leading to a media trial. It said Choksi has the right to an innocent and free and fair trial and such a documentary would cause serious prejudice to his case.The petition claimed that Choksi has been falsely accused of various crimes in India.Lawyer Vijay Aggarwal had on Wednesday demanded a pre-screening for the petitioner and if his apprehension regarding his image getting tarnished is settled, then a chance may be given to him for agitating.Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who appeared for Netflix, said the series has a two-minute piece on Nirav Modi where mentions of Choksi has been made. He also said that that there is no regulation of content on the OTT platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-dismisses-mehul-choksi-s-plea-seeking-pre-screening-of-netflix-series/story-xratxj1rDfdrVTxQ5rBQ1J.html
28-08-2020||India||Govt permits meals on flights; airlines can put flyers on no-fly list for refusing to wear mask||The government has permitted the airlines to serve pre-packed snacks, meals and beverages on domestic flights and hot meals on international flights, according to an official order. Moreover, any passenger who refuses to wear a face mask in a flight can be put on the no-fly list by the airline, said a senior official of the aviation regulator DGCA. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, in-flight meal service was not permitted on domestic flights since their resumption on May 25. On international flights, only pre-packed cold meals and snacks were being served depending on the flight duration since May this year. In an order issued on Thursday, the Civil Aviation Ministry said, “Airlines may serve pre-packed snacks/meals/pre-packed beverages on domestic flights depending on the duration of flight.” Airlines and charter flight operators can “serve hot meals and limited beverages” on international flights “as per the standard practices”, it added. The ministry said only single-use disposable trays, plates and cutlery should be used while serving food or beverages in domestic and international flights. “Crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal/beverage service,” it noted. The ministry also permitted the aircraft operators to let passengers use the in-flight entertainment system on international as well as domestic flights wherever available. “Disposable earphones or cleaned and disinfected headphones will be provided to passengers at the start of the journey,” it noted. Meanwhile, a senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “A passenger who refuses to wear a face mask can be put on no-fly list by the airline.” The official said no new order has been passed in this regard as the airline and its cabin crew are sufficiently empowered under the existing DGCA rules to take action. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can choose to put an unruly passenger on its no-fly list after internal deliberations. Subsequently, other airlines may follow suit in putting that passenger on their no-fly lists. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with various countries. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months in view of the pandemic. However, airlines are allowed to operate 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-permits-meals-on-flights-airlines-can-put-flyers-on-no-fly-list-for-refusing-to-wear-mask/story-NZCPERZCa2v0RTuUfsh9OO.html
28-08-2020||India||Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bhardwaj’s bail application rejected||The Bombay High Court on Friday rejected the interim bail application of Elgar Parishad case accused Prof Sudha Bharadwaj, who is lodged in Byculla Women’s jail after taking note of assurances from the state that Bharadwaj’s health was being monitoried continuously and she was being provided adequate medical attention.The court perused the affidavit filed by the state which included the latest medical report of August 21, wherein Bharadwaj’s vital parameters are shown to be normal. The court also noted the undertaking by the state that if the need arose, Bharadwaj would be shifted to a super speciality hospital like was done in the case of another accused P Vara Vara Rao. The division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice V G Bisht, while hearing the bail application of Bharadwaj, was informed by advocate Ragini Ahuja that there was a contradiction in the July 21 and August 21 medical reports of Bharadwaj.Ahuja pointed out that while the July report said that her vital parameters were on the higher side and she had heart ischemia, the August report stated that her vital parameters were normal and the aspect of heart ischemia was left out. Ahuja questioned the omission claiming the condition of heart ischemia could not be remedied without proper treatment. The state, however, stated that Bharadwaj’s health was being monitored round the clock and she was being provided proper medication for her co-morbidities. The affidavit further said that the administration was bound to provide all the necessary medical facilities to Bharadwaj and if the need arose, she would be shifted to Sir J J hospital or even a super speciality hospital in the same way as was done in the case of another Elgar Parishad accused, P Vara Vara Rao, who is lodged in Taloja jail. Also Read: Varavara Rao discharged from Nanavati Hospital, returns to Taloja jailAfter perusing the August 21 report and comparing it with the July 21 report, the bench observed that there was no contradiction in the two reports and stated that since Bharadwaj was being provided round-the-clock monitoring and the necessary medication for her co-morbidities, it was not inclined to grant her bail and hence rejected it. Bharadwaj had approached the HC on June 11 after a special NIA court had rejected her interim bail application on the grounds of health. Bharadwaj had submitted that she suffered from various co-morbidities and due to overcrowding in the Byculla Women’s prison, she was susceptible to contracting the Covid infection, hence she should be granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-accused-sudha-bhardwaj-s-bail-application-rejected/story-TYmO8ykFCRvcjcL3nuJXVO.html
28-08-2020||India||World Bank pauses Ease of Doing Business rankings||The World Bank has “paused” the publication of Doing Business Report, which carries the Ease of Doing Business (EODB) Rankings. The effective suspension of the publication of the rankings has been announced in the wake of a number of reported irregularities regarding changes to data in the 2018 and 2020 reports published in October 2017 and October 2019. In a statement on Thursday, the Bank said it was conducting a “systematic review and assessment of data changes that occurred subsequent to the institutional data review process for the last five Doing Business reports”. “We have asked the World Bank Group’s independent Internal Audit function to perform an audit of the processes for data collection and review for Doing Business and the controls to safeguard data integrity.”The culmination of this process will be followed by a retrospective correction in the rankings, the statement said. “The Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank has been briefed on the situation as have the authorities of the countries that were most affected by the data irregularities.”The Union ministries of finance and commerce did not respond to email queries on the effective suspension of the rankings.But officials from the two ministries, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the Bank may have briefly paused the publication but not ended it, and a review would make it more robust and credible. They added this would neither halt nor deter India’s commitment towards Ease of Doing Business. In fact, India has gone a step further in striving to achieve Ease of Living, the officials said.“For example, just see reforms in tax administration. The Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] recently unveiled faceless assessment system in the income-tax matters to curb corruption and released, for the first time, a taxpayers’ charter. Next month, faceless appeal system will be introduced. All these are part of ongoing reform aimed at Ease of Living for the common man, which will also benefit businesses,” said one of the officials on condition of anonymity.A second official said wide-ranging reforms have been introduced for the Ease of Business keeping both agriculture and industry in mind. “Farmers have been unshackled now so that they can sell their produce to lucrative markets. The commerce and industry ministry is considering introducing a technology-based single-window system soon that would ensure expeditious multiple regulatory approvals at both the Central and state levels from one point. Reforms are ongoing and not dependent on the ranking of the Ease of Doing Business.”The policy regime in India places a lot of importance on the rankings. After assuming power in 2014, the Narendra Modi government set a target for India to be among top 50 countries in the rankings. In 2014, India was ranked 142nd. It jumped to the 63rd position among 190 countries in May 2019.The rankings are based on a country’s performance on 10 indicators: starting a business, dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, getting credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes, trading across borders, enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency.To be sure, this is not the first time the rankings are courting controversy. In 2018, Paul Romer, the then chief economist of the World Bank, quit after criticising the rankings in an interview with the Wall Street Journal for having “conveyed the wrong information” about the business environment in Chile. According to a Reuters story, Romer told the newspaper the decline resulted from methodological changes, rather than a deterioration of Chile’s business environment, and may have been the result of the World Bank staff’s political motivations.In his book, The Rise and Fall of Nations: The Rules of Change in Post-Crisis World, Ruchir Sharma, the Chief Global Strategist and head of Emerging Markets Equity Team at Morgan Stanley, criticises these rankings on various counts. “The World Bank... puts out rankings of countries for everything from quality of roads to how many days it takes to open a business, and these rankings have become very popular,” writes Sharma. “That creates a problem, as more than a few countries have started hiring consultants to help them raise their rankings (another example of Goodhart’s law in action). In 2012 President Vladimir Putin set a goal of raising Russia’s rank for ‘ease of doing business’ from 120 to top 20 within six years, and he soon saw results. By 2015, Russia was ranked at 51, more than thirty places ahead of China, and sixty places ahead of Brazil and India. That raised a question: If it was so easy to do business in Russia, why wasn’t anyone doing business there? Moscow in 2015 is increasingly hostile to and isolated from international business, far more so than China or Brazil or India. To the extent possible, I try to avoid relying on numbers that are vulnerable to political manipulation and marketing.”Other scholars have also criticised these rankings. A 2016 Indian Institute of Management Bangalore working paper by Vivek Moorthy and A Arul Jason argued the rankings cannot capture the true cost of doing business in countries with a large unorganised sector. Another 2019 paper by Sabyasachi Kar and others argued the fundamental premise of the rankings, that rules are the be all and end all of Ease of Doing Business in a country, might not be true. What matters for doing business, the paper argues, is not rules but deals struck between firms and the political or bureaucratic arms of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-pauses-ease-of-doing-business-rankings/story-3UTSKZX4tBhIhgUnLCvPoO.html
28-08-2020||India||These 9 states and UT account for 89% of India’s Covid-19 deaths||Nine states and one Union territory have reported 89% of the country’s deaths related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last two weeks, the Centre has said.Rajiv Gauba, Union cabinet secretary and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a video-conference with the chief secretaries and health secretaries of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the situation in these regions.The Centre has asked them to ramp up testing and tracing to tackle the coronavirus pandemic amid concerns about increasing Covid-19 deaths.They were also advised to ensure that at least in 80% of the fresh Covid-19 cases, all close contacts must be traced and tested with 72 hours and a minimum of 140 tests per million per day conducted in all districts while targeting a positivity/confirmation rate of less than 5%, a health ministry statement said.Here’s how they have contributed to 89% of Covid-19 deaths in the past two weeks:• Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths in the country. With 295 deaths on Friday, the total number of fatalities in the state stands at 23,089. With 173,195 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally stands at 7,18,711, according to the state’s health department.• Andhra Pradesh has recorded 92 deaths on xxxday, taking the toll in the southern state to 3,633. With 94,209 active cases, the infection tally now stands at 393,090 in the state.• Karnataka reported 133 deaths on xxxday, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 5,091. With 83,627 active cases, the total tally now stands at 300,406 in the state.• Another extremely affected state in terms of the death toll is Tamil Nadu, with 6,839 cumulative deaths reported so far. With 52,362 Covid-19 cases, the tally stands at 3,97,261 in the state.• Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 68 Covid-19-related fatalities, taking the death toll due to the disease to 3,217, while 52,309 cases pushed its infection tally to 208,419.• The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal jumped to 2,964 on Friday after 55 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to Union health ministry’s dashboard. With 2,69,54 coronavirus disease cases, the state’s tally now stands at 147,775.• Punjab reported 37 Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the death toll in the state to 1,256. With 15,608 Covid-19 active cases, the state’s total infection tally now stands at 47,836.• Gujarat recorded 17 deaths on Friday, thus taking the total number of deaths in the state to 2,945. With 14,767 Covid-19 cases, Gujarat’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 89,994.• Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 7,743 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 35,135, while 14 more fatalities pushed the Union territory’s toll to 671.• Telangana recorded eight more deaths on Friday, taking the number of deaths in the state to 788. With 1,915 Covid-19 cases on Friday, the total number of those infected in the state stands at 114,483.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-9-states-and-ut-account-for-89-of-india-s-covid-19-deaths/story-DM6v5ZX9DH7PAHUyWVvOWO.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 PM: SC rejects plea seeking postponement of Bihar assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court dismisses PIL seeking postponement of Bihar assembly pollsThe Supreme Court has dismissed a public interest litigation seeking postponement of Bihar Assembly Elections to be held in October-November citing the coronavirus crisis. The court expressed confidence that the election commission must be considering all aspects before taking the decision to hold polls. Read moreCured patients testing positive for Covid-19 again due to ‘harmless residual virus’“Residual virus” which can do no harm is responsible for at least at least 10 cases of patients testing positive for Covid-19 after being treated and cured in different hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, say experts. Read morePranab Mukherjee under intensive care, continues to be in deep coma: HospitalFormer president Pranab Mukherjee is “under intensive care and is being treated for a lung infection and renal dysfunction”, the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi said in a medical bulletin on Friday. Read moreEsha Deol’s reply on Abhay Deol’s ‘caption this’ post is absolutely hilariousIf you ever came across ‘caption this’ posts on social media, then you may know that they often prompt people to share replies which are absolutely hilarious. Case in point, actor Esha Deol’s reply on her cousin, actor Abhay Deol’s Instagram post. There is a chance that her reply will make you laugh out loud and also prompt you to nod in agreement. Read moreAashram review: Bobby Deol’s show has a bark that’s worse than its biteAashram, on MX Player, is as inconsistent as Bobby Deol’s accent. While the actor struggles to shrug off his urbane aura, the series — about one of those dhongi babas that you read about in the news — never fully lives up to the potential of its premise. It isn’t as lurid as it should have been, but that doesn’t stop it from being absolutely ludicrous. Read moreCovid-19: Andaman tribe infection updates; rich nations bag biggest vaccine dealsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, recovery rate, Andaman tribe test positive, rise of cases in Delhi for 11 days in a row, ICMR starts second all-India Sero Survey, rich nations bag biggest vaccine deals. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-sc-rejects-plea-seeking-postponement-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-POo3FnfdYHkwEvXMiAr6eM.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Situation in Ladakh as severe as it was during India-China war in 1962’: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday said that the situation in Ladakh is as severe as it was in 1962, referring to the Indo-China war which took place in that year. In an editorial in mouthpiece Saamana, the party said that a “feel-good atmosphere” was created in the country saying that Chinese troops have retreated in the Galwan valley but the guns are still pointed at each other. It added that the Chinese actions or intentions have not changed. The editorial cited External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s recent interview to a news portal stating that the situation on the border is “surely the most serious situation after 1962”. The editorial said that the army is stationed from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the China border. “The army is fully prepared. The Army chief visited all the border areas. The Prime Minister too visited Ladakh and boosted the morale of the jawans.”Also read: Donald Trump says India 2nd largest country to conduct Covid-19 tests after USIn an editorial titled, ‘The reality of Ladakh”, it said, “the Chinese dragon’s actions there have not stopped, nor have their intentions changed. The Chinese and Indian Army may be holding discussions, but the guns of the two countries are stacked on each other along the Ladakh border. India is saying that China withdrew from Ladakh, while China is saying that India too should move from ‘finger four’ to its border first, which is naturally unacceptable to India.” the editorial added.ALSO WATCH | Chinese ambassador on Galwan clash, border tension & India-China ties The editorial asserted that the Indian Army will not allow a repeat of was happened in 1962. “Today’s India is not that of 1962. It is much more powerful than that. Despite acknowledging this, Chinese infiltration and land-grabbing activities have not reduced. Indian Army will not allow the repeat of the history of 1962. The situation in Ladakh currently is as severe as that of 1962. We cannot deny that,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-in-ladakh-as-severe-as-it-was-during-india-china-war-in-1962-shiv-sena/story-LE05aDHa1O6F5nbCnl4YiL.html
28-08-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses PIL seeking postponement of Bihar assembly polls||The Supreme Court has dismissed a public interest litigation seeking postponement of Bihar Assembly Elections to be held in October-November citing the coronavirus crisis. The court expressed confidence that the election commission must be considering all aspects before taking the decision to hold polls.The PIL was filed by one Avinash Thakur who urged the top court to call for a report from the EC on the prevailing conditions in the state and whether it was feasible to hold elections there.A 3-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “The EC will take care of every situation. They must be considering everything. This kind of petition we cannot entertain under Article 32.”The petitioner represented by lawyer Neeraj Shekhar then sought permission from the court to move representation to the EC. The Court said that this right is always available to the petitioner but refused to pass any order to the effect. Finally, the petitioner withdrew the PIL.Several political parties in Bihar, mostly from the opposition, have sought deferment of the polls citing the pandemic and expressed fears that holding polls at this stage might pose a grave health risk to the population.Also Read: SC asks Bihar governor to take a call on B.Ed entrance test within 5 daysHowever, the election commission recently released a set of instructions restricting mass mobilization in election campaigning and other protocols for campaigning keeping the need for social distancing in mind.The number of polling booths has also been increased to 1.06 lakh, with creation of additional 33,797 auxiliary booths, apart from the existing 72727 booths in the state with an eye on avoiding crowding on the election day.Also Read: Manjhi meets Nitish, says nothing ‘political’ 6.58 lakh polling personnel have been enlisted for poll duty. The process for assigning poll related works to the polling personnel will start once the election schedule is announced, possibly by mid-September .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-pil-seeking-postponement-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-FVGZERC4MB4FZqvg7rGEtI.html
28-08-2020||India||6 oppn-ruled states file review petition in SC against order to hold NEET, JEE exams||Six opposition-ruled states have filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its order allowing the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September.West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan have approached the top court against the August 17 order.Also read| Postpone or find an alternative way to conduct JEE, NEET exams: Manish SisodiaThe top court had dismissed another petition to postpone these entrance exams to engineering and medical colleges on August 17. A crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and “life has to go on”, Supreme Court had said in the order.ALSO WATCH | JEE, NEET 2020: Should exams be postponed? Education minister answers National Testing Agency (NTA) has given a directive to conduct JEE from September 1 to 6, and NEET on September 13.In an organised show of protest against holding these exams amid Covid-19 outbreak, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee had called for a meeting of opposition-ruled states leaders on August 26.During the  meeting, CM Mamata Banerjee had suggested approaching the Supreme Court again for postponing the exams owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “This will be my request to all the state governments, let us do it together, let us go to the Supreme Court and postpone the exam for the time being until and unless the situation allows students to appear for the exams,” she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-jee-review-petition-filed-in-supreme-court-against-august-17-judgement-of-holding-exams/story-13mDuKMU4RxbK5ZKswKpbK.html
28-08-2020||India||Cured patients testing positive for Covid-19 again due to ‘harmless residual virus’||“Residual virus” which can do no harm is responsible for at least at least 10 cases of patients testing positive for Covid-19 after being treated and cured in different hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, say experts.Such patients had gone for a test after completing treatment to check the virus load in their bodies.Sample this. A King George’s Medical University (KGMU) staffer, who completed treatment for Covid-19 got his test done again and the report was positive. His antibody test was also positive. A positive antibody report is confirmation that a person was infected in the past and has recovered from Covid-19.“Initially, in his case, we got alarmed but when his Covid-19 test was done (yet again), it was negative,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU.She said at least 10 such cases came to light till now and there could be many more getting tested in private labs.She explained, “After treatment, the RNA (ribonucleic acid) molecule remains in the body for some time, say another two weeks, and gradually goes out. If someone goes for a second test immediately after completing treatment, the test report will be positive but it is harmless for the person.”That was what happened in the case of the KGMU staffer and in many other cases where patients were going for a test immediately after discharge from hospitals. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued guidelines that there is no need for a Covid-19 retest at least for the next three months (for recovered patients), said Prof Chandra.“The guidelines from ICMR say once a person tests positive and is then treated for the infection, (the patient) should not get tested again before three months,” she said.Asked how such patients got themselves tested again despite the guidelines, Prof Chandra replied, “Often patients do not say they have been tested and treated earlier. If they reveal their (previous) test, the medical staff will adhere to the guidelines, but if the patient does not say, the staff won’t know.”Prof Chandra said people should themselves adhere to the guidelines, so that unnecessary testing load can be avoided.“One can always consult a doctor if one feels there are symptoms even after treatment,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of Healthcity Hospital in Lucknow.Meanwhile, the KGMU plasma bank has issued an email address plasmabankkgmu@gmail.com for those willing to donate plasma. Such people can contact the office directly or send an email, after which the medical staff will contact them and fix an appointment/visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cured-patients-testing-positive-for-covid-19-again-due-to-harmless-residual-virus/story-plHS43bwBN5FiQZ4HoPuiK.html
28-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee under intensive care, continues to be in deep coma: Hospital||Former president Pranab Mukherjee is “under intensive care and is being treated for a lung infection and renal dysfunction”, the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi said in a medical bulletin on Friday.“He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support. He is haemodynamically stable,” the hospital said.A patient is haemodynamically stable when the blood circulation parameters such as blood pressure, heart and pulse rate are stable and normal.The 84-year-old leader was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his home a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Mukherjee’s daughter and son - Congress leaders Sharmistha Mukherjee and Abhijit Mukherjee - regularly tweet updates on their father’s health. They have also rubbished speculation and fake news about his health.Abhijit Mukherjee had earlier said his father was showing “positive signs of improvement”. However, on August 19, his condition declined as he developed a lung infection. On August 20, his respiratory parameters had shown a slight improvement but he continued to remain on ventilator support.Soon after the news of his hospitalisation, wishes poured in from various quarters for his early recovery and a number of leaders sent their wishes on Twitter. While President Ram Nath Kovind spoke with Sharmistha Mukherjee and enquired about his health, defence minister Rajnath Singh had visited the hospital.Special prayers were organised in Mukherjee’s ancestral village in West Bengal’s Birbhum district after he was hospitalised.Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna - India’s highest civilian award - last August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-under-intensive-care-continues-to-be-in-deep-coma-hospital/story-px9GmNagBGWzST3RGZv4xN.html
28-08-2020||India||Security tightened in Srinagar to stop Muharram procession amid Covid-19||Authorities in Srinagar have tightened security in some parts of the city especially around business nerve centre Lal Chowk to ensure that Muharram processions are not taken out on Saturday.The processions have been banned because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Late Thursday night, police started closing roads towards the city centre Lal Chowk by placing barbed wire and barricades. Similar steps were also taken in other parts of the city like Batamaloo, Karan Nagar, Dalgate and Rainawari areas. But shops and business establishments in other parts of the city are functioning as usual.Earlier on Thursday, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole had ruled out any chance of allowing Muharram processions.“Restrictions will continue on all religious processions and gatherings in all districts,” Pole said during a meeting with Shia groups.Traditionally, a procession used to be taken out from Guru Bazar to Dalgate area of the city on the eighth day of Muharram before militancy erupted in the Valley.Authorities have not allowed a procession on this route for almost 30 years now.On several occasions in the past, security forces scuttled Muharram processions in Batmaloo, Jahangir Chowk, Abi Guzar and Dalgate by using tear gas shells.On Tuesday night, police arrested two persons in Srinagar for allegedly raising Azadi slogans during a Muharram procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-tightened-in-srinagar-to-stop-muharram-procession-amid-covid-pandemic/story-JhNOqNPzSaIWBvFBwxaOAP.html
28-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel asks Modi not to privatise Nagarnar steel plant||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the decision to privatise the Nagarnar Steel Plant in Bastar. He called the move unfortunate and said it will deeply hurt the expectations of the region’s tribal population when the state government has been successful in curbing Maoist activities there. Baghel said the possibility of Maoists taking undue advantage of tribal discontent due to the privatisation cannot be ruled out. In the letter to Modi on Wednesday, Baghel said the news of the privatisation has agitated the tribal community and there is a feeling of dissatisfaction against the administration among them.Baghel added the state’s people were very enthusiastic about the opening of the under-construction plant in the mineral rich Bastar and thought it will also provide the state an opportunity to contribute to the nation building. “I have read in some media reports that the government is preparing to sell the Nagarnar Steel Plant in Bastar...”Baghel said about 610 hectares of private land has been acquired for the plant. He added only 27 hectares has been given conditionally to National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) for 30 years. Baghel said the rest of the land belongs to the Chhattisgarh government. He added the land was transferred on the condition that NMDC will use it only for setting up a steel plant.Baghel said that the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, has been in force since 1996 to protect the interests of tribals and their rights in Chhattisgarh. The state government is always committed to protecting the interests of the tribals. He cited the importance Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru gave to Public Sector Undertakings and said the state government will always support them.Baghel said they have extended leases of four iron ore mines at Bailadila for 20 years to ensure new employment opportunities in the Bastar region. He added all-round development of the region should be encouraged to ensure the region’s people can connect with the mainstream of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-chief-minister-baghel-asks-modi-not-to-privatise-nagarnar-steel-plant/story-nqYbtTFpeGr0TxHEqM0jsL.html
28-08-2020||India||IIT Kharagpur develops micro-needle, thinner than a human hair to deliver drug painlessly||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology at Kharagpur have developed a micro-needle, which is thinner than a human hair, and a micro-pump for injecting drugs to patients in a painless way. The researchers from electronics and electrical communication engineering have developed the micro-pump and the micro-needle to feed into the transdermal drug delivery systems. Transdermal drug delivery systems are designed to deliver biologically active agents through the skin, principally by diffusion in a painless process and have been in use for decades in the USA and several other countries. The micro-needles operate by means of a pressurized and controlled micro-pump delivering the drug through the skin. The micro-pump pushes out the drug in the reservoir through the micro-needle array. The micro-needles are painless as they are too small to touch the nerves in the skin and induce painful reactions. “We have fabricated high-strength glassy carbon micro-needles which can withstand the skin resistive forces. The micro-pump helps to increase the flow rate of the drug molecules in a controlled and precise manner. We have further integrated this micro-needle and micro-pump to achieve controlled drug delivery,” said Tarun Kanti Bhattacharyya, a professor with the electronics and electrical communication engineering department which developed the needle and the pump. Also Read: No need for alarm on Covid-19 reinfection, need more data for reliable inference: ScientistsWhile a human hair is around 50 – 70 micrometre thick, the micro-needle is 55 micrometre thick. The project was funded by the union ministry of electronics and information technology and department of science and technology. “The drug delivery device has been successfully tested with animals as per medical protocol. The researchers have also filed for a patent in India. The findings have been published in IEEE and Nature journals,” said a statement issued by IIT Kharagpur on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kharagpur-develops-micro-needle-thinner-than-a-human-hair-to-deliver-drug-painlessly/story-7QVxgmk1FctyrveMzVnjcP.html
28-08-2020||India||Rivers in Udhampur district of J-K overflowing due to heavy downpour||Rivers in the Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir are overflowing amid torrential rainfall in the union territory for the fourth consecutive day. Heavy downpour has caused devastation in several panchayats and blocks of Udhampur such as Ghordi block and Ritti panchayat. Sarpanch of the Ritti panchayat requested people to stay indoors and not venture out near river areas. Officials on Thursday said the water level in major rivers and streams in the Jammu region is rising but there is no immediate threat of floods.They added that several hilly areas in different parts of Jammu were closed due to landslides triggered by overnight rains. As per reports, five people, including a couple and number of cattle died in separate incidents of landslides and house collapse in different parts of the region. Also read: Kashmir highway remains closed for 4th day, multiple landslides in Ramban districtResidents in several areas reported incidents of water from overflowing streams entering their residences and pedestrians struggled to walk through water logged roads in order to reach their destination. Officials too pointed out that a number of roads in several localities were damaged adding that a clear picture about the extent of damage would emerge after a detailed assessment is carried out.Meanwhile, The 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar highway, the only road that links J-K with the rest of India continued to remain closed due to which thousands of vehicles, mostly trucks remained totally stranded. A traffic department official said restoration work is going on to ensure early reopening of the road despite the bad weather conditions. (With inputs from ANI, PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rivers-in-udhampur-district-of-j-k-overflowing-due-to-heavy-downpour/story-LMH9AIGYWH2CcmN8mfuJmJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Not wearing a mask can put flyers on no-fly list, says DGCA||Refusal to wear a face mask on board a flight could put a passenger on the no-fly list, the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) has announced.“Flyers, who refuse to wear face masks during a flight can be put on the no-fly list,” said Arun Kumar, director-general, DGCA.However, Kumar said the period for which a flyer would be barred from flying would depend on the assessment as reported by the cabin crew.So far, no such case has been reported, he added.Another DGCA official, who wished not to be named, said the cabin crew on board a flight would take the call to put a passenger on the no-fly list. “There will be exceptions such as if a passenger takes off the mask to eat or drink or due to any other issue. Passengers, who refuse to wear masks willingly, putting others in danger, will invite strict actions like being put on the no-fly list,” the official said.Wearing a mask is one of the precautionary measures advised by the medical experts and the Central government in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. India had resumed its domestic flight operations on May 25 after a two-month ban, as part of nationwide lockdown restrictions to prevent the spread of the contagion.At present, international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indians stranded abroad. The government has also set up several air bubble arrangements with select countries to provide regulated, safe and restricted international travel.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday tweeted, “Vande Bharat Mission. A mission of hope, help and happiness. More than 13.5 lakh people repatriated and flown out. Adding more flights & destinations. Several bubble arrangements in place. Others being negotiated. 4,110 people travelled back today (Thursday). The mission continues...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-a-mask-can-put-flyers-on-no-fly-list/story-RtzfkC1mBiZ75oXGLyFYCP.html
28-08-2020||India||PM Modi hails achievements of ‘Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana’ as it completes 6 years||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana that was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked completed six years on Friday, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Modi wrote, “Today, six years ago, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked. This initiative has been a game-changer, serving as the foundation for many poverty alleviation initiatives, benefitting crores of people. #6YearsOfJanDhanYojana.”The Prime Minister added that the high number of beneficiaries of this scheme are from rural areas and are women. “Thanks to the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, the future of several families has become secure. A high proportion of beneficiaries are from rural areas and are women. I also applaud all those who have worked tirelessly to make PM-JDY a success,” he wrote in another tweet. The Prime Minister also shared some infographics which stated that till August 2015, 17.90 crore PM-JDY bank accounts were opened whereas till August 2020, as many as 40.35 crore bank accounts have been opened.The key features of this scheme are--Opening of basic saving bank deposit account with relaxed KYC, zero balance, and zero charges.Another being, the issuance of debit cards, with free accident insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh and micro-insurance, overdraft for consumption, micro-pension, and micro-credit facilities.Another infographic stated that over 63.6 per cent of the PM-JDY account holders are from rural areas while 36.4 per cent are from urban areas. Over 55 per cent PM-JDY account holders are women.Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, a government scheme that aims to expand and make affordable access to financial services such as bank accounts, remittances, credit, insurance and pensions, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-achievements-of-pradhan-mantri-jan-dhan-yojana-as-it-completes-6-years/story-BjydF7t9djrLcHF2ZVho4I.html
28-08-2020||India||IAF to formally induct Rafale jets on September 10||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will formally induct Rafale fighters at the Ambala air base on September 10 in presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday. India has also invited Singh’s French counterpart, Florence Parly, to attend the ceremony, they added.Five Rafale fighters of the 36 ordered arrived at the airbase on July 29, ending IAF’s wait for new fighter jets to sharpen its combat potential. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and other senior air force officers were present when the jets arrived, but a formal induction ceremony was reserved for another day.The arrival of the jets coincided with the ongoing India-China border tensions in Ladakh.Also Read: Guarding over skies night and day, hail or shineShortly after they landed last month, the defence minister said the fighters would enhance the IAF’s capabilities and deter any threat to the country. He said those who want to threaten India’s territorial integrity should be worried about the new capability.The Rafale fighters will significantly enhance IAF’s offensive capabilities and be a game changer with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts say.They are part of the IAF’s 17 Squadron also known as the Golden Arrows. The aircrew that brought them to India was headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the squadron.The aircraft covered a distance of nearly 8,500 km from France to India. The first stage of the flight covered a distance of 5,800 km from Merignac to Al Dhafra (UAE). The second covered over 2,700 km from Al Dhafra to Ambala.The new fighters are the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997.The IAF ordered 36 Rafale jets from France as part of a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. They have been specially tailored for IAF.The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles. The weapons allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-to-formally-induct-rafale-jets-on-september-10/story-zWvbeSQKoER0WF9GfBrRiJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty questioned by CBI for the first time||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was on Friday questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the first time since it took over the probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.Chakraborty was summoned by the central agency to appear before its probe team on Friday around 10.30am. Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, left her residence around 10am to reach the DRDO guest house in suburban Santacruz, where the probe team is stationed, news agency PTI reported.Chakraborty reached the DRDO guesthouse in Mumbai’s Santacruz East area along with her brother Shovik where she will be questioned by the central agency. Also Watch | Rhea Chakraborty shares a video of her father, requests police protectionBefore Chakraborty’s arrival, Rajput’s friend and flatmate Siddharth Pithani and manager Samual Miranda had reached the DRDO guest house to join the investigation.The CBI team, which is in the city since the last eight days to investigate the case, on Thursday recorded Shovik’s statement for more than eight hours. Chakraborty’s father has also been questioned by several investigators.The CBI has so far questioned the late actor’s flatmate Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Deepesh Sawant, among others, as part of its probe in the high-profile case.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the first information report (FIR), lodged by Rajput’s father in Bihar’s Patna against Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money, to the central agency.Rajput was found dead at his Bandra home on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-to-be-questioned-by-cbi-in-mumbai/story-SJs7305t2URQhvS1mJFTuI.html
28-08-2020||India||Shivraj Chouhan orders special focus on 10 districts with high Covid numbers||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered the health department and other authorities to pay special attention to 10 districts in the state to control Covid-19 pandemic, according to an official communiqué. The instructions were issued during a meeting on Thursday evening to review the Covid -19 situation in the state.According to the communiqué, it was found during the district wise review of the 52 districts in the state that these 10 districts had reported most of the Covid-19 cases on Thursday. “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan issued instructions (to authorities) to pay special attention to all these 10 districts”, said the communiqué. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The districts include Indore, Gwalior, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Jhabua, Shivpuri, Dhar, Khargone, Ujjain and Sagar. Health department authorities were asked in the meeting to issue a “home isolation guideline” in view of asymptomatic Covid patients being home quarantined instead of being hospitalised. This is to ensure a better treatment of such patients at home. At present there are 2,109 patients in home isolation. The meeting also discussed the arrangements that have been done in government hospitals in the districts for treatment of Covid patients. Chouhan was also informed that some private hospitals have also been engaged for free treatment of Covid patients.Officials told the CM that the recovery rate in the state has reached 76.4% while the death rate was 2.24% on Thursday. The rate of testing in the state was 15,467 tests per million. More than 23,000 tests are being conducted every day in the state now. The state has conducted 12,71,846 tests so far.Madhya Pradesh is at the 16th position in the country as far as the number of active cases is concerned. On Thursday, the number of active cases stood at 12,422.According to the state health department’s bulletin on Thursday evening, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state rose to 58,181 with 1,317 new patients, The death toll stands at 1,306 while 44,453 people have recovered from the disease and have been discharged from hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-orders-special-focus-on-10-districts-with-high-covid-numbers/story-HQh4IPbycOoURGIdiKPRzJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Power supply to MP energy minister’s brother’s plant cut due to unpaid dues||In demonstration of tough action against the defaulters of power bills, Madhya Pradesh Central Zone Power Distribution Company on Thursday, disconnected power supply to five stone-crushing plants in Gwalior, including a plant owned by a brother of State’s energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar due to the non-payment of huge power bills. “The high- tension connections to the following stone crushing plants at Billowa in Dabra circle (Gwalior) have been disconnected due to non-payment of outstanding bills despite issuance of notices and persuasion to them,” said an official statement from the company listing the defaulters.According to an officer, Rituraj stone crusher company in the Billowa area is registered in the name of Devendra Singh Tomar, the elder brother of energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar. The firm was given the power connection in the year 2014. The company had not been paying the bills for the past one year amounting to Rs 95.92 lakhs in the month of August. Also Read: Gadkari inaugurates 26 road projects and lays foundation of 19 others in Madhya PradeshThe power distribution company’s general manager (O&M), Sunil Khare said, “I don’t know who is operating the crushing machines but we have snapped the power supplies of five defaulters including Rituraj stone crushing company. The action is part of our drive to recover the outstanding bills of about Rs 400 crore in the Gwalior region.” Despite efforts, Devendra Singh Tomar couldn’t be reached for his comments. He didn’t respond to phone calls and a text message. Also Read: Had turned down MP Dy CM’s post offered by Congress, says ScindiaHowever, his brother and MP’s energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar said, “It’s true that Rituraj stone crusher belongs to my brother, but I don’t know that my brother’s company has not paid electricity bills. I came to know about it just on Thursday and I have asked the management of the power distribution company to take action according to the rules, which are the same for everybody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-supply-to-mp-energy-minister-s-brother-s-plant-cut-due-to-unpaid-dues/story-932OlHzHREZ9pPd8qGeNGP.html
28-08-2020||India||Police in Indore lodge FIR after man allegedly morphs of PM’s photo||Police in Indore lodged an FIR on Wednesday night against a man who allegedly morphed a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and posted it on social media with an objectionable comment, police said. The FIR was registered at the Heeranagar police station against one Milind Ingle, a resident of Indore’s Lav Kush Awas Vihar locality on a a complaint in the morning by BJP (legal cell) office-bearer in Indore Bhupendra Singh Kushwaha, police said. Heeranagar police station in charge Rajeev Bhadauria said, “As per the complaint the Prime Minister’s photo was morphed and then it was posted on social media with an objectionable comment. Prima facie the act of the accused was found to be a violation of section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused has not been arrested as yet. An investigation is still going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-in-indore-lodge-fir-after-man-allegedly-morphs-of-pm-s-photo/story-7m1PybQJ1E4rxp17FjpbWP.html
28-08-2020||India||7 dead, 2 missing due to flood triggered by persistent rainfall in Odisha||Seven people died and two were reported missing in the last three days due to flood that was triggered after continuous rainfall in Odisha, Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena told news agency ANI.People have been evacuated from low lying areas and are being provided with food. #WATCH Odisha: Several areas in Bhadrak district face flooding, as the water-level of Baitarani river rises due to heavy rainfall. (27.08.2020) pic.twitter.com/q4HCOnPlDs“Around 7,000 people were evacuated from low lying and vulnerable areas and shifted to safe places. Dry fruits and cooked food are being provided to them,” Jena added. Meanwhile, due to consistent rise in water level and steady downpour, vast patches of agricultural land was submerged, Bhadrak DM Gyana Das said. “Officials are assessing submerged crop area. NDRF, ODRF, fire services deployed. Senior officers deployed to supervise evacuation,” Das added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-dead-2-missing-due-to-flood-triggered-by-persistent-rainfall-in-odisha/story-NHgnoZHPG4jAaDW7X1jisM.html
28-08-2020||India||Over 77,000 Covid-19 recorded cases for the first time, tally goes up to 3.38 million||India reported 77,266 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest-single-day rise, and 1,057 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry, which has taken the country’s tally past 3.38 million.This is the second day in a row that India has recorded more than 70,000 Covid-19 cases and over 1,000 fatalities for the third consecutive day, taking the number of patients who have succumbed to Covid-19 to 61,529 till date. The first death was reported on March 12 in India.According to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, there are 742,023 active cases. With 60,177 people discharged between Thursday and Friday morning, the number of recovered patients have surged to 2,583,948 and the recovery rate to 76.27%.“In the past 5 months, more than 3/4 of cases have recovered and less than 1/4 are active now. Effective implementation of the Centre’s strategic and graded TEST-TRACK-TREAT approach has led to higher recoveries and lower fatality,” the health ministry said on Friday.Maharashtra continued to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, with 718,711 infections, including 173,195 active cases and 23,089 deaths. Tamil Nadu is another worst-affected state and has reported 52,362 cases of the coronavirus disease and 6,839 deaths so far. Karnataka has 83,627 Covid-19 cases and 5,091 deaths.The government said on Thursday nine states and a Union territory have reported 89% of the deaths in the country in the last two weeks and that they need to have continued and rigorous vigil so as to contain the spread of infection as well as take steps to reduce fatalities. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir are among them.Union cabinet secretary reviewed the situation in nine states and a Union territory with high Covid-19 case fatality rate and have been urged to proactively limit transmission and keep the mortality below 1%. The states and UT were advised to proactively take steps towards reducing case fatality to less than 1% across all districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-77-000-covid-19-recorded-for-the-first-time-tally-goes-up-to-3-38-million/story-UcnWwAe9vcMWBPUFss6cQJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Srinagar-Jammu highway remains blocked for fourth consecutive day||The Srinagar Jammu national highway continues to remain blocked for the fourth consecutive day Friday even as the MeT department predicted improvement in the weather from this afternoon.Jammu and Kashmir witnessed moderate to heavy rainfall over the past two days which ended a three-month long dry spell across union territory.The MeT office said that intermittent light to moderate rain spells are expected Friday in Jammu division, south east Kashmir and Ladakh division while the weather is predicted to improve in other places. “Srinagar, Baramulla, Kupwara Bandipur and Ganderbal will have significant improvement in weather,” it said.According to traffic officials the heavy rainfall triggered landslides and shooting stones at least at 10 places on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway. The highway has been blocked since Tuesday when a large portion of it was washed away in Ramban district.“Due to the heavy rainfall restoration work has not been completed. Till the restoration work doesn’t get over and landslides are removed, traffic on Jammu-Srinagar national highway will remain closed,” a senior police officer said.The rain has increased the water level in all the major rivers and streams. The government, however, has ruled out the possibility of floods at this stage though flood control rooms have been activated in some parts of north Kashmir due to surging water levels.Heavy rain which began in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday brought down the temperatures. The rain also brought relief to farmers from the dry weather conditions from the past three months. Scanty rain had led to very low output in water bodies causing shortage of potable water across Kashmir valley and also affected the agricultural and horticultural produce. The temperatures have also hovered above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-jammu-highway-remains-blocked-for-fourth-consecutive-day/story-1PhSAUppucOJWhZETY0cCI.html
28-08-2020||India||Kashmir highway remains closed for 4th day, multiple landslides in Ramban district||The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the only surface link between Kashmir and the rest of the country, remained snapped for the fourth straight day on Friday due to landslides in Panthial, Mompassi, Digdol, Cafeteria Morh, Battery Chashma and Marog in Ramban district. SSP national Highway J S Johar said, “The highway is still closed due to landslides at multiple places, like Mompassi, Panthial, Dalwas, Marog, Digdol and Monkey Morh in Ramban district. The weather is still inclement.” A local from Ramban said that Cafeteria Morh saw a massive landslide; around 500 meters of the road has been occupied by the debris. Incessant rains have rendered machines defunct so they could not clear the debris due to mud and slush on the affected stretches in the district. “The intensity of rains has now reduced to a drizzle. Around 300 vehicles are stranded in Ramban district,” he said. An official said that over 2,000 vehicles remained stranded at various places at Qazigund, Chenani, Udhampur and Nagrota. The men and machines of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) are on standby but rains are hampering the restoration work, he added. Light to moderate rains also lashed the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, south of Pir Panjal on Friday morning. Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “Police and the army successfully accomplished a rescue operation this morning and saved four lives. These four people were trapped in flooded Suran river in Salotri area of Poonch.” The Jammu-Poonch highway, however, remains open for traffic. Poonch deputy magistrate Rahul Yadav said, Mughal road has not been opened for all traffic. “Mughal road is allowed only for downward movement of fruit trucks, empty oil tankers from Kashmir Valley to Jammu. No other movement is allowed via Mughal road”, Yadav said. Similar reports of light to moderate rains also poured in from the Doda region comprising Kishtwar and Bhaderwah. Paddar-Kishtwar highway has also been blocked by a massive landslide at Naigad near Padiyarna. India Meteorological department (IMD) director Sonam Lotus said the present weather system will start improving from Friday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-highway-remains-closed-for-4th-day-multiple-landslides-in-ramban-district/story-ttkXGmSwqA7ivEqrfexSzJ.html
28-08-2020||India||5 more volunteers inoculated with Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Pune: Latest developments||With India’s Covid-19 tally now at more than 33 lakh, the country may overtake Brazil sometime in the next two weeks if the cases continue to grow at the current pace.Pharmaceutical companies in India and around the world are racing to find a vaccine for Covid-19 which has infected more than 24 million people globally.A total of 26 vaccine candidates are being developed, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday directed states to focus on districts with high case fatality rate and refine and strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact-tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols, etc.Here are all the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine in India and recent developments:•Five more volunteers were inoculated with the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Pune district as part of the phase II clinical trial launched in search for an antidote against the viral infection that is showing no signs of abating in the country. Three of the volunteers were administered the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate at Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Medical College and Hospital in Pune city, a senior doctor from the medical facility said. The volunteers who were administered the vaccine have shown normal vitals following the dose.•Premas Biotech has said its vaccine candidate for Covid-19 treatment has shown positive results, inducing a neutralising immune response in animal studies. The company is in talks with the Indian regulatory authorities concerned to plan and initiate next steps towards conducting human trials, Premas Biotech said in a statement.•Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, selected 17 sites in India to conduct the Phase II trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine. A total of 1,600 candidates will take part in the study.•Communication between India and Russia are on as far as Sputnik V, the Covid vaccine, is concerned, the Union Health Ministry had said. “As far as Sputnik-5 vaccine is concerned, India and Russia are in communication. Some initial information have been shared,” Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union health ministry said while briefing the media.•Covaxin, one of the three vaccine candidates against Covid-19 being developed in India, has been approved for skin trials by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-more-volunteers-inoculated-with-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-in-pune-latest-developments/story-t7TnCHhOo18PhlhipJlFuL.html
28-08-2020||India||August records 24% excess rain in India, highest since 1983||This August recorded the highest rain—24% excess—for the first time since 1983, when 24% excess rain was recorded. In 1926, 33% excess rain was recorded in August.Several parts of India, particularly central and some parts of western India including Gujarat and Rajasthan, recorded excess rain during the first three weeks of August. The week ending August 12 saw 13% excess, the week ending August 19 saw 42% excess, and the week ending August 26 saw 41% excess rain. IMD, in its weekly weather update Friday, said there will be above average rain at least until September 3. Rainfall could reduce thereafter as no low-pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal until around September 10. Five low pressure areas have already formed in August, bringing extensive and heavy rain to east, central and west India. Low pressure areas are the main rain bearing systems during the monsoon. In the week ending August 26, for example, Hairamgarh in central India recorded 23 cm; Jodia in Gujarat recorded 34 cm; Bhungra in Rajasthan recorded 36 cm, all in the extremely heavy rain category (over 20 cm).Also Read: Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi todayThere is a well-marked low-pressure area over north Chhattisgarh and the adjoining east Madhya Pradesh. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards across north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and weaken gradually, IMD said in its Friday morning bulletin.The western end of the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is near its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal) and the eastern end to the south of its normal position. The western end is likely to remain in its normal position during the next two days and shift northwards to the foothills of Himalayas thereafter for the subsequent four or five days. “The convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal is very likely over the plains of Northwest India during next 2-3 days,” the bulletin read.Also Read: IMD’s weather forecast raised hope but Delhi remained dry; heavy rain warning for NW India remainsDue to these favourable conditions, very heavy rain is likely over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on August 28; over west Madhya Pradesh on 28 and 29; over Gujarat and Konkan and Goa on August 29. Widespread and extremely heavy rain are very likely over east Madhya Pradesh on August 28. Widespread and heavy rain is also likely over northwest India including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on August 28 and 29, the bulletin read. IMD scientists warned of mudslides and flooding in parts of central India as the soil is already saturated there.Overall monsoon rain is 8% excess with 23% excess rain over the south peninsula; 16% excess over central India; 12% deficient over northwest India and 4% excess over east and northeast India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-august-records-24-excess-rain-in-india-highest-since-1983/story-h9j3p0HjeKRWEfRlaJUFAL.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR begins second round of sero survey across India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ICMR starts second all-India sero survey; results expected in SeptemberThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun the second round of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sero survey to determine how many more Indians have been exposed to the infection since the first such exercise was conducted in May during the nationwide lockdown. Read moreAndhra HC stalls Jagan Reddy’s three capital plan till September 21The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday extended status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital till September 21, thereby halting the plan of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to shift the administrative capital to Visakhapatnam and judicial capital to Kurnool. Read moreA decade later, a school building in Uttar Pradesh is still in the makingA decade since it was sanctioned, the building of the proposed multi-storey school of state basic education department that was to come up at Kanshiram Awas Yojana in Phaphamau is yet not complete. Read moreRepublican leaders rally behind Trump, say Biden no longer has any principlesTop Republican party leaders Thursday night rallied behind President Donald Trump as they used the platform of Republican National Convention to launch a blistering attack on his Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden. Read moreIPL 2020: Quarantine rules in Abu Dhabi put KKR, MI in a spotA 14-day quarantine rule in Abu Dhabi has put Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) and Mumbai Indians (MI), the two IPL teams based there, in a spot. While the remaining six teams in Dubai can start training, KKR and MI players need an extra week before they can step out of their rooms. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput was haunted by MeToo allegations, thought Sanjana Sanghi was ‘part of a big nexus’: Rhea ChakrabortyActor Rhea Chakraborty has said that the #MeToo allegation made about Sushant Singh Rajput, and his Dil Bechara co-star Sanjana Sanghi’s delay in offering a clarification, greatly bothered Sushant. Rhea suggested that the allegation was made as a part of a larger conspiracy. Read moreSara Ali Khan is a sight to behold in pink, shares latest Instagram picture amid Ganesh ChaturthiSara Ali Khan shared pictures of herself praying to Lord Ganesha as Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are almost coming to an end. This season has seen a slump in several festivities due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, but Bollywood celebrities are ensuring that our spirits remain high by sharing the festive spirit with their followers, albeit virtually. Read more‘2020 has not been the best year’, lightning strikes as groom says these words. Video is now viral“What a timing,” this is probably what you’ll utter after seeing this now viral video of a wedding ceremony. Shared by groom Aaron Sawitsky, the video captures a surprising event which took place during his wedding ceremony with Denice McClure. Read moreWatch: IPL 2020 | I am ready to bat at No. 5 or 6: Ajinkya Rahane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updated-from-hindustan-times-icmr-begins-second-round-of-sero-survey-across-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R3xoe5SxRdiH69RX7LYWTL.html
28-08-2020||India||Make in India: DoT may ask BSNL to try local end-to-end networks for 4G upgrade||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is mulling advising BSNL and MTNL to test out locally consolidated networks for a few months before they take a call on who to select to upgrade their 4G spectrum services, Hindustan Times has learnt. Also read: May cancel spectrum licenses if telcos are not ready to pay AGR dues, says Supreme CourtThe decision can have far-reaching ramifications as the new setup, if found feasible, can be replicated for other network providers and to upgrade to 5G services, the tender process for which is yet to begin.HT has earlier reported that the DoT had set up a six-member panel to look into the 4G upgrade tender after it was scrapped on July 1. The decision had come in the wake of 20 Indian soldiers being killed in the Galwan Valley by China. The decision was also taken in keeping with the preference to Make in India policy of the telecom department, and a bid to reduce reliance on Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE. The six-member panel, which has representatives from DoT, BSNL, MTNL and the industry, has already met five times and is in the final stage of outlining requirements for the fresh tender. The final tender requirements are likely to be concretised by the end of the week. The Rs 7,000-8,000 crore tender is part of the BSNL revival package that will allow it to expand its telecom presence. “Indian manufacturers at present do not have a turn-key setup in place,” said a DoT official who did not wish to be named. “A turn-key setup offers end-to-end network, including both radio and core requirements that are consolidated at a central level by a single operator.”According to the official, tech giants such as Nokia and Airtel have their own turn-key setups in India. The official that while seven companies manufacture radio equipment, used to set up towers, only two companies at present are capable of making core equipment, which translates the signals to provide telecom services. “The core equipment is responsible for translating the signals that are carried by the radio equipment,” the official said. “The new approach likely incorporate multiple vendors to setup an end-to-end network.”A member of the panel, on the condition of anonymity, told HT that reservations had been expressed about the ability of Indian tech companies to set up the network.“We are discussing telling BSNL and MTNL to set up at least 10-20 towers using local equipment and connect it to the core,” said the member. “They can test if the equipment is giving appropriate results.”According to experts, nearly 75% of the telecom equipment is sourced from companies outside India, especially the internal components. Two major Chinese firms with a stake in the Indian market are ZTE and Huawei, both Chinese companies. Other major players include Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung.“We are not saying that Nokia or Airtel will not be able to provide services, but the idea is that the local manufacturers get a greater stake,” said the first official. “Nokia has an India-based office that employs many Indian engineers.”At present, according to the preference to make in India policy of the DoT, those doing over 50% addition to product and network by using equipment made in India and not just assembled here given preference. “If Tech Mahindra gives a bid for 112 and Nokia for 100, Tech Mahindra will be asked to match the bid,” said former DoT technical advisor RK Bhatnagar. “Ercisson’s value addition, for example, would be around 25%, making them eligible to be in preference category.”Bhatnagar added that a version of the DoT’s proposal was discussed at a meeting convened by NITI Aayog in early July. “Private players such as Tech Mahindra made a presentation that they have the capability,” said Bhatnagar. “They had asked for an opportunity, and NITI Aayog had suggested the same to DoT.”“The players can be asked to set up a consolidated network, which will then be tested over 4 months to see if it’s a workable solution and then can be replicated in other places,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-in-india-dot-may-ask-bsnl-to-try-local-end-to-end-networks-for-4g-upgrade/story-hxSi1tttWBx4otuCIgRYlM.html
28-08-2020||India||India reports 1,000 Covid deaths on third consecutive day||India reported around a 1,000 new deaths for the third consecutive day on Thursday, taking the total number of patients that has succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far in the country to 61,690. The first death in India was reported on March 12. On Thursday, the country saw the biggest spike in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day so far, with 76,870 samples testing positive for the viral disease. It was also the second consecutive day that the country reported at least 75,000 new cases. Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths in the country, with 355 deaths on Thursday alone, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 23,444. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayAnother extremely affected state in terms of death toll is Tamil Nadu, with 6,948 cumulative deaths reported so far, and 109 new deaths reported in a single day. Karnataka reported the second-highest (141) new deaths, taking the death toll in the state to 5,232. Maharashtra also has the maximum of Covid-19 positive cases in the country as 14,857 people tested positive in the state on Thursday. Andhra Pradesh is a close second with 10,621 cases reported in a single day, followed by Karnataka with 9,386 cases. Also Read: Battle shifting as Covid-19 threat stalks rural IndiaAs the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths is not going down, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday directed states to focus on districts reporting a high case fatality, and the urgent need for them to refine as well as strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact-tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols, etc. “There are some states with certain districts that are not performing well; there is a need to look into specific problems of those districts to be able to better contain the disease spread,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-1-000-covid-deaths-on-third-consecutive-day/story-hffrU55bemRZf5ZeTkBizI.html
28-08-2020||India||Andhra HC stalls Jagan Reddy’s three capital plan till September 21||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday extended status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital till September 21, thereby halting the plan of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to shift the administrative capital to Visakhapatnam and judicial capital to Kurnool. A three-member bench of the state high court comprising chief justice J K Maheshwar, justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and justice A V Sesha Sai, acting on a batch of petitions filed by the farmers of Amaravati, said there would be stay on the implementation of two legislations passed by the state legislature on the repeal of AP Capital Regional Development Authority (APCRDA) and formation of three capitals till further hearing on September 21. The Jagan government has no chance to move the Supreme Court as the latter on Wednesday refused to interfere in the high court’s status quo orders. This is the third time that the high court had stalled the plan of the state government on formation of three capitals. The status quo was first ordered on August 4 till August 14, which was later extended till August 27. Now, it has been further extended till September 21. About 15 senior advocates, mostly from Delhi, have been appearing for the nearly 70 petitioners challenging the Jagan government’s decision to create three capitals and to abolish the APCRDA. The high court said the government could file its counter on the objections raised by the petitioners before September 11 and the petitioners could present their version by September 17. The division bench said it would like to hear the petitions in person, rather than in virtual mode, if it was convinced about the safety in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. “We shall take a call on holding the court physically or virtually a week before the next hearing on September 21,” Meanwhile, farmers of Amaravati filed a separate petition in the high court questioning the delay in annuity for their lands surrendered to the state government for construction of capital in 2015. According to the agreement signed with the APCRDA in 2015, each farmer has to be paid yearly amount of Rs 30,000 per acre for drylands to Rs 50,000 per acre for wetlands for a period of 10 years. Besides, landless poor who were working as agriculture labourer in the surrendered lands have to be paid Rs 2,500 per month. “The amount has to be paid in June. Though the government has issued orders last month itself, the money has not been paid till now,” a farmer Idupulapati Seetharamaiah told the court. On Wednesday, a group of farmers tried to lay siege to APCRDA office in Vijayawada demanding payment of annuity, but they were arrested by the police. The high court ordered the government to pay the amount due to the farmers within the next two days. Soon after the court judgement, state minister for municipal administration and urban development Botsa Satyanarayana said the government could not pay the annuity due to technical reasons. “We shall credit the amount to the accounts of farmers immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-stalls-jagan-reddy-s-three-capital-plan-till-september-21/story-JFPIjBVruqiz8EH0JcTZHN.html
28-08-2020||India||IMD’s weather forecast raised hope but Delhi remained dry; heavy rain warning for NW India remains||New Delhi: The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi, withdrew its ‘orange’ category moderate rain warning for the national capital on Wednesday, as it turned out to be a modelling error. RMC had issued an orange category warning that implied local authorities must remain prepared for traffic disruption and inundation of low-lying areas.The forecast was due to an error in the model forecast, according to scientists. The models were showing that the monsoon trough (the line of low pressure) would shift northwards from Tuesday and stay over Delhi for a couple of days, but the monsoon trough shifted very fast to the Himalayan foothills, leaving the national capital dry.There may be light to moderate patchy rain over Delhi-national capital region (NCR) for the next two days but not heavy rain as was expected, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said. RMC has issued a moderate rain warning for Friday. “We were expecting the monsoon trough to remain near Delhi for some time. But the western end of the trough shifted to the foothills bringing a lot of rain in Jammu and northern Punjab and the eastern end is near Bahraich. This explains the reason behind southern Uttar Pradesh (UP) is also getting rain. We may record some light rainfall on Friday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC). Delhi has an 8% rain deficiency until Thursday. Rain within -19% and +19% category during monsoon season is considered to be in the normal category. Also Read: Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today“We had issued a light rain warning. The models showed that monsoon trough would run along Delhi for at least a day or two. There was a low pressure area over south-west Rajasthan, where all the moisture was concentrated. When it weakened, we were expecting the moisture to reach to other parts of north-west India, but that didn’t happen. The monsoon trough is oscillating very frequently and fast this time. The model didn’t capture the shift this time,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private meteorological forecaster.A well marked low-pressure area is lying over south-west Jharkhand. It is likely to move west-northwest wards across northern Chhattisgarh, northern Madhya Pradesh (MP) and southern UP during the next three days and then weaken gradually, IMD said in its Thursday bulletin.Also Read: Rainy weekend on the cards in ChandigarhThe western end of the monsoon trough runs close to the Himalayan foothills and the eastern end runs to the south of its normal position. The western end is very likely to shift southwards from Friday and remain along its normal position for the next two days and shift northwards to the foothills of Himalayas for the next four-five days. “The convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal is likely over the plains of north-west India from Saturday onwards for the next two days,” the bulletin said.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread and extremely heavy rainfall is likely over eastern MP on Friday and Saturday and over Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha on Friday. Heavy rain is also likely over Uttarakhand and western UP until Monday (August 31); over Punjab on Friday and Saturday; over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Saturday and Sunday; over western Rajasthan between Saturday and Monday; over eastern Rajasthan from Friday to Monday.“We are expecting widespread and good rains throughout north-west India for the next three to four days,” said Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general (D-G), IMD..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-s-weather-forecast-raised-hope-but-delhi-remained-dry-heavy-rain-warning-for-nw-india-remains/story-nS9EPbJTJ1CePoLrAh0WUK.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress at its historic low, needs 24x7 leader, says Kapil Sibal||The Congress party needs “leadership [that is] 24x7” at a time when it is at a “historic low”, senior leader Kapil Sabil said on Thursday in his first interview since he and 22 other leaders signed a controversial letter seeking sweeping reforms within the party.The letter sent to interim party president Sonia Gandhi on August 7 called for a “visible”, “effective” and “full-time” leader; elections at all levels in the party; and establishing an institutional leadership model to collectively guide the party, among other steps.“If people have access to the letter, they will know it is not an attempt to belittle anyone, including the Gandhi family. In fact, we have appreciated the services rendered by the leadership thus far,” Sibal told HT in an interview.Also Watch | ‘Another split in Congress imminent?’: Watch Sanjay Jha’s responseAlso Read: Congress dissenters’ letter outlines 11-point agenda for internal reforms“Our intent is to revive the party. We want to be partners in its revival. That is our commitment to the party constitution and the Congress legacy, and the absolute conviction that the Congress needs others to rally around, to oppose a government which has destroyed the very foundations on which the Indian Republic is built.“The Congress party is at a historic low and the election results of 2014 and 2019 reflect that,” he said.The letter led to a stormy and marathon session of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body in the party. In the seven-hour meeting on Monday, there was heavy criticism of those who signed the letter, and the focus of the discussion was largely on its timing, and its leak, rather than on its substance.Also Read: 22 Opposition parties may meet to chalk out plan to corner govtFour of the 23 leaders — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada — are members of the CWC. Other senior leaders who have signed the letter include Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, and Prithviraj Chavan.Also Read: Congress names Gaurav Gogoi deputy leader in Lok Sabha in party rejig“I wish the substance had been circulated, then all those present (at the CWC meeting) would’ve realised that it (the letter) is about strengthening and reviving the Congress. One of those present even used the expression ‘traitor’. I wish those present had reprimanded him. There was not one uncivilised comment made in the communication. I am appalled that expressions like these are allowed within the highest forum,” Sibal added.Sibal said the party constitution calls for certain structures in the party that need to be re-established. “I have some knowledge of the party and its constitution and the constitution provides for several structures which need to be put in place, which are not in place. The intent and language of the letter dealt with the structures not being in place,” he said.The senior advocate expressed disappointment that Jitin Prasada was targeted on Wednesday by a Congress district committee in Uttar Pradesh that wanted action taken against him for signing the letter.Also Read: Sonia Gandhi names leaders in Parliament; Ghulam Nabi Azad retains spot“It is either an attack by sycophants or directed to demoralise those whose conscience has made them speak. It is a matter of grave concern that there are audios and videos which prove that Prasada was targeted at the behest of someone higher up in the hierarchy,” he said, without elaborating further.Asked if he, too, fears being targeted, Sibal said: “We have no fears. We are Congressmen at heart and we will remain Congressmen without fear.”Sibal — he had protested on Monday after incorrect media reports said that Rahul Gandhi had suggested that the letter-writers were in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and then withdrawn his tweet when Rahul Gandhi told him the words attributed to him were wrong — said: “I and the BJP are North Pole and South Pole. We are wedded to the Congress ideology and bitterly oppose the current dispensation (at the Centre).”The party, which at the CWC asked Sonia Gandhi to continue as interim president, is expected to hold an All-India Congress Committee session in six months to elect a new chief.In an interview to ANI on Thursday, Azad stressed on electing, rather than appointing, the next Congress president.Asked what his position will be going forward, Sibal said: “We are soldiers of the party and some of us are seasoned enough to know what needs to be done. We hope that we will be heard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-at-historic-low-needs-24x7-leader-kapil-sibal/story-yTRzhMpnklYQsSBEWVKFEM.html
28-08-2020||India||78 new routes added to Udan Scheme. Here’s the full list||In an attempt to connect small cities of India with each other, the Government of India launched a Regional Connectivity Scheme, Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik). The scheme reached its fourth stage as the aviation ministry gave nod to 78 fresh routes that will become functional soon. In this stage, north east states, hilly areas and islands of India have been given priority. With this, the total number of routes under Udan has gone up to 766. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that out of these 78 airports, 18 will connect cities to metros such as Delhi, Kolkata and Ranchi. The fresh routes will encourage tourism in these areas and help strengthen their economies, he added.Here is the full list:1. Guwahati To Tezu2. Tezu To Imphal3. Imphal To Tezu4. Tezu To Guwahati5. Guwahati To Rupsi6. Rupsi To Kolkata7. Kolkata To Rupsi8. Rupsi To Guwahati9. Bilaspur To Bhopal10. Bhopal To Bilaspur11. Hissar To Dharamshala12. Dharamshala To Hissar13. Hissar To Chandigarh14. Chandigarh To Hissar15. Hissar To Dehradun16. Dehradun To Hissar17. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Moradabad18. Moradabad To Kanpur(Chakeri)19. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Aligarh20. Aligarh To Kanpur(Chakeri)21. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Chitrakoot22. Chitrakoot To Prayagraj/Allahabad23. Prayagraj/Allahabad To Chitrakoot24. Chitrakoot To Varanasi25. Varanasi To Chitrakoot26. Chitrakoot To Kanpur(Chakeri)27. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Shravasti28. Shravasti To Varanasi29. Varanasi To Shravasti30. Shravasti To Prayagraj/Allahabad31. Prayagraj/Allahabad To Shravasti32. Shravasti To Kanpur(Chakeri)33. Bareilly To Delhi34. Delhi To Bareilly35. Cochin International Airport(CIAL) To Agatti36. Agatti To Cochin International Airport(CIAL)37. Aizawl To Tezpur38. Tezpur To Aizawl39. Agartala To Dibrugarh40. Dibrugarh To Agartala41. Shillong To Passighat42. Passighat To Guwahati43. Guwahati To Passighat44. Passighat To Shillong45. Guwahati To Tezpur46. Tezpur To Guwahati47. Guwahati To Misa(Heliport)48. Misa(Heliport) To Geleki49. Geleki To Jorhat50. Jorhat To Geleki51. Geleki To Misa(Heliport)52. Misa(Heliport) To Guwahati53. Agatti To Minicoy54. Minicoy To Agatti55. Agatti To Kavaratti56. Kavaratti To Agatti57. Guwahati To Shillong58. Shillong To Dimapur59. Dimapur To Shillong60. Imphal To Silchar61. Silchar To Imphal62. Shillong To Guwahati63. Agartala To Shillong64. Shillong To Imphal65. Imphal To Shillong66. Shillong To Agartala67. Imphal To Shillong68. Shillong To Silchar69. Silchar To Shillong70. Shillong To Imphal71. Shillong To Dibrugarh72. Dibrugarh To Shillong73. Delhi To Shimla74. Shimla To Delhi75. Diu To Surat76. Surat To Diu77. Diu To Vadodara78. Vadodara To Diu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-new-routes-added-to-udan-scheme-here-s-the-full-list/story-7c3tNZOUkGLDBgn97ncaWN.html
28-08-2020||India||Covid: J-K directs private clinics to report +ve, suspected cases to health dept||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday directed all private hospitals to report all positive Covid-19, Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), Influenza-like Illness (ILI) cases to the health department of the Union Territory. “The Jammu and Kashmir government today directed all private clinics/nursing homes situated in the Union Territory to report all cases found positive of Covid-19, and also cases of those from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI)/ Influenza-like Illness (ILI), or having radiological findings suggestive of Covid-19 infection for Covid-19 testing forthwith to the Director Health Services Kashmir/Jammu concerned or concerned Chief Medical Officers,” the J-K statement read. It further said that non-compliance of the direction would attract proceedings under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. As per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Union Territory has a total of 7,630 active cases, 26,193 recoveries, and 657 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-j-k-directs-private-clinics-to-report-ve-suspected-cases-to-health-dept/story-UUNTY0TvKRnrfurJxZ0E8K.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress will sit in opposition for 50 years if party election doesn’t happen: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Asserting that appointed Congress president may not have even one per cent support in the party, senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the signatories to the “dissident” letter, on Thursday pitched for elections to the Congress Working Committee and key organisational posts of state chiefs, district presidents, block presidents and said that those opposing are afraid of losing their positions.While adding that prospects of the party would be better if elected body leads the party otherwise “Congress will continue to sit in the Opposition for the next 50 years.”“When you contest the election at least 51 per cent is with you and you contest the election against only 2 to 3 people within the party. A person who will get 51 per cent of votes will be elected. Others will get 10 or 15 per cent votes. The person who wins and get charge of the post of part president, it means that 51 per cent people are with him. The election has the benefit that when you fight elections, at least your party is 51 per cent behind you. Right now, the person who becomes president might not even have one per cent support. If CWC members are elected then they cannot be removed. So what is the problem,” Ghulam Nabi Azad told ANI.“ Others who stood second, third or fourth will think that we have to strengthen the party while working hard and will win next time. But, the president who is elected now does not have even the support of 1 per cent of party workers,” he said while reiterating that elections make the foundation of the party strong. Drawing attention to the consequences of not conducting the elections on the party’s prospects in the elections, he said that Congress party has been appointing “someone as party president in the state” who comes and goes to Delhi and who are recommended by big party leaders.The remarks came three days after the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party passed a resolution and requested Sonia Gandhi “to continue to lead the Indian National Congress” until such time as circumstances will permit an AICC session to be convened. “We even do not know whether such persons have the support of 1 per cent or 100 per cent. There are many who do not have even 1 per cent support. This happens in the state, district, CWC elections for party leadership. An appointed person can be removed but an elected person can not be removed. What is wrong with this,” he said.He strongly criticised leaders who are opposing the elections, saying, the people who are claiming to be the loyalists are actually doing cheap politics and are detrimental to the interests of the party and to the nation. Slamming those for opposing elections, Rajya Sabha member said, “Those office-bearers or state unit presidents or block district presidents who attack our proposal know that they will be nowhere when elections happen. Whoever is genuinely invested in the Congress will welcome the letter. I have said that State, district and block president of the party should be elected by the party workers,” he said.He lamented for not holding the elections in the party for the past several decades, “For the last many decades, we do not have elected bodies in the party. Maybe we should have pushed for it 10-15 yrs ago. Now we are losing elections after elections, and if we have to come back we need to strengthen our party by holding elections.”“If my party wants to be in opposition for the next 50 years, then there is no need for elections within the party,” he said.Mentioning that the sole purpose is to make Congress active and strong, he said, “But those who simply got ‘appointment cards’ continue to oppose our proposal. What’s the harm in having elected CWC members who will have fixed tenures in the party.”“Anyone who has a genuine interest in the internal working dynamics of Congress would welcome our proposal to have every state and district president as being elected. The entire Congress Working Committee should be elected,” Azad said.Azad, who is Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, said their effort was to make the party strong and active and those who simply got “appointment cards” continue to oppose their proposal.Stressing that he has no personal ambitions but is loyal to his party, he said, “I had CM once, Union Cabinet Minister, CWC member and general secretary of the party, I do not want anything for me. I will remain in active politics for the next 5 to 7 years. I do not want to be party president. As a true congressman, I want elections within the party for the betterment of the party”.Rajya Sabha member said that Congress worker who has little interest in the party welfare will welcome his letter.The CWC meeting was held on August 24 in the backdrop of a letter in which Azad and 22 other leaders had called for “full time” active leadership, sweeping reforms and elections of the CWC. There was also a suggestion for a mechanism for collective leadership to guide the party’s revival.Several leaders in the party, including party chief ministers, had raised questions over the letter and the issue figured in the CWC meeting.Apart from hailing the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, the CWC also lauded the role of party leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he has resolutely led the fight against the BJP-led government from the front.Sonia Gandhi continues to remain as interim president of the party in August last year after Rahul Gandhi resigned taking responsibility for the party’s dismal performance in the Lok Sabha polls. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-will-continue-to-sit-in-opposition-for-next-50-years-if-election-doesn-t-happen-in-party-ghulam-nabi-azad/story-Nv7UJAVNKYpup0liEfM8WL.html
28-08-2020||India||Amid pandemic, Mizoram holds local body polls||Even as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to sweep the country, Mizoram on Thursday, held elections to 550 village councils and 59 urban local councils . “I participated in Mizoram general election to village councils and local councils, 2020. Thanking all the election officials and every part-taker for providing safe platform to many voters in exercising our constitutional franchise amidst this pandemic,” Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted after casting his vote. The state election commission held the polls while maintaining social distancing, hygiene and all safety norms. Counting of votes is underway at present. “Polling went off without a glitch and it was very peaceful. We maintained all measures related to social distancing, thermal screening, wearing of masks and availability of hand sanitisers at all polling stations,” said Mizoram state election commissioner Laima Chozah told HT. Mizoram has over 4.54 lakh eligible voters in 558 village councils in 9 districts and over 2.18 lakh voters in 83 local councils under Aizawl Municipal Corporation. Polling in 8 village councils and 24 local councils have been deferred due to spread of Covid-19 in those areas. The contest is expected to be a triangular one among ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) and opposition Congress and Zoram People’s Movement (ZPM). MNF has already won 12 village councils unopposed while Congress has won 3. “We expect to get the final results by Friday and we should be able to issue gazette notification,” Chozah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-mizoram-holds-local-body-polls/story-3oUC8QHK15qi2noIQhS6bP.html
28-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Scientists have found the answers (or the beginning of answers) to two important questions about Covid-19.The first: why are men who contract the coronavirus disease at greater risk than women?The answer — like many others where Covid-19 is concerned — lies in the immune response to the virus.According to research by Akiko Iwasaki and others at the Yale School of Medicine, the male immune response is largely built around cytokines and chemokines, both signalling proteins that are part of the body’s immune response. The female response, the research, published in Nature says, is driven by T-cells, a major (and stronger) component of the immune system. The research offers the first plausible answer on why the mortality rate among infected men, especially those over the age of 60, is higher than that among infected women. As an aside, those interested in the more scientific aspects of Covid-19 would do well to follow Iwasaki’s work — she is among the clearest thinkers on many aspects of the disease.The second question: can someone cured of Covid-19 be re-infected?There have been many false starts to this answer, including some local ones, but according to a paper published on August 25 in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, the answer is yes.The paper is based on research by doctors and scientists at the University of Hong Kong and speaks of a 33-year old man who recovered from Covid-19 in April, and was re-infected in August. The viral genome from the first and the second infections were sequenced, studied and, found to be genetically distinct. This wasn’t simply a residual infection — it was a new one. Interestingly, the second time the man was infected, he remained asymptomatic, and his immune system kicked in, producing new antibodies.HT reported the Hong Kong incident soon after it happened, but there is a larger (and a related) learning in the two studies for vaccine developers. The first study (the one on gender differences) shows that they will have to factor in gender while developing vaccines to ensure that these are effective across the population. The second study shows that being infected once does not always rule out a re-infection — more research is needed, but, in general, it still could in many cases. This isn’t necessarily a blow for administrators and health care workers in regions hit hard by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, who were hoping that the high prevalence of the disease, as measured by antibody surveys, bestowed some level of immunity on the population. That could still be the case — but it cannot be taken for granted. Typically, this is also one of the things vaccines are tested for — not just whether they can provoke an immune response against the disease, but whether they can prevent a re-infection.The need to answer questions such as these is why vaccine development usually takes years. The global health and economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has meant that vaccine developers have tried to shorten the development cycle — something that could have a bearing on the efficacy of the vaccines or the length of the protection they offer (but that’s another story).Nature’s website recently published a telling story (and graphic) on the extent to which the world is counting on the vaccines under development. Based on data from Airfinity, a research firm, the article said countries have struck deals or announced commitments for almost 4.5 billion doses of vaccines from nine vaccine developers. The UK, the article points out, has committed to buying 340 million doses. Its population is a little less than 70 million. The US, the European Union, and Japan have also committed to buying enough to vaccinate every one of their residents at least once, according to the article. India recently set up a committee to discuss various aspects of its vaccine strategy, from funding and sourcing to storage and delivery, but the global rush for vaccines only highlights the need to finalise this soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ZDV2fyGqjf5R54NuJqntAL.html
28-08-2020||India||Varavara Rao released from hospital after Covid treatment; back in jail||Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, 81, one of the accused arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad case, was discharged from Nanavati Hospital on Thursday afternoon. Rao was admitted on July 19 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He has been taken back to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai where he was earlier lodged. Deepak Pandey, inspector general (south region prisons), has confirmed the development.Rao was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family had alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea.“He was not normal at the time of discharge. While Sodium normal range was 134-145, he attained only 133 and potassium normal range was 3.5 to 5.0, he attained only 3.55, according to the hospital record. But, later on June 2 it was proved that all this – admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged – was part of conspiracy by the police.“June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in the NIA Special Sessions Court and police argued against his bail showing this hospital “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” read a statement from the family.Rao continued to show signs of delirium and after voices were raised from various quarters Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. After he tested positive for Covid-19 he was shifted to St George’s Hospital.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also intervened and issued notices to the Maharashtra government asking it to ensure Rao is taken care of and adequate medical facilities are arranged. It also asked for a report on Rao’s health.The commission observed that the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty bound to provide the same to a prisoner as well.The state has been directed to constitute a medical board to examine Rao’s health, provide him the best possible treatment and bear the cost for the same.Rao was then moved to Nanavati hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-rao-released-from-hospital-after-covid-treatment-back-in-jail/story-OpdlkcToUZ45sOcHRDmbQI.html
28-08-2020||India||Andhra police bust fake Aadhaar racket, arrest eight||The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district on Thursday busted an Aadhaar manipulation racket and arrested eight persons, including two belonging to Aadhaar centre who were involved in it. Guntur (urban) superintendent of police R N Ammi Reddy said the accused had indulged in forgery of signatures of gazetted officers to prepare fake birth certificates of people and use them to obtain Aadhaar cards for securing benefits of government schemes. Reddy said the accused had lured gullible women by promising them monetary benefits under government schemes like YSR Cheyutha and YSR pension schemes. Under YSR Cheyutha scheme, financial support of Rs 17,500 per year would be extended to women aged between 45 and 60 years for a period of four years so as to encourage them to become small entrepreneurs. Under YSR pension scheme, women above 60 years would get a pension of Rs 2,250 per month. “Taking advantage of the YSR Cheyutha scheme, the gang members lured women in the age group of 35 making them eligible for the scheme by manipulating their Aadhaar data, changing their age to above 45 years,” the SP said. Similarly, the gang manipulated the Aadhaar cards of some other women in the age group of 50-59 years to show their age as above 60 years so that they would become eligible for the YSR Pension scheme. Reddy said the gang created stamps in the name of some gazetted officers and issued fake birth certificates to these women. Later, the gang uploaded these certificates along with the Aadhaar data updating request forms so that they would get fresh Aadhaar cards. “This way, the gang tampered with the data of at least 500 women using fake age and address proofs. The gang members collected between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 from each woman,” the SP said. The arrested – A Tirupathi Reddy, A Sai, Shaik Khaza, R Sai Seshu, A Sai Kumar, N Sivannarayana, G Venkata Nagi Reddy and P Durgaprasad – were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and sent in judicial remand for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-police-bust-fake-aadhaar-racket-arrest-eight/story-M682LmiE9TohRk6MsOiqxN.html
28-08-2020||India||In highest single spike, Karnataka reports more than 9,300 Covid-19 cases||In the highest single-day spike so far, Karnataka on Thursday reported more than 9,300 Covid-19 cases in the state, pushing the infection tally to 3.09 lakh. The death toll reached 5,232 after 141 fresh fatalities.As of August 27 evening, cumulatively 3.09 lakh positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,232 deaths and 2.19 lakh discharges, according to data figures by the state health department.Click here for full Covid-919 coverageOut of 9,386 fresh cases, Bengaluru reported the highest number of infection with 3,357 cases, followed by Mysuru with 895 cases, Ballari had 550 and Davanagere registered 391 cases.A total of 26.48 lakh samples were tested so far, out of which 68,187 were tested on Thursday alone.Among the samples tested today 29,004 were rapid antigen tests.Meanwhile, Covid-19 spread continued to rise rapidly in India as the nations recorded another highest-ever spike of the infection on Thursday.According to Union health ministry update, the country recorded 75,760 new cases of Covid-19, which pushed the nationwide tally to over 3.31 million.The number of active cases in the country are 7,25,991, while 25,23,771 patients have been discharged. The country also recorded 1,023 fatalities in the last 24 hours which pushed the death toll to 60,472, according to health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-single-spike-karnataka-reports-more-than-9-300-covid-19-cases/story-PWlIrKwnva2WYTIeemSHyL.html
28-08-2020||India||Rush at stops defeats social distancing in Delhi buses||How long do people wait at a stop for a bus in the Capital? Five minutes? Fifteen minutes? Half an hour? For 37-year-old Bhupinder Chaudhary, waiting for bus 544 or 540 at the AIIMS bus stop on one afternoon, the answer was 2 hours, 10 minutes, and counting. Milling around were 35-40 people like him, waiting as bus after bus filled to the reduced Covid capacity of 20 passengers drove by. Social distancing collapsed every now and then as Chaudhary and others would rush in a horde, jostling to get to the door first only to be turned away. For many, masks came off as patience wore thin. “Three buses that would have taken me to Uday Park have already gone. They were full as per the new seating rule and the driver doesn’t stop the bus. I thought I should have my packed lunch but dropped the idea because if an empty bus comes while I am eating, these two hours would have gone to waste,” said Chaudhary, a daily wage earner who does glass fittings as a job. Also Read: Delhi tally hits 48-day high, 76k+ new cases across IndiaThe scene at Delhi’s bus stops underscores a new worry for the Capital’s fight against Covid-19 and illustrates a transportation crisis. Buses are now the lone mass transit option available for a city of nearly 20 million people. The consequence is long waiting times at bus stops, where people are hardly able to keep the suggested six feet distance from one another, and the crowding makes screening of symptomatic people virtually impossible.Officials are urging that services be resumed in the Delhi Metro, where ridership will also need to be reduced in order to allow for social distancing, raising the possibility of crowding at and outside stations -- a factor that experts now say will need to be addressed on priority.“To prevent crowding inside public transport vehicles isn’t sufficient. The capacity of public transport must be expanded to prevent crowding at bus stops and train stations,” said Shreya Gadepalli, who leads the South Asia Programme of the Institute for Transport and Development Policy (ITDP) .Also Read: Haryana allows restaurants and hotels to serve alcohol at tables; bars to remain shutSince July, economic activity has picked up as offices and factories reopen after two-and-a-half months of lockdown that eroded earnings at an unprecedented sale. Compared to June 30, visits to office districts has increased considerably. According to Google Mobility Reports, visits to workplaces on June 30 (a Tuesday) was down by 48% compared to pre-pandemic levels. On August 18 (also a Tuesday), the number rose by 8 percentage point.Gadepalli said scientists now have evidence the virus is airborne, which suggests that the universal use of masks rather than physical distancing might be the most important solution to contain the spread of the virus. “Studies have not found public transport as Covid-19 hotspots. Singapore, Japan, and many European countries have relaxed physical distancing rules within public transport but mandate the use of masks and instruct passengers to not speak to stop droplets from going airborne,” she said.But adhering to rules becomes a challenge when people spend frustrating hours waiting for transport. Commuters HT spoke to during office hours at AIIMS, ITO, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar – some of the city’s main bus stops that now see daily footfall of around 100,000 – said their wait times have now gone up to as high as three hours, from roughly 45 minutes before the pandemic. “Some people feel the virus has gone and do not wear masks or keep distance. The risk of contracting the virus seems very high at bus stops because they are always crowded. I worry if anyone is infected,” said Shahdaab Ali, an undergraduate student at Ram Lal Anand College in South campus, who said he avoids travelling in buses during peak hours now. Others HT spoke to said it is economic compulsion that drives them. “The government has allowed all offices to open, but there is no transportation. People like us, who earn Rs 10,000-Rs 14,000 per month and have four children, how are we supposed to commute?” said Ravinder Kumar, who arrived at Anand Vihar with his son from his village in Uttar Pradesh. Delhi at present has around 6,100 buses from the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and those operated by private companies under the Cluster Bus system. Previously, these would carry 35-60 people, but are now required to take in no more than 20 in order to prevent transmission of the coronavirus on board.The Covid-19 normal has also forced the Delhi government to deploy civil defence volunteers to manage crowds and carry out thermal screenings to identify people with symptoms. “Using these guns on every passenger boarding a bus consumes so much time that there will be stampedes and accidents,” said Ashok Kumar, a volunteer at an Anand Vihar bus stop.Another volunteer said crowd management collapses as people break into a sprint to claim the few seats that are available. “Drivers stop the bus not at the designated spot but a few metres away. As a result, only a few passengers who manage to run the fastest are able to board buses. The drivers, in any case, allow only those many people to board who get down from it,” said Pawan Singh at ITO bus stop.While no cluster or DTC buses were seen carrying more than 20-22 passengers, the rule of buses running at 50% capacity was being openly flouted by privately run mini buses that operate across the city, especially in border districts. When HT visited Anand Vihar, most of the mini buses that are popular in these areas were packed and few of the commuters were seen wearing masks.“The mini buses are operated privately. Since DTC and cluster buses are not running to their full capacity, a lot of private buses are out on the roads making brisk business while undermining all preventive measures. We will intensify our drive to prosecute and impound private buses that are not following social distancing norms,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (operations), in Delhi’s transport department. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said with the Delhi Metro not operating, demand for buses in Delhi has gone up manifolds. “The Delhi Metro used to carry around 2.5 million passengers every day. Even if we assume the majority of them are now using their private vehicles or cabs to work, that still leaves lakhs of people who are falling back on our buses,” said Gahlot. Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology, ICMR, said the Delhi Metro, once it opens, may also face similar crowding issues. “Only around 300 people will be able to board at a time. So, crowd management at the stations will be very important. Anyone who is found wearing masks the wrong way should not be allowed to enter the metro premises and the same should be practiced even at the bus stops. It is to be seen how social distancing will be managed inside the metro. Also, the DMRC should ensure common touch points like handles inside trains are frequently sanitised. It will be easier said than done though,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rush-at-stops-defeats-distancing-in-delhi-buses/story-3kKcnggCGi5OfeyREmiqWI.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress names Gaurav Gogoi deputy leader in Lok Sabha in party rejig||The Congress on Thursday named Gaurav Gogoi its deputy leader in the Lok Sabha and formed two groups for smooth and effective coordination with lawmakers in both houses of Parliament, according to people familiar with the development. Lok Sabha member from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu was also named as one of the whips of the party in the Lok Sabha. The group for the Rajya Sabha comprises Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader Anand Sharma, party treasurer Ahmed Patel, general secretary incharge of organisation KC Venugopal, and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh, who has also been named the chief whip in the Upper House. Azad and Sharma are among the 23 leaders who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking, among other things, a complete overhaul of the organisation and a full-time party chief. Apart from Gogoi and Bittu, the group for the Lok Sabha will have Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, K Suresh and Manickam Tagore as its members. While Choudhary is the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Suresh is the chief whip, and Tagore and Bittu are the whips. Thursday’s decisions appear to have caused unease among the dissenters. One of the leaders, who asked not to be named, said that the move ignores two former Union ministers and “serious claimants” Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor for the deputy leader’s post in the Lok Sabha, who have also not been included in the panel. Similarly, he said including a senior leader such as Patel and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s loyalist Venugopal in the panel for the Rajya Sabha is a clear signal that the leadership has “diluted the powers” of Azad and Sharma, and wants to “keep a check” on those who wrote the letter to Sonia Gandhi. “They should have included Kapil Sibal in the Rajya Sabha group,” said the leader quoted above. The other prominent leaders among the dissenters are Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithiviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Jitin Prasada. The appointments came ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament that is set to begin on September 14, and are an attempt by the Congress to strengthen its team of floor leaders in both the Houses. The deputy leader’s post had been lying vacant in the 16th Lok Sabha. Even in the 15th Lok Sabha, the party had not named any deputy leader after Captain Amarinder Singh took over as Punjab chief minister in 2017. The decisions also came three days after the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting that asked Sonia Gandhi to stay on as the party chief till a new president is elected. The CWC members also came down heavily on the 23 dissenters who had written the letter to Gandhi. On Wednesday, Sonia Gandhi had constituted a five-member committee to discuss and formulate the party’s stands on key ordinances promulgated by the central government. Apart from Ramesh and Gogoi, the panel comprised of former Union minister P Chidambaram, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh and member from Punjab Amar Singh. Ramesh will be its convener.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-names-gaurav-gogoi-deputy-leader-in-lok-sabha-in-party-rejig/story-n83W5vGeYuGqFBfsVWM2zO.html
28-08-2020||India||Govt hikes funds for border road development projects||The Union government has increased funding for border road development projects and raised the allocation for maintenance of border roads -- a development that follows a military standoff with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Eastern Ladakh sector -- as it attempts to boost infrastructure in frontier areas.Funding for road development projects in border areas has been raised from Rs 340 crore to Rs 440 core in the current financial year. The budget for maintenance of border roads has gone up from Rs 120 crore to Rs 220 crore. This is the second revision of funding for border roads in the fiscal year; in June, the ministry of road transport and highways raised the allocation for border road maintenance by four times to Rs 120 crore.The government has been trying to reinforce infrastructure in border areas. The Chinese and Indian armies have been embroiled in a tense standoff along the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh sector, where a brutal brawl in the Galwan Valley on June 15 led to the deaths of 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers.According to documents reviewed by HT, the additional allocation of Rs 100 crore for “general works” to the Border Roads Organization (BRO) is for projects under the Chardham Pariyojana, aimed at improving connectivity o the four pilgrimage centres of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri in Uttrakhand.Works for the Chardham Pariyojna are being implemented by three executing agencies of the transport ministry -- the Uttarakhand State Public Works Department, BRO, and the National Highway and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL).BRO functions under the defence ministry and is tasked with construction and maintenance of roads in the border areas, classified as General Staff (GS) roads in line with defence requirements. GS roads are developed and maintained through funds provided by the Border Roads Development Board through the ministry of road transport and highways.Strategic affairs analyst Brahma Chellaney said, “This raises two issues—one, given that the construction of any border road takes several years because of the treacherous terrain, why are authorities waking up to the need for increased funding in the midst of China’s aggression? And second, even with the increased allocations, the budget seems inadequate to build the kind of border infrastructure India needs to defend itself.”In June, the transport ministry had allocated Rs 1,691 crore for highway development by BRO in Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand for 2020-21. Of this, Rs 1,351 crore was sanctioned for road works in J&K and Rs 340 crore for Uttarakhand. The transport ministry also allocated an additional Rs 71 crore for highway works in Ladakh, Sikkim and Tamil Nadu.This time around, the ministry has also increased the allocation for roads in the Northeast under its road development programme from Rs 290 crore to Rs 390 crore.The allocation to the regional offices of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh has increased from Rs 140 crore and Rs 150 crore, respectively to Rs 190 crore and Rs 200 crore, taking the total funding for incurring expenditure on the Special Accelerated Road Development Programme for North East (SARDP-NE) in the financial year 2020-21 to Rs 390 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hikes-funds-for-border-road-development-projects/story-ZzYhEYIUCsNxjd1aeA1xFI.html
28-08-2020||India||PM Modi for self-reliance in defence production||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India has the potential to become a reliable weapons supplier to friendly foreign countries, strengthen its strategic partnerships and consolidate its role as a net security provider in the Indian Ocean as it takes strides towards self-reliance in the defence sector.Speaking at a seminar on self-reliance in defence, the PM said the government’s resolve for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ was not “inward-looking” but aimed at making the global economy “resilient and strong” as well as promoting world peace.The Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the defence ministry’s defence production department jointly organised the online seminar.There was no mention of the PM’s address in the line-up of events circulated before the seminar. In the surprise appearance, he spoke for 18 minutes, touching upon different aspects of self-reliance in the defence sector, the role of the domestic industry, steps taken by the government to transform India into a global hub for defence manufacturing and reforms towards ease of doing business.Enumerating the measures taken by the government for self-reliance in the defence sector — from creating a separate budget for the purchase of locally produced military hardware to notifying a negative import list and raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit — the PM said the domestic industry could look forward to more orders in the coming times as a result of initiatives taken to boost self-reliance.Earlier this month, the government announced a separate budgetary outlay of ~52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement and came out with a negative import list. In a significant step on the long road towards self-reliance in defence, India on August 9 announced it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years — from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles.Modi said more defence items would be progressively added to the negative import list to encourage the domestic industry. The government is likely to notify a second negative import list early next year. “We have to collectively achieve the target of Atmanirbhar Bharat. It is a win-win situation for everyone including the public sector, private sector and foreign companies. The government is committed to providing a better eco-system for this,” he said.The PM said it was the best option for India’s foreign partners to start production in the country looking at its market size. He said the country’s focus was on a co-production model involving joint ventures with foreign partners.“We are witnessing a new mindset in the defence sector. For a modern and Atmanirbhar Bharat, self-confidence in the defence sector is very important,” he said, adding that the government’s focus was on cutting red tape and rolling out the red carpet for the industry.The PM said that it was no secret that India was one of the biggest arms importers in the world but things were changing and the government had taken several steps to unshackle the defence sector during the last few years.India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April.Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-for-self-reliance-in-defence-production/story-viCBIDsxSWJg2CYOdDBi1I.html
28-08-2020||India||Contempt notices to Army and PWD over damage to trees along Ring Road||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued contempt notices to different Army officials and the public works department (PWD) over alleged damage to at least 45 full-grown trees along Ring Road in Dhaula Kuan during the construction of a boundary wall near Delhi Cantonment.The notice was issued to the secretary, Army Environmental Park and Training Area (AEPTA), commandant, Rajputana Rifles Regiment Centre (RRRC), General Officer Commanding (GOC) Station Area and engineer-in-chief of the Public Works Department (PWD).The construction was being carried out by the Station Area (HQs) in the tree line along the periphery of RRRC and AEPTA, while the violated green patch is under PWD’s jurisdiction.The PWD and the Delhi forest department had earlier this month issued notices to the Army Station Headquarters for the alleged damage to the trees. The deputy conservator of forest (west) had also issued a restraining order on August 26, asking the Army to stop work. The court directed the principal chief conservator of forests, Delhi government, to submit a status report in the matter before the next date of hearing.The court was hearing a contempt petition filed by a green activist, who had initially complained to the Delhi forest department and the PWD about the violations. The plea pointed at the violation of the court’s and the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) orders prohibiting any kind of construction activity within one-metre radius of a tree trunk.A senior PWD official on condition of anonymity, said, “We have not received the notice so far. We will be in a position to comment only when we see the order.”Indian Army spokesperson, Colonel Aman Anand, who denied any damage, said, “Our response to the Hon’ble Court’s Order will be filed once it is received and studied.” Forest officials had earlier said the trenching work for the boundary wall started from the Sawai Man Singh Dwar and goes up to the training area . The stretch is under PWD, which had served a ‘cease and desist’ notice to the General Officer Commanding of the station area on August 20. “Trenching activity within one-metre radius of a tree trunk is a violation of National Green Tribunal’s 2015 order as well as of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. It was found that during the trenching work, a total of 45 trees were damaged. The GOC is requested to stop the work in the tree line,” it said. The notice says full-grown varieties such as gular, semal, bargad, shehtut, neem and peepal were damaged. Another report by the Delhi forest department based on an inspection on August 7 said 27 trees had been “damaged/felled”. “In case of most trees, the roots have been exposed...The trees are located in a line in front of Metro pillar number 45 to pillar number 79,” the report said.When HT visited the spot on Tuesday, work was on. Deep trenches of about 5-6 feet were dug up. A portion had been cleared of trees and levelled with earth. Colonel Anand said a wall was being repaired on certified A1 defence land. “The scope involves recasting of plinth in the existing wall along with raising of height of wall at identified places for augmenting security of army area. The work pertains to repair of an ‘existing asset’ and does not involves fresh construction....neither any trees have been damaged in the process and nor any intent for such an act exists within this organisation”. C R Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at DU, said roadside trees and vegetation act as a filter against air pollution. “Trees such as gular, bargad, semal and peepal have a high dust-trapping efficiency... Trenching destroys the root system of the trees...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-issues-contempt-notice-to-army-pwd-over-damage-to-trees/story-jKA1yBVtsyO8r2INzLTABL.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress dissenters’ letter outlines 11-point agenda for internal reforms||Uncertainty over leadership has weakened the Congress and demoralised its workers, the controversial letter written by 23 leaders to party president Sonia Gandhi on August 7 said, warning the high command of erosion in its support base with the desertion of functionaries across states.The letter, snatches of which were first reported on Sunday, outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the 134-year-old organisation, called for an introspection of the reasons behind the party’s “steady decline”, and appealed to the Congress to take the initiative for the formation of a “national coalition of democratic and secular forces” against the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Even after 14 months of the 2019 electoral verdict, the Congress Party has not undertaken any honest introspection to analyse the reasons for its continued decline,” said the letter, of which HT has a copy. Also Read: Congress seniors demoralised Rahul Gandhi more than Modi-Shah, BJP: Shiv SenaAlso Read: ‘Unfortunate’ that Jitin Prasada is being targeted in UP, tweets Kapil SibalThe Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, was not guiding the organisation effectively in building public opinion against the BJP, according to the letter. The “institutional process of merit-based and consensus-backed” selection had been disrupted, it added. The letter, considered critical of the high command, sparked a heated discussion at a CWC meeting on Monday with Congress leaders mounting an offensive on the signatories. Just four of the 23 signatories — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada — are part of the 52-member CWC. After a seven-hour, high-decibel debate at the CWC meeting, the party authorised Sonia Gandhi to effect any necessary organisation changes, and reaffirmed its faith in her and her son Rahul Gandhi. Also Read: Sonia Gandhi names leaders in Parliament; Ghulam Nabi Azad retains spotOn August 10, 2019, CWC named Sonia Gandhi the party’s interim chief after Rahul Gandhi, who preceded her as the Congress president, turned down calls to withdraw his resignation in the wake of the 2019 Lok Sabha election rout. “We have witnessed a steady decline of the Congress Party reflected in successive electoral verdicts in States and General Elections in 2014 and 2019. Reasons are manifold and need to be immediately identified. Otherwise, the Congress Party will find itself marginalized, both in the States, which is already apparent, as well as at the national level,” the letter said. “The uncertainty over the leadership and the drift has demoralised the Congress workers and further weakened the Party...,” it added.At the same time, the letter-writers acknowledged the role of the Nehru-Gandhi family to make the Congress a formidable force in Indian politics. “We acknowledge the resolute struggle, the visionary leadership and notable contribution of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. His enduring legacy will always remain a source of guidance and inspiration for the Congress party. The Nehru-Gandhi family will always remain an integral part of the collective leadership of the Congress party,” the letter said, while also appreciating the leadership of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-dissenters-letter-outlines-11-point-agenda-for-internal-reforms/story-wE4ql871hFI0YSV9zWiG9O.html
28-08-2020||India||4 prisoners undergoing Covid treatment escape from Hyderabad hospital||Four prisoners undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at state-run Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad escaped from the hospital ward in the early hours of Thursday, the police said.The escaped prisoners were: M Javeed and Mohammad Abdul Arbaz, both undertrials in separate theft cases and P Narasimha and B Chander, who were convicted in connection with the property offences.Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Kamleshwar Shingenavar said six special teams were formed to launch a manhunt for the four prisoners. “All efforts are being made to arrest them and we are confident of tracing them soon,” he said.The four prisoners, who were lodged in Cherlapally central jail, were initially taken to the Government Chest Hospital, Erragadda, after they showed symptoms of Covid-19. After they tested positive for the virus, they were shifted to Gandhi Hospital, the designated hospital for Covid-19 for treatment. According to the police, the four prisoners were put up at the exclusive ward for prisoners at the second floor of Gandhi Hospital. “Because of the pandemic, the escort police personnel had to be posted outside the ward. Taking advantage of the situation, the four prisoners broke open the iron grille of the bathroom and climbed down to the ground to escape,” the police said.Following an alert from the other inmates of the ward, the escort police informed the Chilakalaguda police who rushed there to launch a search for the accused. The police cordoned off the entire hospital premises and conducted a room-to-room search.“We are also examining the footage of CCTV cameras inside and outside the hospital to find out which route they had escaped,” a police official said, adding that they might be hiding somewhere within the city.Cherlapalli jail superintendent Sampath Kumar said so far the accused could not be tracked. “We hope to get some breakthrough on Friday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-prisoners-undergoing-covid-treatment-escape-from-hyderabad-hospital/story-iTri3oUEqNLg66YG90qhaL.html
28-08-2020||India||22 Opposition parties may meet to chalk out plan to corner govt||In a show of unity when the political odds are weighed heavily against them, 22 opposition parties are likely to meet soon to chalk out a plan for a united “people’s movement” against the Narendra Modi government. The meeting—most likely to take place online—will be held before Parliament’s monsoon session begins on September 14. according to opposition leaders involved in planning the event. A similar meeting took place on May 22 in which the parties were critical of the Modi government’s decision to impose a nationwide lockdown in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, called the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus and relief package a “cruel joke” on the country and how under the current regime, “the spirit of federalism is all but forgotten”. Also Read: Congress dissenters’ letter outlines 11-point agenda for internal reformsThe upcoming meeting is expected to chalk out a plan to launch a campaign espousing key issues, keeping in mind keeping in mind Covid-19 related restrictions. The leaders have identified the government’s “failure in both containing the pandemic and providing relief,” the need to “protect the constitutional order which is being eroded” and the need to give “immediate relief to people” in the backdrop of economic troubles, the leaders cited above said. The parties will also discuss how the Centre and its agencies “acted with bias” in the February communal violence in Delhi violence that left 53 people dead and how “any voice of dissent is dubbed anti-national, invoking sedition or UAPA provisions,” the leaders involved in the planning said. UAPA is short for the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act .The Congress, or the largest opposition party, will be at the centre-stage of this programme that will also try to showcase united protests. According to one opposition leader involved in the planning, “We wanted to hold it in August but the Congress managers told us they are preoccupied in the Rajasthan crisis. Then, they wanted time till the CWC {Congress Working Committee} meeting gets over. Now, we are trying to talk to each other to decide on a suitable date.” Also Read: Congress seniors demoralised Rahul Gandhi more than Modi-Shah, BJP: Shiv SenaApart from top leaders of the Congress, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena, his West Bengal and Jharkhand counterparts Mamata Banerjee and Hemant Soren, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s MK Stalin, Communist Party of India (Marxist) chief Sitaram Yechury, and leaders of the Communist Party of India, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Rashtriya Janata Dal, Indian Union Muslim League, National Conference, All India United Democratic Front and Rashtriya Janata Dal are expected to join the meeting. Smaller parties such as Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), Revolutionary Socialist Party, Forward Bloc, Kerala Congress (Mani), Swabhiman Paksh, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Telangana Jana Samithi will also be invited. The meeting may also set the agenda of the Opposition for Parliament’s monsoon session, but the main topic of discussion is a larger fight against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) regime. As Covid-related restrictions also include a ban on big political congregations, the parties will have to settle for an online campaign and hold small demonstrations to reach out to their supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-oppn-parties-may-meet-to-chalk-out-plan-to-corner-govt/story-1X1khkQCB6wYrHK2jxcX4M.html
28-08-2020||India||In race for vaccines, rich nations bag biggest deals||Wealthy countries have leapfrogged the rest of the world in striking supply deals with the manufacturers of some Covid-19 vaccine candidates, according to a report by Nature that said low- and middle-income countries such as India could find themselves in a longer waiting list for shots for their populations.There are 31 vaccine candidates in human trials, according to the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Draft Landscape compilation. The front runners from among these are candidates by Oxford/AstraZeneca (UK), Moderna (US), Pfizer/BioNTech (Germany) and Johnson & Johnson. The United States has secured 800 million doses from six manufacturers, UK has purchased 340 million, and the European Union nations and Japan have struck deals for hundreds of millions, the report said, citing data from scientific information and analytics firm Airfinity.While developed economies have already committed an undisclosed amount of money as upfront payment for the producers, developing nations are likely to need to depend on an international effort led by WHO called Covax. In the case of the Oxford vaccine, which is largely considered the one at the most advanced stage of testing and thus possibly the first to reach conclusive results, almost 2.4 billion doses have been purchased by various countries (including an international effort involving developing nations). This 2.4 billion is of the 2.94 billion supply capacity estimated till 2021, according to the report published on August 24.In India’s case, however, vaccine supplies may be helped by the fact that some of the world’s biggest vaccine-makers are based in the country. Officials of Serum Institute of India (SII) have indicated at least half of their promised deliveries by the end of the year may be kept aside for India, and that the government could invoke further emergency clauses to secure more doses.Covax involves Geneva-based funder of vaccines called Gavi and CEPI and it aims to secure 2 billion doses. Of these, one billion are for 92 low- and middle-income countries (LMICS), which encompass half the world’s population. The vaccines will cost these regions little or nothing. The other billion is for up to 75 wealthier countries, who will pay for their own vaccines, the Nature reported.WHO director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a briefing on August 18 that the world must prevent “vaccine nationalism”. Nature quoted Mark Feinberg, the head of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative in New York: “We’re not going to get rid of the pandemic until we get rid of it everywhere”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-race-for-vaccines-rich-nations-bag-biggest-deals/story-2ZRanZ7KLv40CKNokMUF2N.html
28-08-2020||India||Coronavirus: Vaccine coverage of at least 50% needed||A vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) needs to be administered to at least 50% of the population, even if it has 100% efficacy, to break the chain of infection and avert the peak of the pandemic, a new study has found. The multi-author study, conducted by scientists in the US and published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, flags vaccine coverage and vaccine efficacy as the two key parameters to watch in setting a disease-prevention policy.Vaccine overage refers to the percentage of the population administered the vaccine. Vaccine efficacy is the percentage reduction in disease incidence in a vaccinated group compared to an unvaccinated group.Also Read: In race for vaccines, rich nations bag biggest dealsSome are pushing for the introduction of a vaccine as quickly as possible so that life can return to normal. “However, we have to set appropriate expectations. Just because a vaccine comes out doesn’t mean you can go back to life as it was before the pandemic,” said lead investigator Bruce Y Lee at the City University of New York. “It is important to remember that a vaccine is like many other products -- what matters is not just that a product is available, but also how effective it is.”The study found the vaccine has to have an efficacy of at least 70% to prevent an epidemic and of at least 80% to largely extinguish an epidemic without any other measures.Also Read: Clinical trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine begins in Pune, 2 get first shotVaccine efficacy has to be at least 60% (when it prevents infection) to reduce the peak by >99% (i.e., number of new cases daily doesn’t exceed the initial number of cases on the day the vaccine is given) when the reproduction number is 2.5 and vaccination coverage is 100%. This vaccine efficacy threshold rises to 70% when coverage drops to 75% and up to 80% when coverage drops to 60%. “When coverage drops to 50%, it is no longer possible to eliminate the peak, even when vaccine efficacy is 100%,” the study said. As of August 25, there were 173 Covid vaccine candidates across the world in various stages of clinical trials, according to the World Health Organization’s draft landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. The US, UK and the European Union block have made deals worth billions of dollars with companies such as AstraZeneca Plc, Moderna Ploc and Novovax Inc.India has not pledged money to any vaccine candidate but has set up an expert panel to look into procurement. The country has two vaccine candidates undergoing trials while a third – the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate – is set to be produced by the Serum Institute of India.But questions of vaccine coverage and efficacy continue to dog experts and policymakers, especially in countries where poverty and lack of infrastructure make administering vaccine doses a challenge, or where active anti-vaccine groups spread misinformation.Certain vulnerable demographics – especially from marginalised communities – can be at a further disadvantage.“To boost vaccination rates, both long-term and short-term interventions are needed,” said Brandon Yan at the University of California, San Francisco. “We need a concerted public health campaign that includes public health officials, health care providers and local communities, and reaches those groups most at risk for not getting vaccinated. And we need a proactive primary care outreach strategy to address patient concerns and provide information on how and where to get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-race-for-vaccines-rich-nations-bag-biggest-deals/story-9xmvFWNCGTwGpdTODXl2BJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Abbott antigen kit gets US nod, no India plan||The US multinational Abbott on Thursday announced that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved its rapid antigen kit to test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). However, the company does not have any immediate plans to launch the kit in India.“As of now the test is launched only in the US,” said a company representative to HT.The kit gives results in 15 minutes, with a sensitivity (ability to detect true positives) of 97.1% and specificity (ability to detect true negatives) of 98.5% in clinical studies, making it a more accurate antigen-based test available in the market. The test costs $5.In June, Abbott had launched its laboratory-based serology blood test for the detection of the antibody, IgG (Immunoglobulin G), that identifies if a person has had past exposure to SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in India. The kits are being in used government and private hospitals and labs in Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Gujarat, the company had said in a statement.ICMR has approved Abbott’s CLIA (Chemiluminescence immunoassay) antibody tests that are technologically advanced.Experts using these kits say this technology is more accurate than the rapid antibody test kits. “CLIA is a technologically more advanced platform, which is why the result is also more accurate. These kits are giving satisfactory results,” said a lab in-charge for Covid-19 testing in Delhi, requesting anonymity.Due to its moderate sensitivity, experts in India have been critical of antigen-based testing. The data made public by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on the first kit independently evaluated by its lab in National Institute of Virology in Pune, and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, found sensitivity ranging from 50.6% to 84%, and specificity of 99.3 to 100% at the two sites. Currently, between 30-40% of Covid-19 tests in India are performed using rapid antigen kits.“The low sensitivity of the test is the reason why it is suited more as a screening test rather than a confirmatory test. However, since positives are confirmed positives it can be deployed where mass testing is required, especially in containment zones, and the negatives can be re-tested using RT-PCR, which is the gold standard. However, if the sensitivity of the test is increased then chances are higher of the result being more accurate and can work well with an RT-PCR test,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is the gold standard for covid-19 diagnosis, but antigen-based testing is currently being used to supplement the testing process for diagnosis as it also helps determine the current infection in a shorter duration, without the need for a sophisticated laboratory and at a lower price as compared to RT-PCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abbott-antigen-kit-gets-us-nod-no-india-plan/story-lJT1NRQEShdFMFCk20CuyH.html
28-08-2020||India||ICMR starts second all-India sero survey; results expected in September||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun the second round of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sero survey to determine how many more Indians have been exposed to the infection since the first such exercise was conducted in May during the nationwide lockdown.The results of the sero survey to detect the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in the general population are expected by September-end. The first sero survey, which was conducted by ICMR along with National Centre for Disease Control, state health departments and the World Health Organisation (WHO) had shown pan-India prevalence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, at 0.73%.Also Read: Vaccine coverage of at least 50% neededClose to 24,000 samples will be collected and tested from the same 69 districts in 21 states that were covered in the first sero survey. The sampling has already begun, with many states finishing sample collection and the others in various stages of completing the process. “We have from ICMR embarked on the second national serosurvey, and it is also a work in progress, and should be completed, hopefully, by the first week of September...Most of the sero surveys are looking at antibodies, and other details like neutralizing antibodies, T-cell responses etc. are not being studied in these large sero surveys,” said ICMR director general Balram Bhargava. The blood samples for the sero survey will be tested for the presence of Immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies against Sars-CoV2. Also Read: In race for vaccines, rich nations bag biggest dealsSero surveys are important also to determine whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage “This Phase II sero survey is a follow up of the first survey, and the process is a repeat of what was done in May when movement of people was restricted. We have to see how much difference has lifting of lockdown made to the disease prevalence in the country. Same areas/clusters will be covered this time also, but samples will be lifted of different people,” said an official from ICMR, requesting not to be identified. ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai is the nodal agency to oversee the survey and will be processing samples, and analyzing the results. Like in the previous exercise, this survey is designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or more from 21 states, wherein the districts were categorized into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population (zero, low: 0.1-4.7, medium: 4.8-10 and high: >10). The focus, say some experts, must not be merely on detecting antibodies in the population. “Even if you get to know people have developed antibodies, it is not good enough; what is important is to know the quality of antibodies and to determine whether people will get immunity against the disease in the long run or not,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-starts-second-all-india-sero-survey-results-in-sept/story-Pkx4C7Cet8sXyEWOrhNRYK.html
28-08-2020||India||Terminal for private jets at IGI airport ready, security nod awaited||India’s first general aviation terminal for private jets — set to open at New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport last month — has been ready for use for at least a month, but is still waiting for security approvals before it can become operational, according to three people familiar with the matter.The facility is designed to ensure faster turnaround of business jets and chartered planes, shielding them from the clutter of general passenger terminals, where they now compete for taxiing slots with commercial flights.Two senior officers from the ministry of civil aviation, who asked not to be named, confirmed that the facility was ready for use in terms of infrastructure and other facilities, but was awaiting some security clearances from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS).A Delhi airport official said the terminal — it was tentatively due to be inaugurated on July 24 — is complete, but will be operationalised “as and when the government gives its approval”.Usha Padhee, joint secretary in the ministry of civil aviation, has additional charge as director-general, BCAS, after the previous incumbent, IPS officer Rakesh Asthana, was posted as director-general of the Border Security Force (BSF) on August 17. Padhee could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Calls, text messages, and an e-mail sent to her seeking a response remained unanswered. A BCAS official, who did not wish to be named, said any development at any airport in India requires security approval from the BCAS. The official, however, did not comment on the approvals pending regarding the new general aviation terminal.The terminal was built at a cost of Rs150 crore over one-and-a-half years by Bird ExecuJet Airport Services Private Limited, a joint venture between Bird Group and ExecuJet Aviation Group, an international business aviation company based at Zurich Airport in Switzerland.It has been designed to have parking space for a maximum 65 jets of all sizes, and has the capacity to handle a maximum of 150 business jet movements a day, the third official cited above said.Before the national lockdown was imposed in March, around 1,300 scheduled flights operated from Delhi airport every day, apart from an additional 40-50 small non-scheduled chartered or private planes.“Though the new terminal will be commissioned as an interim facility it will be equipped with state-of-the-art features and facilities including world class passenger lounges, retail, food and beverage [outlets] etc., DIAL had said in a statement in response to queries from Hindustan Times about the new terminal last month. Private aircraft will still have to compete for take-off and landing slots with commercial flights, and another official from Delhi airport said that the new terminal will cut time . “Runway 29/11 -- the largest in Delhi -- is closer to the new terminal, and this will make taxiing time of these private aircraft significantly shorter,” he said, adding that the shorter distance between the terminal building and flight boarding point will also make the process of boarding quicker and less cumbersome.Several VIPs and business travellers prefer to use private jets, and all their aircraft movements currently take place from Terminal 1, which was operating beyond capacity and undergoing expansion before the lockdown.Kanika Tekriwal, CEO & founder, JetSetGo Aviation, a private charter operater, said they are extremely excited and eagerly looking forward for the inauguration of aviation terminal for private jets at Delhi Airport. “The terminal will bring ease to flying operations at large,” said Tekriwal.Captain Archit Gupta, CEO, Atom Aviation, a Delhi-based private jets service provider, said they are also very excited about new general aviation terminal coming up in Delhi. Aviation expert Kapil Kaul said the pending approvals may be some last mile issues related to regulatory clearances. The new general aviation terminal, otherwise, is ready for commercial operations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terminal-for-private-jets-at-igi-airport-ready-security-nod-awaited/story-NL5KaDmm6cpAvrDY98lMVI.html
28-08-2020||India||Punish Mumbai and Pulwama plotters, shared enough proof: India to Pak||India on Thursday demanded Pakistan should prosecute the perpetrators of the 2019 Pulwama terror attack and 2008 Mumbai carnage, saying the main accused in last year’s suicide bombing – Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar – continues to be sheltered by Islamabad. New Delhi also called on Islamabad to act against UN-designated terrorists such as Dawood Ibrahim, saying Pakistan’s assertion that its actions to enforce the global body’s sanctions doesn’t mean it admits to the presence of such individuals on its territory reflects its “insincerity” in tracking down global terrorists operating from Pakistani soil. India’s response to Pakistan’s rejection of the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) chargesheet in the Pulwama terror attack was outlined during a weekly news briefing by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, who said Islamabad was evading its responsibility even after New Delhi had shared “enough evidence” on the suicide bombing. The chargesheet filed by the NIA in a court in Jammu on Tuesday named Masood Azhar, his two brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar Alvi and Ammar Alvi, his nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq and 15 others who carried out the bombing at Pakistan’s behest. The attack killed 40 Indian troopers and triggered a brief stand-off between the two countries. Pakistan rejected the chargesheet on Wednesday, contending it contained fabrications to further the Indian government’s “anti-Pakistan rhetoric and its narrow domestic political interests”. It also said the Indian side had failed to respond to two requests for further information on the terror attack. Responding to a question on whether India will share further information with Pakistan on the attack, Srivastava said: “Jaish-e-Mohammed had claimed the responsibility of the Pulwama attack. The organisation and its leadership are in Pakistan. It is regrettable that Masood Azhar, the first accused in the chargesheet continues to find shelter in Pakistan.” He added, “Enough evidence has been shared with Pakistan but it continues to evade responsibility.” The chargesheet, Srivastava said, was filed after an investigation lasting a year-and-a-half since the attack on February 14 last year. “It has been filed to address the act of terrorism and to bring perpetrators of such a heinous crime to justice. Our aim is not to simply issue statements or notifications,” he said. Srivastava also pointed out that Pakistan was yet to take “any credible action” against perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008, which claimed 166 lives, including 25 foreign nationals. The Mumbai attacks were carried out by a 10-member team of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Pakistani security agencies arrested seven men, including LeT operations commander Zakiur Rahman Lakhvi, in the weeks after the attack but their trial has made little headway even after scores of hearings. Lakhvi was released on bail in 2015 and his current whereabouts are unknown. Pakistan also recently issued two statutory regulatory orders (SROs) to enforce UN Security Council sanctions on hundreds of terrorist individuals and entities, including Masood Azhar, LeT founder Hafiz Saeed and Dawood Ibrahim ahead of an expected assessment of its counter-terror financing actions by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). One of the orders listed three addresses in Karachi for Ibrahim, though Pakistan has long denied the mob boss’ presence in the country. After the matter was widely reported in the Indian media, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement the SROs didn’t amount to “Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory”. Asked about this matter, Srivastava said: “Pakistan’s assertion that the SRO does not mean that it admits to the presence of listed individuals on its territory or that it would impose any new measures on these listed individuals, lays bare the insincerity of Pakistan in responding to legitimate expectations of the world that they will track down international terrorists based on its soil.” Pakistan, he said, has “not only maintained its opposition to this international consensus but it has also chosen not to act against” the terrorists. “Pakistan has never taken any credible and verifiable action against terror entities or listed individuals, including the most wanted ones,” he added. Srivastava said the denial by Pakistan’s Foreign Office “calls into question their intentions and it would not mislead the world community in believing its propaganda”. He added, “Pakistan must take credible action and ensure that the listed individuals are prosecuted.” Ibrahim, wanted by India for his role in the 1993 Mumbai bombings, has regularly featured in lists of wanted terrorists and dossiers provided by India to Pakistan. In response to another question, Srivastava reiterated that Pakistan’s envoy to the UN had issued a statement on August 24 about addressing a Security Council meeting on Monday on threats to international peace and security from terrorism that subsequently turned out to be untrue. “The briefing and discussions at this UNSC meeting were confined to members only and we had sought clarification from the Indonesian chair, who informally confirmed to us that there was no scope for any non-member to speak in this discussion. Our permanent mission to the UN has clearly rebutted all allegations made by Pakistan in this statement,” he said. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it is important for the Indian government to keep highlighting the issue of terrorism emanating from Pakistan even if such assertions hadn’t resulted in any change in the neighbouring country’s behaviour. “The statement on Pulwama may be more for domestic consumption since cross-border terrorism remains an emotional issue. Not to highlight it could be seen as some sort of acquiescence on the issue, and no Indian government, least of all a BJP government, will want a charge like that levelled against it. But highlighting it also shows India is still pursuing the issue and this is important from the domestic and international perspective,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punish-mumbai-and-pulwama-plotters-shared-enough-proof-india-to-pak/story-WDknCG1QltRHXiZi6VVJ0M.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Jammu and Kashmir, 9 states account for 89% of Covid-19 deaths’: Govt||Nine states and a Union territory have been told by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba to ramp up testing and tracing to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic effectively as they accounted for 89 percent of the fatalities in the last two weeks. Gauba, along with the union health secretary, held a video-conference with the chief secretaries and health secretaries of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the situation in the states. According to the press information bureau, these states account for 89 percent of the deaths in the last two weeks. “Union Health Secretary made a detailed presentation on the current status of Covid-19 in these States/UT, with a focus on districts reporting high case fatality and the need to refine as well as strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols,” said a statement issued by the press information bureau. India reported over 75,000 cases on Wednesday in a highest single-day spike. Also read: Covid-19 ‘Act of God’, may result in contraction of economy - Nirmala SitharamanThe cabinet secretary has advised the states to initiate ‘effective containment, contact tracing and surveillance’. They have further been told to ensure that at least in 80 percent of new positive cases, all close contacts should be traced and tested with 72 hours.The states have also been asked to ensure 140 tests per million per day in districts while targeting positivity in containment zones at a rate of greater than 5 percent. They have also been asked to share information on the availability of beds and ambulances in the public domain and monitor week-wise fatality rates for each health facility with a focus on vulnerable patients.“The Chief Secretaries explained about the current situation in the States/UT and their preparedness to tackle the spread of Covid-19, health infrastructure available to meet the challenge and steps taken to strengthen it further. States/UT also highlighted steps taken towards reducing case fatality as well as involving the community in terms of Covid safe behaviour,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-9-states-account-for-89-of-covid-19-fatalities-govt/story-n89PcBdMW1SnYfHeo1KuOM.html
28-08-2020||India||Govt to clear $2 billion deal for Israeli-made AWACS amid stand-off with China||Spurred by the stand-off with People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh, the Narendra Modi government is all set to clear acquisition of two PHALCON airborne warning and control systems (AWACS) as early as next week. India has three PHALCON AWACS with a 360 degree rotodome mounted on top of the aircraft and two DRDO-built AWACS with 240 degree rotodome. China has 28 AWACS and Pakistan has seven for directing the air battle in the worst case scenario.While the government is tight-lipped about the entire process, the acquisition was given a final official go last week and has been put up before the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS). This is the second time it has reached the CCS. The last time, the CCS sent the proposal back to National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and sought some clarifications.The PHALCON radar is going to cost about $1 billion with another $1 billion going towards the purchase of the platform, in this case Russian A-50 aircraft. The radar and the platform will be integrated in Israel. It will take about two to three years for the delivery of the complete system.Also Watch | ‘Precious friend India’: Israel-UP govt sign deal for ‘flagship’ water projectThe need for more AWACS was first felt during the Pakistani aerial dogfight after the February 26 Balakot strike by the Indian Air Force. While Pakistan was flying two Swedish made AWACS round the clock to detect and repel any intrusion into its air space, the IAF was, at times vulnerable due to the limitation of its resources. The requirement for more AWACS or eyes in the sky were felt after the PLA unilateral aggression in East Ladakh and their reluctance to restore status quo ante even after the Special Representatives on both sides agreed to both dis-engagement and de-escalation.Apart from this the Modi government has decided to push road connectivity towards the Daulat Beg Oldie sector with the Border Roads Organization asking permission of the Ministry of Home Affairs to cut a road over the glaciated Saser La to link up DBO with Sansoma via Murgo as an alternative to the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road.The BRO has already built the road from Murgo to Saser Brangsa, which sits on the mouth of the Saser La. Even though Saser La is a glaciated moraine, the BRO has the ability to build a road over it for the present and a tunnel under the permafrost in the future. Once the road is built, it will allow Indian Army to rapidly move troops from the Siachen sector into Sub-Sector North depending on the requirement. Sansoma, on the banks of Nubra River is an important logistics base for the Siachen Glacier troop deployments.Apart from the high-value AWACS, the Indian Army is also acquiring 200 tactical drones for its battalion commanders so that the immediate battle theatre is transparent. This drones has been developed locally in collaboration with the DRDO and has undergone trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-clear-2-billion-deal-for-israeli-made-awacs-amid-stand-off-with-china/story-1JtIBkloVbKLRIO7rPG16K.html
28-08-2020||India||7-judge bench to reconsider 2004 order on SC/ST categorisation||Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) communities don’t constitute a homogenous group and can be further sub-classified to ensure the benefits of reservation in government jobs and higher education institutions percolate down to weaker sections, the Supreme Court observed on Thursday in a ruling that may have far-reaching political ramifications.In the ruling likely to reignite the debate on application of the so-called creamy layer principle to SC/STs, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said there are unequals within SC/ST groups, necessitating their sub- classification, which state governments are entitled to do. The bench also called for review of a past top court ruling that SCs and STs were homogenous communities.“In case benefit which is meant for the emancipation of all the castes, included in the list of Scheduled Castes, is permitted to be usurped by a few castes, those who are adequately represented, have advanced and belonged to the creamy layer, then it would tantamount to creating inequality whereas in case of hunger every person is required to be fed and provided bread. The entire basket of fruits cannot be given to mighty at the cost of others under the guise of forming a homogenous class,” the bench observed. Also Read: The Supreme Court’s jurisprudence on reservations has gaps | OpinionThe bench also said reservation for weaker sections was not contemplated by the Constitution makers in perpetuity and the constitutional goal of social transformation cannot be achieved without taking into account changing social realities. Creamy layer is a term used to describe better-off individuals among Other Backward Classes (OBCs) who are ineligible for reservations. Households with annual income above Rs 8 lakh fall under creamy layer. SCs have a 15% quota and STs a 7.5% quota in government jobs and university seats. OBCs have a 27% quota.Governments have been against extending this principle to quotas for SCs and STs on the grounds that they have been socially disadvantaged and backward for centuries and application of the creamy layer principle to them will defeat the object of reservation.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party declined to comment. The Congress said it was studying it.Also Read: No obligation on government to provide reservation, says Supreme Court“Supreme Court judgments are ultimately binding on us but subject to prescribed method of reviews and reconsideration. As of now, even the ink has not dried and therefore we are studying the judgment as it deals with a major social issue. Only after we finish reading what the apex court has said will we be able to formulate our views.” said the Congress’s Abhishek Singhvi. .Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Brinda Karat said: “We are against applying creamy layer to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes which would mean that some sections of these communities would be deprived of affirmative action. So we oppose these comments of the SC on applying creamy layer to SCs and STs. However. within the reservations there is already some sub-reservations, for example in tribal areas in Rajasthan; within the quota there is a specific quota for Bhils who form the majority. In Telangana, there is an issue between hill tribes and plains tribes. So it depends on the concrete situation in each state. This has not been taken into account by the Supreme Court.”.Attorney general KK Venugopal argued in 2019 against application of the creamy layer principle to SC/STs during the hearing of a plea by a non-government organisation (NGO) before the Supreme Court seeking exclusion of creamy layer among SC/STs from reservation benefits.The top court will now re-examine its 2004 judgment in E V Chinnaiah v. State of Andhra Pradesh in which it was held that SC/STs form a homogenous class and cannot be further sub-classified for reservations.“Chinnaiah is required to be revisited by a larger Bench; more so, in view of further development and the amendment of the Constitution, which have taken place,” the bench, which also comprised justice Indira Banerjee, MR Shah, Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose, said .Since the Chinnaiah case was also decided by a bench of five judges, the court directed that the matter be placed before Chief Justice of India SA Bobde to constitute a bench of seven or more judges to hear the case.The case, State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh, stemmed from a law enacted by the Punjab government in 2006 requiring 50% of vacancies in the quota for SCs in recruitment to be filled by the members of the Balmiki community and 50% by those from the Mazhbi communitySection 4(5) of the Punjab Scheduled Caste and Backward Class Reservation in Service Act, which stipulated this condition, was challenged before the Punjab & Haryana high court by a person belonging to Shikriband caste, which is also classified as SC.The high court ruled that section 4(5) was unconstitutional and contrary to the Chinnaiah judgment. When the case came up in appeal before the Supreme Court, a three-judge bench in August 2014 referred the matter to a Constitution bench. A major argument raised on behalf of the Punjab government was that the Chinnaiah verdict erroneously proceeded on the premise that reservation given by states by extending preference to certain SCs tinkers with the Presidential List under Article 341 of the Constitution.The Presidential List specifies the castes, races or tribes which are considered SCs. However, the apex court held that only inclusion or exclusion in the Presidential list is by Parliament and there is no bar on states taking further affirmative action . “It cannot be said to be violative of the list under Article 341 and 342A as no enlisted caste is denied the benefit of reservation. In the federal structure, the State, as well as the Parliament have a constitutional directive for the upliftment of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-judge-sc-bench-to-decide-on-sub-classification-of-sc-sts/story-xTqDbYgOKwhVEm0Z4grSrN.html
28-08-2020||Editorials||The crisis in fiscal federalism | HT Editorial||In July 2017, 28 state governments agreed to give up their sovereign right to levy taxes to make way for the Goods and Services Tax (GST). They agreed to do so because the central government put in an insurance clause, guaranteeing a 14% annual increase in their revenues up to 2022. Meeting this commitment has become increasingly challenging. In a GST Council meeting held on Thursday, the Centre has asked the states to borrow money to meet an (expected) shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the promised compensation this year. Of this, it has estimated Rs 97,000 crore as arising from GST implementation — a narrow technical definition that gives it a possible way out of paying the remaining Rs 1.38 lakh crore , which it attributes to Covid-19. The Centre will approach the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to facilitate this process and the repayments will done by extending the duration of cess on luxury and sin goods. But finance ministers of many Opposition-ruled states have objected, arguing that it is the Centre which should have borrowed the money rather than states. These objections are valid when read with the spirit of the GST law. The final decision will be taken next week, when the Council meets again. The states are already in a tight spot. Pending arrears for GST compensation payment to states from April-July 2020 stand at Rs 1.5 lakh crore. While the Centre has claimed that the revenue situation will improve over rest of the year and the total shortfall this year will be contained to Rs 2.35 lakh crore, there is no guarantee on this count. Many private projections estimate that the economy will remain in contraction zone until December. GST is not the only revenue head under strain. The states will also have to contend with a big shortfall in their own revenues and lower transfers from the Centre for direct taxes and other indirect taxes. A growing share of non-divisible pool of central taxes, such as the windfall tax gains from fall in crude oil prices, will mean that the states bear a greater burden of the revenue shortfall due to the pandemic. The states are doing most of the heavy lifting in fighting the health and economic consequences of the pandemic. The uncertainty on GST compensation payments, along with a huge shortfall in states’ share in other central taxes, means that India’s fiscal federalism is facing its biggest crisis in a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-crisis-in-fiscal-federalism/story-V5oXEQCbS8X8p3pWvoHfqO.html
28-08-2020||Editorials||JEE-NEET: To hold or not to hold||The scheduling of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has become a subject of controversy. The NEET, an entrance exam for medical colleges, is planned on September 13, and JEE Main, which for engineering colleges, is scheduled from September 1 to 6. The dates have been finalised after two rounds of postponement due to the pandemic. Both exams are competitive and students often enroll in coaching institutes years ahead to prepare. The Centre and pro-exam students argue that postponing the exams again would lead to the loss of an academic year, and additional burden for students. Those against the exams being held now say that many students are handling multiple crises — natural calamities, lack of safe transport, absence of accommodation near test centres, and the fear of transmitting the coronavirus to their families. Normalising school-leaving examination marks to arrive at a list may not be fair — many students focus more on these competitive exams than on the ones conducted by their boards. Three issues are worth pondering over here. One, a public exam is not only supposed to test a student’s knowledge, but also provide a level-playing field to all students (holding JEE-NEET now may not offer that, but the alternative could do that even less). Two, the battle against Covid-19 is far from over, but strictly maintaining safety protocols can reduce the risk — provided the states and National Testing Agency (NTA) think through everything else, from the infrastructure to the transport students need. The NTA, which conducts the exams, has said that it has put strict protocols to ensure safety. Three, declaring a so-called zero academic year won’t affect just this year’s freshman batch but have a cascading effect for the next few years. There is room for innovative solutions. For instance, NTA can go ahead with the tests but, along with the education ministry, it could also work on a second test for this academic year and create additional capacity in colleges for second-semester admissions. The ministry could also consider increasing next year’s capacity in colleges by, say 20%, and reserve it for this year’s school-leaving batch. On their part, even states opposed to this year’s exams should do all they can to help them be conducted. Instead, two extreme positions have been taken — and the young may end up paying the price for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/jee-neet-to-hold-or-not-to-hold/story-rQePUeoFuqQJggAVrD2NHL.html
