30-08-2020||News||Covid-19: The daredevils who defy scientific advice||India’s Covid-19 cases are rising. Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, has attributed the spread to irresponsible citizens who refuse to follow the mandated preventive health guidelines of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. He said, “I wouldn’t say young or old, but irresponsible, less-cautious people who are not wearing masks are driving the pandemic in India”.Long is a recent adjective being used to describe Covid-19 because of its impact on the body much after being tested negative, and despite the body having enough antibodies. According to recent findings, recovered people may continue to suffer from severe lung and heart damage, muscle ache, energy loss, breathlessness, memory issues, even psychological distress. This new information should instill fear, and motivate everyone to adopt all suggested preventive health behaviours such as wearing a mask, frequent hand washing, and maintaining social distance very sincerely.Yet, many continue to go about their lives, refusing to follow simple preventive health guidelines, as if the world is already in a post-pandemic era. I am going to take the liberty to call all such people daredevils. Daredevils, by definition, are reckless people who enjoy doing dangerous things.What is the link between a daredevil’s cognition of the ongoing pandemic and his motivation to be such a daredevil? In other words, what makes a daredevil expect a favourable outcome, of not getting infected, despite reckless behaviour? Prior research finds people can have favourable expectancies because of, and not limited to, any of these reasons — their self-belief and personal efficacy; because they think they are lucky; because they think they are favoured by God. According to Scheier and Carver (1987), the reason for favourable expectancies can be any of these but all of them will lead to an optimistic orientation—that is, a general expectation that only good things will happen to me. An optimistic orientation, that instills a positive outlook about the future, has been found to affect health decisions related to smoking, diet, and exercise, and explains why individuals make choices that may have adverse effects on their health. It is quite plausible, and some recent research suggests so, that our daredevil may have a misplaced perception of the severity of Covid-19, almost like a denial, that may, in fact, be attributed to a high optimistic orientation. Such biases in the perception of risk have been observed historically in other pandemics too.According to a health communication framework called Protection Motivation Theory, people tend to protect themselves based on their perception of the severity of a threatening event, the perceived vulnerability related to the occurrence of the event, the efficacy of the recommended preventive behaviour, and their self-efficacy. This theory lends an understanding of preventive health behaviour being displayed during the ongoing pandemic.In a recent study, Jovancevic and Milicevic (2020) confirm a high optimistic orientation among Serbians who defied social distancing guidelines and received guests, despite fully comprehending the negative health consequences associated with this behaviour. Is our daredevil so optimistically oriented that he is unable to comprehend his vulnerability to Covid-19? Is the daredevil’s optimistic orientation one of the reasons that may be enabling his reckless behaviour of not wearing a mask and not maintaining social distance? If this is true, then a possible solution lies in an alternative creative approach to the current public service announcements and communication material developed by health agencies, central and state governments to support Covid-19 prevention and recommendations. Simply put, the advertisement’s copy, creative design, message appeal, and executional framework can centre around how not to be a daredevil.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-the-daredevils-who-defy-scientific-advice/story-DOY8ssoNtDGvo5LhUT0r2M.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Rains brighten the other side of #WFH||There are two sides of a coin, and that holds true even with the case of pandemic induced work from home (WFH) scenario. Most professionals in Delhi-NCR have been asked to work from home; at least for another month or till the end of 2020 or beyond! While the disadvantages of #WFH have been the talk till now, it’s that one advantage that the professionals are joyous to share, i.e. no one has to cross roads-turned-into-rivers to reach work, all drenched, and then shiver due to the air conditioning at work place. Denizens certainly love not to travel on a rainy day. Take for instance Pankaj Sharma, a Gurugrammer, who works near Delhi’s Nehru Place. “Since I saw the condition of water flooded roads on social media, I’ve been thanking my stars that I didn’t have to travel to work in this mess! So till now I was listing the cons of WFH, but since monsoon has set in, I feel lucky to have WFH option,” says Sharma. And Harshita Saraf, a Mayur Vihar resident, who used to drive to Gurugram everyday, shares why life feels heavenly now. “I usually drove to work, but in rains I preferred the Metro to avoid waterlogging. Even then it used to be a task to commute since trains used to get so full that I could hardly breathe. I’m loving it now — this WFH.”. Even those who had to only travel within the city, are glad to continue their WFH. “Initially I was cribbing for not being able to visit office in CyberHub. But, rains brought me a realisation (laughs)... Though I do face some network issues when it’s raining, but it’s much better than being stuck outside, like forever... I spent three hours around Dhaula Kuan last monsoon, and don’t want that to repeat this year,” says Nikhil Bansal who used to travel to Cyber Hub from his home in Delhi’s Kamla Nagar. Working women who are otherwise too occupied due to workload and miss office as their escape from household chores are also happy to be home. Dimpi Kalra, a Delhi-based IT professional. who lives close to Sohna Road, says, “I saw a video of a guy boating in whaterlogged Gurugram... First I thought it’s fake, but when it was covered in news, I laughed so hard... Is baar ka haal dekhkar I feel blessed, that I can work from home!” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-brighten-the-other-side-of-wfh/story-BJf0M6qQCJOFSqxc1sTz1M.html
30-08-2020||City||Now, book train tickets, get PAN card, passport and more at 4 post offices in Ludhiana||Residents will now be able to book train tickets, get PAN card and avail other utility and banking services from the city post offices. These facilities will be made available from September at four post offices in the city—Ludhiana head post office, central post office, clock tower, post office model town and post office situated at Miller Ganj.The citizen centric services are an initiative taken up by the central government and India Post to benefit the customers.To make the residents aware, pamphlets will be delivered by the postmen and a special song has been prepared. The post office authorities have also come up with special counters to handle the queries and provide services to the customers.At Ludhiana headquarters post office, the authorities have installed a counter at the entrance gate of the office so that every person entering the post office can know regarding the services.The post offices are already providing Aadhaar-related services to the residents and a huge rush is witnessed daily to avail the services. To handle the rush, the authorities issue tokens to the residents so that they can enter the office when their turn comes.Aarti Verma, senior superintendent of post office, Patiala Division, said, “Customers visit the post offices for speed post, saving accounts, Aadhaar-related services, and now they can avail citizen centric services such as PAN card, passport, pay mobile phone bills and others. It will be convenient for the customers as during Covid-19 pandemic they will get all services under one roof.”There are a total of 105 services that will be started at these four post offices and initially 78 services will be offered to the customers.Narinder Singh, assistant superintendent of post at Ludhiana city post office, said, “We have started with a few services such as PAN card, utility services last week. Other services such as passport, FASTag services will start from next month. We have better infrastructure and the post offices are centrally placed due to which they are easily accessible by the customers.”To book an IRCTC train ticket, the registration process will be available at the post office through the passenger reservation system.For passport services, the post office counters will book appointments and accept fees which will be sent to the passport sewa kendra for further processing. Under utility services, residents can avail the Bharat Bill payment system, mobile postpaid, landline postpaid, electricity, broadband postpaid, electricity bill payment, water supply and sewer connection, application for new meter connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-book-train-tickets-get-pan-card-passport-and-more-at-4-post-offices-in-ludhiana/story-dj146Ifw3lWE3ssPUlvBBO.html
30-08-2020||City||Commercial units in north Delhi oppose user charges with retrospective effect||New Delhi: Commercial establishments under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction are opposing the civic body’s decision to charge “user fee” for waste collection retrospectively from January 2018, when the Solid Waste Management Bye laws-2017, were notified by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.On August 21, a delegation of hotel, restaurant and shop owners’ associations raised the issue with North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash. Their say they shouldn’t be charged retrospectively and the charges should be revised.Commercial establishment owners say the civic agency can’t charge for a service, which it wasn’t providing in 2018, retrospectively.The North corporation has started issuing notices to hotels, restaurants and shops to pay user charges from January 2018. As per the law, the charges for commercial establishments vary from Rs 500 to Rs 5,000 per month. While a shop or coffee or sweet shop has to pay Rs 500 per month as user charges for waste collection, a restaurant with seating capacity up to 50 has to pay Rs 2,000 per month.Murli Mani, a guesthouse owner in Karol Bagh and president of the Ajmal Khan road traders’ association, said, “Commercial establishments in Karol Bagh area have been served notices to pay anywhere between Rs 15,000 and Rs 60,000 depending on the type of commercial establishment. This is unfair, as the kind of services they are supposed to provide under the new rules were not being provided then.”The North corporation started sending notices to commercial establishments in August after the lockdown norms were relaxed.Traders’ association say this new charge will put additional burden on traders, who have already suffered huge loss due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Confederation of All India Traders is planning to take up the issue with the L-G. “Due to the lockdown imposed because of Covid, traders have already suffered huge financial loss. They are still facing financial problems as things are yet to get back to normal. This new charge imposed by the north corporation will only make matters worse for traders. We will raise this issue with the LG,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT.Nursing home owners say they already have to pay for the disposal of medical waste and hired people for solid waste management. Dr Ajay Bedi, honorary secretary of the nursing home forum of Delhi Medical Association, said, “Nursing homes have to pay Rs 2,000 per month. We have been asked to pay since January 2018. When the corporations were not providing the services as per the new rules, then why should we pay in-retrospect?”North corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said, “The new rules state that the civic bodies have to charge people for solid waste disposal. Currently, we are charging only commercial establishments. We have got several representations against the charges being collected from January 2018. Their concern is genuine. We are trying to work out a way so that these charges can be collected from this financial year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commercial-units-in-north-delhi-oppose-user-charges-with-retrospective-effect/story-v6RB7Kn2cyJTWa5H1zkiPJ.html
30-08-2020||City||Covid patient jumps off hospital building in Ludhiana, critical||In a shocking incident, a 43-year-old Covid-19 patient jumped off the first floor of Bhagwan Ram Charitable Hospital on Daresi Road on Sunday afternoon. The patient was rushed to the civil hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. The victim, a resident of Sawroop Nagar in Salem Tabri, was admitted in the hospital after he complained of liver problem three days ago. On Saturday, the family was told that he had tested positive for Covid-19. His wife said that he had been stressed ever since he got the news and the rising hospital bills had also got him worried. She added that to meet the exorbitant medical expenses, the family had sold their newly purchased motorcycle on Saturday. Incident caught on video The patient, who was kept in the isolation ward of the hospital, allegedly broke open the glass window to jump. Some passersby, who saw him, began filming the incident and also kept urging him to not jump. However, he did not pay heed. He is said to have received injuries on his face and head. As per information, the patient is as a freelance photographer.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that he was getting details of the incident and further action will be taken after receiving the detail report of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-jumps-off-hospital-building-in-ludhiana-critical/story-wOTjIA664ZF6h6aFXZajqI.html
30-08-2020||City||7-vehicle pile-up on Ludhiana-Delhi highway leaves five injured||A cyclist was crushed and four others received minor injuries in a seven-vehicle pile-up on the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway near the Sherpur flyover on Saturday night. The incident took place around 9.30pm when a tempo veered off its path to save an oncoming cyclist. However, a speeding pickup van, which was also coming from the same direction collided with the cyclist, two autos, two bikes, and the tempo dragging the vehicles off the main road onto the slipway, said Sherpur police post in-charge ASI Kapil Kumar said. The cyclist, who is critically injured, has been identified as Subhash Singh, 50, of Kalgidhar Road of Shimlapuri. He was on his way home from his factory in Shepur area when the accident took place. The injured were rushed to the hospital by onlookers.Singh was first admitted to SPS hospital, Sherpur Chowk, but was referred to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER, Chandigarh where his condition remains critical.The driver of pickup van, Imtiaz Khan, of Baramulla, Jammu and Kashmir, has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-vehicle-pile-up-on-ludhiana-delhi-highway-leaves-five-injured/story-hLGHgVYmGsVn6XSGpfZPlK.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Brand Factory outlet fined Rs 6.72 lakh in 21 cases of unfair trade||The Mohali district consumer disputes redressal commission has slapped a Rs 6.72 lakh fine on a Brand Factory outlet at Cosmo Mall in Zirakpur in single-day judgements on 21 cases of unfair trade. Though the cases were decided on August 21 the commission’s orders were received on August 28.The commission had last week fined the clothing store around Rs 2 lakh in seven different cases for unfair trade. Notices were issued in 21 cases in which customers had complained about the store arbitrarily charging goods and services tax (GST) and using misleading advertisements, but as no representative from the store turned up even after 30 days, a fine of Rs 32,000 was imposed in each case. The store will pay Rs 7,000 to the complainant and Rs 25,000 to the legal-aid fund of the commission in each case. In all the 21 cases, the owner had arbitrarily charged 5% GST and used misleading advertisements. Commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma said it was clear admission on the part of the Brand Factory owners that they had arbitrarily charged GST from the complainant by adopting unfair trade practices and committed deficiency in service. Noting that it appeared that the process of law was “misused by simply filing complaints before the Commission against a particular outlet owner,” Sharma said, “It is noticed that a huge number of cases are pending against the owner on similar points of controversy.”In a number of cases complaints were filed against the outlet owners and then “compromises reached with the owner,” who paid money to the complainant and the complaint was withdrawn, Sharma added.“The owner continues with this malpractice regularly and minting money by overcharging innocent consumers daily and does not mind paying a small amount in lieu of these complaints to the various complainants who are probably generated for this purpose,” the commission observed. One of the complainants, Karamveer Singh of Gillco Valley, Sector 127, had purchased a set of vests from the Brand Factory outlet in Zirakpur. The MRP of the product was Rs279, inclusive of all taxes, and there was a 60% discount on it. It is alleged that he was to pay only Rs.111.60, but instead of charging this amount, the stores added 5% GST and charged him Rs 117 for the product. Despite repeated requests by the customer, no clarification was provided by the shop owner. It was, therefore, alleged that it was a case of misleading advertisement and unfair trade practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brand-factory-outlet-fined-rs-6-72-lakh-in-21-cases-of-unfair-trade/story-CBIVVmgNq3BSrmzQTdGKlL.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Fate of carcass incineration plant in Chandigarh uncertain||The fate of the city’s first animal carcass incineration plant continues to be uncertain. Even after the MC general House approved its setting up in Sector 25, and floated tenders for the same, now, the civic body is planning to shift its location again to Industrial Area, Phase 1.Approval for setting up the plant in Industrial Area will be an agenda in the MC general House meeting scheduled for August 31.For more than a year now, dispute over the location is raging between councillors of the two locations. Councillors of wards adjacent to the twin sites – Sector 25 and Industrial Area, are opposing the setting up of the plant near their respective wards.Criticising the MC’s move to bring back the agenda to set up the plant in Industrial Area, local councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali, said, “It is shocking as the MC House has already decided on the issue, then why is it being brought up again? We will oppose the move to shift it to Industrial Area where it adversely affects more than two-lakh people. The livelihoods of more than 25,000 people working here will also be adversely affected.”Meanwhile, Sector 25 councillor, Sheela Devi, said, “The decision to set up the plant in Sector 25 was suspended in the wake of my opposition. The area can’t afford it as there is already a waste processing plant and dumping, cremation and burial grounds in the area.”Notably, MC officials have maintained that as per the plant’s plan, there will be no foul smell as it is will be gas-based electric incineration with a 30-metre high chimney.“They made such claims even when the Jaypee waste processing plant was being setup, but see the situation today. We can’t trust them in such issues,” said Devshali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fate-of-carcass-incineration-plant-in-chandigarh-uncertain/story-mZheUYHgOgeESgBrK5UF5N.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||BMW mows down pedestrian in Chandigarh, woman driver gets bail||A woman driving a BMW sedan was arrested then bailed out after she ran over and killed a pedestrian on the Sector 40/55 dividing road on Saturday night even as the dead man remained unidentified.Police said Prabhnoor Kaur Sandhu, 20, a second-year BCom student at Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College in Sector 32 and a Mohali resident, hit the pedestrian at around 10 pm as he was crossing road. The impact was such that the man was tossed high in the air even as Kaur attempted to escape, but a motorcyclist followed her up to Palsora Chowk and managed to stop her, after which police was informed.The injured man was taken to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, but doctors said he had died.The BMW sedan is registered under the name of Kaur’s father, Col (retd) Kanwaljit Singh Sandhu.Kaur was driving without a license at the time of the accident, police said. A case under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 3/181 of the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act (driving without a license) has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bmw-mows-down-pedestrian-in-chandigarh-woman-driver-gets-bail/story-gmfhGNNGj7SS19docNY8BP.html
30-08-2020||City||Ludhiana MC set to miss Jagraon Bridge’s Sept 15 deadline too||The Ludhiana municipal corporation, which was slated to complete the Jagraon Bridge by September 15, is likely to overshoot another deadline due to unfavourable weather conditions. The MC on Saturday had asked the railways to take over the construction of the damaged bridge after putting up a retaining wall. Engineer Gurdeep Singh said, “The MC handed over the work to the railways on Saturday. They will start laying approach slabs in a couple of days.”Once the railways are done installing approach slabs, the MC will start working on laying down a road on the bridge. The slabs will need a curing period of around 10-12 days. Since the railways will complete the assignment till September 15, the MC is sure to miss the deadline.Moreover, MC officials say constructing a road in the monsoon season is not viable.STRING OF MISSED DEADLINESRailway authorities had closed one side of the flyover in July 2016 due to safety concerns. The project stayed in a limbo for two years as the department refused to pool money for the project. It was only after the Ludhiana MC handed the railways ₹24.3 crore did construction finally begin in 2018. The initial deadline was June 30, 2019 but it was extended to December 2019.The MC took over the project in December and fixed March 2020 as the deadline. However, the project was pushed to June due the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.The June deadline was yet again unfruitfully pushed to August 15 and extended to September 15. However, it is very likely that the civic body will have to set a fresh deadline yet again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-set-to-miss-jagraon-bridge-s-sept-15-deadline-too/story-pL0TG7UY0AO6PiKTj1fIUO.html
30-08-2020||City||Called ‘corrupt’ in audio clip, ex-Mahendergarh SP lodges plaint||A day after Mahendergarh superintendent of police (SP) Sulochana Gajraj was transferred as commandant, 4th IRB, Manesar, she lodged a complaint with Narnaul city police against a man claiming to be a minister in the Haryana government (referring to minister of state for social justice and empowerment Om Prakash Yadav) in a viral audio clip calling her ‘corrupt, untrustworthy and working in collusion with miscreants’. In her complaint, Gajraj said the man had alleged that she was drawing illegal brokerage from miscreants.“This irresponsible and provoking statement allegedly made by a minister cannot be in good faith and is made prejudicial, having the personal enmity. The intention of this man is very clear that he wants to create pressure on her to play in his hands while administering the justice,” she mentioned in her complaint.Inspector Vikas at Narnaul city police station said they have registered an FIR against an unknown person under sections 153, 500, 504 and 186 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 of the IT Act, 2000.A controversy had erupted after local BJP leader’s son Amit Yadav was shot at outside his house in Mahendergarh’s Narnaul on Friday. His father, while visiting him at hospital, had allegedly spoken against Gajraj during an interaction with local journalists, audio clip of which was widely circulated.Second instance of minister-SP conflictThis is the second such case wherein an SP and a BJP minister are at loggerheads. In November 2015, Haryana health minister Anil Vij had left the meeting of district grievances and public relations committee after a spat with Sangeeta Kalia, the then Fatehabad SP, as she refused to follow his order to leave the venue following heated exchanges over the alleged illegal liquor trade in Fatehabad.Vij had justified his stand, saying that he was getting complaints of drug mafia and liquor mafia being active in the area, but the police had failed to bring that under control.However, the officer had refused to leave the meeting and even objected to the minister’s manners. Vij had then left the meeting himself.State crime branch to probe Gajraj’s complaint: VijHaryana home minister Anil Vij on Sunday said the state crime branch will probe in the case.On being asked about Abhay Chautala’s remarks on the same, Vij said, “Let us get it investigated first by the state crime branch and then it will be better to tell who is right and who is wrong.”Vij’s comments came on the day when he was inspecting the under-construction international level football stadium at the national war memorial stadium on NH-44 in Ambala Cantonment. He said the FIFA-approved football stadium that is being constructed at a cost of ₹100 crore is on par international standards and will be the best in North India.It is going to be the first such stadium in Haryana, where national and international level football matches will be held, Vij added.(With inputs from Bhavey Nagpal in Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/called-corrupt-in-audio-clip-ex-mahendergarh-sp-lodges-plaint/story-08naqXkR3mkr44XekHOAyK.html
30-08-2020||City||DCW rescues mentally ill woman roaming around near Rashtrapati Bhawan||New DelhiThe Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Sunday said it rescued a 35-year-old woman who was seen roaming about bare bodied near Rashtrapati Bhawan. A DCW team reached the spot after a mediaperson shared the information about the woman, and rescued her. “The team gave her clothes and took her to the Parliament Street police station where a DD entry was registered. She had a school bag with her, which contained a few books and her Aadhaar card”, the DCW said in a statement. According to information on the Aadhaar card, the woman belonged to outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala. The team took her to the address mentioned in the card, where the woman’s family said she left the house after her husband’s death six months ago. “The woman’s sister-in-law informed that she had two children and she had been looking after them since she left. Her mental condition deteriorated after her husband’s death,” it said. A DCW member said after the family refused to take responsibility of the woman, they took her to the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS). According to admission procedures, the hospital required an order from a magistrate. The victim was taken for medical examination and was presented before a metropolitan magistrate, who ordered her transfer to the hospital. “The woman has been shifted to IBHAS and her treatment is under way,” said Swati Maliwal, chief, DCW. “A DD entry was registered in the matter by the DCW members. The woman was sent for medical examination,” said a police officer, who did not wish to be named. IBHAS director Nimesh Desai said the woman is being taken care of. “Her mental health assessment is being done. Her Covid-19 sample has been sent for testing,” Desai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dcw-rescues-mentally-ill-woman-roaming-around-near-rashtrapati-bhawan/story-VPOlUHUrOcKLxiDvudJ7fL.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Police stops protest against hefty school fees in Chandigarh||Police stopped a planned protest against schools charging exorbitant fees during the pandemic months at Sukhna lake on Sunday morning. The protesters had planned to cycle all the way to the UT adviser’s house in Sector 7. Around eight protesters were detained by the police and their bicycles were taken to the Sector 3 police station. The protest was planned by a body, ‘Parents Unity for Justice’. At around 10am, the members started congregating near Sukhna lake, before the police stepped in. One of the members, Kuldeep Kumar, said, “Only a few members had gathered, and we were maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, but the police stopped us.” He added that the body is not against charging fees during the lockdown, but it should be reduced keeping in mind the hardships being faced by people. Police said they had detained a few of the protesters and let them go after a few hours with their bicycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-stops-protest-against-hefty-school-fees-in-chandigarh/story-OXWqqgYlyOeldRUP96Qv2M.html
30-08-2020||City||Weekend lockdown, odd-even criteria curtails profits of salons in Ludhiana||Already reeling under losses due to low footfall, the odd-even criteria, in addition to the weekend lockdown, to open shops in Ludhiana has further slashed the incomes of salon/parlour owners.Left with just three active days in a week as Tuesdays and Thursdays also witness few customers, the salon owners are now demanding relief from the government to save the collapsing beauty sector.The owner of Piazza beauty parlour on Mall road, Abhay Girdhar, said, “Most of the customers visit the salon on the weekend but the restrictions took that option away. Starting this week, the government even introduced the odd-even rule and we can only open on Tuesdays and Thursdays. But these days are considered inauspicious.”Jagjit Singh, the owner of Scissors Cut makeover studio in Model Town, Gol market, and owner of Venus Salons in Sarabha Nagar, Pardeep Kumar, said they were losing more customers due to the odd-even criteria as the customers were moving to other salons that are open on that day.”“The clientele of customers for chemical services like rebonding, colouring etc is down by over 80 percent as fear has gripped the customers and it is not possible to cover up the expenses of salons by providing haircuts services only. We also have to pay the rent, power bills etc for the entire month, even when we are allowed to open the units for 11 to 12 days in a month. The government should pay heed to the problems being faced by the beauty sector,” said Jagjit Singh.The shrunken incomes of the owners are impacting the salaries of the staff. One of the staff members at a salon requesting anonymity said the owners had also reduced their salaries. “Earlier, we used to get a monthly salary, but now many salon parlour owners are paying salaries on a proportionate basis considering the number of days on which a salon is open,” they said.Owner of Taurus Salon in Model Town extension, Monu, said, “We stand by the government and hard steps are required to stop the spread of disease. But the government should pay heed to the problems being faced by the sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-lockdown-odd-even-criteria-curtails-profits-of-salons-in-ludhiana/story-JrKGIxFwo4ideL9BJUUjYO.html
30-08-2020||City||Haryana gurdwara body chief draws flak for inducting loyalists into panel||Newly elected Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal, who recently swore in his first 10-member panel, has come under criticism for inducting only his loyalists.Daduwal’s new cabinet comprise senior vice-president Karnail Singh Nimmaba, vice-president Swarn Singh Ratia, secretary Jasvir Singh Bhati, vice-secretary Chan Deep Singh, and working members Amrinder Singh Arora, Satpal Singh Ramgariya, Mohan Deep Singh, Gurucharan Singh, Apar Sing and Prabhjit Singh.Even the loyalists of former HSGMC senior vice-president Didar Singh Nalvi, who played an active role in Daduwal’s victory, were also sidelined.As per the insiders, Nalvi refused to hold any position in the cabinet as his loyalists were ignored.Reacting over the formation of new cabinet, Joga Singh, a former general secretary and supporter of past HSGMC president Jagdish Singh Jhinda said, “He (Daduwal) has formed his own group and ignored the people who worked relentlessly for the formation of a separate Sikh body in Haryana.”He said the cabinet formation will spark a new controversy and resentment among the community members as most of the senior members were ignored.While Nalvi could not be contacted for his comments, people close to him said the cabinet formation was not done as per the HSGMC law as only 13 people were present in the meeting. The cabinet will not work as per people’s expectations, they added.On the other hand, Daduwal refuted the allegations of inducting his loyalists in his team saying, “We have only 10 posts in the cabinet and the appointments were made in a democratic way as the members proposed the names and the same were approved.”He said more committees and a legal cell will be formed in the coming days and more people will be accommodated.Speaking about his future plans, Daduwal said they will soon meet the Haryana chief minister, Union home minister and Prime Minister and seek their support for the pending case against SGPC (Amritsar) in the Supreme Court for the formation of fully operational and independent Sikh body to control operations of all gurdwaras in Haryana.Daduwal said they will start publishing the Nanakshahi calendar and a monthly Haryana Sikh Sandesh magazine from next year. The calendar and magazine will be provided free of cost to every Sikh family in the state, he added.HSGMC also plans to install the portrait of former Sikh leaders from Haryana in gurdwaras. Daduwal said he will also visit several gurdwaras in the state after the Covid-19 restriction is lifted.Asked if he will meet Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Daduwal said, “The chief minister is the political head of the state and we will meet him for our issues and problems, whenever required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-gurdwara-body-chief-draws-flak-for-inducting-loyalists-into-panel/story-m3kCbZNm8LD5S6DszZ3A4J.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cars, electricity poles damaged as tree falls in Sector 21-B||A tree with hollowed out roots toppled over in Sector 21-B, damaging three cars and electricity poles on Sunday. Fortunately, no injuries were reported.Growing in a vacant plot close to house number 1052, the tree damaged power lines as it fell, leading to a day-long power outage. “The tree had hollowed out roots and we had asked authorities concerned to remove it. It was bound to fall. A similar tree is growing at an awkward angle near this plot, which can also fall anytime,” said Kuldeep Singh Gill, president of the Sector 21-B resident welfare association (RWA).Dr Sanjeev Mahindru, whose sports utility vehicle, a Mahindra XUV 300, was parked under the tree, said its roof, windshield and bonnet were damaged. “It will cost a lot of money to get the vehicle repaired and I’m not even sure if insurance will cover it,” said Mahindru, who runs a private clinic in Lalru with his wife.Two cars, a Verna and a Santro, also had minor damages because of the falling poles.Raj Kumar Singla, who lives close to the spot said they had been writing to the administration since 2018 to remove the tree but they were told it was not dead and could not be cut.When contacted, UT horticulture division officials said, “The exact cause of the tree falling down is being looked into. Officials were called to clear the tree and fix the electricity poles in the morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cars-electricity-poles-damaged-as-tree-falls-in-sector-21-b/story-CVggvcniK1itp37Hsl0pYL.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Poor condition of roads in Chandigarh leave residents a harried lot||Chandigarh residents are repeatedly complaining about poor condition of roads in the city, which have deteriorated further after heavy rains this month. This comes after the municipal corporation (MC) was only able to finish pending maintenance work of 2019, and the work for this year had to be postponed, due to lockdown restrictions and later, during the monsoons.General secretary of the Sector 33-B residents’ welfare association (RWA), Kuljinder Sra, said, “A deep hole had formed near the entrance of Sector in 33-B in the summer. I had complained to the MC authorities repeatedly since it can be dangerous when there is waterlogging on the road. But, it has not been repaired so far.” Residents of northern sectors are also complaining about the poor state of roads. A resident of Sector 9, Anmol Gupta, said, “Streets in Sector 9 haven’t been repaired in years. After the monsoon this time, the top layer of the roads has been damaged heavily and needs to be dismantled. The roads need to be re-carpeted as soon as possible.”Organising secretary of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), Sandeep Bhalla, said, “Even if there is a delay in resuming work, the quality needs to be improved. Firstly, the MC must ensure they have enough funds to get quality materials for constructing the roads. Once the re-carpeting is done, they must last atleast for the next five years. Meanwhile, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chief spokesperson, Anish Garg, added, “The slip roads of the city are in dire need of repairs they must be recarpeted first as many cyclists and two-wheelers are at risk. Roads around the road gullies must also be increased in height so that waterlogging can be controlled.”The road repair had to be halted due to the rains but as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) Chandigarh director Surender Paul, the intensity of rainfall is likely to drop by the middle of September. “As per long range forecast, good intensity of rains can be expected till about September 10, after which it is likely to come down. Only light to moderate showers will be likely after that, while heavy showers over 60 mm can be ruled out,” he said.Saying that road repairs will be started by the middle of September, chief engineer of the MC, Shailender Singh, said, “Road repairs had been halted during the monsoons and we are likely to start again after the second week of September when intensity of rain starts to go down. We will have enough manpower to carry out the maintenance works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/poor-condition-of-roads-in-chandigarh-leave-residents-a-harried-lot/story-ooUirOFBg27dKkEY0NIUgO.html
30-08-2020||City||Curbs imposed in Srinagar, Budgam districts to prevent people from taking out processions||Authorities in Kashmir imposed restrictions in parts of Srinagar and Budgam districts on Sunday to prevent people from taking out Muharram processions to mark the last day of the 10-day mourning period, officials said. Muharram processions have been banned by the Jammu and Kashmir administration this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Police also used force to break up processions in Alamgari Bazar-Zadibal area of Old City in Srinagar where hundreds gathered to mourn on the occasion. Residents claimed that police fired tear gas and pellets to disperse the mourners.“It was a very small procession compared to thousands of people which would gather on this occasion. There was due regard of sanitisation, social distancing and wearing of masks but still the police lobbed tear gas shells and used pellets to push us into the inner areas,” a resident Raashid Ahmad said.“Is it wise to push people into congested areas if Covid-19 is the reason to ban such gatherings? It would have been better to allow people to remain in open areas like the main road where social distancing would be possible. This is a religious and sentimental issue, we are mourning and the administration can’t suppress the sentiment by military measures,” he said.Mostly people confined themselves to their local Imam Baras, mosques or homes to observe Muharram. Srinagar senior superintendent of police Haseeb Mughal said they have been asking people to observe the occasion inside their homes amid the pandemic. He said while many have adhered to the guidelines, youngsters have not been listening. “People tried to come out at around a dozen of places. Many policemen were injured as they were hit by stones. We had to use mild force,” the SSP said.“Overall situation was peaceful except small incidents at many places. People have been trying to come out on road even to protest but there has been no major incident,” he added.The administration has imposed restrictions under Section 144 in Budgam and Srinagar’s Lal Chowk and Old City areas like Zadibal. Security forces laid concertina wires and barricades to block roads and stop mass movement of people in certain places. No groups or gatherings were allowed by the authorities.“There were concertina wires on roads from Khanyar onwards to Alamgari Bazar,” said Muzaffar Ahmad, a government employee in Old City.In central Kashmir’s Budgam district, despite the restrictions, a sizable procession was taken out on the road towards main-chowk. People wore masks and marched as they sang elegies in the memory of Imam Hussain. “Although there were restrictions, police did not interfere to break up the procession. There was no leader to lead it. However, this is for the first time that there was no Zulginah (bringing out a horse with the procession),” said a Budgam resident, Bilal Ahmad.On Saturday, around 18 people were injured after police fired teargas shells and pellets to disperse a Muharram procession in Bemina locality of Srinagar. The photos of pellet injured youngsters, some in their eyes, have flooded social media enraging residents. Police has said that mild force was used as mourners defied restrictions in view of Covid-19. Peoples Democratic Party has strongly condemned the use of force on peaceful Muharram processions in Kashmir, terming such action as blatant display of barbarism. “Militating against a peaceful religious gathering has reflected the government’s iron fisted approach adopted in Kashmir without any compunction. It has proved beyond doubt that religion is being demonised, democratic dissent criminalised and cruelty is being normalised in Kashmir,” said PDP spokesman Syed Suhail Bukhari. The month of Muharram is remembered in Muslim history for the sacrifice of Imam Hussain and his companions in a seventh-century battle in Karbala, present day Iraq. Many Muslims used to take out mourning processions on select routes in Srinagar on 8th and 10th day of the month before the 1990s, However, they have been banned since militancy erupted in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curbs-imposed-in-srinagar-budgam-districts-to-prevent-people-from-taking-out-processions/story-v6SDMzPhDm9VQdwjv7TEtN.html
30-08-2020||City||Haryana government is synonymous with corruption, unemployment and crime: Hooda||Slamming the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday called it “synonymous with corruption, unemployment and crime”. Addressing a press conference here, the former Haryana chief minister said youths were facing unemployment crisis while the government sacked physical training instructors and contractual employees of the tourism department.“Instead of creating new jobs, the state government is focusing on sacking its employees. Corruption is going on unabated in all government departments. During the pandemic, liquor and transfer of land scams took place under the nose of the government led by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The government should order a probe in these cases either by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), a retired judge of the high court or a panel of legislators. The people of Haryana have seen the corrupt face of this government,” Hooda added. He said a Haryana minister (OP Yadav) and former Mahendergarh superintendent of police Sulochana Gajraj were at loggerheads over ‘rise in crime’. “A common man is afraid of stepping out of his house due to the rise in criminal activities and police’s lackadaisical approach towards curbing it,” he added.‘Right to recall’ bill should be passed for MPs, MLAsReacting sharply over Dushyant Chautala’s proposed ‘right to recall’ bill for village heads, Hooda said the government should first pass this bill for legislators and MPs.“The government is trying to create a dispute among villagers by passing a right to recall bill for sarpanches,” he said.On the three ordinances related to the agriculture sector promulgated by the central government, Hooda said his party will not allow the passage of these bills. “The government should introduce a fourth bill which gives guarantees of the minimum support price to the farmers. If these three bills would be passed, farmers of Haryana and Punjab will be destroyed,” he added.Hitting out at the government over the sacking of physical training instructors, Hooda said the government must bring a private bill and give employment to the terminated teachers.“If this government will not reinstate them, we will give them jobs after coming to power,” he added.On a question pertaining to his role among 23 other Congress leaders in writing a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, Hooda said he will not share internal matters of the party with the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-government-is-synonymous-with-corruption-unemployment-and-crime-hooda/story-IOhB2cCRzeM2mkWTtf2jfM.html
30-08-2020||City||Man shot dead in Haryana’s Kurukshetra||A 32-year-old man was shot dead while his friend was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by unidentified miscreants in Gandhi Nagar locality of Kurukshetra city, police said on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Vinod Kumar of Kirti Nagar in Kurukshetra city and the injured is Vikas Kumar of Nara village in Panipat. As per the police, the incident took place late on Saturday when masked miscreants opened fire at Vinod and also attacked his friend.Investigating officer Dharamvir Singh said an FIR has been registered against the unknown accused under sections 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Arms Act. The police said the preliminary investigation suggested that it was a case of old enmity between two groups as the victim was also facing criminal charges.The police said that Vinod’s body has been handed over to the family members and an investigation was going on.Seven booked for killing Sonepat man A 36-year-old man was shot dead by a group of seven persons near his fields at Bhainswal Kalan village in Sonepat on Saturday evening, police said.The deceased was identified as Pawan Kumar of the same village.In his complaint to the police, victim’s cousin Kuldeep said he had gone to his fields on Saturday evening to bring fodder for animals.“My cousin Pawan was sitting near his fields when a group of seven persons led by Rohit and Banny came there and pumped 12 bullets into him. When I reached there, they threatened of killing me too,” he added.Gohana police have registered a case against Rohit, Banny and five others under sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act and launched a manhunt to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-in-haryana-s-kurukshetra/story-OX24XdnP0rZk7WcC4DZ3BO.html
30-08-2020||City||Nine booked for lockdown violations in Ludhiana||Police have lodged FIRs against nine persons for opening shops and eateries despite weekend lockdown.The Dugri police have arrested Sukhwinder Singh of Shimlapuri for selling syrups near flower chowk without wearing a mask. The Dugri police have also booked owners of Baba Chicken and Republic Chicken for operating despite a ban.The PAU police have booked hairdresser Irfan and Deepak Kumar, owner of a mobile phone shop in Rishi Nagar.Division Number 5 police have booked owners of a restaurant in Sarabha Nagar market Mahinder Singh and Harjinder Singh for operating despite a ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-booked-for-lockdown-violations/story-ddkt8Mg3IH8iamJYDStWKN.html
30-08-2020||City||Delhi cop among two killed in Karnal mishaps||Two persons, including a Delhi Police constable, lost their lives in two separate road accidents in Karnal district, police said on Sunday.In the first accident, constable Praveen Kumar, 32, was killed when his motorcycle was hit by an unknown vehicle near Samora village on Indri-Karnal road late on Saturday. The deceased belonged to Karnal’s Bibipur Jattan and was on his way to his village. 42-year-old Mahender Singh, who belonged to Samora village, was also killed in similar manner. Probing officer Mohan Lal said FIRs have been registered in both the cases under relevant sections of the IPC. The victims’ bodies have been handed over to their family members after postmortem examinations and efforts are being made to arrest the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cop-among-two-killed-in-karnal-mishaps/story-mDwVrJDPs17welV6wyXs3O.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tops India in monthly GST returns compliance||Chandigarh has topped India in the financial year 2019-2020 in filing of monthly Goods and Services Tax returns (GSTR-3B) by achieving 99% compliance against the national average of 87%.The excise and taxation department, which had accomplished 100% compliance in 2017-2018 and 2018-19, is planning to take action against some firms for not filing returns even after repeated notices.“The department will also accomplish ‘Mission 100%’ in the year 2019-20 within 15 days as there are certain chronic return defaulters and the department is going to take strict legal action... if they will not file their returns within time given,” said RK Chaudhary, assistant excise and taxation commissioner, UT. Their GST registrations will be cancelled, he warned.Mission 100% had been launched in January, 2020 to accomplish 100% returns compliance in filing of GSTR-3B under the GST regime.“The department took a number of initiatives like regular interaction with trade and industry, setting up of helpdesk in the office to assist taxpayers in filing returns, regular SMSs and emails sent to taxpayers besides telephonic contacts and these initiatives yielded good results,” said Chaudhary.All registered businesses have to file monthly, quarterly and/or annual GST Returns based on the type of business. GSTR-3B is filed by all taxpayers registered under GST||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tops-india-in-monthly-gst-returns-compliance/story-SH18PDWW6g9DlUpIjM1UBO.html
30-08-2020||City||Covid-19 cases cross 10,000-mark in Ludhiana||Covid-19 cases crossed the 10,000-mark on Sunday with 213 people testing positive, taking the district tally to 10,039.Besides, 15 succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 393. Of the total fatalities reported since March, August alone accounts for 305 deaths. Those who died of Covid today were a 66-year-old man from Civil Lines, a 59-year-old woman from Tagore Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Nandpur village in Sahnewal, a 60-year-old man from Giaspura, a 50-year-old man from Major Surkhdev Road in Civil Lines, a 63-year-old woman from Harkrishan Nagar in Shimlapuri, a 73-year-old man from Sunet, a 67-year-old man from Raman Enclave, a 47-year-old man from Mundian Kalan, a 53-year-old woman from GTB Nagar, a 69-year-old man from Atam Nagar, a 70-year-old man from Chander Nagar, a 64-year-old man from Lajpat Nagar, a 57-year-old man from Sherpur Kalan, a 55-year-old man from Apple Villa Ladhowal. Of the 213 fresh cases, 80 were persons with influenza-like illness, 23 were identified during contact tracing, 43 patients were referred from OPDs, two police personnel, 10 healthcare workers and three domestic travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-cross-10-000-mark-in-ludhiana/story-fGqW4SnhiiU9dozIvS6r0I.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||More international flights from Chandigarh soon, says aviation minister||The aviation ministry is likely to take a call on increasing the number of international flights from Chandigarh Airport after examining technical specifications and details of all types of runways here, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri has said.The decision will be implemented soon after negotiations with Air India and other flight operators, Puri said during a BJP Chandigarh unit executive meeting through video conferencing on Sunday.This was the first meeting of the state executive after Arun Sood, the newly elected state president of the BJP unit,started his tenure.Apart from Sood, those present at the meeting were: Prabhat Jha, party in charge of Chandigarh affairs and national vice president; Sanjay Tandon, national council membe;, Chandrashekhar and Rambir Bhatti, state general secretaries and mayor Raj Bala Malik with other state executive members.Anil Jain, the party’s national general secretary, presided over the last closing session of the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-international-flights-from-chandigarh-soon-says-aviation-minister/story-QgonPb0O3z0rRB5SYCaV2H.html
30-08-2020||Pune||DMER advisory over Tocilizumab use for Covid treatment||The Directorate of Medical Education (DMER) has issued an order to all district task forces, government hospitals, private hospitals and deemed universities, that Tocilizumab is not a proven drug for the treatment of Covid-19 and must be judiciously used. This comes after the Pune task force and also the state task force recommended the use of the drug for critical Covid-19 patients. The order dated August 29 says, “Tocilizumab is an off label experimental drug used in Covid-19 and therefore, judicious use of the drug is recommended. Patients must be closely monitored between day 5 and day 9 and if clinically and biochemically indicated then only it should be administered.” It also states that only one dose of the drug should be administered as opposed to two which was prescribed earlier at the right time. The order comes after trials found that the drug is not significantly effective in the treatment and so the supply had been limited. This is now causing a shortage of the said drugs as doctors continue to prescribe the drug and relatives are left searching for the same. The drug is essentially used in case of rheumatoid arthritis but was initially found to be effective in some cases. ‘Although the government of Maharashtra has requested the drug controlling authority of India to import the drug but it has not materialized yet and so the doctors have been asked to avoid aggressive dosage. “Instead all treating physicians are requested to prescribe alternative drugs like etolizumab and avoid creating confusion in patients and relatives,” states the order. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Pune said, “A single dose of Tocilizumab costs around Rs 40,000 and it is not as effective as it was thought to be for treating Covid-19. Instead, plasma therapy which is much cheaper and is now likely to be capped at Rs 7,000 is found to be much more effective in treating critical Covid-19 patients.” SB Patil, assistant commissioner FDA Pune said, “There is a shortage of Tocilizumab and despite the manufacturer suggesting its inefficiency in treating Covid-19, doctors continue to prescribe it. In case of rheumatoid arthritis, the drug can be administered a few days later but in case of Covid-19, relatives are asked to get the drug immediately which is leading to an artificial shortage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dmer-advisory-over-tocilizumab-use-for-covid-treatment/story-dthECzq6KxBEOGteuhITdK.html
30-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: Social distancing goes for a toss during Ganesh visarjan||Not giving two hoots about the social distancing norms, people from all walks of life thronged the banks of Sutlej River to immerse the idols of Lord Ganesha on Sunday. People gathered on the banks were seen hugging and putting colours on each other. This happened a day after the district witnessed its biggest spike in Covid-19 fatalities with 17 people losing their lives. To top it all, neither the police nor the administration was at the spot to control the crowd. Social activist Varinder Bhakoo, a member of Shri Ek-Dant Ganesh Mahotsav Society, Kitchlu Nagar, expressed dismay over violation of social distancing guidelines. “It is really unfortunate that people are not following the social distancing norms that too at a time when Ludhiana is witnessing a rise in Covid cases,” Bhakoo said. “Belief is important but at this time we need to be cautious and adhere to the guidelines issued by the government. It is surprising that even amid the lockdown so many people managed to gather at the banks of Sutlej. What if one of them is an asymptotic carrier? ,” he added. He said their society made efforts to uphold the sanctity of the festival. “Our Lord Ganesha was made of mud and organic paints. The visarjan was also carried out systematically. We first took the permission of a sarpanch in Doraha.” When asked, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Religion is a personal choice. I won’t comment on it. I urge people to maintain social distance in places of worship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-during-ganesh-visarjan/story-KTHlbwqiOrRYeYN1OReDoO.html
30-08-2020||Employment||DU degree delay: Students say future is in jeopardy||“Our degrees will get delayed because of the innumerable problems that we have been facing with online exams and other concerns,” says Kavita Behera, BA (Hons) Economics, Janki Devi Memorial College (JDMC), who is one among the many DU students worrying about UGC’s stand — No exam, No degree. Elaborating on why getting a degree on time will be a challenge even for students attempting Open Book Examination, Behera adds, “The paper is very lengthy, the site stopped working, the teachers were messaging constantly to submit answer sheets and it created a lot of panic to upload the written answers within the given time period. I doubt if would be able to score well. And of course, if I don’t score well this is going to show on my maksheet. The completion of our graduation has already been delayed because of the pandemic; now our future has been compromised further because of open book exams (OBE).” Students who have got admissions in prestigious colleges for masters programmes have been given a deadline to submit their marksheets, and are in a state of utter confusion since their graduation is not yet complete as per the varsity. “I got admission in IIT Dhanbad and have to submit last semester marksheet by October 31. However, I’m unsure of how I’ll manage that because of this mishap. In one of my subject papers, there were two tabs — one for B Sc (Prog) Chemistry and the other was for B Sc (Hons) Chemistry. Both had the same paper code, and I mistakenly uploaded my answer sheet on B Sc (Prog) tab, instead of the honours tab. When I realised my mistake, I informed the college and they said next paper me dhyan rakhna ab kuch nahi ho sakta! When will the next paper be? How will I submit a marksheet to IIT? What’ll happen to my future? Why did the two courses have the same question paper code?” says a Samriddhi Vats, a worries student of B Sc (Hons) Chemistry at Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences.Some students who had planned to opt for offline exams, ie exams in ink and paper, due to their bitter experience with the mock tests are now finding themselves in midst of a conundrum. “Initially, I was planning to give exam in offline mode, and start working by showing a conditional degree. However, UGC recently mentioned that the degree will only be given once we have written our exams. Without even a conditional degree in hand, which company will accept me? The online mode of examinations is rampant with problems and I don’t want to risk scoring low by giving online exams where students run out of time to finish and struggle to even download question papers, but a scenario of a half baked degree is any day better than no degree,” says Sanjay Kataria, who is pursuing masters in Department of Library and Information Science.And students who have enrolled themselves for Open Book Exams (OBE) have also complained of major technical snags that ensure a further delay in final marksheet. “Our future is in jeopardy because students aren’t able to give online exams while attempting OBE! Students during political science exam got two different question papers. This lead to a lot of confusion. University authorities later said that the second one is the actual question paper. What about those who attempted the first one, like me? Will those students now have to give another attempt at online exams or wait to give it in offline mode? This will lead to a delay in getting our final marksheet and subsequently a delay in the degree. How will the students apply for higher education in that case,” asks Sneha Sarah Shaji, a student o Political Science (Hons), Hindu College.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jobs/du-degree-delay-students-say-future-is-in-jeopardy/story-BokUv45XsKUuwBZj1mDaaK.html
30-08-2020||City||Covid-19 mobile testing bus, vans hit Ludhiana streets||The Covid-19 mobile testing bus and two vans, that were recently launched by the health department, initiated testing in the city on Sunday. The bus, carrying a doctor and a technician, is equipped to collect samples from people’s doorsteps and provide real-time test results.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “To break the chain of coronavirus, it is very important that more and more people get their sampling done.”He added that sampling is a very important aspect in the fight against Covid and people should not treat it like a taboo.“From deputy commissioner to class four, all the categories are getting their sampling done. I have also got tested four times till now,” said Dr Bagga.The civil surgeon said that 85 tests were conducted through rapid testing kits in Basti Jodhewal, out of which two persons tested positive.Sharing details, Jagjivan Sharma of the mass media wing of the health department stated the two have been isolated. He added that state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had launched two mobile testing vans and a bus on August 26 and 28, respectively.“We urge people to come forward and get tested. Our objective is to conduct maximum tests in order to identify asymptotic carriers so that the Covid-19 chain is broken. We also request residents to shun any doubts or suspicions that they have about the testing system,” said Sharma.He added that the bus and mobile vans will be taken to containment zones, micro-containment zones, and densely-populated areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-mobile-testing-bus-vans-hit-ludhiana-streets/story-WRbzKlfgSxTw1JJUZeQrXM.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 16,408 new Covid-19 cases, 296 deaths||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded a single-day spike with 16,408 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 7,80,689, the state health department said.As many as 7,690 patients were discharged from different hospitals in Maharashtra after recovering from Covid. So far, 5,62,401 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state.The death of 296 patients during the day pushed the fatality count to 24,399, it said. Maharashtra currently has 1,93,548 active cases at present. The state’s recovery rate is now 72.04 per cent and the fatality rate is 3.13 per cent.Maharashtra has so far tested 40,84,754 people across the state.The state’s capital, Mumbai reported 1,237 cases and 30 deaths on Sunday, taking the case count to 1,44,626 and death toll to 7,626.Pune city reported 1,663 cases, Pimpri Chinchwad 1,072 cases, Nagpur city 836, Nashik city 1,049, Kolhapur city 305 cases, Sangli city 297, Latur 154 and Nanded 128 cases on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-16-408-new-covid-19-cases-296-deaths/story-hbUe80VJE4rr11uESWluwO.html
30-08-2020||Lifestyle||Break the taboo: Celebs support menstrual health via social media||Periods are normal. They are not inappropriate and there is no room for shame while talking about them. Recently when the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi spoke about menstrual hygiene in his Independence Day speech, his initiative to address the issue from the Red Fort was appreciated by one and all.Bollywood celebs have also been supporting Instagram campaigns that talk about mentrual health. Actor Kirti Kulhari who posted about one such campaign, says, “It’s deplorable that menstruation and conversation around it has been shamed for centuries. There should be no need for code words for period, no need for wrapping newspapers around a pack of sanitary pads when buying it and asking for a pad doesn’t have to be a hushed request. Stains are foreseeable outcomes of having a period and we need to be okay with the fact. It’s time we ended period shaming and the silence surrounding it.” An NGO, Humans For Humanity, which had been working to spread awareness around menstrual hygiene through various campaigns have kicked off Red Cloth Campaign during the pandemic, to keep the ball rolling. This initiative talks about breaking taboos around periods. “We are inviting everyone to participate; take a step forward towards normalisation of opening conversations around periods to pull it out of the myths it lies embroiled in. One can participate by simply tying a red cloth around the wrist and putting up the picture as a post or story on Instagram with the hashtag in the caption,” says Anurag Chauhan, founder of the NGO, who is now taking the virtual route to spread awareness on menstrual hygiene.Actor Lisa Ray and singer-actor Shibani Dandekar have also supported the campaign along with many social media users, who have been sharing their stories by posting pictures of hand tied in red cloth. And while posting about the campaign, the actors are tagging their co-stars to make the chain bigger and thus creating more impact. Sharing her views on menstrual health and campaigns, actor Kubra Sait adds, “It’s extremely important to talk about menstrual health. I’m so grateful for Indian filmmaker and producers to take up this entire conversation from India to the global level. It’s still so crucial that we bring it to every school, every elementary level so that girls and also boys can speak about this. We should normalise it, instead of it being some sort of taboo, we can’t speak of... I’m extremely blessed and lucky to have such conversations at home! And what NGOs are doing to spread awareness about it is excellent. While such conversations happen on an educated level, it also needs to take place where eduction is also needed.” Bollywood choreographer Sandip Soparrkar also shared about the campaign on his social media, and feels “it’s high time we stop talking about periods in hush tones”. Soparrkar dressed in red and put a tilak on his forehead to support the campaign on his social media handles. Another actor who has shown support to this cause is Divya Seth Shah. She says, “Misogyny found varied paths down the ages. Subjugation and Superstition fuelled them. The silence and shame centered around menstruation has remained. A bodily function that propelled the human race is rendered unspeakable by centuries of social taboo. Time to change that. The rite of passage into adulthood. Just making it real and dignified, and the Red Cloth Campaign is a powerful visual declaration of the end to this silence.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/break-the-taboo-celebs-support-menstrual-health-via-social-media/story-c4J71mNEJkEKDaDDoVdU4N.html
30-08-2020||City||Man found dead near railway track in Ludhiana: Kin run pillar to post to file complaint||A man was made to run from pillar to post to seek justice for his brother who was found dead on July 13 near railway tracks in Jugiana. According to Chandan Kumar, the city police and railway police are passing bucks on the issue instead of taking action.Kumar has now approached director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta seeking his intervention in the matter. Chandan’s brother Kundan Kumar, 22, worked as a sanitary worker at an automobile showroom in Jugiana.According to Chandan Kumar, the supervisor of the showroom used to thrash Kundan and due to this, he was suffering from depression for the past many days.“On August 13, my brother called me and informed me that the accused are thrashing him near the railway track. When I reached there, I found his mutilated body on the other side of the track,” he added.“The accused have murdered my brother and made it look like an accident. I have been visiting the Focal Point police station and GRP for past one and a half years but to no avail,” said Chandan. SHO at GRP police station Inspector Balbir Singh said that the inquiry is ongoing. The police will take appropriate action according to the investigation report, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-found-dead-near-railway-track-kin-runs-from-pillar-to-post-to-file-complaint/story-R9DfkPl9HW4xpHCQdp2juN.html
30-08-2020||City||Sports academies remain shut in Ludhiana, athletes left in the lurch||The Covid-19 pandemic has brought the sporting economy to a shuddering halt. With the majority of sports academies closed in Ludhiana, players are left in the lurch. With the rising Covid-19 cases, coaches are giving online training to the players which according to them is not proving to be beneficial for them.Players have stated that there are many games that require a team and proper strategy and practicing alone at home is not serving the purpose. Sitting at home for the last five months is affecting players’ health and future performances.Prince Kumar, 15, who aims to become a Judo coach said that he is unable to practice and maintain fitness levels, and with uncertainty looming over sports events, he fears a loss of competitiveness, opportunities and other benefits.A gold medallist in the Commonwealth Judo Championship held in Jaipur in 2018, Prince is practicing for the Khelo Indian Games scheduled to be held next year. He said, “Due to financial constraints, I faced many challenges when the lockdown was imposed in March. Maintaining my fitness is a struggle. My coach sends me pre-recorded videos so I am practicing at home.”Nutrition is another aspect that has taken a beating during the lockdown. While players in training camps are assured of a proper diet, it is difficult for sportspersons in rural areas.Judoka Priya Sharma, 21, who represented the country in the World University Games 2019 Summer Universiade said, “I am practicing at home for two hours daily and due to financial problems, I am not able to take a protein-rich diet that I used to have earlier at the college. I am residing near Tibba road which is very far away from the Guru Nanak Stadium and I’m not able to go there as I don’t have funds to commute.” While boxer, Mandeep Kaur from Chakkar village said that she is unable to do the kind of workout or practice, she normally does in a camp. “At the camps, we get a lot of exposure, proper guidance from coaches. But now, I am just able to practice with the limited infrastructure available here in my village academy. I practice for four hours daily to be able to participate in the Olympics to be held next year.”In 2015, Kaur won a gold medal in the junior World Boxing Championship held in Taipei. Earlier, she had won a gold medal at the Nation’s Boxing Cup held in Serbia. Sarbjot Singh, 17, a player from the Malwa Hockey Academy, Ludhiana said that hockey is a team game and without all team members there is no use of practicing it. Hailing from Jalandhar, Singh said, “Since March, the academy has been closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and all players were asked to go home. I have been playing this sport for the last six years and miss the team members in the field.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sports-academies-remain-shut-in-ludhiana-athletes-left-in-the-lurch/story-dVcRR7t6WeSLqgpRO1sTnK.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC starts shifting legacy waste from Dadumajra plant to open dump||Unable to find a firm to execute the task, the municipal corporation has itself kicked-off the process to shift the legacy waste collected at the waste processing plant to the dumping ground at Dadumajra. Over 25,000 metric tonnes (MT) of waste has been lying unprocessed at the site for years, resulting in odour and leachate, which has impacted the plant’s efficient functioning. The MC General House in July had given the go-ahead to shift this waste with a budget of Rs 80 lakh.Using its own garbage disposal vehicles, MC has started the work on a low scale while continuing it search for a contractor.Another project to clear the 5 lakh MT of legacy waste at the Dadumajra dumping ground is already underway at a cost ₹35 crore.The civic body had earlier floated a tender for hiring a firm to shift the legacy waste, but could not find any one for the job, prompting it to invite bids again.The hired firm will provide one pocklane excavator, one excavator-cum-loader, seven tippers and one chain dozer (for levelling the said waste). It will also bear the cost of driver, helper, fuel, etc. The work has to be completed within two months from the date of allotment of contract. Failure to finish it in the stipulated time may lead to the firm’s performance security being forfeited.“Legacy waste has to be shifted so that the waste processing plant can be operated properly. We will shift the legacy waste to the dumping site in phases so that it does not burden the removal process underway there,” said Dr Amrit Pal Singh, medical officer of health (MOH).Singh said, “MC is using its own vehicles to shift the garbage, but we cannot spare these vehicles for long, as it affects the city’s garbage collection and disposal work.”MC had taken over the waste processing plant from Jaypee Group on June 19 and has been running it since.The corporation had signed an agreement with Jaypee in 2005 for setting up a garbage processing plant, which over the years was not operated to its optimum capacity. The plant was only processing 120 MT of waste against a requirement of 450 MT, with the remaining waste being illegally dumped in the open ground nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-starts-shifting-legacy-waste-from-dadumajra-plant-to-open-dump/story-bsJKDdUBfrynkzBZkdXK3L.html
30-08-2020||City||Mohali sees record surge with 240 Covid cases||A day after Chandigarh recorded 261 Covid-19 cases, the neighbouring Mohali district too crossed the 200 mark for the first time with 240 fresh infections on Sunday.It was on August 28 that the district had recorded its previous steepest single-day spike of 149 cases. The total now stands at 3,666, of which 1,627 cases remain active. Meanwhile, two women succumbed to the virus on Sunday even as 104 patients were cured and discharged. The toll stands at 73 while the number of those who have recovered has reached 1,966.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said both women who died were having comorbidities and were hospitalised for more than a week. One of them, aged 40, was from Bhagomajra village. She was suffering from liver disease, diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. The other, aged 55, was from Baltana and suffered from hypertension. She was undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala. “They have been cremated as per the protocol under the observation of health officials,” said Dr Singh. Among the fresh cases, 92 have surfaced in Mohali city, 56 in Gharuan, 46 in Dhakoli, 31 in Kharar and the remaining in Lalru, Dera Bassi and Kurali. Dr Singh said the cases are on the rise due to extensive contact tracing, but at the same time, the number of those recovering from the disease is also rising. “Most of the patients who have tested positive are asymptomatic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-sees-record-surge-with-240-covid-cases/story-bevWs5Iogdnn6X6gsxjCkJ.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||GMADA issues notice under section 19 of Land Acquisition Act to acquire 737 acres for Aerotropolis||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has issued a notification under Section 19 of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire 737 acres of land for its seventh independent township, Aerotropolis, an extension of Aerocity, the USP of which is its proximity to Chandigarh International Airport.The project is spread over 5,400 acres.Section 19 of the Act refers to the amount to be determined as compensation.A notification was also issued earlier by GMADA under section 11 of the Act to acquire the land, which calls for objections, if any, from owners.The township will comprise both residential and commercial spaces and will come up on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road.In the first phase, land will be acquired in Chau Majra, Saini Majra, Patton, Manauli, Siaun and Matran of Mohali district.“We have issued a notification under section 19 and we will be completing the acquisition process by February next year. Earlier, it was to be completed by November this year, but due to Covid-19, the process was delayed,” said Tarsem Chand, GMADA land acquisition officer.Announcing the compensation amount to land owners and other affected persons was practically the last step in the acquisition process, he said.Another senior official of GMADA said the land had to be purchased under the land pooling policy (LPP) of 2013. Recently, GMADA had also increased compensation for land owners opting for the LPP scheme for various residential projects. For commercial plots, owners will get 200 sq yard plots instead of 121 square yards fixed earlier, he added.Under the scheme, farmers are offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land. Big housing and commercial projects are developed on their land, for which farmers are offered housing and commercial sites.Though GMADA is yet to calculate the compensation, sources say it’s likely to range between Rs2.5 to Rs3 crore for those who do not opt for land pooling.While acquiring land for Aerocity in 2008, GMADA had offered compensation of Rs1.5 crore per acre to farmers.AEROTROPOLIS FACTSSpread over 5,400 acres, the township is an expansion of AerocityWill come up on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road, close to Chandigarh International AirportWill have residential and commercial spacesIn the first phase, 737 acre land will be acquired in Chau Majra, Saini Majra, Patton, Manauli, Siaun and MatranThe remaining land will be acquired in Badi, Kurdi, Kishanpur, Safipur and Kishanpura villagesOTHER GMADA TOWNSHIPSAerocity, Knowledge City and IT City, all in the vicinity of Chandigarh AirportEco City, Edu City and Medi City in New Chandigarh, Mullanpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmada-issues-notice-under-section-19-of-land-acquisition-act-to-acquire-737-acres-for-aerotropolis/story-ypa0uEGuHRA3D5Qsh92VaL.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs 487 Covid cases in record surge||The Covid-19 pandemic continues to surge in the tricity, with a record 487 fresh cases confirmed on Sunday.The figure is 20 more than the infections recorded on Saturday, the previous steepest single-day spike.With 240 people testing positive, Mohali district too registered its record surge and accounted for most of the new cases in the tricity. It was followed by Chandigarh (170) and Panchkula (77).Meanwhile, Chandigarh logged seven deaths related to the virus, in the Union Territory’s highest toll for a day. With Mohali recording two deaths, the tricity’s toll now stands at 144. The total number of infections has reached 9,973, just shy of the 10,000 mark.The new cases have taken Chandigarh’s tally past 4,000. It has reached 4,155, of which 1,805 are active. While 2,296 patients have been cured so far, 52 have died and reports of 91 samples are awaited.Among the seven fatalities that were confirmed on Sunday, there are three women and a nine-year-old girl child. Only one death took place on Sunday, while the remaining occurred earlier and were added to the tally now. They include a woman, aged 52, from Sector 30, and another aged 43 from Faidan. Both had comorbidities. A 45-year-old man from Manimajra, who too suffered from diabetes and pneumonia, is also among those dead. A nine-year-old girl from Hallomajra, who had liver SOL (space occupying lesions), died at GMCH, Sector 32, “due to cardiac respiratory arrest”.Two elderly people, including a 65-year-old man from Sector 43 and an 81-year-old woman from Sector 20, died at private hospitals in Mohali. The seventh case is of a 20-year-old man from Raipur Kalan, who according to the authorities was “brought dead at Panchkula civil hospital and shifted to GMCH-32 on August 22 and tested positive the next day”.77 test positive in Panchkula The Covid count in the neighbouring Panchkula district reached 2,152 as 77 more people tested positive on Sunday.As many as 724 cases remain active, but reports of 79 suspected cases are awaited. While 1,409 patients have recovered so far, 19 have died. The district has seen nearly 300% surge in the number of infections, as the total count stood at 561 on July 31. The steepest single-day spike was recorded on August 26, when 172 people tested positive. The tally crossed the 2,000 mark on August 29 with 500 cases added in just a week, as compared to 132 days taken to reach the first 500 after the infection surfaced in the district on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-logs-487-covid-cases-in-record-surge/story-XsdBkFFUEiDVuvSwj5N11I.html
30-08-2020||City||IIT students, alumni launch portal to provide transport facilities to needy NEET, JEE candidates||New Delhi: Students and alumni from three Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) -- Delhi, Mumbai and Madras -- launched a portal to connect with people who may want to help needy students appearing in the upcoming JEE and NEET exams with transport facilities to travel to their examination centres amid the pandemic.While the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) will be held from September 1 to September 6, the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled on September 13.The move comes after IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao made an appeal on social networking site Facebook on Friday. In a statement issued on Sunday, IIT-D said, “The call-for-help germinated independent actions from IIT Delhi Alumni Association (IITDAA), IIT Bombay and IIT Madras alumni and finally converged into a wonderful user-friendly portal viz www.eduride.in. This portal aims to ease the burden of commuting for the needy candidates especially from remote locations and poorly connected areas.”Candidates from any part of the country can register themselves as a “student” on the portal and enter details of their exam centres. The candidates can call on a helpline number +91 93113 23756 on Monday to book the ride. Welcoming the initiative launched by IIT students and alumni, Rao, said, “Some candidates had written to me and commented on social media channels that they cannot afford private transport and asked for help in reaching the examination centres. We immediately made an appeal to the alumni and others for help. If we all work together and support each other in these times of need, there is no obstacle that we cannot surmount. I am confident this portal will not only ease the commuting difficulties for the candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-students-alumni-launch-portal-to-provide-transport-facilities-to-needy-neet-jee-candidates/story-lPc6karrxSuCq2H6FdK67H.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Patients at P’kula Covid Care Centre find cockroaches in food||Patients at the Sector-14 Covid Care Centre found cockroaches in their food on Sunday. The issue was brought before Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur who has marked an enquiry in the matter. She said, “I have asked the concerned officer to submit a report and have also appraised the administration.”Last week, Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta had shared pictures and videos of filthy toilets in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Panchkula. She had also complained about bees and mosquitoes at the facility. @anilvijminister Bees are welcoming CORONA patients in the sec 6 hospital. Since morning 11 am no one has done any test rather mosquito are giving me more pain. Is this the way you and your deptt. are handling patients. Now I can understand why CM and speaker rushed to Vedanta. pic.twitter.com/xnFAiykwfXThe leader has been shifted to a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patients-at-p-kula-covid-care-centre-find-cockroaches-in-food/story-3Cg3xipryCnodLeQJ8RSGK.html
30-08-2020||City||Use that sanitiser prudently and cautiously||In the last five months since Covid-19 forced everyone to reach for the alcohol-based hand sanitisers in a big way, many sanitiser-related accidents and injuries have been reported from around the world. Some of these incidents should really make us sit up , take note and exercise utmost caution while using the hand rub.Let me begin with a case reported from Gassco, Norway, that alerts us to a danger that most of us are unaware of- the deadly combination of alcohol-based sanitiser and static electricity. In April, an employee of Gassco sanitised his hands with an alcohol-based hand rub and touched a metal surface, when the hands were still wet. Due to static electricity, the vapour from the hand sanitiser ignited with an almost invisible flame on both his hands. The employee rushed to a sink and immediately extinguished the flames, but suffered first and second degree burns on both the hands. This incidence calls for utmost caution while using hand sanitisers, particularly in the winter months, when , because of the dry weather, static electricity is more prevalent. I would particularly warn those individuals who experience static shocks (and sparks) more than others, on touching a door knob or a car handle or any metallic part for that matter, in dry weather. Remember not to touch anything with hands which are still wet from the sanitiser. To put it differently, do not use more than the quantity required to disinfect the hands and wait till your hands are completely dry and the liquid or the gel has completely evaporated before touching anything. I would suggest similar precautions while operating an electric switch or any electric gadget that could give out a spark. I must mention here that a severe burn injury caused to an 11-year-old girl in a Children’s hospital in Portland, Oregon, USA, in 2013, was traced to fumes from the sanitiser spilled on the girl’s dress, igniting on account of static electricity. Olive oil used on her head to remove the glue used for an EEG test earlier and had dripped on to her dress, fed the flames further, the report on the cause of the fire said. There are similar reports of burn injuries caused by static electricity and sanitizers in two hospitals in the United States – in 2006 and 2002.Alcohol evaporates readily at room temperature and it is these vapours that catch fire. In March this year, a 44-year old resident of Rewari, Haryana, suffered 35 per cent burn injuries while cleaning his cell phone and keys with an alcohol-based sanitiser in the kitchen, near a source of fire. According to the hospital where he was admitted for treatment, he spilled some of the liquid on to his clothes during the process and the fumes from the alcohol reached the fire -- his wife was cooking on a gas stove nearby -- and before he could even realise what was happening, his clothes were on fire. So remember not to use the hand rub near any source of fire.Today, wherever you go -- shops, hospitals, elevators, entrance of housing colonies, airports, public offices -- you find a large bottle of sanitiser. Where soap and water are not readily available, use of alcohol-based sanitiser is imperative in these times of Covid pandemic. However, ophthalmologists are reporting cases of redness, irritation, dryness, discomfort and itching in the eyes, caused by increased use of sanitisers or the constituents of the sanitiser getting into the eye , every time you pump the dispenser to release the sanitiser spray.In fact a paper on the topic published in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology recently (“Sanitiser aerosol driven ocular surface disease -- a Covid-19 repercussion”) expresses concern over this and advises consumers to close the eyes while pressing the dispenser and also keep the dispenser below eye level during usage, to prevent the sanitizer from getting into the eyes.So use the sanitiser prudently and cautiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-that-sanitiser-prudently-and-cautiously/story-BH7vs89mL2jkqWjGv0dNZO.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 held for burglary in Chandigarh||Two men were arrested on Sunday for allegedly burglarising two properties in the Industrial Area on July 23 and August 2. The accused reportedly made off with electronic and household items worth ₹1 lakh. The accused, Rinku, 20, and Yogesh, 20, are residents of Maloya. They are both labourers. On July 23, they allegedly broke into a property in Industrial Area, Phase 1, and stole a 32-inch LED TV, two wall clocks, one induction cooker, one pen stand, one extension board and a mouse. Police said that they had broken into a plot in Industrial Area, Phase 2, and stolen a cooler, 12 cooler motors and a screwdriver on August 2.The accused were preparing to sell the stolen items when they were stopped at a checkpoint near the Maloya Bus Stand. The accused will be produced in court on Monday. Rinku is also a person of interest in a burglary that took place in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-held-for-burglary-in-chandigarh/story-Rj29toJbNtFRoaKSX0leqO.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s weekly markets to open for 7 more days on trial basis||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday said that the weekly markets in the national capital will go on for another one week on a trial basis till September 6.The DDMA last week had allowed markets to open up on a trial basis with ‘one market per day’ rule per municipal zone in Delhi for one week from August 24-30. The officials concerned have been directed to ensure strict implementation of measures against Covid-19, including social distancing and mandatory use of face mask at such markets.After reviewing the current coronavirus situation, it was decided that one weekly market per day per zone will be allowed to function on a trial basis further for a week from August 31 to September 6, the order issued on Sunday read.Weekly markets in the city were closed since March 23.Weekly markets have been permitted to function from 4 pm to 10 pm and not more than two buyers are allowed to deal at any stall at one time. However, larger gatherings will continue to be prohibited and authorities concerned have appointed ‘Weekly Market Officer’ to ensure strict compliance of the Standard Operating Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-weekly-markets-to-open-for-7-more-days-on-trial-basis/story-8EbBd3V8XVcVDoofH1hfIK.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||28-year-old ends life in Mohali, wife booked||A 28-year-old man ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his house in Dhakoli here on Sunday, police said. The victim’s wife has been booked for abetment. The incident took place around 9am while the victim’s wife was at work. He was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead. The victim’s father blamed his daughter-in-law for harassing his son and forcing him son to take the extreme step. The couple had got married in November 2019. Investigating officer Dharampal Singh said the victim’s wife had been booked under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/28-year-old-ends-life-in-mohali-wife-booked/story-drJK36010aXh6M4cD8PZyI.html
30-08-2020||City||Woman, daughter stab father to death in Nallasopara, arrested||A woman and her widowed daughter have been arrested on Saturday by Nallasopara police for allegedly killing the father after an argument on August 27.According to police, the victim Suresh Waghela, 46, lived with his wife Jasu, 39, widowed daughter Monika, 23, and a 20-year-old son in Hanuman Nagar, Nallasopara. Waghela worked as a loader with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in Matunga.Waghela had got a cheque of ₹4 lakh in July. Jasu, however, did not encash it, and this had led to an argument. Waghela also suspected Jasu having an extra-marital affair.On August 27, during the fight, both Jasu and Monika banged Waghela against the windowpane and stabbed him with the broken glass. He was rushed to the hospital, however, he succumbed to his injuries.“The two women cooked up a false story and told us that Waghela in an inebriated state, banged himself against the windowpane, and a glass shard entered his chest,” said assistant inspector, Kishore Mane.But the post-mortem revealed that Waghela was murdered. Later, during interrogation Jasu and Monika confessed to killing Waghela.Both the accused have been remanded in police custody till September 5, said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-daughter-stab-father-to-death-in-nallasopara-arrested/story-yDrAJJtHLIWh9Ur3967zFK.html
30-08-2020||City||Himachal schools told to submit report on Covid prevention arrangements||To ensure full preparedness against the pandemic, the Himachal government has sought a report on Covid-19 prevention arrangements from schools across the state in case they are allowed to open in the unlock phase.In this report, school authorities have been asked to mention if they have ample availability of thermal scanners, hand sanitisers and hand washes.The state government had been waiting for the Centre’s guidelines regarding reopening of schools and as per Unlock 4.0 norms, students of classes 9 to 12 have been allowed to visit schools in areas which are outside containment zones from September 21 onwards on voluntary basis with written consent of their parents.State higher education director Amarjeet Sharma said school authorities have been directed to start making Covid-19 prevention arrangements and purchase thermal scanners, hand sanitisers and hand washes from their annual budget.Schools have also been ordered to maintain cleanliness in toilets and overall hygiene on campus.In Himachal, schools had been ordered to close in March due to the coronavirus outbreak. Since then, classes are being conducted online.Earlier in August, during a parent-teacher meeting, around 62% parents were not in favour of reopening schools during the pandemic or until an effective vaccine was available.Educational establishments that were turned into institutional quarantine facilities will also be vacated soon.As per the sources, the state government has already freed up some and is planning to vacate the remaining educational institutions soon. The education department has been asked to sanitise all such schools and other educational institutions before the commencement of classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-schools-told-to-submit-report-on-covid-prevention-arrangements/story-vMyTi8VJY2PdsD4TKBJLtK.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Haryana rolls back decision to shut shops, malls on Monday & Tuesday||The malls and shops in market places of urban areas of Haryana will now remain open on Monday and Tuesday, home minister Anil Vij said on Sunday. Referring to the ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines the Union ministry of home affairs issued on Saturday, Vij said as the states cannot impose lockdowns, the Haryana government has withdrawn its August 28 decision to close the markets on Monday and Tuesday. “Therefore, now there will be no lockdown,” Vij announced on Twitter. The Union ministry of home affairs guidelines say the states can no longer impose lockdowns outside containment zones without the Centre’s permission.To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Haryana government had on Friday ordered that malls and shops in the market places of urban areas will remain closed on Monday and Tuesday instead of the weekend. This order, however, did not apply to shops dealing with essential goods and services. The revised instructions were issued a week after the government had ordered offices and shops to remain closed on the weekend in the state. Meanwhile, Haryana Pradesh Vayapar Mandal welcomed the decision, saying the decision to shut business establishments on Monday and Tuesday was totally uncalled for and against the business communities which are already reeling under the losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-haryana-rolls-back-decision-to-shut-shops-malls-on-monday-tuesday/story-ShYdGrHXDha9fMnr1GGhNN.html
30-08-2020||Lucknow||Road of honour: In Dhyan Chand’s name, 19 UP sportspersons to get a home link||Hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand’s legacy will live on in the form of roads to the homes of 19 eminent national and international sportspersons from Uttar Pradesh.The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday launched a scheme to this effect on the eve of National Sports Day, the birth anniversary of the legendary Olympian. It is known as ‘Major Dhyan Chand Vijay Path’ scheme. In a virtual ceremony, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who holds the public works department portfolio, laid the foundation stone for 19 roads to the homes of an equal number of UP sportspersons on Friday.These 19 sportspersons are Pawan Kumar Sharma and Ashish Gautam (fencing), Isha Dhangar (judo), Jitu Gola (fencing), Pawan Kumar (cricket), Ravi Kumar (shooting), Varun Pahelwan (wrestling), Komal Sharma and Tanya Chaudhary (athletics), Tanu Rathi (volleyball), Akansha Bansal (shooting), Abhishek Singh (kabaddi), RP Singh (hockey), Kavita Yadav (cross-country running), Vaidehi Mishra (fencing), Bhuvneshwar Kumar (cricket), Satish Kumar (boxing), Shanti Swaroop (rowing) and Chavi Tomar (volleyball).“By initiating the Major Dhyanchand Vijay Path scheme, the state government is paying tribute to hockey wizard Major Dhyanchand and encouraging sports and UP sportspersons. These sportspersons have brought glory for the state at the national/international level,” said Maurya soon after the e-foundation stone laying ceremony for the 19 roads at a function at PWD auditorium in Lucknow on Friday. He said the new roads would have high-quality signage with name of the respective sportspersons.A state government press statement said Major Dhyanchand was born in Prayagraj (UP) on August 29, 1905 and he had played a pivotal role in making India win Olympic gold medals in hockey. He was honoured with Padma Bhushan in 1956.ROAD TO BE NAMED AFTER CHETAN CHAUHANMaurya said that a road in the state would be named after the late UP cabinet minister and former Indian Test cricketer Chetan Chauhan.The deputy CM also said the state government would later build roads to the houses of gold medal winners at the state level games. The public works department already is running a scheme wherein it builds roads named after former President the late APJ Abdul Kalam to the homes of class 10 and class 12 toppers. It would soon launch a scheme for making roads and Vijay Dwar (gateways) in the name of martyrs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/road-of-honour-in-dhyan-chand-s-name-19-up-sportspersons-to-get-a-home-link/story-JDw7O0e9EXkP7EvyDfq07N.html
30-08-2020||City||Coronavirus claims one more life in Himachal, death toll 33||A 63-year-old woman died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the death in the state to 33, officials said. The deceased was a resident of Barsar in Hamirpur district. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said she had comorbidies and was suffering from ovarian tumour. She was brought and admitted to Government Hospital, Tanda on August 21 and her Covid-19 report came out positive the next day. 164 new cases, tally reaches 5,945 Himachal has recorded 164 fresh infections and the state tally has now reached 5,945. Of the new cases, 45 were reported in Kangra district, 37 in Sirmaur district, 29 in Hamirpur, 16 in Solan, 12 in Chamba, 10 in Shimla, nine in Una district, three in Bilaspur, two in Kullu districts and one in Mandi district. Also, 142 more patients recovered on Sunday. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far 4,408 patients have been cured and 42 patients have migrated out of the state. With 1,425 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Sirmaur where 877 cases have been reported till date Kangra has 842 cases, Hamirpur 534, Una 459, Chamba 415, Mandi 398, Shimla 330, Bilaspur 303, Kullu 273 and Kinnaur 81. With eight cases, Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state. In Hamirpur, 28 people, including a two-year-old girl and a eight-year-old boy have tested positive. In Sirmaur, new cases have been reported in Nahan, Kala Amb and Moginand village. In Kangra district, six doctors, two paramedics and a health care provider are among the new patients. They have been kept under observation in Tanda Medical college. In Solan district, a police personnel is among the new cases reported in Parwanoo, four each in Baddi and Nalagarh and one each in Arki, Solan and in MMU.In Una district, a 27-year-old police personnel from Haroli and a bank employee are among the fresh infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-claims-one-more-life-in-himachal-death-toll-33/story-Zpj7JoPcAdLC3d9AcAzNFP.html
30-08-2020||City||2 held for sodomising teen in Sidhwan Bet, videotaping incident||The Sidhwan Bet Police, on Sunday, arrested two men for allegedly sodomising a 13-year-old boy in Talwandi Kalan village and videotaping the incident. The accused have been identified as Jasjot Singh, 19, and Deepak Chauhan, 32, of the same village.The incident came to light after the accused circulated the video on WhatsApp and other social networking sites.Sidhwan Bet station house officer (SHO) inspector Rajesh Thakur said that the teen’s grandfather lodged the complaint after coming across the video. He also alleged that the accused were blackmailing his grandson. The case has been registered under Sections 377 (unnatural offences), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 67 of the Information and Technology Act and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-for-sodomising-teen-in-sidhwan-bet-videotaping-incident/story-RnMlUoFkXA7VPa6fNvQPbM.html
30-08-2020||City||Fake degree scam: MBU passouts stare at uncertain future, job loss||As the investigators dig deeper into the fake degree scam, hundreds of students passed out from Manav Bharati University (MBU) fear their degrees may be rendered invalid.Solan-based MBU had come under scanner after University Grants Commission (UGC) had written to authorities concerned in the state in August 2019 to conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegations of sale of fake degrees by APG University in Shimla and MBU, but the government remained silent for six months. It was after repeated reminders from UGC that the Himachal government initiated a probe against the two private universities.The UGC had informed that MBU had sold over four-five lakh degrees during the past seven years with the help of agents in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, West Bengal and South India, under the nose of HP Private Universities Regulatory Authority.Now, with the special investigating unit probing case, the university passouts are worried about their future. They have formed a group and are demanding justice from the government.“The university is being investigated for some illegal activities and allegedly fake credentials. We are suffering and seeking justice,” said a former MBU student not wanting to be named.These students are worried that their genuine degrees may be labelled fake by the investigation team. Preliminary investigations conducted by the Himachal police found that the university used two-three different registration numbers for students. Students anticipate that registration numbers on their degrees may be invalidated.“We are genuine students, but our documents could become invalid merely because we were issued a doubtful registration number by the university. It is not the students’ job to see which registration number they are being allotted. The university and government regulatory bodies are supposed to verify these things. Majority of MBU passouts belong to the lower-middle class, and now they might be on the brink losing jobs. Some already have as their degrees were not verified, said another alumnus.Many degree holders preparing for various competitive examinations said they were unable to concentrate on studies because of the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-degree-scam-mbu-passouts-stare-at-uncertain-future-job-loss/story-NdsRvJaDtYNGVdPvNWabmM.html
30-08-2020||Pune||Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute to conduct online courses on vedas||One of the oldest institutes in the city – the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute has announced it will be conducting special online courses on vedas.The institute released the information on its twitter handle on August 28, 2020. The tweet said, “We are extremely happy to announce the launch of a very special online course on vedas. It is a series of 18 lectures: 1 opening session, 5 lectures on Rigveda, lectures on Yajurveda and Samveda each, 5 lectures on Atharvaveda, and 1 concluding session.”According to the Bhandarkar Oriental Research institute, the course is extremely diverse in nature. The lectures on Rigveda and Yajurveda revolve around literary tradition, religious and ritualistic elements, and philosophical aspects. The Samveda module delves into ritualistic aspects, and it also explores the possible parallels between Saamgan (orthodox singing of Samaveda) and Indian classical music.The Atharvaveda module is very interesting. It looks at ritualistic and tantrik elements (magic and black magic), origins of Ayurveda, and also the society that existed during the time.This series of lectures will show how vedas have played an important role in the socio-religious traditions of India and how they have influenced the ways of thinking of Indian people. “A rare opportunity to listen to the experts who will introduce the four vedas with audio-visual demonstrations,” the institute wrote on twitter. ScheduleRigveda: September 7-12Yajurveda: September 14-16Samveda: September 17-19Atharvaveda: September - 21 to 26Timing : 7:00 PM to 8:30 PMLanguage: EnglishPlatform: Google MeetFees: INR 3000/- (with GST) or USD 50||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhandarkar-oriental-research-institute-to-conduct-online-courses-on-vedas/story-K124JqE9VYXNfKRAL5qkLN.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Plans afoot to develop ski slopes on Rohtang tunnel’s north portal||Plans are in the pipeline for developing ski slopes in Tiling Village in Lahaul, to boost tourism in the Himalayan valley. The Himachal government will soon seek the Centre’s approval for developing the ski slopes, CM Jai Ram Thakur told officials on Saturday. Tilling village, which has a population of 35 people (17 men and 18 women) according to the 2011 population census, is situated merely 2km away from the north portal of the Rohtang tunnel. The opening of the Rohtang tunnel, which connects Manali and Leh, will give impetus to tourism in the two remote valleys of Lahaul and Spiti.Lahaul-Spiti, which is spread over a sprawling 13,833 sq km, is a popular tourist destinations . The valleys are popular for their Buddhist monasteries, temples, and adventure tourism. The government plans to install a 550m lift in the area. There are also proposals of setting up three lifts in the village. Each lift will carry at least 60 people per hour. The estimated cost of the ski project is pegged at ₹18 crore . The Himachal government had earlier decided to ply vista dome buses inside the tunnel. The 8.8-km strategic Rohtang Tunnel, being built at 3,000 metres above sea level, will be opened for traffic by September-end. The ₹32,000-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours. The tunnel is also called Atal Tunnel, as the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had announced the project on June 3, 2000. The work was entrusted to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). After this announcement, there was a lull with the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairperson Sonia Gandhi laying the foundation stone of the project on June 28, 2010. The Tunnel: In a nutshell1) The tunnel was originally designed to be 8.8-km long. However,GPS readings taken by the BRO after construction, showed it was 9-km long. 2)It is the world’s longest high-altitude tunnel at 3,000 metres above sea level 3) It will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46km 4) The tunnel also provides a telephone facility at every 150 metres, a fire hydrant at every 60 metres and an emergency exit every 500 metres5) There are turning caverns 2.2 km apart, air quality monitoring after every 1 km, broadcasting system and automatic incident detection systems with CCTV cameras 250 metres apart.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to dedicate the tunnel. On Saturday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who was accompanied by tribal affairs minister Ram Lal Markanda visited the tunnel to inspect the progress. Thakur said not only was the tunnel strategically important but will also boost tourism in the region . He said the Atal Tunnel will be a boon for residents of Lahaul and Spiti Valley who remain cut off from the rest of the country in winters for nearly six months due to heavy snowfall. The tunnel will provide almost all-weather connectivity to troops stationed in Ladakh, he added. Jai Ram Thakur said that for full all-weather connectivity up to Leh-Ladakh, additional tunnels would have to be built on the Manali-Leh route.The CM said snow galleries had also been built on the approach road to the tunnel from Manali side, and this will ensure all-weather connectivity. He said bridges on the approach road to both portals of the tunnel have also been completed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plans-afoot-to-develop-ski-slopes-on-rohtang-tunnel-s-north-portal/story-0mMovqjCLo6d6E3Xt551nI.html
30-08-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Resuming civic works in Pune unavoidable, but prevention should be top priority||PUNE The coronavirus pandemic has badly affected our economy and people need to get back to work and start earning. Starting work/projects is the first step towards normalcy and let people take responsibility for safeguarding themselves. Workspaces that do not require people to throng at close quarters can definitely resume. At this stage, India cannot afford unemployed people and needs to find a solution to develop herd immunity. Maithily Manakwad Prevention is the only cure Easing restrictions is unavoidable. It is not possible for any government to take foolproof measures to avoid any possible cases of spread of infection. Even developed countries like the US are unable to do so. The reason is that Covid-19 pandemic is not only a medical or health issue, but it is also an issue of social practices and hygiene, habits and taking precautions. Social reform is the need of the hour across all sections of society. For a developing economy of ours, continual lockdown is not a solution. Rather people should inculcate cleanliness and hygiene habits like wearing mask, following social distancing norm, washing hands and others. Easing restrictions means potential exposure of employees and labourers to the virus in all sections of industry and services. Employers should make enough arrangements for the safety of their employees. At the same time, local government bodies should look at increasing testing, isolation facilities and treatment centres. Dr Vishwas Chavan Spread public awareness on safety precautions I do not think that whatever steps the government authorities and local bodies have taken are adequate. Right now, on the streets, one can find four people out of ten not wearing masks or following safety norms. Many are not following the proper hygiene routine. The government should focus on spreading more awareness regarding safety precautions to flatten the Covid-19 curve. Avinash Kadhe Residents’ contribution is equally important The government is taking steps to control the pandemic, but people’s contribution is equally important. They are not following the simple SMS (sanitiser, mask and social distancing) norms which are very much essential to fight against the spread of Covid-19. Many times, the labour class of the society is not much aware of the hygiene habits and do not have access to basic necessities. Many people are not even wearing masks while stepping out and spit in public places. These offenders should be penalised. Labs and tests have increased and jumbo Covid-19 centres are also ready, which is a positive sign. In short, people participation and government’s efforts can together help in fighting the pandemic. Indrayani Khole Government ill-prepared to manage pandemicThe Covid-19 restrictions in the city are being eased, but the number of positive cases of people infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection is on the rise. The government and local bodies are ill-prepared to manage the pandemic. The local authorities should closely monitor the situation and impose a lockdown if necessary. Other cities with more population and fewer resources have managed the pandemic better, and we despite being a Smart City and an IT hub failed to keep a check on the rise in cases. There is confusion among residents with regards to rules and half-hearted implementation of the lockdown. Even today we can see many people flouting safety norms and not even wearing masks. I have seen masks hanging around the employees’ necks in grocery stores. Not only local bodies, even residents should behave responsibly. Arunkumar Nair, convenor, Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchyat Chapter, Vishrantwadi Stop announcing unreasonable targets for political mileage Civic development works are important and must be resumed wherever possible. State leaders are seen announcing unreasonable targets for civic projects to gain political mileage, which is alarming. In the city, it is seen that there is a race to resume civic projects, but some are uncalled for. The jumbo facility at College of Engineering, Pune, grounds was constructed at breakneck speed. It was done putting at risk the lives of the workforce involved, mainly migrant and low-income group labourers. They were seen working in rains, 24X7 without proper safety measures. On the contrary, at sites of road construction and water supply related projects, Smart City projects, labourers are working with proper care. Every stakeholder must recognise and respect the human rights of labourers specifically the right of protection from being affected by Covid-19. Reckless civic work without due care will lead to an increase in Covid-19 risk exposure of the low income and migrant workforce. Satya Muley, advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resuming-civic-works-unavoidable-but-prevention-should-be-top-priority/story-PoKY2f6HavFPHpRRMdCIgI.html
30-08-2020||Noida||Pak national arrested in UP’s Noida for violation of visa norms||A Pakistani woman has been arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida for allegedly violating visa rules, Gautam Buddh Nagar Police officials said on Sunday. The 36-year-old woman, identified as Nausheen Naaz from Karachi in Pakistan, was held on Saturday. She was staying with her husband at their Ajmeri Gate home in Delhi on a long-term visa. The couple had got married in 2005, the officials said. “The woman had entered Noida in violation of the rules of her long-term visa. She was in a bus which was intercepted for checking under a flyover at Sector 14A of the city. She was arrested after inspection,” a police spokesperson said. An FIR has been lodged against her at the Sector 20 police station under Section 14 of the Foreigners’ Act, 1946, and further legal proceedings are underway in the case, he added. According to officials, the woman’s visa allowed her long-term stay in the country but not outside Delhi.  For travel anywhere outside the national capital she was required to have necessary permissions, they said. On Saturday, she was on her way to Sector 137 of Noida for a picnic along with some relatives in the mini bus but got arrested soon after crossing over into the UP territory. The others accompanying her were left after the inspection, the officials said. The Saturday arrest also came at a time when lockdown-like curbs are imposed in Noida, like elsewhere across Uttar Pradesh, over the state government’s orders amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Security checks intensify across the state, especially at state and district borders, during the period of restriction, which begins 10 pm Friday and ends 5 am Monday, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pak-national-arrested-in-up-s-noida-for-violation-of-visa-norms/story-vKYcbOyZS3YW9FdB8HSeZK.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar Civil Hospital senior medical officer dies of Covid-19||Dr Arun Sharma, the senior medical officer (SMO) of Amritsar Civil Hospital, who featured in a viral video recently with a positive message on beating Covid-19 bravely, died on Sunday at a private hospital from the disease and underlying comorbidities.The 54-year-old doctor tested positive on August 18.“Besides Covid-19, Dr Arun Sharma was suffering from heart ailments. Also, the virus had attacked his lungs. He was put on ventilator on Saturday but the doctors couldn’t save him despite best efforts. He passed away on Sunday morning”, said Dr Navdeep Singh, Amritsar civil surgeon. CM condoles death Captain Amarinder Singh, Punjab chief minister, condoled Dr Sharma’s death.“Saddened to lose one of our hardworking Corona warrior Dr Arun who was SMO in charge Civil Hospital, Amritsar. He passed away this morning of heart attack and was also Covid-19 positive. It’s sad to lose such a brilliant and committed doctor. Heartfelt condolences to his family,” the CM tweetedThe viral video had shown Dr Sharma attempting to dance while sitting in bed at the hospital’s emergency ward with oxygen support attached. “ We can fight the battle against Covid-19 only with bravery,” he had said. Dr Sharma, who completed an MD transfusion from Amritsar Medical College and also remained SMO at Fatehgarh Churian, played a key role in setting up the blood bank here. Health minister attends cremationBalbir Singh Sidhu, state health and family welfare minister, attended Dr Sharma’s cremation on Sunday.Calling him a true Corona Warrior, Sidhu said, an “Intensivist from PGI was guiding his clinical management and the state was preparing for him to be airlifted to PGI or Medanta Hospital for further treatment. He was a brilliant and diligent officer of the health department and was enthusiastically battling against Covid-19 in the front line since March.”OP Soni, Punjab medical education and research minister and others from the city, including Gurjit Singh Aujla, member of Parliament; Gurpreet Singh, deputy commissioner; Sukhchain Singh Gill, police commissioner; Komal Mittal, municipal corporation commissioner and Himanshu Agarwal, additional deputy commissioner, also attended the funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-civil-hospital-senior-medical-officer-dies-of-covid-19/story-8G2ePm00kcx0foFTwZpPgK.html
30-08-2020||Lucknow||Three more held in connection with killing of journalist in UP’s Ballia||Three more persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of journalist Ratan Singh here, a senior police official said on Sunday. Six people were arrested earlier in the case on August 25, police said. “A joint team of police, Special Operations Group (SOG) and surveillance on Saturday arrested Uday Narayan Singh, Anil Singh and Tejbahadur Singh,” Superintendent of Police Devendra Nath said on Sunday. The three were carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 each on information leading to their arrest, the SP said. A stick and two axes used in the crime have been recovered, he said. The SP said a local court had issued a non-bailable warrant against the three accused. Ratan Singh (45), who worked with a Hindi news channel, was shot dead on August 24 night in the Phephana police station area of the district. A day later, a police officer was suspended while six people were arrested in connection with the murder. Ballia’s Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Sanjay Yadav had earlier said that on the complaint of the journalist’s father, six people -- Sushil Singh, Dinesh Singh, Arvind Singh, Suneel Singh, Vir Bahadur Singh and Vinay Singh --have been arrested. He added that Phephana police station in-charge Shashi Mauli Pandey was suspended. He said the complaint was lodged against 10 people. According to the ASP, the journalist’s father, Vinod Singh, alleged that Sonu Singh of their village had called his son to his house around 8 pm where the accused were waiting with lathis and a revolver and they killed him. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar had stated on August 24 night that Ratan Singh had a property dispute with his neighbour and after a fight between the two, he was shot dead. Accused Dinesh Singh is the parcener (pattidar) of Ratan Singh. An old enmity and a property dispute with the neighbour led to the journalist’s murder, a senior police official had said. He said Ratan Singh’s killing had nothing to do with his being a journalist. The incident drew flak from the Opposition, which alleged “poor” law and order and accused the state government of failing to curb crime. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh to the family of the deceased and offered condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-more-held-in-connection-with-killing-of-journalist-in-up-s-ballia/story-VR5AjdqT4DRVOHMAj0j5GO.html
30-08-2020||Kolkata||BSF personnel recover body of a man from canal in West Bengal||The BSF has recovered the body of a man from a canal in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, near the India-Bangladesh border, a statement issued by the paramilitary force said.An Aadhaar card was found along with the body, which suggested that the deceased was Shaikh Imaran (24), a resident of Juhapura in Ahmedabad.The border guards had spotted the body floating on Vidyadhari Nallah in Ghojadanga on Friday during a routine patrol in the area, the statement said.Local villagers failed to identify the body, following which the jawans, on closer examination, found the Aadhaar card. The body was handed over to Basirhat police station.The circumstances which led the man to Ghojadanga, all the way from Gujarat, and the factors behind his death were being looked into, a police officer said, adding that Imaran’s family members have been informed about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/body-of-gujarat-man-fished-out-of-canal-by-bsf-personnel-in-west-bengal/story-DyaQUXBO2HCKhuhuNftgYN.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Rhea Chakraborty called for questioning by CBI for third day||The CBI called actress Rhea Chakraborty for the third consecutive day on Sunday for questioning in the case of death of her boyfriend and filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput, a police official said.The 28-year-old actress is accused of abetting Rajput’s suicide.Her brother Showik Chakraborty was also called by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the fourth day in a row for questioning in the case, the official said.Rhea Chakraborty and her brother reached the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the probe team is stationed, around 10.30 am, he said. Also Watch | Rhea Chakraborty questioned by CBI for 2nd time in Sushant’s death caseA Mumbai Police vehicle escorted the car in which the two arrived at the guest house, he said.Rajput’s manager Samual Miranda and domestic help Keshav also reached the guest house in the morning.Earlier, Rhea Chakraborty was questioned for nearly 10 hours on Friday and allowed to return home under police escort as a large number of media personnel were present outside her building. She was quizzed for around seven hours on Saturday.Her brother is being questioned by the CBI since Thursday.On Saturday, the CBI also questioned Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and accountant Rajat Mewati at the guest house.Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14.Rhea Chakraborty had been earlier questioned by the Mumbai Police in the case. The Enforcement Directorate has also quizzed her in a related money laundering case.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput’s father in Patna against the actress and others for allegedly abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-rhea-chakraborty-called-for-questioning-by-cbi-for-third-day/story-VH82YhNql3uMqQWjcDykqN.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rain intensity reduces, on and off showers predicted through Sunday||After moderate rains in Mumbai over the past 24 hours, the intensity of showers reduced on Sunday after the city suburbs recorded 52.9 mm rain in the last 24 hours ending 8:30 am Sunday morning and south Mumbai recording 37.2 mm rains in the same period. The weather bureau has predicted light to moderate rains for the next three days in the city with the location wise data predicting 40-70 mm rain across most areas in the city. On Sunday, light showers were recorded in the northern suburbs while Palghar and areas further north of the district continued to receive intense rainfall, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Weather systems that brought rains to Mumbai and the surrounding regions have moved slightly northwards over central India allowing rain intensity to be more over northwestern parts of the country including Rajasthan and Gujarat. Peripheral showers are being witnessed along the north Konkan coast. However, Mumbai could expect only on and off showers on Sunday and Monday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region IMD.Also Read: Amid pandemic, Mumbai’s dabbawalas seek cycle donations; want trains to startOver the last 24 hours, Matheran recorded the maximum rains along the Konkan coast at 124 mm, followed by Mahabaleshwar at 75mm, Thane at 60 mm, Dahanu 53 mm and Harnai 27 mm.Mumbai city and the suburbs have recorded 63% excess rain for the season so far and the highest in August since 1983. Also Read: Maharashtra sees record one-day spike of 16,867 Covid-19 casesThe forecast issued for the rest of Sunday predicted cloudy conditions with moderate rains with the possibility of occasional intense spells in the city and suburbs while on Monday, light to moderate rains can be expected, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rain-intensity-reduces-on-and-off-showers-predicted-through-sunday/story-lxEjxcszdAPCLHl5QFA9hL.html
30-08-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM speaks to PM Modi regarding flood situation in state||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the flood situation in the state. Madhya Pradesh has reported torrential rains for the past few days in several districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued a red alert for Vidisha, Sehore, Rajgarh and Shajapur areas. The weather department added that extremely heavy rainfall was recorded at Chhindwara, Seoni, Hoshangabad and Harda districts.Also read: Extreme rain, flooding rivers in central India, more rain likely says IMD“I explained the entire situation to PM Modi today morning. We are being given his support. I am happy that we continued the rescue operations overnight. The five people of Sehore district stranded in Narela village were rescued at 2:30 am,” Chouhan said. The chief minister added that floods have caused devastation in more than 394 villages in nine districts of Madhya Pradesh and over 7,000 people have been rescued so far. He urged people not to insist on staying in the villages that the administration is requesting them to leave. The chief minister’s office (CMO) said that Chouhan chaired a high level meeting on Saturday to assess the rain and flood situation. He further directed officials to pay close attention to the Narmada river and its tributaries as heavy rains will hit the state in the next 48 hours Chouhan also asked officials to stay in contact with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams in case of emergencies, the CMO added. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-speaks-to-pm-modi-regarding-flood-situation-in-state/story-7WMFpY8pZXiLST9TZhNC0J.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today: IMD||After a hot and humid day, Delhi is likely to get relief from the heat with light to moderate rain and thundershowers expected on Sunday. Also, gusty winds are likely to keep the weather pleasant throughout the day, said officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Scientists at IMD said that gusty winds with a speed of 30-40 kmph are likely to blow over Delhi, which may also bring the mercury down. “The monsoon trough is passing through Delhi, which is expected to result in light to moderate showers in several parts of the city. Light rain is expected even on Monday. However, a good spell of rainfall is expected to hit Delhi between September 1 and 2 when the trough will be close to the northern region,” said a senior IMD scientist. Also Read: New drain channels to stop flooding in GurugramOn Saturday, the day temperature settled at 35 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. This was despite Delhi receiving moderate rainfall on Friday. The night temperature was 24.8 degrees C, two notches below normal. Scientists said that the heat and a sense of discomfort was felt mainly because of high humidity levels and bright sun in absence of cloud cover. The night was, however, cooler with the trough moving closer that brought good winds. Also Read: Heavy rain over 24 hours: 108mm rain in south Mumbai; showers to decrease todayAs per the forecast for Sunday, the good winds and rain are likely to keep the day (maximum) and night (minimum) temperatures around 33 and 25 degrees C, respectively. According to IMD officials, with incessant rains in the last one week in the city, August has been recorded as the second wettest in 12 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-receive-light-to-moderate-rain-today-imd/story-I2zSvkOFNizdQxICXf9GGJ.html
30-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand registers 1,299 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 37,000||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 37,112 on Saturday as 1,299 more people tested positive for the infection, while nine fresh fatalities pushed the state’s coronavirus death toll to 398, a health bulletin said.The fresh infections have pushed the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state to 11,498, while 25,216 people have recovered so far, it said.A total of 19,993 samples have been tested for Covid- 19 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-registers-1-299-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-37-000/story-utLdBRM9kemm4fjxTCtkMN.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||JNU student Devangana Kalita denied bail in riots case||A Delhi court on Saturday denied the bail plea of JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, being probed by the Delhi Police’s special cell. The court said the statement of the ‘protected witnesses’ reflect the role of many accused persons, including Kalita, regarding the protest sites and how everything was being planned. The court also said the right to freedom of speech and expression as assured by the Constitution is subject to reasonable restrictions. Delhi Police in their submissions have maintained that the riots were orchestrated by a few anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protesters, such as Kalita. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said Kalita had planned and participated in road blockades as part of the plan. He said their statements clearly point to the role of Kalita as well as other co-accused persons and various actions taken by them in pursuance to the conspiracy.Kalita, lodged in Tihar jail along with another JNU student and Pinjra Todh member Natasha Narwal, was arrested by Delhi Police on May 23 in connection with a protest against the CAA in north-east Delhi’’s Jafrabad area in February. Police have named her as one of the main conspirators of the violence. He submitted that her location is also found at protest sites in Jafrabad at the time of the riots. At least 53 persons were killed and 400 others injured after clashes broke out between Hindus and Muslims in February.The special cell has named many anti-CAA voices such as Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar, Gufisha Fatima, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Tahir Hussain in the conspiracy leading to the riots. The arrested persons have denied the charges and accused the police of launching a witch hunt against anti-CAA protesters. “Since the present case is of a conspiracy resulting in riots, there are various individuals, organisations and groups which are interlinked and from the statements working in tandem. Thus, the statements or acts by the other co-conspirators in furtherance of the common object of the conspiracy will be admissible against the present accused Devangana, and the statements and evidence will have to be read in entirety since it is a case of conspiracy. Moreover, the assertion that the accused herself physically and directly did not resort to violence as understood in common parlance would not be germane in the context of various acts committed by different individuals including accused in the commission of riots,” the judge said in his 12-page order dated August 28.Appearing for Kalita, her counsel Adit S Pujari had told the court that his client’s expression of dissent is not an offence under the law. He said that his client had a history of resorting to cause-based peaceful expression of dissent. He said that even the apex court, with respect to the protest at Shaheen Bagh, had observed that right to protest against the legislature is not taken away.To this, the court said, “The said assertion, is correct to the extent that freedom of speech and expression under the Constitution of India grants her the power and right to voice her opinion about any legislation and thus, to peacefully protest. However, such a right under Article 19 of the Constitution of India is subject to reasonable restrictions.” Appearing for the special cell, special public prosecutor Amit Prasad had contended that during the course of the investigation, technical and manual evidence revealed that Kalita played an important role in the days leading to the riots by way of road blocks, hate speeches, and instigating protesters to get violent against the Union government. Kalita’s lawyer had earlier told the court that Kalita had only protested against the citizenship law and was not linked to the riots. The police said she belonged to the organisation, Pinjra Tod, and that it had actively participated in anti CAA/NRC protests as well as in instigating the riots. Her name was also revealed during the interrogation of accused Gulfisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-student-devangana-kalita-denied-bail-in-riots-case/story-tb8sW40E8FQ4B2myJX2ihP.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Man suspected of stealing phone tied to tree, lynched by 4 people in Delhi’s Naraina||A 23-year-old man, suspected to be a cellphone thief, died after being allegedly tied to a tree and beaten up with sticks and iron rods in a public park by four men in west Delhi’s Naraina on Friday, the police said. All the four alleged killers were arrested on Friday. The sticks and iron rods used in the crime were also recovered from them, senior police officials associated with the case said on Saturday. The park where the murder took place is located behind a police post at Loha Mandi in Naraina. The dead man had been involved in nearly a dozen petty crimes and arrested at least thrice. He had come out of jail just ten days ago, his family members said. The police control room received a call around 6am about the incident at a municipal park in Loha Mandi on Friday, deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said. He added that a team from the Naraina police station reached there and found a man lying under a tree with injuries. A coconut fibre rope and a white muffler were also found on the crime scene, suggesting that the man was tie to a tree. Shesh Kumar, a washerman who is a witness to the crime, told police that he saw his four neighbours assaulting the man and taking him to the park early morning, Purohit said. Kumar told officials that the four men tied the victim to a tree and beat him up with sticks and iron rods, according to Purohit. Kumar lives near the park.“Kumar tried to intervene and requested them to release the injured person. But they did not pay heed to his request and said the man and his associates had stolen a mobile phone from a truck. Since his associates ran away with the mobile phone, they said they would not spare him,” Purohit said, quoting Kumar’s statement. The four men --- identified as Mushtaq Ahmed, his brother Shiraj Ahmed, Anish and Ishtihar (all residents of Loha Mandi) --- fled the crime scene after the condition of the victim deteriorated. They work as loaders in Loha Mandi. Police identified the victim as Rahul, alias Dhancha, a 23-year-old resident of Jawahar Camp in Kirti Nagar. The police took him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. His body was later shifted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, where the autopsy was conducted on Saturday. The suspects were soon arrested from Loha Mandi itself. They said Rahul and his associates had stolen Shiraj’s cellphone from his truck. While they caught hold of Rahul, his associates escaped with the stolen phone. “We are verifying the allegations of the arrested men,” said an official associated with the probe, requesting anonymity. Mukesh Yadav, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Faizabad who works at an iron sheet manufacturing factory opposite the park said, “Nobody knows the actual reason for which the four men killed the man. Most of us (workers) were sleeping when the incident happened. By the time I reached the park, the man had fallen unconscious and his attackers had fled.” Officials said Rahul lived with his parents, wife, and two children Jawahar Camp in Kirti Nagar area, which is across the railway tracks from Loha Mandi. He had a love marriage four years ago. His wife, Pooja, said that on Thursday evening, he packed his clothes in a bag after they had an argument over storing drinking water in jars and left home, saying he would return only after getting a legitimate job. “When he did not return till midnight, i searched him in the neighbourhood and asked his friends but they all were unaware of his whereabouts. I thought he would return in the morning,” said Pooja. Around 11 am on Friday, Pooja said, a neighbour told him that some policemen were asking about her husband and their address. She went to the police station to enquire if her husband has been “named” in any crime yet again. “The policemen asked me to wait at the police station. An hour later, one of them told me that my husband was murdered for stealing a phone and his four killers were arrested. I don’t know what the truth is,” Pooja said, adding that her husband was last arrested for possessing a knife and an illegal gun. “He had come out of jail on August 17. The police always looked for him wherever any crime occurred in Naraina or Kirti Nagar,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-suspected-of-stealing-phone-tied-to-tree-lynched-by-4-people-in-delhi-s-naraina/story-dX62UuLRDS5NpyjcjrMgWP.html
30-08-2020||Gurugram||New drain channels to stop flooding in Gurugram||A week after underpasses at both IFFCO Chowk and Rajiv Chowk were inundated following heavy rains and were subsequently closed for nearly two days, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials said that they were building new drainage lines to prevent waterlogging. In 2017, during the construction of the Rajiv Chowk underpass, underground channel drains were inadvertently blocked during construction work. Officials found the anomaly when the underpass was flooded in July 2018. Till date, officials confirmed, they have not been able to find the original underground channel drains. The stretch leading to the underpass is located on a slope, resulting in rainwater from two residential sectors accumulating at the facility. An NHAI official who is privy to the matter said a drainage line for the underpass was laid last year but there were leveling issues. GMDA chief engineer Pradeep Kumar also said that levelling is an issue.“There is a mismatch in levelling which is resulting in flooding during heavy rains. To fix this, we will build an additional drainage line for the underpass, routing it through the Tau Devi Lal sports complex towards the main HSVP master drain,” said Kumar.Kumar said that the steps undertaken for fixing drainage lines at both IFFCO Chowk and Rajiv Chowk are part of GMDA’s new plan for finding “permanent and long-term” solution to the drainage problem in the city. The two underpasses were among eight of the city’s 11 that had high rainwater accumulation on August 19. Although rainwater was cleared from both the underpasses on the same day, with heavy rain occurring on the following day as well, they were not opened to public until August 21 as a precautionary measure.Kumar said estimates for the project have been made but he found some hurdles in the current route of the new line and suggested tweaks. “I have tweaked the drainage line and re-routed the line in some parts. These changes need approval from the GMDA CEO VS Kundu, after which we will commence the next phase,” said Kumar..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/new-drain-channels-to-stop-flooding-in-gurugram/story-5frQmbltjylNi5TfmIPibJ.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Seelampur, Shastri Park flyovers to open in 10 days||Two flyovers aimed at providing signal-free ride between Welcome in northeast Delhi and Inter-state Bus Terminus (ISBT) Kashmere Gate — a roughly eight kilometre ride on one of the most congested and traffic-heavy stretches in Delhi -- may be inaugurated within the “next 10 days”, officials in the Public Works Department said. It would be a relief for motorists headed to the ISBT and parts of Central Delhi from Ghaziabad, north-east and east Delhi areas such as Shahdara, Seelampur, Dilshad Garden, Jafrabad and Gandhi Nagar as now they would be able to escape traffic snarls on the Grand Trunk (GT) Road.The project to build a one-way flyover at Seelampur and a two-way flyover at Shastri Park has taken over one and a half years due to finish. An official associated with the construction of these flyovers said that the project had witnessed a number of roadblocks in last few months. He said earlier in November-December due to spike in pollution the work remained suspended for around a month and then for over a week it was stopped due to communal violence in north-east district. Then, due to the coronavirus pandemic, the contractors did not have adequate workforce. The project is being executed by Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD).“We have completed 95% of the construction work. Some finishing work such as road carpeting, lane marking, painting and installation of street lights are going on, which will be completed in a few days The flyovers will be ready for use by September 10. Next month, we will write to the government for its opening ceremony. The flyover is likely to be inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal between September 10 and September 15,” a senior PWD official, said requesting anonymity.Officials said the two flyovers are likely to cut travel time between Shahdara in east Delhi to Kashmere Gate ISBT by at least 10 minutes. The construction of these flyovers had started in February 2019 and was to be completed in March 2020 but the project had hit a hurdle initially when construction was banned due to pollution and later because of riots in the region in February . Further the project was stalled due to the lockdown. It’s deadline was shifted to July 2020 but due to lack of labour it missed the deadline.“This is one of the priority projects of the city government so we wanted to open it in March this year but it couldn’t be done due to the hurdles. Even though the work was resumed in May end, the pace remained slow because of labour shortage. Work is now almost complete and the facility will be ready after September first week,” the PWD official said.The combined cost of the project is Rs 303.1 croreS Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said that once these flyovers are opened, it will bring relief to motorists commuting between Ghaziabad and the Kashmere Gate ISBT using GT Road—Yudhister Setu (over Yamuna)-Shahdara-stretch.“Opening of these flyovers will end traffic bottlenecks in areas such as Seelampur, Shastri Park, Shahdara. It will also improve connectivity to Gandhi Nagar and Khajoori Khas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seelampur-shastri-park-flyovers-to-open-in-10-days/story-DKiE7VN7kPerSxAkIhaFjI.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Capital adds 1,954 cases; highestone-day virus spike since July 10||Delhi on Saturday recorded 1,954 new cases of Covid-19 – the highest single-day jump since July 10, when 2,089 cases were recorded, taking the cumulative number of infections in the city to 171,366. Delhi, which had seemingly turned a corner in its fight against the infection, has seen a steady rise in the number of cases, after a lull towards the end of July, till mid-August. In the past seven days, the national capital has added an average of 1,621 cases of the infection, the most since mid-July.While a total of 152,922 people have recovered from the disease in the city, Saturday’s health bulletin —issued by the Delhi government — also recorded 15 new deaths, taking the toll in the city to 4,404. To be sure, even though the case count in the city seems to be on an upward trajectory, deaths have mostly remained stable this month. As on Saturday, the city has added a daily average of 17 deaths in the past seven days, significantly lower than the fatalities Delhi was adding at the peak in mid-June. At that point, the city, for a week, recorded a daily seven-day average of over 70 deaths a day.Earlier this week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the infection figures in the city had witnessed a spike since August 17, following which he directed for stricter enforcement of safety guidelines and the number of tests to be doubled – to around 40,000 per day.Saturday’s health bulletin recorded 22,004 tests, of which 6,597 were the gold standard RT-PCR tests and the rest were rapid antigen tests. At least 212 containment zones in the city were notified in the last seven days — taking the total to 803 as on Saturday. Senior government officials said that clusters have surfaced in several locations, for which a large number of containment zones were created across the city.As on Saturday, southwest district has the highest number of containment zones (162), followed by west Delhi (113), north Delhi (110) and south Delhi (102), government records showed.Medical experts warned that people must continue following safety norms, such as wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene.“Yes, there has been an increase in the number of cases being reported daily, but it is not alarming. We are also not reporting extremely high number of hospitalisations or deaths as it happened in June. So, its not a cause of worry. Plus, the government is well prepared and the infrastructure is in place. That said, people should continue following the general precautions like wearing mask and washing hands frequently,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-adds-1-954-cases-highestone-day-virus-spike-since-july-10/story-t7V6VmQNwjADdAiKtSc29M.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Hospitalisations up, but most not from Delhi, doctors say||The steady rise in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recorded in the city has also led to a rise in the number of hospitalisations, with over 900 more beds occupied on Saturday than at the start of the month. The Capital added 1,954 more infections on Saturday and 3,966 are currently admitted in the city’s hospitals. To be sure, Delhi still has 10,177 free Covid-19 beds.Doctors and hospital officials said this increase has largely been driven by patients from neighbouring states, especially Uttar Pradesh. Clinicians from large multi-speciality hospitals in Delhi and Gurugram said between 70% and 90% of Covid-19 patients admitted in their hospitals are not from Delhi-NCR.“A large proportion of people are coming to Delhi hospitals from other states for Covid-19 treatment. I would say more than 80% of my patients are from outside Delhi, especially from Uttar Pradesh. Two months back, almost all my patients were from Delhi-NCR [National Capital Region],” said Dr Nevin Kishore, head of the bronchology department at Max hospital, Saket.The average number of Covid-19 cases being reported in Delhi each day has increased to 1,621 in the seven day-period ending August 29, compared to 1,018 cases reported on average in the first week of the month, data shows.On Friday, 3,966 people with Covid-19 were in hospitals in Delhi, according to the daily health bulletin, compared to 2,979 on August 1. In effect, almost 29% of the total active cases in Delhi are admitted in hospitals. “We are now getting a lot of calls for admissions from outside Delhi. More than half my patients are not residents of Delhi. After a dip, admissions started going up from the beginning of the month, simultaneously with an increase in the number of cases in UP and Bihar. Most Delhi patients are in home isolation,” said Dr Rajeev Chawla, consulting pulmonologist at Indraprastha Apollo hospital.Over 7,000 in Delhi were isolating at home as on Saturday.Dr Kishore said, “After a dip in July, our ICUs are full again, this time mostly with patients from neighbouring states.”While movement between states was restricted during the lockdown period, the Unlock 1.0 guidelines, which came into effect in June, removed those curbs. A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.“Earlier, all our Covid-19 patients were from Delhi itself. But now, a large portion — at least 40%, are from outside. Patients are being brought in from neighbouring states like UP, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.However, the large super-speciality private hospitals such as Max and Apollo are running out of ICU beds.As on Friday noon, 93.9% of the intensive care unit beds with ventilators were occupied in large superspeciality hospitals and 75.8% non-ventilator ICU beds were occupied, according to data from the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.“There has been a slight increase in the number of cases being reported from Haryana and Delhi, but it is not substantial enough to account for the number of admissions. Almost 90% of my patients are from either Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, or Punjab. This is because of the dismal healthcare infrastructure in these states. The number of local admissions has flattened. Also, we are receiving the very sick patients who have either travelled from far or have been referred from other hospitals,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, head, emergency services at Medanta hospital in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hospitalisations-up-but-most-not-from-delhi-doctors-say/story-1bER6awy96TSc3440zUW4K.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||After spike in cases, Delhi amps up Covid-19 norms enforcement||Following a spike in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has started deploying additional enforcement teams in all 11 revenue districts to ensure people follow safety guidelines, and impose fines in the event of violations. This has led to penalties for violations going up by 10 times in some districts, officials said.Previously, police officers and officials engaged by sub-divisional magistrates were already enforcing Covid-19 guidelines and penalising people for not wearing masks or violating social distancing norms.On Thursday, HT had reported that since June 14, the police alone had penalised more than 188,000 people for not wearing masks. Government officials said the revenue districts penalised around 41,000 people in the same period norms violations. The additional deployment is part of a strategy for stricter norms enforcement after an announcement by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this week in light of a rise in daily recorded infections. This week, Delhi has recorded an average of 1,621 cases.On Friday, additional teams of between eight and 20 officers were deployed in all districts, depending on the region’s size and population density, a senior government official said. Each enforcement team will comprise an executive magistrate, and revenue and police personnel, an official said, adding that awareness teams have also been formed to encourage people to follow anti-Covid measures.“There has been a significant increase in fines after the additional deployment. It also suggests that people have started taking things casually, when they should be more alert,” said an official in the north district.North district data as on Saturday showed that 1,495 people were penalised in the 24 hours after the deployment, as against 146 penalties a day recorded in the district between June 1 and 15, when the Covid-19 situation in the city was at its peak.Similarly, central district data showed that 2,101 people were penalised for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms, as against 168 penalties recorded per day in the district between June 1 and 15.The penalty for not wearing a mask is a Rs 500 spot fine.Social distancing guidelines violations can attract a penalty up to Rs 1,000.Other districts are yet to collate data and send reports to the chief secretary’s office, a government official said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-spike-in-cases-delhi-amps-up-covid-19-norms-enforcement/story-lpBAtmqw86da4fvrAMURNK.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumption to happen in ‘graded manner’; protocol out soon||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will resume train operations after a hiatus of over five months from September 7, with the Union home ministry (MHA) on Saturday allowing Metro services in a graded manner under the Unlock 4.0 guidelines to gradually ease restrictions imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19.“Metro rail will be allowed to operate with effect from 7th September 2020 in a graded manner, by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (Mohua)/Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with the MHA. In this regard, SOP will be issued by Mohua,” the order read.The announcement came on a day when Delhi recorded 1,954 fresh Covid-19 cases – the highest single-day spike since July 10, when 2,089 cases were recorded.Minutes after the go-ahead from the Centre, the DMRC issued a statement saying the protocols that need to be followed at the station and inside trains will be released after specific guidelines are issued by the Centre. “As per the latest guidelines issued by the MHA under Unlock-4, the Delhi Metro will be resuming its services for public from September 7 onwards in a calibrated manner,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.Dayal added, “Further details on the Metro functioning and its usage by the general public will be shared once the detailed SOP on Metros is issued by the Mohua in the next few days.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal welcomed the decision. “I am glad that metro has been permitted to start its operations from 7 Sep in a phased manner,” Kejriwal tweeted.Delhi Metro services have been suspended since March 22. The MoHUA said it will issue SOPs for Metro operations, after discussions with all corporations. “Metro rail operations have been allowed from 7th September, 2020. The SOPs already circulated will be discussed on 1st Sep 2020 through video conferencing by Mohua with all metro companies and finalised,” ministry spokesperson Rajiv Jain said.While some commuters welcomed the announcement as “long overdue”, others questioned the timing, since Covid cases have been on the rise. “The Metro is vital for those who are working and going to their jobs. People who don’t own private vehicles don’t have to worry but riding the bus or taking cabs now is tough,” tweeted MK Tomar. Another commuter, Vinayak Patwardhan, tweeted, “Don’t allow the Delhi Metro to run just yet. Cases are on a rise and more people will get infected. The stations are a congested space and this will increase the possibility of the spread of infection...”Delhi Police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officers said they will continue to hold meetings with the Metro’s security unit to decide measures to ensure social distancing at stations. One such meeting is scheduled for Monday.DMRC officials privy to the arrangements being made for the resumption of services pointed out that managing operations will be challenging. “Though the final SOP will come from the ministry, through the discussions we have had over the last few months, we know the focus will be on very strict implementation of social distancing norms inside the stations and in trains,” a senior DMRC official said on the condition of anonymity.Dr. Prateek Rajyavardhan, who specialises in community medicine and is associated with a government hospital in Delhi, said managing crowds in an enclosed space, especially in underground stations will be a tough task for the agencies. “We will have to wait for the final guidelines to be issued by the ministry before we comment on the success or failure of the trial. Managing the crowds in stations will still be easier, but what happens inside the trains? Since we have opened up the rest of the city, we had to open up mass transit systems at some point, but if this is the right time is what we need to see,” Rajyavardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-4-delhi-metro-to-resume-on-sept-7-in-graded-manner-protocol-out-soon/story-vOzTSUdQslNLs5tRXVLscK.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal seeks FIR against MLA Zira, says he tested Covid-19 positive on Aug 26||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday demanded registration of a criminal case against Congress MLA Kulbir Singh Zira for putting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, other Punjab Vidhan Sabha members and staff at risk as he attended the one-day assembly session despite having tested positive for Covid-19 two days before. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, SAD leader in assembly Sharanjeet Singh Dhillon and former minister Bikram Majithia also demanded FIR against state health minister Balbir Sidhu for allegedly facilitating Zira’s illegal entry into the assembly by procuring a negative report for him. “We want the assembly speaker (Rana KP Singh) to act in a totally unbiased manner. If he plays a partisan role to justify Zira’s illegal entry as well as the unbecoming conduct of the health minister who was supposed to ensure compliance of Covid-19 protocol, the Akali Dal will have no choice but to bring forth a notice for his removal from his chair,” said the two. Majithia claimed that Zira tested positive at Ferozepur on August 26. “Health officials have said on record that they informed the health minister about Zira’s report on August 27. The minister should be sacked and a criminal case should be registered against him for violating the protocols of his own department,” said Majithia. The SAD leaders said the CM first gave a statement that SAD legislators who came in contact with MLA Gurpartap Wadala should not attend the assembly session as he had tested Covid positive. “But on the day of the session, the CM uttered a white lie saying the SAD MLAs deliberately did not come to attend the session. We want to ask him why he is going into seven-day quarantine after coming in contact with Zira. Isn’t he following the same protocol which was followed by the SAD MLAs?” they questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/akali-dal-seeks-fir-against-mla-zira-says-he-tested-covid-19-positive-on-aug-26/story-ZJ52tqufozB9VhFRSioIcM.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD took Covid refuge to escape voting on farm ordinance resolution: Capt||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLAs took refuge in the pandemic to keep away from the one-day Vidhan Sabha session as they did not want to be party to the resolution rejecting the Centre’s anti-farmer ordinances. In a press release, the CM dismissed the Akalis’ charge of running away from burning issues on the pretext of Covid-19. “Having supported the ordinances being part of the NDA government, the Akalis could not afford to vote for the resolution and yet did not want to appear to be anti-farmer. Under the circumstances, they found an easy way out in the guise of the pandemic to stay out of the Vidhan Sabha completely,” said Amarinder.“The speaker and I had appealed to the MLAs having come in contact with any of their infected colleagues not to attend the session. But not a single Akali member turned up for the session. It is clearly the Akalis who are running away. At no point were opposition MLAs asked not to attend the session. The appeal was for all members, including those of the ruling party,” said Amarinder. “In case, if the Akalis are so concerned about the spreading of Covid and heeded the advice to stay away from the House on this ground, then why are they continuing with their street protests despite my repeated pleas to all political parties not to indulge in such activities which endanger the lives of people,” the CM asked. Amarinder also rejected the SAD’s demand for another Vidhan Sabha session next month when the state’s Covid figures are projected to peak. He pointed out that despite several of its own ministers and MLAs testing positive, his government decided to go ahead with the one-day session to meet the constitutional requirement as was being done by other states. Amarinder cited the example of neighbouring Haryana, which had cut short its original 3-day assembly session to one day amidst the pandemic after several of their MLAs tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-took-covid-refuge-to-escape-voting-on-farm-ordinance-resolution-capt/story-ZhX1gsDano1Pt0PW0jCCVJ.html
30-08-2020||City||Akal Takht to confer ‘Panth Sewak’ award on wanted Dal Khalsa founder||The Akal Takht has decided to confer the ‘Panth Sewak’ award upon Dal Khalsa founder Gajinder Singh, who led his aides in hijacking an Indian Airlines plane to Lahore in 1981 and is one of the “most wanted persons on the Union home ministry’s list. Gajinder’s name is on the list of 11 Sikhs the highest Sikh temporal seat has finalised for various awards. The list has not been announced officially. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Sikh clergy on August 24, it is learnt.“The award is being given to Gajinder Singh to hail his work and sacrifices for the community,” said an Akal Takht secretariat employee. The Akal Takht acting jathedar, however, was not available for comments.Currently living in Pakistan, Gajinder spent 14 years in a prison of the neighbouring country in the case of plane hijacking that was done for the release of militant leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. After a terror attack on Indian Parliament in 2001, the union home ministry had shared a list with Pakistan to extradite 20 persons, including Gajinder.Besides, former Damdami Taksal head late Sant Giani Gurbachan Singh Bhindranwale will be given the ‘Panth Rattan’ award. Slain religious figure Baba Charan Singh Bir Sahib, a fake encounter victim, will be given the title of ‘Qaumi Shaheed’. In January this year, a special CBI court sentenced six officials of Punjab Police to rigorous imprisonment in the 28-year-old case of the encounter killing of Baba Charan Singh and five of his relatives.The other awards to be given are ‘Gurmat Martand’ (late Giani Balwant Singh Kotha Guru); ‘Shiromani Gurmat Parcharak’ (Giani Mewa Singh); ‘Bhai Mardana Jee Yadgari’ (Prof Gurnam Singh, former head of the gurmat sangeet department, Punjabi University); ‘Quami Chintak’ (Sikh scholar Harsimran Singh), ‘Panth Sewak’ to Harinder Singh Khalsa, ‘Bhai Gurdas Jee Yadgari’ to Prof Darshan Singh, former head of department of religious studies, Punjabi University), ‘Shiromani Sewak’ (Gurcharan Singh Mukatsari) and ‘Vidya Martand’ (Baba Iqbal Singh Barhu Sahib). The Akal Takht jathedar is yet to finalise the day of giving away of these awards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-to-confer-panth-sewak-award-on-wanted-dal-khalsa-founder/story-fScQGWMWa9Rx25QcN40WiP.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s decision on final-year varsity exams to be announced by Monday||A day after the Supreme Court (SC) clarified that final-year students cannot be awarded their degrees without end-of-term exams, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant called for a meeting with vice-chancellors (VCs) of all 13 state universities on Saturday. A special committee was formed to decide the fate of exams and a decision will be announced on Monday (August 31), said Samant, adding that holding exams before September 30 was not possible. On Friday, the apex court upheld a decision by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that called for completion of the evaluation process across the country by September. SC clarified that colleges and universities cannot award degrees to students without conducting final-year or final-term examinations. Maharashtra was one of the states that had decided to cancel final-year exams and promote the students on the basis of aggregate marks from semester exams. The court also mentioned that states were empowered to take decisions under the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, to postpone final-year or final-semester exams beyond the September-end deadline. It allowed states to approach UGC for new dates that have to be communicated to them “at the earliest”. Samant said after the meeting that the committee headed by Mumbai University’s vice-chancellor Dr Suhas Pednekar will submit its report by Monday noon after due deliberations with other vice chancellors and principals of colleges. Samant said, “Respecting the SC order, we will conduct examinations, but at the same time we will ensure that the health issues of the students, teaching and non-teaching staff members are not compromised. Taking all aspects into account and the options given to conduct the exams by UGC, the committee will submit its report by Monday afternoon. We will announce the rough timeline, how they can be conducted, besides the options for the students with ATKT and those going to other countries,” he said. The minister said that examinations will be held in the simplest way and without summoning students to the exam halls. “UGC has given us various options, including open book, assignment based, online and offline to conduct the exams. The committee will deliberate on these options and come out with the simpler and student-friendly format. We are also checking the option of online exams and are in touch with other state government over the options opted by them. The students will be given adequate time for the preparations. The VCs have told us that they will need 45-50 days for preparations of exams and as such, conducting the exams before September 30, is out of question,” he said. The minister said that conducting the exams at exam centres was not possible in the wake of the widespread Covid-19 infection. He said that most of the colleges, hostels are being used as quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-decision-on-final-year-varsity-exams-to-be-announced-by-monday/story-8AhfgW3y1YEB8WKN9uOrHK.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees record one-day spike of 16,867 Covid-19 cases||Saturday saw a record 16,867 Covid-19 cases in the state, a massive jump from the previous highest in a day (14,888) , even as the government considers more relaxations from the first week of September. The case tally rose to 764,281 as the state reported 328 more fatalities, taking the toll to 24,103.Pune district reported 3,062 cases (Pune city – 1972, Pimpri-Chinchwad – 1,132 and rural Pune — 958), followed by other key contributors such as Nashik (1,162), Nagpur (1,401), Jalgaon (879). Mumbai reported 1,432 cases, taking its tally to 1,43,389. In response to the notification issued by the Central government on Saturday, the state, too, is expected to take steps to extend relaxations from the ongoing lockdown. The state government is mulling to increase staff in government and private offices to 30 to 50%, allow interdistrict travel and other activities, including gymnasiums, to be operational from the first week of September. Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary, said the state notification will be issued in a day or two. “We will take the central notification into account, while issuing our own by Monday or so. The decision about relaxations will be taken after due deliberation,” he said. Among 1,85,131 active patients in the state, the highest (49,365) are in Pune, 20,264 in Thane and 19,,971 in Mumbai. With 11,541 recoveries on Saturday, the number of recoveries reached 554,711. The state recovery rate stood at 72.58%. Of the 328 fatalities reported in past 24 hours, 255 were from past 48 hours, 37 were reported in the past week and the remaining 36 were from the period before it, the state health department has stated. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 3.15%, against the national rate of 1.82%. Maharashtra conducted 77,678 tests and reported 16,867 cases at a positivity rate of 21.71%. State has 13,12,059 people under home quarantine and 35,524 are institutionally quarantined. Authorities are wary about further spike in cases over the next few weeks amid the relaxations and the free movement of people due to the festivals. The state government is facing pressure from various fronts for relaxations from lockdown curbs and opening up religious places, gymnasiums, inter-district transport etc.“In the wake of more relaxations rolled out from the first week of September, we expect this leading to the rise in numbers in coming weeks. Though we have been claiming to reach the plateau by mid-September, the number of rural areas is still rising and it may make it difficult to expect the infection to stabilise by then. This has been the reason we have been planning to go for the aggressive surveillance and tracking of high and low-risk contacts under our ‘chase the virus’ programme in September. Our entire focus would be on reducing the fatalities even if the number of infections kept rising,” said an official from the health department. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said that though reducing the number of infections was not possible immediately, the government should focus on awareness among the people. “Now you cannot continue with the lockdown, nor you expect the number to come down immediately. By using alternative manpower to replace the existing workforce, which is under stress, the government should aggressively go for surveillance so that suspected patients are traced to the early stage. People should be educated about the guidelines and self-hygiene so that the spread is contained at maximum level and fatalities are controlled,” he said. “Though the number of tests has been increased, most of them are rapid antigen tests, which do not give cent percent report on infections. The patients with the negative report of the antigen test ought to go again for the Rt-PCR, though positive reports of antigen tests are confirmed positive cases,” said an official from the state government. The official said penetration in rural areas is cause for concern for them as health infrastructures in these areas is poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-record-one-day-spike-of-16-867-covid-19-cases/story-mNTuW4DbshrVKJom4OCT0I.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely to continue in Chandigarh||After no rain on Saturday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain up to 20mm in the city till Tuesday.“Although monsoon is likely to be active and parts of the region can get up to 50mm rain on Monday and Tuesday, Chandigarh is likely to receive rain up to 20mm with thunder and winds up to 45 km/h,” said an IMD official.The maximum temperature went up from 32°C on Friday to 33.8 °C on Saturday. The minimum temperature went down from 26°C on Friday to 25.7°C on Saturday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 33°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-to-continue-in-chandigarh/story-ln7BhmhGR0lwXp8HZo32TP.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew, ban on bars likely to go in Chandigarh||With the Centre issuing fresh guidelines on Covid-related restrictions on Saturday, the UT administration is likely to lift night curfew and allow reopening of bars. UT adviser Manoj Parida said a final decision on the guidelines for Unlock 4.0 would be taken in a meeting on Monday. “We will follow the guidelines of the Centre. Night curfew is likely to be lifted and bars may also reopen considering necessary precautions are taken,” Parida said. The guidelines have asserted that there shall be no restrictions outside containment zones without the consultation of the central government, however, the administration has banned the entry of visitors at Sukhna Lake on Saturdays and Sundays. The decision will be reviewed on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-curfew-ban-on-bars-likely-to-go-in-chandigarh/story-T4Qnycj0YZLWOUIc2MYyYL.html
30-08-2020||Noida||Pakistan national booked for visa violation, released on bail||The Noida police on Saturday booked a 36-year-old woman from Pakistan, married to an Indian national, for an alleged visa violation.The woman, Nausheen Naz, is from Karachi and lives in the Ajmeri Gate area of Delhi, the police said. According to police officers, she married an Indian national in 2005 and is in Delhi since then on a dependent visa.The woman was detained on Saturday afternoon when she was travelling to Noida and was later let off on bail.“In such cases, if a person on visa has to travel from one state to another state, s(he) is required to take prior permission from the destination state. She had not taken the permission and that is why she was booked for a visa violation,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.The woman was travelling in a bus to Noida with her family to go on a picnic when she was detained. Police officers said that they had received a tip following which the bus she was travelling in was stopped near the Sector 14A flyover and her documents were checked.The woman was booked under relevant sections of the foreigners’ act, 1946 (a bailable offence).“We have registered a case and after initiating the legal proceedings, she was let go. Her visa is valid for Delhi for a few more years,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pakistan-national-booked-for-visa-violation-released-on-bail/story-csHvcVDtwA0V5VkrDdbAWP.html
30-08-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Three killed in two separate road accidents||Two men died when their motorcycle crashed into a divider on Friday night, in Swarn Nagri area of Greater Noida’s Sector Beta 2.The victims were identified as Pulkit Kumar and Vishwajeet, from Bihar and Jharkhand, respectively, who were living in a highrise in Greater Noida. They were both students of first year of B Pharma in a private college in Knowledge Park.According to police officers, the accident took place around 10pm near Parsvnath Panorama Society in Swarn Nagri, when the two were going riding a Ninja motorcycle.“From eyewitness’ account, prima facie it seems the motorcycle was at a high speed and the duo lost control of the, due to which it crashed into the divider. They were taken to a nearby private hospital and were declared brought dead,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.Police said neither of them was wearing a helmet and they are yet to find out where the duo was headed at the time of the accident. The autopsy might also clarify whether they were under the influence of alcohol or not, police added.Their families have been informed and the bodies will be handed over following the autopsy, said police. Vishwajeet was an only child and his father is a police inspector in Bihar, while Pulkit was the younger of two siblings and was the son of a teacher, police officers added.In another incident, a 26-year-old man lost his life when his motorcycle crashed with a dumper truck on Saturday morning near Sorkha village.The victim was identified as Rahul, from Jarcha. He was on his way to work when the accident took place, around 8 am, said police.“His motorcycle crashed into the dumper while the vehicle was trying to take a turn suddenly. Rahul died on the spot and his body was sent for an autopsy. The dumper was seized and its driver was arrested. He was booked for rash driving and negligence. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-three-killed-in-two-separate-road-accidents/story-xNRW4N7l8O7AmIPtje2VUO.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Teachers are the unsung heroes of the crisis||While we are all aware of the tremendous fortitude displayed unerringly by medical staff, administrative services and security officials, et al, across the world, during the pandemic, what has largely been overlooked is the robust performance of the teaching fraternity.Teachers are often belittled and even reviled by parents in our country, mostly with no justification. During the current crisis, many parents have refused to pay their children’s fees even though schools have made arrangements for digital education despite several constraints across India.Government schools too have risen to the occasion and have somehow managed to keep the educational system afloat by innovatively sending course material and instructions to children through WhatsApp, email or other channels. Copies are being corrected and video/audio classes being conducted by most schools, despite little or no training of teaching staff in such methods.The pandemic came almost unannounced and no one was prepared for what was to come. People have lost their jobs and others have hung on by the skin of their teeth. Teachers have had to adapt from the comfortable norm of being in command in a classroom full of students, to being pale shadows of themselves as small blips on a tiny screen.The larger than life personas that many teachers possess, especially in the eyes of their students, equips them with an aura that enables them weave their magic through the time-tested way of classroom teaching. And although many schools had already shifted to blended learning modules before the pandemic, most teachers preferred the traditional paradigm of education.Now, suddenly, they have to act like performers before a camera with dozens of parents and relatives crowding the space where their students are supposed to attend online classes from home! Teachers have had to not only prepare their teaching material but also to learn the ropes of online sessions. They have tried to “zoom” in on each and every child with little or no success. Children are often found sleeping or playing games at the other end of the online connection, and it is not their fault either. The medium of online learning is onerous beyond a point, even for the millennial generation. They yearn to get back to their campuses just as their educators do!The Government has clearly specified that more than three hours of daily online learning is not wholesome for a primary school child. I dare say that the same is true for the teacher. I find that my own eyes and brain need a rest after a long webinar. However, most schools are insistent on longer hours per day, in order to finish off the much-dreaded syllabus.Asynchronous modes have been prescribed for tiny tots, instead of live classes, but many institutions have been carrying out synchronous teaching methods for them too. Little minds are thus bearing the burden of increased screen time.The shocking aspect of all this is that it is the parents who have been demanding more online hours for their wards, and yet have been loath to pay the fees to schools. Parental WhatsApp groups have been discussing the need to resist payment of fees despite court orders.Many parents have of course suffered as a result of the collapse of the economy but one would think that their children’s fees would take priority, unless they are in penury.The teachers meanwhile have carried on with amazing skills of multi-tasking, they have really slogged to balance their motherly or fatherly and housekeeping duties along with their teaching burdens. Several of them have become so adept at online teaching that they have amazed themselves with their new found expertise.In a series of webinars for boosting the morale of teachers, titled Ideas That Matter, which I have been carrying out with Shoolini University, I have discovered a new respect for the teaching community. Having become half a teacher myself these days, I often wonder why our nation does not give them the status and affection that they deserve.Their impact upon our precious growing children is obviously infinite. As Henry Brooks Adams said, “Teachers affect eternity…”.It is clearly time to sing the praises of the unsung heroes, our teachers.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-teachers-are-the-unsung-heroes-of-the-crisis/story-d1TRj4r0FqNCTJRGXXwmWP.html
30-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Day after man drowns in rainwater, civic body plans corrective measures||A day after a 19-year-old man died after drowning in the flooded Gaushala underpass following heavy rain, Ghaziabad’s municipal corporation has decided to form 10 teams to be deployed in five zones across the municipal area to check for water logging and take corrective measures.On Friday, the victim, Arjun alias Haddi, who goes by a single name, had drowned in the waterlogged underpass. The body could be taken out after a team of local divers was roped in. Following the incident, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had directed an inquiry into the incident and also asked corporation officials to take corrective measures.“We have decided to form 10 teams; two will be deployed in each of the five zones across the city. The teams will be from different departments such as water works, civil and health and all teams will work in coordination; in case there is waterlogging in any area, the teams will immediately deploy pumps to flush out water,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.According to officials, the city at present has about 32 different areas marked as waterlogging-prone areas.“We already have pumps installed in these areas to flush out water. But the rain in the past couple of days has been heavy and water drainage took more time. The 10 teams will further check for waterlogging in other areas too and have been tasked to take immediate corrective measures,” Kumar added.“As regards the underpass incident, we have plans to widen the present drainage system, which could not timely flush out the water after the heavy rain. So the other option is to increase the drainage capacity so that water flushes out quickly. We will put up a proposal before senior officials,” he added. The district magistrate, meanwhile, said that the inquiry is one in the case of the 19-year-old’s death. “I have already asked the corporation officials to conduct videography of all waterlogging-prone areas and also to ascertain the quantity of rain in the city. This will help reduce the issue of water logging after taking corrective measures. The cleaning of drains is to be checked regularly so that water flushes out in time and is not obstructed by garbage etc,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-day-after-man-drowns-in-rainwater-civic-body-plans-corrective-measures/story-gu1SSpLRGS9t38GKGGxi3O.html
30-08-2020||City||UP govt allows up to 50% reservation of beds in private Covid hospitals in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government, in a directive issued on Saturday, mandated that the district administration can now reserve up to 50% of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals in the city, for patients requiring L2 or L3 category treatment. State officials said the decision was taken as several government hospitals across the district are facing a shortage of beds while the beds in private facilities are lying vacant. The L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals in UP have come up as part of state government’s three-tier structure for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The L1 hospitals are meant for asymptomatic patients, while the L2 hospitals treat patients having moderate symptoms. The L3 category hospitals, on the other hand, treat patients who have severe symptoms. The order also states that the rates for different category of beds reserved in private hospitals will be charged as per the rates prevalent under Ayushman Bharat Yojna. In Ghaziabad, there are 598 beds, across 10 private hospitals that offer paid Covid-19 treatment on the basis of rates fixed by the state government on July 10. The government had capped the prices for Covid-19 beds between ₹8,000 to ₹15,000 per day. While the cost of a general-ward bed is ₹1,800 per day, that for a high dependency unit is ₹2,700 per day. The cost of beds without ventilators has been fixed at ₹3,600 per day while those with ventilators are fixed at ₹4,500 per day. Till August 28, a total of 2,403 patients were admitted in paid private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh.“The state government order means that the district will now have more L2 and L3 category beds available for patients. The rates will be charged as per the prescribed rates under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna and will be paid to the hospitals by the government. The patients who get referred to these reserved beds from government facilities will not be charged,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. At present, the district has 376 L2 category beds and another 200 L3 category beds available in government or government-acquired facilities. Apart from these, there are 598 beds available in 10 private hospitals in Ghaziabad, of which 274 are occupied by paying Covid patients. “Till now, we have reserved only 19 ICU beds, out of 98 available in the 10 private hospitals. The new order by the government has made it clear that we can reserve up to 50% of the total beds. This will help our patients who are in government facilities. The patients referred from our hospitals will take treatment free of cost and the government rates will be paid from government funds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Since a majority of asymptomatic patients are now in home isolation, our L1 hospitals have almost shutdown with only one being operational at present. The 50% reservation of beds in private hospitals would mean that we have about 300 more L2 or L3 beds available for our patients,” Dr Gupta, added. In Ghaziabad, a total of 1,103 patients have been allowed home isolation option till August 28, since the option was made available on July 21. So far, 756 have completed their home isolation and have been marked as discharged. There are 347 asymptomatic patients, who are presently being treated in home isolation. Overall, in Uttar Pradesh, a total of 26,865 asymptomatic patients are in home isolation as per the figures shared by the state health department till August 28. Overall, 93,978 availed the home isolation facility and 67,113 have been discharged so far.The district magistrate confirmed that the government order was issued and they will hold meeting with private hospitals in a day or two. HT also tried to reach private hospitals in Ghaziabad but they said that they have not received any such order so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-allows-up-to-50-reservation-of-beds-in-private-covid-hospitals-in-ghaziabad/story-xjLykxh81O0mUzxfAPFvgJ.html
30-08-2020||Noida||Noida: GIMS starts to take HIV positive patients; Child hospital likely to be a non-Covid hospital||The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida is ready to admit HIV positive patients, officials at the hospital said Saturday. Earlier such patients were referred to bigger medical centres in Delhi.According to Dr Brig (retd) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, the institute has been functioning as a Covid hospital since the outbreak of the disease. “The Uttar Pradesh government has now sanctioned us to develop an Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) centre for HIV patients at the institute. This is the only government hospital in the district to treat HIV positive patients. We will have a dedicated facility for testing, counselling and medication free of cost,” he said.He added that medicines and tests of HIV patients are costly and earlier, this facility was not available at GIMS. He said HIV patients found Covid positive will also be treated at the hospital. There are 120 coronavirus (Covid-19) positive patients undergoing treatment at GIMS while 1,270 Covid patients have been successfully treated and discharged from the hospital.On Saturday, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 121 new Covid cases while 87 persons were discharged after treatment. The district has so far successfully treated 6,682 Covid-19 patients while 1,002 patients are undergoing treatment. The pandemic has so far claimed 45 lives in the district. There was no covid-related death on Saturday in the Noida district.Maj (retd) B P Singh, spokesperson of Noida’s Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), said there are only four Covid patients – three children and one adult - undergoing treatment at the hospital. “In May-June, there were around 50 Covid patients admitted to the hospital. That seemed to be a peak. So far, we have successfully treated 445 Covid patients, including 105 children. A three-day-old infant also tested Covid-19 positive and was discharged after treatment. There has been no covid-related death at the hospital,” he said. A source in the hospital said that if the number of patients continues to remain low at the SSPHPGTI, this hospital could be declared a non-covid hospital. The SSPHPGTI had also written a letter to the Uttar Pradesh government last month over the issue so that it may resume catering to child-related problems. The issue will be discussed in the hospital’s governing body meeting on September 4. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the pandemic seems to be under control in the district. On SSPHPGTI’s concerns, Ohri said that the hospital comes under the Directorate of Medical Education and Training, UP government. “This is in our discussion but only the directorate will decide on this,” Ohri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-gims-starts-to-take-hiv-positive-patients-child-hospital-likely-to-be-a-non-covid-hospital/story-tV6ehmS6gwMzwrFNJkZWcL.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Much ado about modaks, masks & muted Onam sadhyas||Come Corona’s September. As Corona presides over its first September, poor dear Rock Hudson might well be doing a cemetery-confined workout, twisting in his grave contemplating twists ‘n’ turns to his classic were it to be remade in the time of Corona, locked out in his Italian villa.Well, let the Hudsons rock it in the grave, come September and our Lamba jis & Lally Singh jis are more in the mood to rock it, Unlock, stock and barrel. The thing about Come September is that it can seem very much like that Maharaja Mac burger out of which one hopes to see popping oodles of extra cheese topping.The thing about August in the time of Corona is – dishing out damp festival season ‘starters’, as it is, like Janmashtami, Onam etc – that it pretty much looks like a mithai box cloaked with a cling film.Alas, rather than a designer Haldiram hamper, Corona’s festival-dotted August looks like a boring nukkad-wale ka mithai dabba, bereft of smashing saccharine showstoppers.Of Modaks in the time of masksPicture this. Looks like the Lollitas, Lamba jis & Co may be legging it to Unlock’s August jollifications, Ganeshotsav or Onam, in neighbouring apartments. But are they? Many an RWA (Residents’ Welfare Association) is erupting into Ganeshotsav gusto or Onam feasting, throwing social distancing protocols to the wind, so much so that the same ‘Tin Pot’ RWA chief who ticked you off for that “one” time he caught you mask-less in the Lift, is the one leading the lung exercises riding “Ganpati Bappa Morya” ululations, albeit minus his mask.Ah, but looks like the only place Lollitas & Co are legging it up and down is their apartment building’s common corridors, exercising not so much their ample anatomies as their grey cells: To go or not to go – to partake of the neighbourhood pujas or sadhyas. That is the million-modak question.“Are you crazy, how can you think of flouting social distancing norms?” the hyperventilating elderly Biji or Bauji’s voice of caution caterwauls.“Oh it’s cool, as long as you wear your mask,” the in-house pragmatic teenager twattles.“Hmmm ... honey, if you’re risking going, you might jolly well smuggle out some Modaks for me too!”That jolly last voice, belonging to a Lamba ji, Lally ji & Co, is the one that clinches the jollification joining-in dilemma for Lollita.Actually, it’s not the voice that does it. It’s the “unmasked” delight dripping from the vocal cords of Lamba ji or Lally ji at the mere prospect of Modaks that decides it for Lollita. Lollita’s one frosty look at the bulbousness mapping the middle regions of Lamba ji or Lally ji’s anatomies tilts the scales in favour of not going. Who’d wish the other scales tilting towards triple digits were Lamba ji & Co to park their Lockdown-cultivated calories on it!The curious case of much ado about ‘unmasked’ glee for Modaks.Of Unlock, stock and barrelWhilst Lollita & Co debate whether or not to leg it to neighbouring pujas and sadhyas, Lamba jis & Lally jis are busy legging it to, nah, not to parks (post-Lockdown, parks are passe), but to Unlock’s hottest Selfie-ism destinations – India Gate and Raisina Hill to Sukhna Lake to Sunset Point.If you thought the reason Lollita & Co didn’t leg it with the male for the masked selfie at Sukhna or India Gate is because Lamba ji or Lally Ji is suffering ‘n’ squiggling from a hangover of her glacial glare at the Modak smuggling schemes, perish the thought.The reason they’re going solo is because they’re hoping to stock up for real hangovers. For, post the masked Status Update-ism from Sukhna or India Gate, Lamba ji & Co are looking to do the other kind of gate – gate-crashing a “thekaa” for September stocks. The curious case of Corona’s ‘Come September’ locked up not with a Gina (Lollobrigida) but with Gin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-much-ado-about-modaks-masks-muted-onam-sadhyas/story-LKuLJgX9kIEkp0BqDo6v5H.html
30-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Fewer people found Covid-positive in RT-PCR retests in August||Fewer people, who have Covid-like symptoms, as well as co-morbidities, tested positive for the coronavirus disease, in RT-PCR testing in Ghaziabad this month, compared to June and July when cases had surged.Both government and independent experts say this could be because more people were affected by other seasonal viral diseases and were showing symptoms similar to the ones seen in Covid-19 patients, and hence were coming forward to be tested. These were first tested for antigens via rapid kits and, if negative, re-tested under the “gold standard” reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.Till August 28, 189,968 samples were tested. Of the total tests, 82,253 were tested through RT-PCR, while 107,715 were through the faster but less accurate rapid antigen tests.According to state government guidelines, which expands on Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norms, all symptomatic, and those people with co-morbidities regardless of showing symptoms or not should be tested under RT-PCR after a negative antigen test.According to official records, the subsequent RT-PCR tests on 17,314 antigen negative cases gave 972 positives, which translates to a 5.61% test positivity rate (TPR, which is total number of positive cases per 100 tests). In comparison, about 17,477 subsequent RT-PCR tests were conducted from July 27 to Aug 26 and only 538 of these returned positive, which is a TPR of 3.07%. However, there is a lag: there are 5,431 samples collected in August that is yet to be re-tested. “The low positivity in subsequent RT-PCR test could also be a result of people with higher viral load getting tested positive in the rapid antigen kits. So, the number of positive result in subsequent tests will be low. Anyhow, the figure has shown a decline in about past one month,” said Dr. N K Gupta, CMO, Ghaziabad. “It could also mean that we have more patients now who may be suffering from regular viral infections or other similar ailments.” Overall, the TPR in the district is about 4.24% till August 28. This was 4.8% till July 31 and stood at a higher figure of about 7.54% till June 30.The official records stated that antigen testing, introduced from June 26, have a TPR of 2.68%, while RT-PCR is 6.22%. The CMO said that they were conducting about 800-900 RT-PCR tests which are taken up for high risk contacts like close contacts of positive patients, people having symptoms and those having co-morbid conditions. The medical experts said that decline in positivity of subsequent RT-PCR test shows an encouraging sign. “Decline in test positivity of subsequent RT-PCR test could also mean that overall severity of Covid-19 infection is less and it could also mean that people who are coming for testing may be affected by complications other than Covid-19. This could be issues like fever or viral etc which are prevalent more in monsoon season. Overall, if the figures indicate, it is encouraging sign,” said Dr. VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. In a recent review meeting, UP government appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, an IAS, had directed the Ghaziabad officials to conduct more of RT-PCR tests. The present average of daily tests is about 3000-3500 across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-fewer-people-found-covid-positive-in-rt-pcr-retests-in-august/story-Z5EwpVz1tpr3jAmMBkwNZO.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The ghost of sunsets past||A many-splendoured blessing of the monsoons is that spoors of wild animals are clearly imprinted on jungle trails and peripheral ‘grey zones’ used by both man and foraging beast. On a ramble along the Shivalik foothills, I stumbled upon a remarkably fresh leopard pugmark trail outside a village. It had rained the night before and the pugmarks of the nocturnal hunter could easily be followed hours later like lingering plumes of airliner emissions across the blue dome. The leopard trail took the course of a cart/tractor track for a kilometre before diverting to dense thickets 50 yards off this well-used passageway hemmed in by crop and wild bush. The leopard was resting in secrecy in the thickets for the day after having been lured here by an abundance of wandering village dogs. A farmer was tilling his fields a 100 yards from the thickets while the posh European-style country house of a Chandigarh family was 250 yards away from the big cat’s bunker. What adds to its stealth and ability to operate under the human radar is the fact that a leopard hardly ever roars, snarls or growls when prowling the grey zones as the shadows of the moon lengthen or when resting and hiding during the day.There was no alert or panic about the leopard in the area simply because no one knew it was there, right under the villagers’ noses. It had harmed no human, neither had it turned a notorious livestock predator. Fact is that instead of playing out its presumptive role as a rapacious, blood-guzzling maneater and child lifter, the big cat had taken due care to avoid humans like the plague or Covid-19. Frenzied reportage and media paranoia on Covid seemed to have been picked up by the wily leopard’s sharp ears and led to the cat enhancing its self-effacing norm of social distancing!I sought a perspective on this invisible hunter’s astute ways from wildlife biologist and India’s leading expert on leopard-human conflict, Vidya Athreya. “Numerous leopards live amid the suburban settlements of Mumbai without detection. The leopard is a ghost, neither here nor there. Its presence in human proximity can go undetected for years till a chance happening takes place, such as a leopard killing a locality dog is caught on CCTV cameras or it is spotted in car headlights by late night travellers. There is nothing to get alarmed about. Livestock should be protected during the night and kept under vigilance when out for day grazing,” Athreya told this writer. COURTIERS IN THE KINGDOM OF FLOWERS Hoverflies are unsung and unrecognised but important pollinators of our gardens and crops. They are most often mistaken for honey bees, even by experienced Nature photographers. In the current season, the confusion between the two evokes the similarity between Flying ants and termites on wings (deemak).The easiest way to distinguish Hoverflies is that they have only one pair of wings while bees and wasps have two. The large eyes and short antenna of Hoverflies also render them distinct from bees as also the fact that they don’t sting. Hoverflies are elbowed out of the petals by larger bees.Ignorance is bliss and lends itself to poetic fancy. Pictures of hoverflies settling on flowers are incorrectly lent elaborate bee captions that elevate the humble flies to honey trails, birds and the bees, dangerous stings and other Shakespearean-like profound poetic references. But Hoverflies neither make honey nor hang about on hives. They roost on leaves. Hoverflies do not linger on a flower for a long time but are on the move constantly, hovering with sharp zigzag movements and have the ability to move abruptly and at the oddest angles. The Hoverfly has near-transparent wings and a lower body which is beautifully banded in black and amber. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-the-ghost-of-sunsets-past/story-dZ5D9NGC6N6HrHATuWdm8K.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested by NCB for drug trafficking in Mumbai||Mumbai Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested two individuals for allegedly trafficking bud - dried, cured and consumable portion of the cannabis plant. The officers have also seized 59 grams of drugs from them. The accused Abbas Ramzan Ali Lakhani and Karan Arora are booked under relevant sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.NCB officers said that both accused are in their early twenties. Lakhani, a resident of Bandra, allegedly became part of this nexus because of his habitual consumption. To buy the contraband, he entered the supply chain. Whereas Arora is a peddler and resides in Powai.Both the accused were released on bail immediately after being produced in court, said their lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-by-ncb-for-drug-trafficking-in-mumbai/story-FdMCmw2cNKhpdjhNHjrSyI.html
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Why tricity needs a coordinated lockdown||It’s getting to be very confusing. The Chandigarh administration on Friday discontinued the weekend lockdown after imposing it on August 21 following a spurt in Covid-19 cases.Though it ordered shops and malls to remain open, the administration decided to continue with the odd-even system that is operational in the city’s 11 congested markets.The weekend closure had come after Haryana and Punjab took similar decisions, but with the former allowing shops to open on Saturday and Sunday, UT authorities decided to follow suit.Unlike Haryana, however, UT will not be closing shops and malls on Monday and Tuesday instead.But in Punjab shops will still remain closed on weekends.Now what are tricity residents to do? Do they go to Sukhna on Monday, avoid shopping in Panchkula on that day and go mall hopping in Mohali on Tuesday?Won’t some sort of uniformity in rules help as there is extensive cross border movement between Chandigarh, Panchkula and Haryana? One city closed and the other partially open is bound to inconvenience residents.Also, keeping malls and some shops open on Sundays will lead to concentration of crowds in some spots, something that can be a disaster in a pandemic situation.The UT’s August 21 decision once again appears to have been a knee jerk reaction as it was roundly criticised by traders, who said they would suffer losses and be hit by the odd-even system as well.The interests of traders, vendors, restaurateurs, gym owners and others who have incurred substantial losses in the lockdown period too have to be factored in to get the economy going again.It’s time for tricity authorities to come together to thrash out a solution to control the spread of Covid-19, at the same time ensuring that uniform rules are imposed in all areas with minimum losses to businesses.Unprecedented times require innovative solutions. Let’s see what the administrations of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula come up with.CLOSE CALLShould tricity have uniform lockdown rules?Why will a coordinated lockdown help in the tricity? How can opening of malls and markets be planned better? Send your responses with a photograph to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by September 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-why-tricity-needs-a-coordinated-lockdown/story-xr5tVaqCUfMawZ5IHbLktJ.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Convicted public servant can’t be reinstated on suspension of sentence: Bombay high court||A public servant convicted in a criminal case cannot seek reinstatement in service only on the ground of suspension of his sentence by a higher court, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Thursday and dismissed a petition filed by a public servant from Chandrapur seeking the reinstatement in service. It is not possible for us to hold that the petitioner has acquired a right to be reinstated in service upon suspension of his sentence imposed in view of the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1979, said the bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AS Chandurkar. The bench rejected petition filed by Shrikrushna Sinhe, who has been convicted by a special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court at Chandrapur for bribery and sentenced to three years imprisonment, and was dismissed from service on November 14, 2018. A few months before his dismissal, Sinhe’s appeal against conviction was admitted by a single-judge bench of HC, which on February 16, 2018, suspended his sentence and granted him bail. He had, thereafter, moved Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT), seeking an order for his reinstatement in service on the ground of suspension of the sentence imposed on him, and petitioned HC after the tribunal put his plea on hold, till the final decision on his appeal. But the HC refused to grant him any relief, observing that the suspension of the sentence had not erased the conviction recorded by the criminal court. “So long as the conviction is not reversed, the petitioner continues to be a convict and cannot have any legitimate claim for reinstatement in service,” said the bench led by the chief justice. “Such claim would arise after reversal of the conviction and that too if the rules so provide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/convicted-public-servant-can-t-be-reinstated-on-suspension-of-sentence-bombay-high-court/story-rKyvertGOnmoFfl6On6O8L.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||First-year junior college admissions: Maharashtra education department to release 1st merit list today at 3pm||The state education department will declare the first merit list for admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) at 3pm on Sunday. With more than 19,000 students who have applied for admissions scoring 90% and above this year, principals said that the cut-offs are likely to go up. The state and the Mumbai division also recorded the highest pass percentage since 2004. “We are expecting the cut-offs to go up substantially across streams this year as there are so many high scorers,” said Rajpal Hande, principal of Mithibai College. Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate, said that while cut-offs are expected to be higher, the fact that they are unlikely to decline in subsequent lists, indicates more competition. “Over the past few years, we have seen a trend that even if the merit list goes up only by 1-2% percentage points, it does not fall in the rounds that follow. This means that there are a lot of students with the same high score which leads to seats in prominent colleges getting filled in the first one or two rounds itself,” he added. Last year, despite the state board witnessing one of its worst pass percentages in the past several years, almost all prominent Commerce colleges in the city such as Vile Parle’s NM College, Matunga’s Podar College and Churchgate’s HR College closed their first merit lists above 90%. The cut-offs for Arts were also quite high. While St Xavier’s college at Dhobi Talao closed its first list at 94%, the cut-off at Matunga’s Ramnarain Ruia College was 92.6%. Owing to the Covid-19 situation, the education department is following the ‘zero contact’ process to conduct the admissions. Students will get messages on their registered mobile numbers with details of the college allotted to them. They can confirm their admissions online and can complete the entire admission process through the portal without having to go anywhere. Students who are allotted the college of their first preference have to take admission there. If they fail to do so, they have to wait for all the regular rounds to get over to be able to get another college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-year-junior-college-admissions-maharashtra-education-department-to-release-1st-merit-list-today-at-3pm/story-NZr4YxhCVeTfEP0IGmY19L.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Five students arrested for cheating shopkeepers in Mumbai||The Oshiwara police have arrested a group of five students for cheating pan shop owners from Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri. The accused, according to police, purchased cigarettes from pan shops and sent fake cash credit messages to the shop owners with the help of a bulk messaging site.The gang had purchased cigarettes worth ₹77,800 and the shopkeeper received messages from his bank showing a credit in his account. He later realised he was being duped and he filed a complaint.The arrested accused are identified as Jimit Panchal, 20, Apurv Goyal, 22, Bhavik Padiyar, 22, Sagar Gala, 24 and Nisarg Maskariya, 19.According to the police, on August 26, a pan- shop owner from Lokhandwala Market approached them and filed a complaint against an unknown person.He said on July 10 and 11, a young boy purchased cigarettes worth ₹77,800. He paid online and every time the shop owner received a message saying the amount was credited. But in August, when he visited his bank, he found those three transactions missing. He then realised that he was cheated.He then filed a police complaint and a first information report (FIR) registered under section 420(cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 471 (using as genuine a forged [document or electronic record) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.Police later arrested Gala from Malad. Gala revealed names of his accomplices, and the rest four were arrested by police from the same location.“They all are college-going students and one of them is a third-year law student,” said a police officer.Gala told police he and his friends observed that most of the pan shopkeepers have started accepting money through E-wallets and don’t check their account balance they just rely on the message which they get from the bank. Once they receive a message, they think that the amount is credited their account. Investigation revealed that these accused were using two messaging platforms to send fake bank messages to their victims and police have written to those sites to know how many messages have been sent so far from these accused to other shopkeepers as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-students-arrested-for-cheating-shopkeepers-in-mumbai/story-bez6zOZ8zSCI9cqGjU0GPN.html
30-08-2020||City||18th century Ghodbunder fort in Mumbai set to get facelift||Ghodbunder Fort, originally named Cacabe de Tanna, which was built by the Portuguese in 1730, is set to be restored at an estimated cost of ₹50 crore. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) Ratnagiri and Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, Mumbai gave the official nod for the same to the Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) after years of delay.Both the agencies gave their no objection certificates (NOC) for the restoration and beautification of the 9-acre fort under the Shiv Srushti project of MLA Pratap Sarnaik who had taken up the matter of the delay with the agencies. Ghodbunder Fort located in Ghodbunder village in Bhayandar also houses a church. It is currently in ruins and was adopted by MBMC under the government’s Maharashtra Vaibhav Protected Monuments Adoption Scheme to restore historical monuments. “The department of cultural affairs had granted heritage structure status to eight monuments in the state including Ghodbunder Fort thus paving the way for their adoptions by the respective local civic bodies,” said Sarnaik. MBMC has planned conservation, restoration and beautification of the fort and its surroundings, said Sarnaik. The fort was built in 1730 by the Portuguese who had settled in Bhayandar in 1530. It was under Portuguese rule till 1737 till Marathas captured the fort and overthrew the Portuguese rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18th-century-ghodbunder-fort-in-mumbai-set-to-get-facelift/story-oQQ0cNUmKvdIXfLK6QuZBN.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 curve flattening in Mumbai’s Dharavi, rising in neighbouring Dadar and Mahim||While the Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster, the number of Covid-19 cases have doubled in neighbouring Mahim and Dadar areas in the past 40 to 60 days. Out of the total 4,680 positive cases in Dadar and Mahim, more than 70% have been reported after relaxations in lockdown, starting June 3. Owing to this, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) says it is tracing and testing “maximum people behind every case from Dadar and Mahim area, on the lines of Dharavi.” For the past few days, Covid-19 cases in Dharavi are being reported in single digits daily, with a few exceptions. The BMC has maintained that while the cases are coming down, four most densely populated pockets inside Dharavi – the Matunga Labour Camp, Kumbharwada, Kala Killa, and Koliwada continue to be on the corporation’s watch-list. The BMC, starting September 1, is also going to scale down Covid-19 containment facilities in Dharavi owing to the flattening of the curve. However, its neighbouring areas like Dadar and Mahim, now, remain a concern for the BMC. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G North Ward, said, “There are many factors behind cases increasing in Dadar and Mahim, and we are following the Dharavi model of testing and tracing maximum residents from Dadar and Mahim. We have also set up free testing camps, due to which we are detecting maximum cases. We have to understand that Dadar traditionally has been a commercial hub too, and post June 3, we have witnessed an increase in reporting of cases.” Dighavkar added, “After relaxations were given in lockdown measures, more and more cases are being reported. Maximum cases that we are detecting are of those who are asymptomatic and most are from high-rises. We have to wait and watch for now and continue testing and tracing the maximum number of people for the cases to come under control. At the same time, citizens have to be responsible.” Dadar also came into focus last week when a large number of residents had gathered in the local market ahead of Ganeshotsav by flouting all social distancing norms. In terms of numbers, on June 3, 2020, the first day of relaxations given by the state government under Mission Begin Again, Dharavi had 1,889 cases that have increased to 2,753, on Saturday after recording eight new cases. Of these 2,400 patients have been discharged after recovery. In the case of Dadar, the cases went up from 374 to 2,489 in the same period and in Mahim, Covid cases have reached 2,192 from 606 on June 3. The number of cases have doubled in Dadar in the last around 45 days from 1,130 on July 11 to 2,489 now. Similarly, in Mahim, cases have reached 2,192 from 1,092 on June 28. The G North Ward, under which Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim fall, has a total of 7,426 cases as of Friday, of which, 6,208 cases have recovered and 787 cases are active. Maximum active cases are from Dadar (400) and Mahim (294) while Dharavi (93) has the lowest number of active cases. Shiv Sena corporator from Dadar, Vishakha Raut said, “We controlled cases in slums and chawls by having stricter containment measures, but the same is not the case in Dadar. We have an educated and literate population here and it is expected that they will act more responsibly. However, it is a fact that after relaxations in the lockdown norms, the cases have increased due to an increase in mingling of residents socially, but the administration is also trying to trace maximum cases.” Raut claimed that mandatory testing for travel led to detection of several cases among those who wanted to go to their homes in Konkan during Ganeshotsav. He also put the onus on citizens for responsible behavior. “In the end, citizens have to be more responsible when they are out. I see people not following social distancing norms, not wearing masks even in areas like Shivaji Park. This all needs to stop, and we will need to act with more responsibility,” Raut added. Mortality rate for the GN Ward has gone down in the last 50 days. According to BMC’s data, there were 379 deaths in the ward on July 04, a mortality rate of 10.61%, which has gone down to 7.33% with 492 deaths, as of Friday. The GN Ward also has around 13 containment zones and 355 sealed buildings. Meanwhile on Saturday, Mumbai recorded 1,432 cases and 31 deaths, taking the city’s case tally to 143,389 and toll to 7,596. The fatality rate is 5.29%, while the recovery rate stands at 80.55%, with 115,500 patients in the city having been discharged after recovery. The number of active cases stands at 19,971. Mumbai’s total test figures have reached 7.53 lakh with an overall positivity rate of 18.84%, after 9,984 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-curve-flattening-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-rising-in-neighbouring-dadar-and-mahim/story-PYIRTexhsa92qBo0nRFeJP.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court refuses bail to man booked for stalking, assault||The Bombay high court (HC) has rejected the bail application of a man booked for stalking and assaulting a woman with knife after she rejected his marriage proposal.Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the bail plea of Amol Kashid primarily on the grounds that there was a threat to the life of the woman if the accused was released on bail.The judge said in view of the fact that Kashid constantly harassed the complainant, entered her house and attacked her with a knife in front of her mother and grandmother after she rejected his marriage proposal, it was obvious there was threat to the woman if he was let out on bail. “Therefore, it is not desirable to release the applicant (Kashid) on bail,” he added and rejected his bail plea.The assault took place on April 9, 2019 and Kashid was arrested the next day.He had moved the court for bail on the grounds that as the investigation in the case is complete and charge sheet has been filed, his custody was no longer required. It was argued on his behalf that the man was behind bars for around one-and-a-half year since his arrest. The court was also assured that since Kashid was not a resident of Pune district and he will not again enter the district, there was no threat to the complainant or her family.Justice Kotwal, however, refused to accept the contention and noted that Kashid stalked and harassed the complainant for a long time and even returned to Shirur, after having left for Beed, to assault the woman who sustained six stab wounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-refuses-bail-to-man-booked-for-stalking-assault/story-a79Kkwao6wfQRtaEkhfAVM.html
30-08-2020||City||Uttan man blackmailed with nude video, extorted of ₹37,000||Uttan police have registered a case against two unidentified persons for blackmailing a 25-year-old man and extorting around ₹37,000. According to police, the victim, a resident of Uttan in Bhayander, received a call from an unknown woman in July, proposing that the two become friends. Soon the duo started participating in video chats.In the first week of August, the woman told the victim that she was in love with him. She asked him to get naked and start a video chat with her. “The woman then informed the victim that she had recorded their chat and threatened to upload the clips on the internet if he did not pay her. The victim also received a call from a man claiming to be a CBI officer on special duty. The fake officer threatened the victim and said he would face criminal charges for sharing nude photos on social media,” said assistant inspector Satish Nikam of Uttan police station. The victim sent the woman ₹36,671 through multiple transactions to a digital wallet account.He then approached the police, and a case under sections 384 (extortion), 419 (cheating by personation) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the two unknown callers. “We suspect a gang is operating in Thane Rural police district using the same modus operandi,” said Nikam. Due to the lockdown, fraudsters have adopted this method of extorting money from people as the victims have plenty of free time at their disposal, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttan-man-blackmailed-with-nude-video-extorted-of-37-000/story-BFWlmd8hJX2fpX32L5YQvK.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Six men arrested for snatching mobiles in Mumbai||Parksite police arrested a gang of six people for allegedly snatching mobile phones and tampering with the international mobile equipment identity (IMEI) numbers so as to make the handsets undetectable.According to police, the accused were indulging in mobile thefts for over a year. A police officer said they used to roam in areas from Mulund to Byculla, up to Dockyard Road on bikes without number plates or with a fake registration number and would target unsuspecting pedestrians, snatch their phones and flee.Police have recovered 48 mobile handsets from them. The arrests came after Mohamamd Rizwan Yusuf Khan, 23, a resident of Nityanand Nagar in Ghatkopar, lodged a complaint that on August 25 when he was walking towards his residence one Yusuf Haidar Ali Shaikh, 24, and his associate Naved Nadeem Shaikh, 21, snatched his mobile worth ₹20,000.As Khan screamed for help, a police constable chased and nabbed Yusuf while Naved managed to flee. The police then conducted an inquiry and arrested Naved from his residence in Mankhurd.During further investigation police arrested Mohammad Amin Shaikh, 46; Iqbal Nashir Khan, 32; Salman Siddhique, 35; Sabir Salim Khan, 34, from Shivaji Nagar area. Sabir runs a mobile shop in Mankhurd where he changes the IMEI number, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-men-arrested-for-snatching-mobiles-in-mumbai/story-kWw2IE35luRauqTeDvv6oJ.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain over 24 hours: 108mm rain in south Mumbai; showers to decrease today||The city and suburbs witnessed heavy rain between Friday and Saturday with continuous light to moderate showers with intermittent heavy spells.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) updated its yellow alert (heavy rain in isolated areas) to an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas) on Saturday afternoon for the rest of the day. However, sporadic spells of moderate showers were witnessed till Saturday evening. Light to moderate rain has been predicted for Sunday.Between 8.30am Friday and 8.30am Saturday, Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 108mm rain while Santacruz observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 85.4mm rainfall. On Saturday between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the suburbs recorded 28mm rain while 17mm was recorded in south Mumbai. IMD classifies 15.6mm-64.4mm as moderate and 64.5mm-115.5mm rain as heavy.The weather bureau said the city and suburbs could witness moderate to heavy rain with a possibility of very heavy rain across isolated areas between Saturday night and Sunday morning. “Mumbai and surrounding areas saw intermittent intense showers from Saturday morning. Radar and satellite images indicated dense cloud development and possibility of very heavy rain in some areas over north Konkan. Thus, an orange alert was issued,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. He added, “Rain intensity in some low-lying areas had the potential to cause flooding and lead to traffic disruption.”Location-wise rain figures over the past 24 hours (8.30am Friday to 8.30am Saturday) showed 156mm rainfall in Chembur, 129mm in Bandra, 142mm in Navi Mumbai, 122.4mm in Panvel, and 84mm in Thane. Since Friday, eastern suburbs, Thane and Palghar districts recorded more rain. On Saturday (between 6am and 6pm), Bandra recorded highest rain at 64.5mm, followed by Borivli at 61mm, BKC 58.8mm, Andheri 55.2mm, Chembur 54.4 mm, Dahisar 53.5mm, and Mahalaxmi 48mm. Thane recorded 50.7mm rain, Navi Mumbai 56.1mm, Dombivli 42.7mm and Mira Road recorded 43mm rainfall.Mumbai has so far recorded 1,169.1 mm rain in August, which is the highest since August 1983 when 1,243.8mm rain was recorded. All-time highest August rain of 1,254mm was recorded in 1958. At 61% excess rain, Mumbai has received over 3,000mm rain this season so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-over-24-hours-108mm-rain-in-south-mumbai-showers-to-decrease-today/story-bGD0DNcRCrb5eE33SJtANP.html
30-08-2020||Mumbai||Four more cops die of Covid-19; toll in Maharashtra Police force rises to 153||Four more deaths were reported from the Maharashtra Police force due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 153. The deceased personnel were attached to Nagpur city police, Aurangabad Rural police and Chandrapur district police and died on August 25, 27 and 28. There were 151 new cases of Covid-19 reported in the past 24 hours in the state police force.A 34-year-old constable, Pradeep Jadhav, from MIDC Paithan station of Aurangabad Rural police died of Covid-19 on Friday. He was undergoing treatment at YSK Hospital since August 24 after he tested positive for the infection. “He had no co-morbidities. The young policeman was a hard worker and very good at collecting intelligence. His wife, too, tested positive. Jadhav is survived by two sons, aged nine and five,” said inspector Balak Koli, Covid officer, Aurangabad Rural police. This is the first Covid death in Auaranganad Rural police while there are a total of 72 cases of infection, Koli added.In the second fatality, a 30-year-old woman police constable, Purnima Gedam, from Chandrapur police died on Thursday. This is the first Covid death of a police personnel in the district. “Gedam was on sick leave since more than four months as she was suffering from a kidney disease since the past one and half year. She tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at the government medical college in Nagpur where she breathed her last on Thursday,” said inspector Prakash Hake, Rampur police station.Nagpur city police recorded two deaths of policemen. Head constables Suraj Patbhave, 46, and Sunil Bhoir, 53, were attached to Nagpur City police headquarters and both of them succumbed on August 25. In the state police force, 14,792 police personnel have gotten infected so far. Of the total infected personnel, 11,867 have recovered while 153 have succumbed to the disease. At present, 2,772 state police personnel are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Mumbai Police has the most cases with more than 4,700 police personnel testing positive, of whom more than 4,000 have recovered and 69 have succumbed so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-more-cops-die-of-covid-19-toll-in-maharashtra-police-force-rises-to-153/story-iPfHQMvBUm6GXbovNJH2SI.html
30-08-2020||Pune||45% of Pune division’s plasma donors from PCMC||At least 45 per cent of Pune division’s plasma donors, which includes Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur and Satara districts, are from Pimpri-Chichwad. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has alone contributed 266 donors of the 593 total donors at 11 blood banks in the division, as of August 28. PCMC has only two hospitals registered for plasma donations, but still has been leading the way in encouraging more donors. The initial response of donors in the industrial township, according to officials, was overwhelming, so much so that the administration fell short of plasma collection kits. While PCMC has 33,893 discharged patients after they were declared as cured, Pune city has more than double, 73,527 discharged people, but has seen less than half the number of plasma donors. Pune city has about eight blood banks which have received 286 donors.Dr Rajendra Wable, Yashwantrao Chavan Medical Hospital, dean, said, “There is no particular reason as to why donors are coming forward in PCMC, but social media groups have played a major role in spreading awareness. Through social media, people are coming in touch with donors and recipients. Sometimes relatives of the patients come to us along with donors. We are also starting the process of self declaration and willingness form from the recovered patients to respond positively in case they are called for the same. We even provide the plasma to private hospitals at a nominal cost.” Project platina by the state government encourages Covid-19 recovered patients to donate plasma for the treatment of active critical patients, but it hasn’t seen a good response in Pune city. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham has appealed to the people to come forward and donate plasma. At a felicitation programme to honor plasma donors on Saturday, Venkatesham, said, “To reduce the number of deaths due to Covid-19, people can register at 9960530329 on Whatsapp. One plasma donor can save two lives and so people should come forward and do this noble deed.” The district administration has also started a website, https://puneplasma.in wherein donors can register and donate and people in need of plasma can come forward for the same. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh, said, “It is not clear as to why people are not coming forward as there are no complaints of dizziness or weakness among those who donate blood for plasma. We appeal to people to come forward and donate their blood.”Dr Avinash Bhondwe, President of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, said, “There is no awareness among the people and the administration should work on that. Local politicians must also encourage people in their area to come forward and donate in huge numbers. We do not see a good response among people even for a routine blood donation and in case of plasma from those who have recovered, fear is a contributing factor. Plasmapheresis has been found to be as effective as remdesivir and so people should be made aware of its benefits. If plasma therapy is given at an early stage, it can prove to be effective.” PCMC has reported a total of 46,516 progressive positive cases and 852 deaths as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/45-of-pune-division-s-plasma-donors-from-pcmc/story-Kj3LaFzGdFCnchr5TxMOsN.html
30-08-2020||Pune||Online proctored method is an option for final year exams, says Pune varsity V-C||Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is planning to conduct the final year examinations via online proctored method after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of universities holding the final year exams.On Friday, the Supreme Court held that students of final year can not be promoted without holding examinations. “We will be following the Supreme Court order and guidelines of Maharashtra state government before conducting the final year examinations. We had conducted entrance examinations via the online proctored method and it was a successful experiment. We will be thinking on the same lines for the final year exams and we will also discuss other options. Security of the students is our top priority,” said Nitin R Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU.Meanwhile, Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Saturday said that a decision about modalities of final year examinations will be announced on Monday.SPPU has over two lakh students appearing for final year exams this year. SPPU has 700 affiliated colleges, 234 recognised institutes and 71 research institutes and it had successfully conducted the entrance exams for more than 30,000 students this year and most of the urban students did not face any problems of internet connectivity.“The detailed plan of examination will be out soon after the discussion with Uday Samant. We will take care that students get proper time to study,” said Karmalkar.The final year students are also relieved with the Supreme Court’s verdict as the confusion is finally over. “Now, the stance is clear and we can focus on our studies. It will be new challenge giving exams online,” said Rushikesh Phadnis, a Bcom student from Thergaon.What is the online proctored method?The exam is conducted online via proctored method on smartphone, tablet, desktop or laptop. There is a function from which one can keep track of a student’s movement and if one tries to do any malpractice, he can be easily caught. Many private institutes have used this method for examination recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/online-proctored-method-is-an-option-for-final-year-exams-says-sppu-v-c/story-wwYbv6pPgH00cx7HZFqaOJ.html
30-08-2020||Lucknow||14-year-old daughter of senior railway official shoots mother, teenage brother dead||A 14-year-old daughter of a senior railway ministry official, who is posted in Delhi, shot dead her mother and teenage elder brother when they were taking an afternoon nap inside a bungalow under the Gautampalli police station limits in Lucknow on Saturday afternoon, police officials said.After killing the two, the minor girl, who was not in a good mental health, also tried to harm herself by slitting her wrists with a razor, Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) Sujeet Pandey said.At the time of the incident, the officer was in Delhi where he is posted. The girl has been admitted in hospital, the police commissioner said.The police said the girl, who is a trained shooter and prolific user of weapons, used a .22 bore rifle in the crime. Director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthi visited the spot.Pandey said the girl fired three bullets—one hit a mirror and two others killed her mother and brother. He stated that the girl wrote the words ‘disqualified human’ on the washroom mirror.This act reflected the girl’s mental instability and that she required immediate medical assistance to recover, he added.He also said the girl was questioned before her maternal grandparents and she confessed to committing the crime. The rifle used in the crime had been recovered on the basis of her disclosure, Pandey said.The victims’ bullet riddled bodies were found lying on a bed inside their room, he added. The girl herself alerted her maternal relatives and domestic workers about the incident.The police commissioner said the girl’s father, who is presently posted in New Delhi, was a senior Indian Railway Traffic Services official in Northern Railway and he had held a senior position in Lucknow in the past. He was currently an executive director in the railway ministry and mostly stayed in Delhi while his family resided in Lucknow, Pandey added.Even on Saturday, he was in Delhi and reached Lucknow late in the evening after being informed about the incident.Pandey said the police were first informed at around 3.45 pm. The victims’ relatives were present in the house when the police reached there, he said. Two of the victims’ domestic workers had confirmed that the girl’s mother and brother were alive in the morning and they had met them then.“We have called a team of forensic experts and a dog squad to examine the spot and further investigation is on,” the commissioner added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/14-year-old-daughter-of-senior-railway-ministry-official-shoots-mother-teenage-brother-dead/story-9TTrcsCtuUZuluJLLT6G1I.html
30-08-2020||Pune||Reopening of places of worship: BJP stages protests against Maharashtra government||Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Saturday staged an agitation outside temples in Pune and other parts of western Maharashtra, including Shirdi and Kolhapur, demanding reopening of places of worship across the state, which have remained shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In Pune, the BJP leaders and party workers held a ghanta-naad (ringing of bells) agitation at Sarasbaug temple. “The government has allowed liquor shops to function. However, temples and religious places are still closed. This is not acceptable,” said Jagdish Mulik, city party president. Mulik was accompanied by mayor Murlidhar Mohol and legislator Madhuri Misal. “The state government should allow people to go to places of worship. If the government does not take any decision now, citizens will break the rule on their own and start visiting temples,” said Mulik, adding that the state government is confused and is unaware of how to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. Criticising the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, mayor Mohol said, “The state government must allow reopening of places of worship soon, as almost everything is now limping back to normalcy.”Over the past few weeks, there has been growing a chorus in the state for reopening of places worship. Besides the BJP, AIMIM Member of Parliament from Aurangabad Imtiaz Jaleel and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi president Prakash Ambedkar have also threatened to launch an agitation. Jaleel has threatened to offer prayers inside a mosque on September 2 if the government does not decide on the reopening by September 1. Sensing pressure, Shiv Sena MP in Rajya Sabha Sanjay Raut said that the state government is likely to take a call on the issue in the first week of September. Pune MP Girish Bapat led the agitations by workers in front of Omkareshwar Temple near Balgandharva.Ruling parties criticised BJP’s agitations, saying that the party is busy fanning flames of religious politics, when the city and state is facing bed shortage and the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Parvati constituency president Nitin Kadam, said, “We had appealed to the BJP to allow immersion tanks near water bodies, but the party did not allow citizens to perform Ganesh immersion in the city. Now, the same party is demanding reopening of temples. This shows their dual stand on the same issue.”Aam Aadmi Party’s Pune leader Mukunt Kirdat said, “There are many critical issues which the citizens are already facing like job loss, incomplete medical facility, bed shortage and enormous electricity bills. However, instead of addressing such development issues, the BJP is diverting the attention of citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/reopening-of-places-of-worship-bjp-stages-protests-against-maha-government/story-Q4Ca3ICkXaOxRTfYtAt4UN.html
30-08-2020||Pune||Peth area residents prefer this year’s crowd-free, noiseless Ganeshotsav||No sound systems blaring music or dhol-tashas (drums and cymbals) making their way across the narrow lanes during Ganeshotsav this year has made residents of Peth areas realise that this should be a template for Ganesh mandals on how to celebrate the festival. Residents and shopkeepers in the vicinity of mandaps are satisfied with the ‘new normal’ necessitated due to the Covid-19 pandemic which prevents loud and crowded processions. Sandip Konde, a resident of Sharada Ganesh Complex, Mandai area, said, “This year’s Ganesh festival took me back to the 80s and 90s when this type of peaceful Ganesh festival was celebrated. The environment is so peaceful. Every day all rituals are performed in the Mandai Mandir and nothing has changed apart from the crowd and the noise. However, I hope that the dhol-tasha pathaks (troupes) return next year as without them, the festival feels incomplete.” Every year, some of residents even had to lock themselves inside their homes or leave the city on the last two days of the festival as the celebrations reached its peak with 24-hour long processions. Mihir Shah, who owns a shop on Bajirao road, said, “My shop is located on Bajirao road near Natu Baug Ganesh Mandal which is famous for its light and sound show. Every year, all the shopkeepers had to close their shops at 5pm and leave, as the entire Bajirao road gets crowded. Even though my house is just 500metres away from my sho, it used to take me 20 to 25 minutes to reach my building. This year, the road is empty and I like the ‘new normal’ Ganesh festival celebrations.” This is the 128th year of the Sarvajanik (public) Ganesh festival, which was first started in Pune by Lokmanya Tilak in order to galvanise the society against British regime. Over the years, the festival gathered a celebratory nature with flouting of noise levels being a regular norm. Sanjay Mate, treasurer of Mandai Ganesh Mandal, said, “We are one of the most popular mandals in the city and we are celebrating Ganesh festival with simplicity and look forward to a noiseless immersion. We got a very positive response to the peaceful celebrations.” Giridhar Shinde, president of Digvijay Mitra Mandal, Sadashiv peth, said, “Every year we set up a mandap on the road and this year we have built a small mandap near the Ganesh mandir where all the rituals are being performed. It’s been 60 years and we have never encountered a noiseless Ganesh festival. One thing which we would like to continue in the coming years is to set up the mandap near the Ganpati mandir to avoid traffic and noise pollution.” Aditya Chavan, a resident of Sadashiv peth, said, “The best part about this year’s Ganeshotsav is that there is no traffic and noise in my area, which otherwise has a lot of disturbance.” Khushboo Shah from Sadashiv peth, said, “I am very happy the crowd-free and noiseless celebrations. Although, I miss the dhol-tashas as it represents the vibe of the overall Ganesh festival.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/peth-area-residents-prefer-this-year-s-crowd-free-noiseless-ganeshotsav/story-k6UXo6lV0oEm5g7dmPl4oN.html
30-08-2020||City||BSF detects trans-border tunnel from Pakistan to Jammu and Kashmir||The Border Security Force (BSF) has detected a trans-border tunnel originating from Pakistan apparently dug to push in infiltrators across Jammu & Kashmir’s Samba sector. The detection has prompted the BSF to launch a major operation to check whether there were more such tunnels.In a tweet, the BSF said the approximately 20 feet long and three-four feet wide tunnel was detected inside the Indian territory near the International Border at Samba’s Basantar area. “Pakistan made sandbags with Shakargarh/Karachi written were also found at the mouth of the tunnel to hide it. The place of opening of the tunnel is around 170 Mtrs from IB [international border] towards the Indian side in the field of a local farmer.”The BSF said its troops foiled nefarious design of Pakistan to infiltrate terrorists into Indian territory with this detection. “Efforts of alert BSF troops deployed in our counter-infiltration grid once again resulted in neutralizing the evil designs of terrorists.”A BSF officer said there have been regular inputs about the presence of terrorists on the Pakistani side looking for infiltration options into the Indian territory. A patrol detected the tunnel 50 metres from the border fence on the Indian side on Thursday.“BSF has found some plastic sandbags at its mouth with Pakistani markings. It was being dug nearly 25 to 30 feet beneath the ground. The BSF has launched a massive search operation and anti-tunnelling drive to detect such tunnels,” said the officer on condition of anonymity.The nearest Pakistani border post is about 400 metres from the tunnel.“The modus operandi of digging tunnels to push terrorists is an old tactic of Pakistan. It seems Pakistan has started imitating Hamas fighters, who dig out underground tunnels to enter Israel,” said an officer from the counter-insurgency wing of the Jammu & Kashmir police.In September 2019, the BSF launched an operation along the border to detect underground, cross-border tunnels. The BSF also uses ground-penetrating radars to detect tunnels.Pakistan has chosen areas like Samba for digging such tunnels to push armed terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-detects-trans-border-tunnel-from-pakistan-to-j-k/story-M6okTSPXKTGMsOHqnlOjGP.html
30-08-2020||Delhi||JNUSU requests vice-chancellor to facilitate registration of Sharjeel Imam, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal for next semester||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) on Saturday wrote to vice-chancellor Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar, seeking his “urgent intervention” in facilitating the pending semester registrations of three research scholars arrested for their alleged role in the Delhi riots, ahead of the August 31 deadline.Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, and Devangana Kalita are accused of instigating people through their inflammatory speeches during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests before the riots. The three have denied the allegations.The Union sought Kumar’s intervention to ensure the “academic progress of these students is not impeded”.“We are getting calls from their family members. They are also stressed,” said JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh, explaining why the body approached the V-C.In its email to Kumar, the Union said Imam’s registration has been blocked despite repeated appeals by JNUSU. “This is to bring to your immediate attention that the registration of Sharjeel Imam (PhD student/CHS/SSS) has been pending from the last semester. This is despite repeated appeals from the JNUSU to the Proctor office that the registration has been blocked.”“..on behalf of JNUSU, we would request you that the registration process for the last and upcoming semester of Sharjeel Imam and the process of upcoming semester registration for Natasha Narwal (PhD student/CHS/SSS) and Devangana Kalita (PhD Student/CWS [Centre for Women Students]/SSS) who presently are students of JNU should be facilitated,” the students’ body wrote in its letter.Imam, a PhD student at JNU’s Centre for Historical Studies, was first arrested in January followed by Narwal and Kalita in May. Narwal and Kalita are members of student collective Pinjra Tod and research scholars at the university’s School of Social Sciences.Registrar Pramod Kumar said the current registration process is only provisional. “When they [the arrested students] are out of jail, they can get the registration done depending upon the conditions of their release.”Natasha’s father Mahavir Narwal, a retired scientist, said, “Since she is in judicial custody and doesn’t have access to internet or banking facilities, I had requested that I be authorized to register for her instead. That doesn’t solve the problem because I don’t have her login ID and the details are saved in Natasha’s phone which is with the police. I have written to university officials this week to assist me in this but there has not been any response so far.”Surajit Mazumdar, general secretary at JNU teachers’ association, and a professor at the school of social sciences, said, “...Their continuation as students should be ensured and they should be allowed to register for the semester, and if and when they are released from custody, their period of custody can be dealt with in a manner akin to the zero semester/year provision already existing for those with medical problems. Alternatively, they can be granted special approval to discontinue their registration with the right to re-enrol as and when their custody ends.”Aakash Bhattacharya, a former JNU student and close friend of Kalita and Narwal, said, “Unless administration is willing to take different measures, registration looks difficult. If they aren’t registered, it will be a big blow to their academic prospects because they will no longer remain students of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnusu-requests-vic-chancellor-to-facilitate-pending-registration-of/story-V5P7y8RF6OVXjQ0MRsITeP.html
30-08-2020||World||US coronavirus cases approach 6 million as Midwest, schools face outbreaks||U.S. cases of the novel coronavirus were approaching 6 million on Sunday as many Midwest states reported increasing infections, according to a Reuters tally.Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota and Minnesota have recently reported record one-day increases in new cases while Montana and Idaho are seeing record numbers of currently hospitalized Covid-19 patients. Nationally, metrics on new cases, deaths, hospitalizations and the positivity rates of tests are all declining but there are emerging hotspots in the Midwest. Many of the new cases in Iowa are in the counties that are home to the University of Iowa and Iowa State University, which are holding some in-person classes. Colleges and universities around the country have seen outbreaks after students returned to campus, forcing some to switch to online-only learning. Infections have also risen after an annual motorcycle rally in Sturgis, South Dakota drew more than 365,000 people from across the country from Aug. 7 to 16. The South Dakota health department said 88 cases have been traced to the rally. More than eight months into the pandemic, the United States continues to struggle with testing, seeing the number of people tested fall in recent weeks.Many health officials and at least 33 states have rejected the new Covid-19 testing guidance issued by the Trump administration last week that said those exposed to the virus and without symptoms may not need testing. Public health officials believe the United States needs to test more frequently to find asymptomatic Covid-19 carriers to slow the spread of the disease. While the United States has the most recorded infections in the world, it ranks tenth based on cases per capita, with Brazil, Peru and Chile having higher rates of infection, according to a Reuters tally.The United States also has the most deaths in the world at over 182,000 and ranks 11th for deaths per capita, exceeded by Sweden, Brazil, Italy, Chile, Spain, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Peru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-cases-approach-6-million-as-midwest-schools-face-outbreaks/story-CV6xVaLvuOtfKlLG7R8OqJ.html
30-08-2020||World||Close UK campuses to prevent second Covid-19 wave, warn British academics||UK universities beginning the next academic year from September should not open campuses to prevent a major public health crisis, a leading union of lecturers warned on Sunday, given the risk to students moving across homes and campuses throughout the country amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic.The warning comes within days of official statistics showing that more than double the number of student visas were issued to Indians in the year ending June 2020 compared to the previous year. Visa rules have been revised to allow for online learning, but universities have been bracing for a fall in non-EU students turning up next month.The University and College Union (UCU) said the movement of over a million students across the UK to universities far from homes to begin courses “risks doing untold damage to people’s health and exacerbating the worst health crisis of our lifetimes”. It wants all teaching to move online in the first term as recommended by experts in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The union, which represents over 120,000 academics, lecturers, trainers, instructors, researchers, managers and other staff, alleged that there is no functioning track and trace system in place, nor any UK-wide plans to regularly test students or staff.Claiming that the push to get students back on campus was being driven by what it called “a dangerous desire” to get back to business as usual, before it was safe to do so, the UCU said instead of allowing universities to reopen, the government should step in and underwrite any lost funding for the higher education sector.The union said universities that rely on tuition and accommodation fees feared lost income and the government had to make it clear now that they will not suffer financially for doing the right thing in terms of public health.UCU general secretary Jo Grady said: “Moving a million plus students around the country is a recipe for disaster and risks leaving ill-prepared universities as the care homes of a second wave. It is time for the government to finally take some decisive and responsible action in this crisis and tell universities to abandon plans for face-to-face teaching.”“Refusing to act now will only store up problems further down the line as courses are forced to move online and students forced into lockdown. It is no good blaming students later on for a problem that could have been avoided by government action,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/close-uk-campuses-to-prevent-second-covid-19-wave-warn-british-academics/story-xZE5CEQbWBe34NKcr3h5cM.html
30-08-2020||World||Iran’s daily coronavirus cases drop to three-month low||Iran reported 1,754 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, the lowest number of daily infections in more than three months.Daily deaths also dropped for the seventh day to 103, Ministry of Health spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari told Iranian state TV. So far 21,462 people have died from the coronavirus in Iran since the government started reporting cases in February. A total of 373,570 people have been infected, according to official figures.Since Saturday the country has been observing public holidays of Tasu’a and Ashura, with the government encouraging people to mark religious ceremonies at their homes and adhere to strict social distancing in public places. Some traditions, such as the voluntary distribution of free food, have also been curtailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-daily-coronavirus-cases-drop-to-three-month-low/story-NzrRYylaWmpYTwb1OzfLAI.html
30-08-2020||World||What’s next as Japan PM Abe quits, potential successors||The abrupt resignation of Japan’s longest-serving prime minister, Shinzo Abe, triggered an election in his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to replace him as its president, followed by a vote in parliament to elect a new prime minister.Abe and his cabinet will run the government until a new premier is elected but will not be able to adopt new policies. The winner of the party election will hold the post until the end of Abe’s LDP term in September 2021.The new party president is virtually assured the premiership, since the LDP has a majority in parliament’s lower house.Usually, the party must announce the election for its leader a month in advance, and its members of parliament vote along with grassroots members. But with Abe’s sudden departure, the LDP will hold a slimmed-down election to avoid a political vacuum, aiming for a vote around Sept. 13-15, public broadcaster NHK said on Sunday.Here are details on some likely contenders.YOSHIHIDE SUGA, 71Suga, a self-made politician, plans to join the race, media said on Sunday.A loyal lieutenant since Abe’s troubled 2006-2007 first term, Suga was among the allies who pushed Abe to run again in 2012. Back in office, Abe tapped him as chief cabinet secretary, a pivotal role that includes acting as top government spokesman, coordinating policies and keeping bureaucrats in line.LDP secretary-general Toshihiro Nikai’s faction will likely support Suga if he runs, Takeo Kawamura, a senior faction official, said on Sunday.Talk of Suga as a contender bubbled up in April 2019 after he unveiled the imperial era name “Reiwa” for use on Japanese calendars after the enthronement of Emperor Naruhito.Suga’s clout was dented by scandals that toppled two cabinet ministers close to him last October.SHIGERU ISHIBA, 63A hawkish former defence minister and rare LDP critic of Abe, Ishiba regularly tops surveys of lawmakers whom voters want to see as the next premier but is less popular with the party’s lawmakers.The scaled-down LDP race could disadvantage Ishiba, a soft-spoken security maven who has also held portfolios for agriculture and reviving local economies.He defeated Abe in the first round of a party election in 2012, thanks to strong grassroots support, but lost in the second round when only MPs could vote. In a 2018 party leadership poll, Ishiba lost heavily to Abe.He has criticised the Bank of Japan’s ultra-low interest rates for hurting regional banks and called for higher public works spending to remedy growing inequality.FUMIO KISHIDA, 63Kishida was Abe’s foreign minister from 2012 to 2017, but diplomacy remained mainly in the prime minister’s grip.The low-key lawmaker from Hiroshima has been widely seen as Abe’s preferred successor but ranks low in voter surveys. He has told supporters he is in the race.Kishida hails from one of the party’s more dovish factions and is seen as less keen on revising the pacifist postwar constitution than Abe, for whom it was a cherished goal.The BOJ’s hyper-easy monetary policy “cannot go on forever,” Kishida has said.TARO KONO, 56Defence Minister Kono has a reputation as a maverick but has toed the line on key Abe policies, including a stern stance in a feud with South Korea over wartime history.He won the backing, should he choose to run, of Environment Minister Shinjiro Koizumi, the high-profile son of a popular former prime minister, who ruled himself out of the race on Sunday.Educated at Georgetown University and a fluent English speaker, Kono is a former foreign minister and minister for administrative reform.He has differentiated his conservative stances from those of his father, former chief cabinet secretary Yohei Kono, who authored a landmark 1993 apology to “comfort women”, a euphemism for women forced to work in Japan’s wartime military brothels.TOSHIMITSU MOTEGI, 64Abe’s foreign minister was previously economy minister, facing off with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in tough negotiations.Motegi was also trade minister under Abe when he returned to power in 2012, tackling talks on the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade pact.Educated at the University of Tokyo and Harvard, Motegi was first elected to the lower house in 1993 from the then-opposition Japan New Party. He joined the LDP in 1995.SEIKO NODA, TOMOMI INADANoda, 59, has made no secret of her desire to become Japan’s first female premier. An Abe critic, the former internal affairs minister, who also held the portfolio for women’s empowerment, fell short of the backing to join the 2918 LDP race.Inada, 61, a fiscally hawkish former defence minister and LDP policy chief, has expressed interest in joining the race to become the country’s first female premier. She is known as conservative Abe supporter.KATSUNOBU KATO, YASUTOSHI NISHIMURAAs health minister, Kato, 64, was in the limelight in the early days of Japan’s coronavirus outbreak, but Economy Minister Nishimura, 57, a former trade official, has since emerged as point person on virus policy.In 2015, Kato, a father of four, was handed the portfolio for boosting Japan’s rock-bottom birth rate, a task that has had little success. He is a former finance ministry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-s-next-as-japan-pm-abe-quits-potential-successors/story-s8jXCdtF3mKnKOwQadZ92H.html
30-08-2020||World||Singapore to offer free Covid-19 tests to taxi drivers, food delivery workers, hawkers||Singapore will offer free coronavirus tests to community groups such as taxi drivers, food delivery workers and hawkers as part of efforts to expand the Covid-19 testing regime, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has said. While there has been “no local evidence” that these groups are at a higher risk of being infected, they will be offered tests “given the nature of their working environment, such as the high frequency of interactions with the members of the public”, the MOH said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The costs of the tests will be fully borne by the government, it said on Saturday, adding that authorities will reach out to the groups progressively.The ministry on Sunday reported 54 new Covid-19 cases. The new cases included eight cases from the community and seven imported. The rest were migrant workers. To date, Singapore has 56,771 confirmed Covid-19 cases. With 110 more patients discharged from hospitals, 55,447 have fully recovered from the infection. Meanwhile, the MOH has also reiterated that makeshift face coverings such as bandanas, scarves and neck gaiters should not be used, as per the recommendations of the multi-ministry task force tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Noting that there have been recent queries on the efficacy of such makeshift coverings in preventing disease transmission, the MOH said that they may not perform as well as purpose-built masks as they may not have a good fit around the wearer’s nose and mouth and are made from materials that are not specific for disease prevention. “A mask should be worn such that it closely and completely covers the wearer’s nose and mouth, without leaving a gap between the mask and the face,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-offer-free-covid-19-tests-to-taxi-drivers-food-delivery-workers-hawkers/story-VtvmG6WdmNFAL7e2eSjZ0N.html
30-08-2020||World||Beirut port blast death toll rises to 190||The death toll from this month’s Beirut port blast has risen to 190 with more than 6,500 injured and three people missing, Lebanon’s caretaker government said in a report dated Sunday.Lebanese authorities are probing what caused highly explosive material stored unsafely for years to detonate in a mushroom cloud, wrecking swathes of the city and fuelling anger at a political class already blamed for the country’s economic meltdown.The army said on Saturday that seven people were still missing - three Lebanese, three Syrians and one Egyptian. It was not immediately clear if some had since been found.The Aug. 4 explosion left 300,000 people homeless and caused $15 billion in direct damage, said the report issued on Sunday by the presidency of the council of ministers. It said 50,000 houses, nine major hospitals and 178 schools had been damaged.The outgoing government quit over the blast. The presidency will talk to parliamentary blocs on Monday to designate a new prime minister, a day before French President Emmanuel Macron visits to press leaders to act to save the country from a deep financial crisis rooted in endemic corruption and mismanagement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beirut-port-blast-death-toll-rises-to-190/story-40WwmcblsIazBkCaxq67tI.html
30-08-2020||World||‘Unnecessary, potential for midair collisions’: 2 Russian aircraft intercept US Air Force bomber over Black Sea||A US Air Force B-52 bomber was intercepted by two Russian aircraft in an “unsafe” and “unprofessional” manner over the Black Sea and in international waters, US Air Forces in Europe and Air Forces Africa Public Affairs said in a statement citing CNN.The incident took place on Friday.The Russian pilots crossed within 100 feet of the US Air Force bomber’s nose several times and caused turbulence to the B-52, thereby limiting its ability to manoeuvre, the statement said.“Actions like these increase the potential for midair collisions, are unnecessary, and inconsistent with good airmanship and international flight rules,” said Gen. Jeff Harrigian, US Air Forces in Europe and Air Forces Africa commander, in the statement.“While the Russian aircraft were operating in international airspace, they jeopardised the safety of flight of the aircraft involved. We expect them to operate within international standards set to ensure safety and prevent accidents,” he was quoted as saying.Earlier on Friday, the B-52s flew over 30 NATO countries “to demonstrate NATO solidarity, enhance readiness and provide training opportunities aimed at enhancing interoperability for all participating aircrews from the US and NATO allies,” read a statement from US European Command, according to CNN.This comes amid tensions between the US and Russia and questions over Washington’s commitment to the alliance in the wake of a recent decision to cut US troop levels in Europe.US President Donald Trump had earlier criticised NATO member countries for not meeting the alliance target of spending 2 per cent of GDP on defence. Trump then asked the Pentagon to reduce the number of American troops in Germany, citing Berlin’s failure of committing to spend 2 per cent of its GDP on defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unnecessary-potential-for-midair-collisions-2-russian-aircraft-intercept-us-air-force-bomber-over-black-sea/story-XiEpJ9MaduCqf2uFiQHsCK.html
30-08-2020||World||Lebanon’s powerhouse Hezbollah hit by backlash after August 4 blast||Sara Jaafar joined a group of political activists gathered on August 4 to discuss strategies to challenge Lebanon’s entrenched rulers when their building was shaken and the windows blasted out by the giant explosion that rocked Beirut.She took cover from the flying debris, thoughts rushing through her head of past political assassinations in Lebanon. Her immediate reaction was that Hezbollah, the militant group that dominates power here, was targeting the dissidents’ meeting.The blast was in fact at the port of Beirut, caused by a stockpile of ammonium nitrate stored there for years. So far, it appears to be a result of longtime government mismanagement. No direct connection to Hezbollah has emerged in the explosion that wreaked destruction across the city and killed at least 180 people. Theories abound about what triggered the explosion, including even a possible Israeli strike against Hezbollah.Jaafar’s initial reaction reflected the fear Hezbollah has instilled among many Lebanese and the power it has succeeded in projecting over the past decade.For many, the Iran-backed Hezbollah now stands at the top of Lebanon’s sectarian-based system of power — and so is complicit in the corruption many blame for the port disaster and for driving the country into near bankruptcy.“Who controls most of everything?” asked Jaafar, a secular Shiite. Hezbollah and its ally, President Michel Aoun, “are the people in charge. ... They bear the responsibility.”In the wake of the blast, Hezbollah has come under unprecedented public criticism and its role in Lebanese politics under intense scrutiny.Cardboard effigies of Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, and other politicians were hanged on nooses at a rally after the blast. Some accused Hezbollah of storing weapons at the port, a claim it denies. Hezbollah’s political rivals seized the opportunity to fan hostilities against it and its allies.Social media posts mocked Nasrallah’s speeches. One noted how the US killing of Iranian commander Qassim Soleimani in Iraq in January prompted Nasrallah to weep and threaten revenge — while in his first speech following the blast, he was smiling and calm.“There is a paradox there with Hezbollah. They have never been more powerful politically and militarily. But they have never faced such an array of challenges as well,” said Nicholas Blanford, a Beirut-based Hezbollah expert.The season of discontent against Hezbollah comes as Lebanese suffer under an economic crash that has driven nearly half of the population into poverty. Rather than push for reform, critics say, Hezbollah has stood by its political allies who resist change. It also denied support to nationwide protests that erupted in October demanding the end of the dysfunctional political structure. US sanctions against Iran and Hezbollah made things harder.For years, Hezbollah maintained a clean reputation and distance from Lebanon’s political elite.It developed its power and resources as a resistance movement against Israel and became virtually a state within a state, heading a powerful military force and a welfare network for its Shiite supporters.Hezbollah remains Lebanon’s only armed force outside the military. It controls the borders and plays a crucial role in Iranian-backed wars in the region, like Syria’s.In 2005, an explosion killed former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and changed Lebanon’s political course. The bombing, blamed on Hezbollah, sent nearly a million people into the streets, forcing Hezbollah’s ally Syria to end its occupation of Lebanon.After that, Hezbollah began seeping into the system — from having a handful of Parliament members to becoming Lebanon’s most powerful political faction.Hezbollah and its allies formed the last Cabinet. Its failures came to be seen as Hezbollah’s, Blanford said.And they were many: The government failed to enact reforms, stem the financial meltdown or reach a rescue package with the International Monetary Fund. It finally resigned after the explosion.Hezbollah plays a significant role in forming the new government.To deflect criticism, Nasrallah addressed supporters several times, denying Hezbollah had anything to do with the port explosion.He made thinly veiled warnings to critics. In an Aug. 14 speech, Nasrallah warned repeatedly against pushing Lebanon toward civil war. He urged supporters to “hold onto their anger” over criticism, hinting it would be unleashed against opponents.In Hezbollah’s stronghold in the Beirut suburb Dahiyeh, supporters saw the explosion as a conspiracy to weaken Lebanon and the group.“We had two places to bring money and assistance from: the port and the airport. Something had to happen somewhere so that the siege (on Lebanon) is tightened and so that these people rise against their rulers,” said Issam Kaeen, a 42-year-old coffee shop owner.Mohammed Abi Shakra, who owns a women’s wear shop, said an Israeli attack on the port can’t be ruled out. “This is a conspiracy against the Lebanese people to make them poor, to incite civil war,” he said.Meanwhile, social tensions are on the rise. Opponents of Hezbollah clashed twice with the group’s supporters, including a gunfight on Thursday that killed two bystanders and wounded several. Gunmen reportedly opened fire over religious banners raised by Hezbollah supporters.“There is no god but God, and Nasrallah is the enemy of God,” mourners chanted at a funeral of one of the killed.Following the explosion, Hezbollah made some internal changes, part of a shift inward after the nationwide protests and its receding role in Syria’s war, an official with the group said. The group’s security chief was given a bigger portfolio and the head of an agency that coordinates with allies was replaced. Media operations are also changing, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to confirm media reports.After the blast, Jaafar and other victims demanded an international investigation. “We lost our homes, our kids, our fathers and our city. We lost everything,” she said in an angry speech at a gathering near the port.“All of them means all of them,” the small crowd chanted, naming Nasrallah among other leaders they want out of power.Her apartment in a landmark building nearby was devastated by the blast. An architect, Jaafar is considering leaving the destruction as a reminder of how it all went wrong.Active since the October protests, Jaafar is frustrated by the small turnout in rallies since the blast but recognizes an outpouring of public anger is only one requisite for change. She, like many in Lebanon, sees her country’s political crisis as a product of rivalry between Hezbollah’s patron, Iran, and the US and Gulf states. Only a resolution to that conflict will force change, she said.“I understand why they exist. They filled the gap where the state failed,” said Jaafar. But “we want a real nation, a real country,” she said. “This is a jungle.”Jaafar said protest activists are realizing they must work with allies within the system for change — push for early elections and challenge Hezbollah and its allies in Parliament.“We won’t get rid of them in one election,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lebanon-s-powerhouse-hezbollah-hit-by-backlash-after-august-4-blast/story-xZ0RYtTzbdXJAuTjPqW11L.html
30-08-2020||World||Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary to join race for succeeding Shinzo Abe||Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga will join the race to succeed outgoing Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as leader of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), who would, in turn, become the next country’s premier, a source familiar with the matter told Kyodo News Agency on Sunday.Suga, the chief spokesperson for the government, informed LDP Secretary-General Toshihiro Nikai about his desire to contest the party’s leadership election, a day after Abe announced he would step down as the Prime Minister due to health concerns, the source said.Some senior members of the LDP have lauded Suga for his crisis management abilities, underlining that it is crucial to maintain policy continuity in the fight against Covid-19, the source added.According to senior party lawmakers, the election is slated to be held on or around September 15. LDP policy chief and former Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida and former Defence Minister Shigeru Ishiba have also indicated their intention to participate in the election.Also read| Abenomics, stable rule and defence spending: A look at Shinzo Abe’s 3-decade careerThe Prime Minister has directed Nikai to make decisions regarding the party leadership race.Suga, who has been serving as the government’s top spokesperson since Abe assumed power in 2012, is one of the Prime Minister’s closest aides and was considered a potential contender.He had earlier ruled out succeeding Abe, saying he “never thought about it,” according to Kyodo News Agency.Abe, the longest-serving Japanese Prime Minister, is stepping down due to ulcerative colitis, a chronic disease which earlier forced him to resign from the post of the premiership in 2007.The 65-year-old leader said on Friday that he will continue to carry out his duties until the LDP elects its new leader, who will subsequently become the new prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-s-chief-cabinet-secretary-to-join-race-for-succeeding-shinzo-abe/story-XCDb2CXU9kLESp1d01qPhL.html
30-08-2020||World||Anger after French magazine depicts Black lawmaker as slave||A French magazine apologized Saturday after portraying a Black lawmaker as a slave, as France’s government and officials across the political spectrum decried the publication.The legislator, Danielle Obono from the far-left party Defiant France, said the publication flies in the face of those who complain that free speech is threatened by the fight against racism and sexism.“You can still write racist s—- in a rag illustrated with a Black French parliament member repainted as a slave,” she tweeted. “The extreme right — odious, stupid and cruel.”The magazine, Valeurs Actuelles, which caters to readers on the right and far right, apologized in a statement Saturday. Deputy editor Tagdual Denis told BFM television that the image wasn’t designed to wound Obono and denied that it was an attention-getting ploy. But he added: “What I regret is that we are always accused of racism ... we are politically incorrect, it’s in our DNA.”Anti-racism activists said the publication reflected a creeping acceptance of extremist views, fueled by social media.Prime Minister Jean Castex from the conservative Republicans party tweeted: “This revolting publication calls for unambiguous condemnation. ... The fight against racism will always transcend our differences.”The junior minister for equality and the only Black member of the French government, Elisabeth Moreno, tweeted that “I don’t share Danielle Obono’s ideas, but today I offer her all my support.” A similar refrain came from politicians from multiple parties, including the treasurer of Marine Le Pen’s far-right National Rally party.Obono, who was born in the former French colony of Gabon, said later on BFM that “I hurt for my republic, I hurt for my France.” She called the publication a political attack on her and others who fight against “the racism, stigmatization that millions of our compatriots are subjected to.”France saw multiple protests in June and July against racial injustice and police brutality inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement and George Floyd’s death at the knee of a policeman in the United States.French President Emmanuel Macron, a centrist who raised eyebrows when he gave an interview to Valeurs Actuelles last year, has pledged to root out racism. But he also insisted that France will not take down statues of figures linked to the colonial era or the slave trade, as has happened in other countries in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anger-after-french-magazine-depicts-black-lawmaker-as-slave/story-1BVODHuZeAYm7LuDtHRQCN.html
30-08-2020||World||US election 2020- Donald Trump vs Joe Biden: A look at Republican and Democratic parties’ vision for America||In less than 10 weeks from now, the United States will vote to elect a new government for the next four years or re-elect the Trump administration for a second term. Former vice president and Democratic Party’s presidential candidate Joe Biden and current US president and Republican opponent Donald Trump have raised the stakes as the nation goes to polls on November 3. While the president’s party concluded the scaled-down Republican National Convention on Thursday, the Democratic Party wrapped up its event last week by officially nominating Biden for the post of president and Kamala Harris for vice president. Also read: With the conventions now over, what’s next in campaign 2020?Here’s what the two candidates battling to become the president of the world’s largest economy have done or have offered to do on winning 2020 polls and how it’ll impact the worldEmployment President Donald Trump has vowed to “prohibit” American companies from replacing local workers with lower-cost foreign workers, a key fallout of outsourcing, and continue his hardline position on immigration. “We have to win. This is the most important election in the history of our country,” he said. His “Fighting for You” agenda also promises to “end reliance” on China by encouraging American firms to bring back operations and continue the “America First” foreign policy. Joe Biden, on the other hand, has promised to reform the temporary visa system to bring high-skilled employees and establish a wage-based allocation process and establish enforcement mechanisms to ensure they are aligned with the labour market and not used to undermine wages.In his nomination acceptance speech, Biden said, “Just judge this president on the facts. More than 50 million people have filed for unemployment this year. More than 10 million people are going to lose their health insurance this year. Nearly one in 6 small businesses has closed this year.” Since he’s “done it before,” Biden says he will rebuild the economy like he did when it was on the verge of collapse in 2009. In an outreach video, the Democratic Party said, back then Biden led the largest stimulus in a generation and saved millions of jobs.I know how to lead this nation through a crisis because I've done it before. I won't waste any time getting this virus under control and building our country back better. pic.twitter.com/HgBdR6VxUOCovid-19 responseWhile Biden says he would shut down the country in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, if experts and scientists suggested so, Trump has ordered reopening in phases to bring the economy back on track. “Rebuilding our economy starts with fighting the virus, increasing testing, getting more protective gear for health care workers and calling for mask mandates nationwide,” the Democratic Party said in a campaign video shared through the former vice president’s Twitter handle. The video comes at the time when there are 5,961,581 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country and the toll stands at 182,779, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s tally. As the cases continued to grow at a rapid pace, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), facing pressure from the Trump administration, last week gave emergency approval for use of plasma therapy to treat seriously affected patients. The announcement came on the eve of the Republican National Convention, where Trump was nominated to lead his party for four more years, raising suspicions that the move was politically motivated to offset critics of the president’s handling of the pandemic.The FDA chief Stephen Hahn, however, later apologised for overstating the life-saving benefits of treating Covid-19 patients with convalescent plasma.Also, while many countries have made it compulsory for citizens to use face masks as a precautionary measure against the virus, the president has neither mandated nor is he himself seen using one on most occasions. Ties with WHO Alleging the World Health Organization’s (WHO) mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis and its role in “a conspiracy to cover up for China”, US president Donald Trump has halted the nation’s contributions to the UN health body. Though the administration had earlier said it was considering numerous proposals, there is no final word yet on restoring full or partial funding to the WHO. Biden has so far not announced his action plan on the future ties with the WHO. However, he has been pushing for the guidelines provided by the UN body like wearing face masks to prevent coronavirus from spreading. US-India relations There are nearly 1.2 million Indian-American voters in the US. Recently, the Trump campaign released a video titled ‘Four More Years’ featuring clips showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the ‘Howdy Modi’ event in Texas last year and the US President ‘Namaste Trump’ event in Ahmedabad this February.“America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!,” the tweet alongside the video read.  America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans! 👍🏻🇺🇸 pic.twitter.com/bkjh6HODevDuring a bilateral meeting with ‘friend’ PM Modi earlier this year, President Trump also assured of a trade deal very soon. Biden too has pledged closer ties with India and a better deal for Indian-Americans saying he will stand with New Delhi in confronting “new threats its faces in its own region and along its own border.”He has also promised to end the temporary suspension of H-1B visas to ensure American have the first crack at jobs. The visa programme, of which Indians are the largest beneficiaries, has been in the crosshairs of the Trump administration’s immigration hawks.Also, Democrat Kamala Harris is the first Indian American and Black woman — actually, the first woman of colour — to be fielded for the second highest political office in the US by a major political party.US-China tensions Since Trump took office, relations between the US and China have spiraled down. Despite reaching an agreement on Phase 1 of a trade deal, the difference between the two countries has only widened. The president’s criticism for China has only increased after the first case of coronavirus was reported from Wuhan in December last year and has now taken over the world. Since then, Trump has time and again categorically blamed the “Chinese virus” and omissions by China’s regime for its spread.Also, after India banned 59 Chinese apps over security concerns, China’s TikTok also came on Trump’s radar following which he has ordered the video app’s parent company to sell its US operations to an American company within 90 days if the application isn’t banned. Though Biden has not made his stand clear on how he will lead ties with China if elected president, several Democrats have backed Trump’s move to ban Chinese apps. Biden has also promised to work with India in the Indo-Pacific to ensure no country, including China, “is able to threaten its neighbours with impunity” and will have “no tolerance” for cross-border terrorism in South Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-donald-trump-vs-joe-biden-a-look-at-republican-and-democratic-party-s-vision-for-america/story-fcIoqYn3KM2H8wgjfvjSFP.html
30-08-2020||World||29 killed as China restaurant collapses during party||Rescue efforts ended at a two-story restaurant in a northern China village that collapsed during an 80th birthday celebration for a resident, leaving 29 dead, authorities said Sunday.The Ministry of Emergency Management said another 28 people were injured, seven of them seriously, when the building suddenly crumbled on Saturday. A total of 57 people were brought out alive, the ministry said.There was no immediate word on what caused the collapse or on the fate of the birthday guest and other celebrants.Hundreds of rescue workers using sniffer dogs, cranes and high-tech sensors had searched the rubble, lifting slabs of concrete in hopes of freeing survivors.The official China Daily newspaper said the building collapsed at 9:40 a.m. on Saturday. It said the Cabinet’s Work Safety Commission would oversee the investigation into the accident’s cause.While China has seen major improvements in industrial safety, building standards are sometimes ignored, particularly in rural areas such as Shanxi province’s Xiangfen county, about 630 kilometers (400 miles) southwest of Beijing, where the restaurant was located.The region lies in the heart of China’s coal country, where thousands of miners have died in explosions, collapses and floods over past years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-restaurant-collapses-during-birthday-party-killing-29/story-VNt18VVmWMJd6Z2uYxErMJ.html
30-08-2020||World||China’s new tech export controls could give Beijing a say in TikTok sale||China’s new rules around tech exports mean ByteDance’s sale of TikTok’s US operations could need Beijing’s approval, a Chinese trade expert told state media, a requirement that would complicate the forced and politically charged divestment.ByteDance has been ordered by President Donald Trump to divest short video app TikTok - which is challenging the order - in the United States amid security concerns over the personal data it handles.Microsoft Corp and Oracle Corp are among the suitors for the assets, which also includes TikTok’s Canada, New Zealand and Australia operations.However, China late on Friday revised a list of technologies that are banned or restricted for export for the first time in 12 years and Cui Fan, a professor of international trade at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing, said the changes would apply to TikTok.“If ByteDance plans to export related technologies, it should go through the licensing procedures,” Cui said in an interview with Xinhua published on Saturday.China’s Ministry of Commerce added 23 items - including technologies such as personal information push services based on data analysis and artificial intelligence interactive interface technology - to the restricted list.It can take up to 30 days to obtain preliminary approval to export the technology.TikTok’s secret weapon is believed to be its recommendation engine that keeps users glued to their screens. This engine, or algorithm, powers TikTok’s “For You” page, which recommends the next video to watch based on an analysis of your behaviour.Cui noted that ByteDance’s development overseas had relied on its domestic technology that provided the core algorithm and said the company may need to transfer software codes or usage rights to the new owner of TikTok from China to overseas.“Therefore, it is recommended that ByteDance seriously studies the adjusted catalogue and carefully considers whether it is necessary to suspend” negotiations on a sale, he added.ByteDance did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday.China’s foreign ministry has said that it opposes the executive orders Trump has placed on TikTok and that Beijing will defend the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-new-tech-export-controls-could-give-beijing-a-say-in-tiktok-sale/story-zEVB1VQDxlcu7St5UoSh4H.html
30-08-2020||World||Global coronavirus cases surpass 25 million, toll over 840,000||Global coronavirus cases surged past 25 million on Sunday, according to a Reuters tally, as India marked a worldwide record for daily new cases in the Covid-19 pandemic.The data showed steady global growth as the disease’s epicentre shifts again, with India taking centre stage from the United States and Latin America.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India’s single-day tally of 78,761 new coronavirus infections on Sunday exceeded the one-day increase of 77,299 reported by the United States in mid-July. The south Asian country’s surge took the global caseload to 25,074,751.The official number of global coronavirus cases is now at least five times the number of severe influenza illnesses recorded annually, according to World Health Organization data.Around the world, there have been more than 840,000 deaths, considered a lagging indicator given the two-week incubation period of the virus. That has exceeded the upper range of 290,000 to 650,000 annual deaths linked to influenza. Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordIndia, the world’s second-most populous country, is third behind, the United States and Brazil, in total caseload, but has consistently outpaced both in new daily cases since Aug. 7, according to the Reuters tally.Despite the surging case numbers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been pushing for a return to normalcy to lessen the economic pain of the pandemic, having imposed a strict early lockdown of the country’s 1.3 billion people in March.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe government announced on Saturday that it will reopen underground train networks - a lifeline for millions in the capital city of New Delhi - and allow sports and religious events in a limited manner from next month.Latin America is the region with the most infections in the world, although some countries in the region are beginning to show a slight decline in infections.In the United States, metrics on new cases, deaths, hospitalizations and test positivity rates are all declining, but there are emerging hotspots in the Midwest.The global pace of new infections has steadied a little. It has taken about three weeks for the caseload to jump by 5 million cases to 25 million. That compared with the 19, 24 and 39 days it took, respectively, to add 5 million cases to the 20 million, 15 million and 10 million marks.The rate of new daily cases has slowed to around 1.2% over August so far. That compared with 1.7% in July, 1.8% in June, 2.1% in May, 4.6% in April and 7.7% in March.Health experts stress that official data almost certainly underreports both infections and deaths, particularly in countries with limited testing capacity.While Covid-19’s trajectory still falls far short of the 1918 Spanish flu, which infected an estimated 500 million people, killing at least 10% of patients, experts worry the available data is underplaying the true impact of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-cases-surpass-25-million-toll-over-840-000/story-nCXnkD4MAnydQnikiFPWBN.html
30-08-2020||World||Weeks without power or water ahead as Laura cleanup begins||The destructive storm surge has receded, and the cleanup has begun from Hurricane Laura, but officials along this shattered stretch of southwestern Louisiana are warning returning residents they will face weeks without power or water amid the hot, stifling days of late summer.The US toll from the Category 4 hurricane rose to 16 deaths Saturday, with more than half of those killed by carbon monoxide poisoning from the unsafe operation of generators. The latest deaths included an 80-year-old woman and an 84-year-old man who died from just such a poisoning.Also read: As Hurricane Laura batters US cities, NOAA plane flies through it to capture rare images from insidePresident Donald Trump plans to tour the damage in Louisiana and neighboring Texas on Saturday and is expected to receive briefings on relief efforts.White House spokesman Judd Deere said Trump was traveling “to be with those who have been impacted by Hurricane Laura.”Across southwestern Louisiana, people were cleaning up from the hurricane that roared ashore early Thursday, packing 150 mph (240 kph) winds. Many were deciding whether they wanted to return home to miserable conditions or wait until basic services are finally restored.Along the coast in Cameron Parish, the receding storm surge left behind sediment and debris. Roads appeared still impassable. At South Cameron High School in Creole, parts of the roof of one building were ripped off, and debris was strewn everywhere. A barge appeared tilted on its side along the water.At First United Methodist Church in Lake Charles, a work crew was battling water that continued to pour into the church building as it rained Friday.Also read: Trump surveys Hurricane Laura damage in post-convention trip“This roof blew off. There’s some of it over there,” said Michael Putman, owner of Putman Restoration, pointing to part of the roof resting near the side of the building. A pile of black garbage bags sat outside the church, filled with insulation and ceiling tile.Putman lives in Shreveport, which also got damage from the storm. But he said he drove down to Lake Charles to help the minister, who was his high school pastor.“We slept in our truck in the parking lot last night,” he said.Simply driving was a feat in Lake Charles, a city of 80,000 residents hit head on. Power lines and trees blocked paths or created one-lane roads, leaving drivers to negotiate with oncoming traffic. Street signs were snapped off their posts or dangling. No stoplights worked, making it an exercise in trust to share the road with other motorists.Mayor Nic Hunter cautioned that there was no timetable for restoring electricity and that water-treatment plants “took a beating,” leaving barely a trickle of water coming out of most faucets. “If you come back to Lake Charles to stay, make sure you understand the above reality and are prepared to live in it for many days, probably weeks,” Hunter wrote on Facebook.The Louisiana Department of Health estimated that more than 220,000 people were without water. Restoration of those services could take weeks or months, and full rebuilding could take years.Forty nursing homes were relying on generators, and assessments were underway to determine if more than 860 residents in 11 facilities that had been evacuated could return.Several hospitals in Calcasieu Parish and one in Cameron Parish evacuated critical patients to other facilities because of water and power issues, the state health department said. Other hospitals are operating on intermittent generator power.Nineteen babies who weathered the hurricane at Lake Charles Memorial Hospital were brought to other hospitals across around the state. The babies, some on respirators or eating via feeding tubes, were at the neonatal intensive care unit of another hospital and had to be moved Wednesday hours before the hurricane arrived out of concerns that storm surge would swamp the one-story building. Hospital officials said they then decided to move them out of Lake Charles when it became apparent that it could be weeks before water was restored.Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards called Laura the most powerful hurricane to strike the state, meaning it surpassed even Katrina, which was a Category 3 storm when it hit in 2005. He said Friday that officials now believe the surge was as high as 15 feet (4.5 meters).Saturday marks the 15th anniversary of Katrina.Hurricane Laura also killed nearly two dozen people in Haiti and the Dominican Republic en route to the US Gulf Coast.In Lake Charles, chainsaws buzzed and heavy machinery hauled tree limbs in the front lawn of Stanley and Dominique Hazelton, who rode out the storm on a bathroom floor. A tree punctured the roof not far from where the couple was taking cover.They regretted staying.“There’s people without homes,” Stanley Hazelton said. “So it was dumb. We’ll never do it again. We’ll never stay through another hurricane again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/weeks-without-power-or-water-ahead-as-laura-cleanup-begins/story-XCX9grQyZbSXsgBhDdkjEP.html
30-08-2020||World||Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concerns||A controversial imam in Australia has asked Muslims not to get the vaccine for the coronavirus disease being developed by Oxford University. Sufyaan Khalifa claimed the vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca is ‘haram’ - meaning forbidden.Khalifa has posted a video on his YouTube channel in which he blasted the methodology adopted by AstraZeneca, which said it is making the vaccine using foetal cells of an aborted baby in the 1970s and developed in a laboratory.“Shame on some Muslim bodies justifying the use of the vaccine. Shame on any imam who did sign this fatwah,” Khalifa said in the video. His is the growing voice of religious figures who are against Australia’s vaccine deal with AstraZeneca. A senior Catholic archbishop had recently warned he is “deeply troubled” by the deal, saying the potential vaccine uses a fetal cell line that creates an “ethical quandary” for Christians.Sydney Archbishop Anthony Fisher wrote a letter to Prime Minister Scott Morrison outlining concerns of some Christians over the vaccine’s apparent use of a cell line derived from an elective abortion performed decades ago. The letter was signed by Anglican and Greek Orthodox religious leaders.It also urged Morrison to pursue other “ethical” vaccine candidates to ensure religious objectors have a choice.Referring to the objection raised by the Catholic bodies, Imam Khalifa lashed out at Muslim bodies in Australia. “The Catholics have stood up against this clearly because they know it’s haram, it’s unlawful. But you stand with the government instead,” the Perth-based imam said. Australia earlier this month announced a deal with AstraZeneca to manufacture the “promising” vaccine if it is proven safe and effective, with plans to offer it for free to the entire population.Some of the officials in Australia have said that they respect the sentiments of religioous communities. An Australian government spokerperson had said that they are “investing in research and technology that we hope will produce a range of vaccines that will be suitable for as many Australians as possible”.Among those is the University of Queensland’s vaccine candidate, which the official said does not contain fetal cell lines and has received Aus $5 million in government funding.It is currently in Phase 1 efficacy trials, while the Oxford vaccine is among a handful globally that have reached Phase 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/controversy-around-oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-australia-some-clerics-raise-concerns/story-Ds7aSQ7y7CjedvJ0p2ns1K.html
30-08-2020||World||One shot dead as rival protesters clash in Portland||One person was shot dead in Portland late on Saturday as protesters from rival groups clashed in the northwest US city, which has seen frequent demonstrations for months that have at times turned violent.Police statements on Saturday said both the death and protest violence took place in Portland’s downtown area. However, they did not immediately link the shooting death to the protests.“A Homicide Investigation is underway in downtown Portland after a shooting Saturday evening,” a Portland police spokesman said in an emailed statement.Sounds of gunfire were heard in the area of Southeast 3rd Avenue and Southwest Alder Street, according to the statement.“(Police) responded and located a victim with a gunshot wound to the chest. Medical responded and determined that the victim was deceased,” the statement said.The police said they were not currently releasing suspect information.When asked by Reuters if the shooting in downtown Portland was related to the clashes between rival protesters in the same are, the spokesman said “it is too early in the investigation to draw those kinds of conclusions”.A New York Times report cited two unidentified witnesses saying a small group of people got into an argument with other people in a vehicle and someone opened fire.The man who was shot and killed was wearing a hat with the insignia of Patriot Prayer, a far-right group based in Portland that has clashed with protesters in the past, according to the newspaper. Reuters could not independently verify this.Separately, Portland police earlier said in a tweet that a “political rally is caravanning throughout downtown Portland” and that there had been “some instances of violence between demonstrators and counter-demonstrators.”Police had intervened and made some arrests, the tweet said.Demonstrations against racism and police brutality have swept the United States since the death in May of George Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man who died after a Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.Tensions between rival protest groups have roiled downtown Portland every night for nearly three months following Floyd’s death.President Donald Trump’s administration in July deployed federal forces to Portland to crack down on the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-shot-dead-as-rival-protesters-clash-in-portland/story-jwL3th3QtewQMIoDUX7MMJ.html
30-08-2020||World||Prez Donald Trump to visit Kenosha in wake of racial unrest||US President Donald Trump will travel next week to the Midwestern city where African American Jacob Blake was shot multiple times in the back by a white policeman, sparking a nationwide wave of protest.Trump will meet police in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Tuesday and “survey damage from recent riots” triggered by Blake’s shooting last weekend, White House spokesman Judd Deere said Saturday.Blake took at least half a dozen shots in front of his small children as he tried to get into a car, in an incident that has prompted an outpouring of anger over yet another shooting of a black man by police.Deere did not say if Trump would meet the family of Blake, 29, who was left paralyzed from the waist down.Protesters have taken to the streets in major cities nationwide this summer over the deaths of black people at the hands of police, including George Floyd in Minneapolis in May.Also read: ‘How dare we not vote?’ Black voters organize after DC marchIt is the most widespread civil unrest in the United States for decades.Trump has characterized the mostly-peaceful activists as rioters as he pushes a law and order message while fighting an uphill battle for re-election in November.Kenosha, about an hour’s drive from Chicago, saw three nights of violence after the Blake shooting as protesters set fire to buildings and cars.Major US sports leagues including the NBA were forced to suspend play as African American and other players outraged by the shooting joined the latest national wave of anger over racial injustice and police misconduct.On Friday tens of thousands of protesters thronged the US capital for a mass march marking the anniversary of Reverend Martin Luther King Jr’s historic “I have a dream” speech on August 28, 1963.It was dubbed “Get Your Knee Off Our Necks,” in reference to Floyd, who suffocated beneath the knee of a white officer.Often fighting back tears, relatives of Floyd, Blake and Breonna Taylor -- a black 26-year-old shot dead by police in her apartment last March -- took turns addressing the sea of people, who repeatedly called out the victims’ names in response. Also read: Trump knocks protesters against racial injustice during New Hampshire rally“Black America, I hold you accountable,” said Blake’s sister Letetra Widman. “You must stand, you must fight, but not with violence and chaos. With self love.”Like his father 57 years ago, Martin Luther King III stood on the Lincoln Memorial steps and urged Americans to keep fighting inequality -- and to vote in November at all costs to defeat Trump.“We are taking a step forward on America’s rocky but righteous journey towards justice,” King said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prez-donald-trump-to-visit-kenosha-in-wake-of-racial-unrest/story-dlI1wOvJxjmQbhhsOccXnL.html
30-08-2020||World||Trump surveys Hurricane Laura damage in post-convention trip||President Donald Trump got a firsthand look Saturday at the damage from Hurricane Laura on a post-Republican National Convention trip that allowed him to use the trappings of his office to try to project empathy and leadership.His stops, first in Louisiana and later in Texas, came two days after the Category 4 storm slammed the Gulf Coast, leaving at least 16 dead and wreaking havoc with severe winds and flooding. While the storm surge has receded and the cleanup effort has begun, hundreds of thousands remain without power or water, and they could for weeks or months as the hot summer stretches on.Also read: As Hurricane Laura batters US cities, NOAA plane flies through it to capture rare images from inside“I’m here to support the great people of Louisiana. It’s been a great state for me,” he said in Lake Charles. “It was a tremendously powerful storm.” He said he knows one thing about the state: “They rebuild it fast.”During the slightly more than two hours he spent in the city, Trump met with officials and relief workers but not with any of the residents whose homes had been ripped apart in the storm.He did, however, get a good look at the extensive damage and the debris strewn across the city of 80,000 people, beginning with the bird’s eye view from Air Force One as it came in for landing.His first stop was a warehouse being used as a staging area for the Cajun Navy, a group of Louisiana volunteers who help with search and rescue after hurricanes and floods. “Good job,” Trump told them.Trump then toured a neighborhood with Gov. John Bel Edwards and acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf, making his way down a street blocked by felled trees and where houses were battered by the storm, one with its entire roof torn off.Also read: Hurricane Laura thrashes Louisiana, but damage is less than predictedEdwards has said Laura was the most powerful hurricane ever to strike his state, surpassing even Hurricane Katrina, which was a Category 3 when it hit almost exactly 15 years ago.“Whether you come from Louisiana or 5th Avenue In New York, you know about Katrina,” Trump said.The president then flew by helicopter to Orange, Texas, which was the worst-hit area in the state. Several hundred supporters greeted his arrival with Trump 2020 flags, banners and signs. Among the officials on hand were Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and US Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas. Before a flyover to view damaged areas, Trump and other officials visited the emergency operations center in Orange County to discuss storm damage and the government response. He was flying back to Washington Saturday evening.Trump has sometimes struggled with his role as consoler in chief, failing to project empathy when visiting places hard hit by tragedy and disaster. That includes in Puerto Rico, where Trump was photographed tossing rolls of paper towel into the crowd, which some saw as inappropriately playful, given the circumstances. During a trip to the Carolinas in 2018, Trump marveled at a yacht floodwaters had washed onto a family’s property, telling them, “At least you got a nice boat out of the deal.” And he was caught on camera telling a person he’d handed out food to “have a good time.”Also read: Hurricane Laura moves toward landfall in southwestern LouisianaOther times, Trump has been a source of comfort. After a tornado ripped through Alabama last year, killing nearly two dozen people, Trump spent time with families who’d lost loved ones, listening to their stories and hugging them.Showing empathy has come more naturally for his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, who issued a statement Saturday saying he and his wife were praying for those hurt by the storm and promising that “we will be there to help you build back better.”In a possible subtle dig at the incumbent, Biden praised the response of families in the hurricane-hit states and thanked them for “reminding Americans that no disaster, no single person, no injustice can match the humble, personal, courageous ways that Americans choose decency every single day.”Laura, which packed 150-mph (240-kph) winds and a storm surge as high as 15 feet (4.5 meters), toppled trees and damaged buildings as far north as central Arkansas. More than 580,000 coastal residents evacuated in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic.More than half of those who died succumbed to carbon monoxide poisoning from the unsafe operation of generators. The hurricane also killed nearly two dozen people in Haiti and the Dominican Republic as it barreled toward the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-surveys-hurricane-laura-damage-in-post-convention-trip/story-lpZIj0FxOJJEP3d8BvqGUO.html
30-08-2020||World||Donald Trump’s intel chief ends election security briefings on Capitol Hill||The nation’s top intelligence official has informed Congress that his office will no longer give in-person election security briefings on Capitol Hill, a move that raised concern among lawmakers Saturday about the public’s right to know about foreign interference in the upcoming presidential election.President Donald Trump said National Intelligence Director John Ratcliffe made the decision because the administration “got tired” of intelligence about election security leaking from Congress.“They leaked the information ... and what’s even worse, they leaked the wrong information and we got tired of it,” Trump told reporters while attending a briefing on Hurricane Laura in Orange, Texas. He didn’t offer details to support his statement.Sen. Angus King, I-Maine, said the idea that the national intelligence director’s office would stop briefing Congress on foreign threats to the US election is “an outrage” and that written updates were “flatly insufficient.”“America’s election — indeed, our foundation of democracy itself — is under threat as we face weaponized disinformation from global foes around the planet,” King, a member of the Senate’s intelligence committee, said in a lengthy statement. “To stifle and limit the American peoples’ awareness of this fact cannot be explained — or allowed.”Ratcliffe, who oversees the nation’s intelligence agencies, sent formal notification letters Saturday to the Senate and House leadership and the chairmen and ranking members of both chambers’ intelligence committees.In the letter, Ratcliffe wrote: “I believe this approach helps ensure, to the maximum extent possible, that the information ODNI provides the Congress in support of your oversight responsibilities on elections security, foreign malign influence, and election interference is not misunderstood nor politicized.”White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who was with Trump in Texas, said lawmakers will still be sent full written readouts. Meadows said Ratcliffe is going to make sure there are “proper tools for their oversight.”Earlier this month, the nation’s counterintelligence chief, William Evanina, issued a statement saying US intelligence officials believe Russia is using various methods to denigrate Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and that people linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin are boosting Trump’s reelection bid. US officials also believe China does not want Trump to win a second term and has accelerated its criticism of the White House, Evanina wrote.On Saturday, Democratic lawmakers criticized Ratcliffe’s decision.“This intelligence belongs to the American people, not the agencies which are its custodian,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Rep. Adam Schiff, the Democrat who chairs the House’s intelligence committee, said in a joint statement. “The American people have both the right and the need to know that another nation, Russia, is trying to help decide who their president should be.”Pelosi and Schiff called the decision a “betrayal of the public’s right to know how foreign powers are trying to subvert our democracy.”An official with the House intelligence committee said the decision was unexpected because Ratcliffe’s office earlier had reached out to schedule an in-person briefing to the committee on Sept. 17. A room on Capitol Hill had already been reserved, according to the official, who did not have permission to speak about the issue publicly and requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-intel-chief-ends-election-security-briefings-on-capitol-hill/story-jAMLT5qpNCKURRIJjWBJhJ.html
30-08-2020||World||‘Pelosi wants bailout money only for states run by Democrats,’ says Donald Trump||President Donald Trump said on Friday that House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi was only interested in bailing out states run by Democrats, casting doubt on chances of reviving stalled talks for another round of fiscal stimulus. Asked about talks between Pelosi and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows over another stimulus package, Trump said: “My impression is she wants to give no stimulus, all she wants is bailout for badly run Democrat states.”He said another stimulus package would be good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pelosi-wants-bailout-money-only-for-states-run-by-democrats-says-donald-trump/story-hxCefdh0ctYLx1wQHnVHcJ.html
30-08-2020||World||‘How dare we not vote?’ Black voters organize after DC march||Tears streamed down Brooke Moreland’s face as she watched tens of thousands gather on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to decry systemic racism and demand racial justice in the wake of several police killings of Black Americans.But for the Indianapolis mother of three, the fiery speeches delivered Friday at the commemoration of the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom also gave way to one central message: Vote and demand change at the ballot box in November.“As Black people, a lot of the people who look like us died for us to be able to sit in public, to vote, to go to school and to be able to walk around freely and live our lives,” the 31-year-old Moreland said. “Every election is an opportunity, so how dare we not vote after our ancestors fought for us to be here?”That determination could prove critical in a presidential election where race is emerging as a flashpoint. President Donald Trump, at this past week’s Republican National Convention, emphasized a “law and order” message aimed at his largely white base of supporters. His Democratic rival, Joe Biden, has expressed empathy with Black victims of police brutality and is counting on strong turnout from African Americans to win critical states such as North Carolina, Florida, Pennsylvania and Michigan.As the campaign enters its latter stages, there’s an intensifying effort among African Americans to transform frustration over police brutality, systemic racism and the disproportionate toll of the coronavirus into political power. Organizers and participants said Friday’s march delivered a much needed rallying cry to mobilize.“If we do not vote in numbers that we’ve never ever seen before and allow this administration to continue what it is doing, we are headed on a course for serious destruction,” Martin Luther King III told The Associated Press before his rousing remarks, delivered 57 years after his father’s famous “I Have A Dream” speech. “I’m going to do all that I can to encourage, promote, to mobilize and what’s at stake is the future of our nation, our planet. What’s at stake is the future of our children.”As speakers implored attendees to “vote as if our lives depend on it,” the march came on the heels of yet another shooting by a white police officer of a Black man – 29-year-old Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last Sunday — sparking demonstrations and violence that left two dead.“We need a new conversation … you act like it’s no trouble to shoot us in the back,” the Rev. Al Sharpton said. “Our vote is dipped in blood. We’re going to vote for a nation that stops the George Floyds, that stops the Breonna Taylors.”Navy veteran Alonzo Jones- Goss, who traveled to Washington from Boston, said he plans to vote for Biden because the nation has seen far too many tragic events that have claimed the lives of Black Americans and other people of color.“I supported and defended the Constitution and I support the members that continue to do it today, but the injustice and the people that are losing their lives, that needs to end,” Jones-Goss, 28, said. “It’s been 57 years since Dr. King stood over there and delivered his speech. But what is unfortunate is what was happening 57 years ago is still happening today.”Drawing comparisons to the original 1963 march, where participants then were protesting many of the same issues that have endured, National Urban League President and CEO Marc Morial said it’s clear why this year’s election will be pivotal for Black Americans.“We are about reminding people and educating people on how important it is to translate the power of protest into the power of politics and public policy change,” said Morial, who spoke Friday. “So we want to be deliberate about making the connection between protesting and voting.”Nadia Brown, a Purdue University political science professor, agreed there are similarities between the situation in 1963 and the issues that resonate among Black Americans today. She said the political pressure that was applied then led to the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and other powerful pieces of legislation that transformed the lives of African Americans. She’s hopeful this could happen again in November and beyond.“There’s already a host of organizations that are mobilizing in the face of daunting things,” Brown said. “Bur these same groups that are most marginalized are saying it’s not enough to just vote, it’s not enough for the Democratic Party or the Republican Party to ask me for my vote. I’m going to hold these elected officials that are in office now accountable and I’m going to vote in November and hold those same people accountable. And for me, that is the most uplifting and rewarding part — to see those kind of similarities.”But Brown noted that while Friday’s march resonated with many, it’s unclear whether it will translate into action among younger voters, whose lack of enthusiasm could become a vulnerability for Biden.“I think there is already a momentum among younger folks who are saying not in my America, that this is not the place where they want to live, but will this turn into electoral gains? That I’m less clear on because a lot of the polling numbers show that pretty overwhelmingly, younger people, millennials and Gen Z’s are more progressive and that they are reluctantly turning to this pragmatic side of politics,” Brown said.That was clear as the Movement for Black Lives also marked its own historic event Friday — a virtual Black National Convention that featured several speakers discussing pressing issues such as climate change, economic empowerment and the need for electoral justice.“I don’t necessarily see elections as achieving justice per se because I view the existing system itself as being fundamentally unjust in many ways and it is the existing system that we are trying to fundamentally transform,” said Bree Newsome Bass, an activist and civil rights organizer, during the convention’s panel about electoral justice. “I do think voting and recognizing what an election should be is a way to kind of exercise that muscle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-dare-we-not-vote-black-voters-organize-after-dc-march/story-HEkB8TxJyZ2vAS4tNoSsMK.html
30-08-2020||World||Joe Biden, aiming at Donald Trump, says he won’t use military as ‘prop’||Joe Biden said on Saturday that as president, he would never use the military “as a prop or private militia” and accused President Donald Trump of employing US forces to settle “personal vendettas” and violate citizens’ rights.The Democratic presidential nominee, in a virtual address to the National Guard Association of the United States’ general conference, said Trump recommended “that you should be deployed to quote, ‘dominate,’ your fellow citizens for exercising their right to peacefully protest.”“We’re so much better than this,” Biden said. “You deserve so much better.”His comments came a day after Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress that the armed forces will have no role in carrying out the election process or resolving a disputed vote.It was a sign of rising tensions on both sides as the president has declared without evidence that the expected surge in mail-in ballots during the coronavirus pandemic will make the vote “inaccurate and fraudulent.” Trump has also suggested he might not accept the election results if he loses.Biden has said he’s “absolutely convinced” the military would escort Trump from the White House if the incumbent lost but refused to leave.Biden didn’t repeat the assertion while addressing the conference, but promised to restore the separation between civilian and military powers which he called “the bedrock principal of our republic.”“It’s been tested lately, but I promise you, as president, I’ll never put you in the middle of politics or personal vendettas,” the former vice president. “I’ll never use the military as a prop or as a private militia to violate rights of fellow citizens. That’s not law and order.”That was a reference to Trump’s recent efforts to expand federal intervention into some cities as he makes “law and order” a centerpiece of his reelection bid, against the backdrop of protests against institutional racism and police brutality that have swept the country. In July, the president deployed federal forces to Chicago and Albuquerque, New Mexico, after earlier sending Homeland Security agents to Portland, Oregon.Trump also announced this week that federal troops were being sent to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where unrest erupted after last weekend’s police shooting in the back of Jacob Blake, an unarmed Black man. Biden has said he’s considered traveling to Wisconsin to try and calm the situation, but only if it could be done “safely” and without inflaming circumstances “on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-aiming-at-donald-trump-says-he-won-t-use-military-as-prop/story-hrldxXtyzUOeWyn4Gmw7vM.html
30-08-2020||World||Unidentified activists bring down statue of Canada’s first PM in Montreal||Protestors in the city of Montreal supporting a movement to defund the police toppled and defaced a statue of Canada’s first Prime Minister John A MacDonald.While no group has taken responsibility for the act at the Place du Canada in the largest city in the province of Quebec, there was a march in Montreal on Saturday afternoon featuring activists seeking to defund the police, and in support of Black Lives Matter and indigenous peoples.According to a video of the incident, a cluster of people scaled the monument where the statue was prominently featured and then pulled it down using ropes after unbolting it from its pedestal. The statue was also decapitated and defaced with graffiti.According to the national broadcaster CBC, a leaflet found at the site read, in part, “Sir John A. Macdonald was a white supremacist who orchestrated the genocide of Indigenous peoples with the creation of the brutal residential schools system, as well as promoting other measures that attacked Indigenous peoples and traditions.”Also read: What’s next as Japan PM Abe quits, potential successorsStatues of MacDonald have been attacked in various parts of the country in the past but this was the first time one was brought down. Canada witnessed demonstrations in several cities, including Toronto, Calgary and Montreal, on Saturday.The act of anonymous activists came in for criticism from leaders. Montreal Mayor Valerie Plante condemned the vandalism leading to the tearing down of the statue and said such acts “cannot be accepted nor tolerated.” She added, “I understand and share the motivation of citizens who want to live in a more just and inclusive society. The discussion and the actions that are required must be done in a peaceful manner, without ever resorting to vandalism.”The Premier of Quebec Francoise Legault described the act as “unacceptable” and added, “We must fight racism, but destroying parts of our history is not the solution. Vandalism has no place in our democracy and the statue must be restored.” The vandalism also faced growing criticism from national and provincial leaders across the country. Plante said Montreal’s public art office will secure the perimeter of the area where the statue stood and coordinate its “conservation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unidentified-activists-bring-down-statue-of-canada-s-first-pm-in-montreal/story-xLAGWWhDWJX22Qf5820i8M.html
30-08-2020||India||Justice Mishra declines invite for SC bar farewell||New DelhiSupreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra, who is set to demit office on September 2, has turned down the invitation of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to attend a farewell function being organised for him. In a written communication to SCBA president Dushyant Dave, Justice Mishra said on Sunday that his conscience does not permit him to participate in a farewell function in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Taking into consideration the severe situation and sufferings the world over on account of Covid-19 pandemic, my conscience does not permit me to participate in any farewell function. I may, therefore, be excused,” the letter said. The judge, who was elevated to the Supreme Court on July 7, 2014, also declined to participate in the farewell function organsied by another lawyers’ body, the Confederation of Indian Bar, for the same reason. “I assure you as and when the situation normalizes, I will visit the Bar and pay my respect,” he wrote in his letter. In Februray this year, SCBA had criticised Justice Mishra for heaping praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an international judicial conference organised by the Supreme Court. “The Prime Minister is a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally. India is a responsible and most friendly member of the international community under the stewardship of the internationally acclaimed visionary Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi,” he said back then. SCBA had passed a resolution on February 26, condemning Justice Mishra’s remarks while saying that such statements by sitting judges reflect poorly on the independence of judiciary. “The SCBA believes that any such statement reflects poorly on the independence of the judiciary and so calls upon Hon’ble judges not to make statements in future nor show any proximity or closeness to the Executive including high functionaries,” that resolution by SCBA said. A bench headed by Justice Mishra is scheduled to deliver its verdict on the sentence to be awarded to lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt of court, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-mishra-declines-invite-for-sc-bar-farewell/story-hBqWB0xp6P0vwltXjg4AwL.html
30-08-2020||India||Odisha Flood: 17 dead, 1.4 million people affected as situation improves||The flood situation in Odisha improved considerably on Sunday even as the floodwaters affected 1.4 million people in 20 districts leaving 17 dead.Among the casualties, was a minor girl of Nayagarh district who was attempting to save her friend from being swept away by the flood water of Brutanga River. Sradhanjali Jani of Takera village was performing the traditional Odia ritual ‘Khudurukuni Osa’ with 3 of her friends in the river when one of them was swept away by the current. The three girls including Sradhanjali jumped into the water, but were swept away by the strong current till they were rescued by a fire brigade team. However, Jani was declared brought dead at a local hospital.Officials meanwhile said the flood situation is under control as Subarnarekha, Baitarani, Brahmani; Budhabalanga rivers are no longer in spate while the situation in Mahanadi river system will be better by Monday. “As the inflow at Hirakud Dam has gone down, the amount of floodwater of Mahandi received in Mundali head will be 10 lakh cusecs. The floodwater will effectively reduce in coming days in affected districts and by tomorrow the situation is likely to get better,” said special relief commissioner Pradip Jena.Water resources secretary Anu Garg said Subarnarekha, Budhabalanga, Baitarani; Brahmani rivers are stable now and flowing below the danger level. Three sluice gates of Rengali dam have been closed and the fourth will be closed soon, said Garg.The SRC said a total of 45 medical and 42 veterinary, 14 NDRF, 17 ODRAF, 22 Fire Services teams and 254 boats have been deployed in the affected areas to rescue people as 107 roads were cut off and 32 river embankments breached in five districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-flood-17-dead-1-4-million-people-affected-as-situation-improves/story-xhmccAq1khN9gXmD7dNUAO.html
30-08-2020||India||Goyal asks Asean to bolster rules||Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal has asked the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to strengthen their “rules of origin” provisions, one of the key concerns of India, which has experienced an influx of Chinese goods routed through some members of the 10-member grouping.Co-chairing the 17th Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations on Saturday through video conference, Goyal highlighted that the free trade agreement (FTA) has to be “mutually beneficial” and expressed the need to strengthen the rules of origin provisions, work towards removal of non-tariff barriers and provide better market access, a commerce ministry statement said on Sunday.He asked for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITIGA) as the trade pact is hurting India’s interest, particularly because of violations of rules of origin. India is concerned and wants to review FTAs as several Chinese goods are dumped in its market through a third country with which India has a free trade agreement, a government official said, requesting anonymity.The review is necessary as many items enter the Indian market taking advantage of the Asean-India FTA. Imports at reduced or zero duty put Indian industry at a disadvantage, the official said.At the Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations on Saturday, Goyal reiterated India’s consistent position that the review of the FTA has been inordinately delayed. India wants a review of the trade pact as balance of trade is heavily tilted in favour of Asean members: Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. According to official data, India’s exports to Asean in 2019-20 were worth $31.49 billion while its imports from the group of countries reached $55.37 billion. An industry study pointed out that India’s imports from Asean countries increased sharply after the signing of the FTA in 2009. India in 2009 signed an FTA in goods – Asean-India Free Trade Agreement (AIFTA) – with the group, and in 2014 inked an FTA in services.The report, India’s trade and investment opportunities with Asean, prepared by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in November 2019, said that in the post-AIFTA era, India’s merchandise exports to Asean economies increased from $23 billion in 2010 to $36 billion in 2018 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of around 5%, while its merchandise imports from Asean nations increased from $30 billion in 2010 to $57 billion in 2018 — a CAGR of around 8%. The report also emphasised the need to review the existing trade arrangements for mutual gains.On Saturday, Goyal asked for closer engagement towards finalisation of the scoping exercise, before the Asean-India Leaders’ Summit scheduled in November 2020 and to start the full review before the end of this year, the commerce ministry said in the statement. Goyal co-chaired the Saturday meeting with Vietnam’s minister of industry and trade Tran Tuan Anh.A report of the Asean India Business Council (AIBC) was also presented in the meeting. It also recommended a review of the AITIGA for mutual benefit. The ministers from India and Asean countries instructed senior officials to start discussions to determine the scope of the review at the earliest to make the FTA more user-friendly, simple, and trade facilitative for businesses.Sangita Reddy, co-chair of AIBC (India), said India and Asean should develop a roadmap for collaboration in the health care and pharmaceutical sectors along with knowledge exchange and digital connectivity. “She shared that special incentives for Indian pharmaceutical companies should be introduced for setting up plants in dedicated Asean zones,” the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) said in a statement. The industry association is the Indian secretariat of the AIBC.Asean ministers reaffirmed their commitment to taking collective action in mitigating the economic impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic and resolved to ensure macroeconomic and financial stability and resilient supply chain connectivity, particularly the unimpeded flow of essential goods and medicines in the region, in compliance with the World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, the statement said.AIBC also recommended elimination of non- tariff measures to enable seamless movement of goods and services, Ficci said in the statement. It proposed the introduction of a business travel card which would facilitate business travel between India and Asean countries. It would have minimum 90-day validity. “A review of all existing FTAs is necessary because of two reasons – the geopolitical dimensions that gives an opportunity to India to become a manufacturing hub for several products such as pharmaceuticals and information technology-enables services, and to check dumping of Chinese products from Asean countries that is hurting our domestic industries,” said chartered accountant Vijay Kumar Gupta, a former central council member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goyal-asks-asean-to-bolster-rules/story-T4gPcD2TSSGCv9VL4uGxwK.html
30-08-2020||India||Education secy seeks states’ ‘unstinted support’ for NEET, JEE||New DelhiWith dates for the Joint Entrance Examination, or JEE (Main), for admission to top engineering schools and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical and dental courses approaching, the Centre has written to state governments seeking their support for the conduct of the exams in which over 2.5 million students will appear across the country.In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states, Union higher education secretary Amit Khare has sought the “unstinted support” of all states and Union territories for successful conduct of JEE, NEET and other tests by the National Testing Agency, an autonomous body under the education ministry.The JEE (Main) exam, on the basis of which admission to top engineering schools including the elite Indian Institutes of Technology is decided, is due to be held from September 1 to 6. NEET is scheduled to take place on September 30.Scheduling of the two examinations at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is still raging has triggered concern among some students, parents and educationists, but the Centre has dismissed worries and said all requisite precautions will be taken in conducting the tests. In the letter, a copy of which was seen by HT, Khare also referred to the Supreme Court ruling on the matter, and that the future of the students cannot be put in peril and a “full academic year cannot be wasted”.The top education ministry official said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Vineet Joshi, the director general of the National Testing Agency, had also written to states seeking their support in the conduct of these exams. Precautions include adequate police protection at each exam venue, he said. The education secretary asked the chief secretaries of all states to issue suitable instructions so that the exams can be conducted smoothly.Significantly, on Sunday, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ also sought the support of all stakeholders in the smooth conduct of the exams. Pokhriyal said there had been attempts to spread misinformation on the issue, adding that this is a subject that shouldn’t be politicised .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-secy-seeks-states-unstinted-support-for-neet-jee/story-i589lu1YnOzzJuSCZh9iUP.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 19,000-mark||With 664 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally on Sunday crossed the 19,000 while seven casualties took the death toll 257, the health department said Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 19,235. Of the 664 cases, 20 cases were reported from Chamoli district that included jawans from the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (IYBP), the health department’s bulletin said. Out of the death toll of 257, 77 casualties were due to Covid-19 while the others died due to comorbidities. Of the seven deaths reported on Sunday, four died of Covid-19 while others died due to comorbidities. Out of the new cases on Sunday, US Nagar district topped with 183 cases followed by Haridwar (126), Dehradun (120), Uttarkashi (46), Nainital (39), Pithoragarh (36), Almora (27), Tehri (26), Chamoli (24), Pauri (20), Rudraprayag (8), Champawat (5) and Bageshwar (4). Haridwar district has reported the maximum 4,580 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Dehradun (3,936), US Nagar (3,703) and Nainital (2,597). A total of 480 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday after being cured. Haridwar recorded the maximum discharges with 187.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 22.05 days, while the infection rate is 5.39%. The state has so far tested over 3.84 lakh samples of which results of over 19,000 are awaited. Out of 19,235 a total of 13,004 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 67.61%. Uttarakhand currently has 386 containment zones in seven districts including maximum 316 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-19-000-mark/story-s6EuLQHFK1P8eudHvgqs8O.html
30-08-2020||India||Covid-19 will be under control by Diwali: Dr Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday expressed confidence that the country’s Covid-19 count will be “under control” by Diwali this year.Inaugurating the ‘Nation First’ webinar series, organised by the Anathkumar Foundation, he pointed out that the country was much ahead in tackling the pandemic.“The Covid-19 will significantly come under control by the Deepavali this year. The leaders and common people effectively worked together to fight the pandemic. He inaugurated Nation first webinar series organised by Ananth Kumar Foundation,” the press release said.He further said that the health officials had held a meeting much before the first Covid-19 case was reported in India. “Later on, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formed a committee led by me which has already met 22 times until yesterday,” he said. “There was only one laboratory in June by February, which has now been increased to 1,583 nationwide. Out of this, more than 1,000 are government labs. The country is conducting about 1 million tests per day which is way ahead of the target,” the health minister said.He observed that compared to earlier there is no scarcity of PPE kits, ventilators, and N 95 masks now“The scarcity of PPE kits, ventilators, and N 95 masks is no more now. Every day, five lakh PPE kits are produced in the country while 10 manufacturers are producing N95 masks. 25 producers are manufacturing ventilators,” he added.He said that vaccine trials are in full swing, with three clinical trials and four pre-clinical trials underway. “We are expecting vaccines to be ready by the end of the year. It is because of the farsightedness of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that we could reach until here,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-will-be-under-control-by-diwali-dr-harsh-vardhan/story-zKxXOqNlFtBBA9z5blKF9K.html
30-08-2020||India||DMRC will offer safe travel amid Covid-19 pandemic: Official||The resumption of metro services amid coronavirus disease outbreak in the national capital should not be a cause of worry as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation will take all necessary measures on the premises to ensure safe travelling experience, officials said. Metro services in New Delhi were curtailed in March this year to prevent the spread of the viral contagion. “Once metro services resume from September 7, the DMRC will strive to facilitate all necessary measures and precautions on its premises to provide a safe travelling experience to its commuters amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications, DMRC told news agency PTI. Metro officials have decided to introduce range of measures, in order to follow Covid-19 safety norms, like limiting the number of people in lifts, longer halting time for trains at stations to allow commuters to board and alight with social distancing. As opposed to pre-Covid functioning where a train would halts for 10 seconds to 30 seconds at a station, depending on the traffic flow and the nature of station. “Now, trains will halt for longer duration than 10 seconds or 30 seconds,” a DMRC official told PTI.Additionally, two-three persons will be permissible inside a lift from concourse to the platform at any point of time against 8-9 on regular days, the official told PTI. People not wearing masks will not be allowed to enter metro premises.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmrc-will-offer-safe-travel-amid-covid-19-pandemic-official/story-5VnAKo6yQV3a1QUmODKQWN.html
30-08-2020||India||Amit Shah congratulates India for winning gold at online Chess Olympiad||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday congratulated Indian chess player for winning gold for the country in the 2020 Online Chess OlympiadIndia scored a joint victory alongside Russia in the FIDE online Chess Olympiad.“Congratulations to Team India on winning the FIDE online #ChessOlympiad. This has been possible because of the unparalleled commitment of our chess masters. I am sure this stellar achievement will further the spirit of our young players across the nation,” Amit Shah wrote on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, applauded India and Russia on their joint win.“Congratulations to our chess players for winning the FIDE Online #ChessOlympiad. Their hard work and dedication are admirable. Their success will surely motivate other chess players. I would like to congratulate the Russian team as well,” PM Modi tweetedFor first time, FIDE, the international chess federation, was holding the Olympiad in an online format due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  Initially, Russia was declared as the winner. India lodged an appeal as both its players, Nihal Sarin and Divya Deshmukh, lost connection to their games in the second round and had to forfeit. After review, both India and Russia were announced as joint winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-congratulates-india-for-winning-gold-at-online-chess-olympiad/story-LcELGT2askEkZDF5YTfIOJ.html
30-08-2020||India||ASI, 3 terrorists killed in Kashmir||Srinagar An assistant sub-inspector and three terrorists affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were killed in an encounter in Srinagar, officials said Sunday.The encounter was triggered after the three terrorists attacked a checkpoint manned by police and CRPF officials in Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar late on Saturday night, J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said. The attackers opened fire and attempted to snatch the rifles of the security personnel, he added. The militants opened fire when security personnel cordoned the area. “The fire was retaliated by the forces in which one militant was killed initially,” he said.“During the exchange of fire we lost a brave and daring officer of our lead SOG team, Babu Ram. He was an experienced member of our SOG team and had been involved in operations for a long time. We pay our tributes to this brave jawan,” he said.The officer said that the encounter continued till early morning after security forces tried to convince the militants to surrender. “But the firing started again during which the other two terrorists were also killed,” Singh said.The terrorists were identified as Saqib Bashir Khanday, Umar Tariq Bhat and Zubair Ahmad Shiekh. The three were affiliated with the proscribed outfit LeT, the DGP said. “One of the militants was a commander who was involved in terror activities for some time. He was active for the past one and a half years,” he said.The DGP hailed the efforts of the security forces. “Our alert forces not only averted a major tragedy but also succeeded in a major operation,” he said.A wreath laying ceremony was held for the ASI at District Police Lines Srinagar. In the last three days, 10 militants have been killed in three separate encounters. Three Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and an Army soldier were killed on Saturday in a gunfight in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. On Friday, four militants were killed in a joint encounter by the army and paramilitary forces in Shopian district of the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-3-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir/story-J7r7U2OlPeRdcDtJHothxL.html
30-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cops arrest man in Dewas for allegedly hoisting Pakistani flag||A man was arrested on Sunday after a Pakistani flag was allegedly hoisted at his home Dewas district, 153 km south west of Bhopal, police said. Farukh Khan, a resident of Shipra village of Dewas district, was arrested under section 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), police said. Khan, who is in his 40s, was arrested after a video clip went viral on social media in which Pakistan’s national flag was seen hoisted on the roof of his house. No one is seen in the video while the flag flutters in the wind. HT cannot vouch for the veracity of the video clip.The tehsildar concerned of the area sent a revenue inspector Lakhan Singh to visit the spot to check if there was actually a Pakistani flag.“When I met Farukh Khan he told me that his minor son had unfurled Pakistan’s national flag due to ignorance and that when he came to know about it he burnt the flag,” Lakhan Singh said. Industrial Area police station, Dewas in charge sub-inspector RK Sharma said, “The revenue inspector Lakhan Singh lodged a complaint with the police station on Sunday based on the statement of Farukh Khan.” “A team reached the house of Khan in Shipra village for investigation. Khan repeated his statement that his minor son had unfurled Pakistan’s flag due to ignorance and that when he saw it he removed the flag and destroyed it by burning it,” said Sharma. Khan runs a tyre puncture repair shop.However, investigating officer Jitendra Yadav said on Sunday night, “The statement of Farukh Khan was found partly untrue as he had not destroyed the flag which has been seized now. The FIR has names of the family members of Farukh Khan too but we will not disclose the names right now. However, only Farukh Khan has been arrested and he would be produced before the local court on Monday.”“It’s a matter of investigation as to from where Farukh Khan or any other member of his family got the national flag of Pakistan. The investigation is still going on. The family members will be questioned too,” Yadav said.pro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cops-arrest-man-in-dewas-for-allegedly-hoisting-pakistani-flag/story-G1LCvbL5XoHo5Tx4OAMSJN.html
30-08-2020||India||17-year-old JEE aspirant writes to CJI SA Bobde, requests for postponement of exams||A 17-year-old JEE aspirant on Sunday wrote a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, requesting him for directions to postpone NEET and JEE exams in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in India, according to ANI.Despite several requests to postpone the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the National Testing Agency (NTA) on August 25 had released fresh guidelines for the exams to be held on September 1 to 6 (JEE) and September 13 (NEET). So far, aspirants and several politicians have written to the government, asking for the exams to be postponed. However, the agency has decided to go ahead with the scheduled dates. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively.According to a report in PTI, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given permission for holding JEE and NEET exams in the city.A proposal for holding JEE and NEET exams in Delhi was put forth in the last meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which was attended by the L-G and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the report said.“The Delhi government in its file sent to the L-G on Saturday recommended not to hold the exams in view of safety of students. Delhi Chief Minister had also decided against holding JEE and NEET in view of the pandemic. However, the L-G returned the file giving his permission to hold the exams,” PTI reported quoting sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-year-old-jee-aspirant-writes-to-cji-sa-bobde-requests-for-postponement-of-exams/story-PMj9xt4GE2StTfBhiGWPhK.html
30-08-2020||India||‘My conscience does not permit’: SC judge Arun Mishra declines farewell invites||Citing severe situation and sufferings the world over” due to the coronavirus disease outbreak, Supreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra on Sunday declined farewell invitations of bar bodies. Justice Mishra, who superannuates on September 2, is a part of benches pronouncing key judgements in cases including verdict of punishment to activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan in a contempt case and timelines for payment of AGR dues by telcos.Supreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra turns down Supreme Court Bar Association invite for a farewell function to be organised ahead of his retirement on Sept 2.Justice Mishra says, my conscience doesn't permit me to participate any farewell function, due to COVID-19 pandemic. pic.twitter.com/mPhVp5lZzg“I am grateful for your kind invitation inviting me in the farewell function... I have always considered the bar as the mother of the judiciary, and it would have been a great pleasure to attend said function,” Justice Mishra wrote in the letter. Declining the requests made by bar bodies, Justice Mishra said, “However, taking into consideration the severe situation and sufferings the world over on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, my conscience does not permit me to participate in any farewell function.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-conscience-does-not-permit-sc-judge-arun-mishra-declines-farewell-invites/story-vU9m6r0S0ftmcZJI26jnnK.html
30-08-2020||India||In MP, superstructure of new bridge built under PMGSY washed away due to flood||The superstructure of a new bridge constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) over Wanganga river in Seoni district, 344 kilometres south east of Bhopal, was washed away in floods caused by incessant rain in several parts of the state since Thursday, prompting the district administration to institute an inquiry. There was damage to another bridge too over the same river, according to administrative officials. The state Congress blamed the BJP government for what it said was a sample of corruption during the BJP government’s tenure. The damage to the bridges came to light on Sunday morning when the water level receded after the incessant rains continuing for more than 48 hours, stopped. At the same time, another bridge which was about 10 years old constructed over the same river near Bheemgarh was also damaged, as per administrative officials. According to the district information officer, district collector Dr Rahul Haridas has instituted an inquiry into the damage to the bridges. State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Two bridges couldn’t withstand the intense rainfall in Seoni district. Construction of one of the bridges began during the previous tenure of the BJP government and its construction was completed just one month back. This is a sample of the corruption during the BJP government’s tenure.”However, executive engineer of PWD JP Mehra said, “The bridge is new situated near Sunwara village, construction of which was completed in June this year under PMGSY. It was 150 metres long and 9.28 metres in height. Its construction involved a cost of Rs 3.12 crore. The second bridge is situated near Bheemgarh dam. Due to incessant rain and floods, all the 10 gates of the dam over Wanganga river near Bheemgarh were opened on Friday night and it caused damage to both the bridges.” (With input from Azhar Khan in Seoni)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-superstructure-of-new-bridge-built-under-pmgsy-washed-away-due-to-flood/story-FldpS39oisnTSoSKnf2P7O.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP shuts Jammu office for 10 days after 2 senior leaders test positive for Covid-19||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday shut its headquarters in Jammu’s Trikuta Nagar area for ten days as a precautionary measure after two of its senior leaders tested Covid 19 positive.“Following Covid-19 protocol we have decided to close our headquarters for 10 days,” said a party spokesman. The two leaders are the two general secretaries of the party Ashok Koul and Vibodh Gupta.Earlier in the week, BJP’s Lok Sabha member Jugal Kishore Sharma, his wife and personal secretary had tested positive for Covdi-19.Koul and Gupta had returned from Kashmir recently after attending party meetings of national general secretary Ram Madhav, who was on a two-day tour to the Valley.Ravinder Raina, president of the J&K unit of the BJP, had recently recovered from the Covid-19 which he had contracted during his visit to Kashmir following the killing of party leader Waseem Bari, his brother and their father.Raina said that given the rapid spread of the infection, the party decided to close its headquarters for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-shuts-jammu-office-for-10-days-after-2-senior-leaders-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-I2VnR8qnKBaUM8ZvUms3IN.html
30-08-2020||India||CM Pinarayi Vijayan unveils 100-day action plan for Kerala ahead of Onam||A day before ‘Thiru Onam,’ the most auspicious of the 10-day harvest festival of Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday unveiled a 100-day action plan with 100 programmes aimed at elevating the image of the government that has suffered a dent after the gold smuggling case surfaced in the state. “This is the fifth year of the Left Democratic Front government. Though last two years we avoided celebrations due to flood and pandemic there was no holiday for our development activities. As part of our endeavour we are announcing a 100-day action plan,” Vijayan said adding these programmes will be implemented in 100 days. He said the welfare pension will be increased from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,300 and beneficiaries will be increased from 38 lakh to 58 lakh and free food kits to the economically weaker sections will be extended for four more months. He also said the base price of 12 essential vegetables will be announced to help farmers. The CM said the state government has also written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Union government to extend moratorium on all loans in the state. The Covid-19 pandemic has crippled many sectors and people need more time to recover from it, he said. The government has also decided to recruit more health professionals and grassroot workers to help ease the burden of overworked health workers. “We will give more emphasis to the health sector in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. Daily tests will be increased to 50,000 and 153 new family health centres will be opened,” the CM said. But he evaded questions at the press conference this time. A youth allegedly committed suicide in Thiruvananthapuram district on Sunday after he failed to get a government job though he was in the merit list of the state public service commission. The list lapsed last month after the PSC failed to fill vacancies. Many youth activists hit the streets alleging that the government was responsible for his death. A number of issues have been plaguing the government as only eight months are left for the assembly elections. It is at the receiving end after the customs seized 30 kg of gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the UAE consular office in the state capital. Later, it was forced to suspend the CM’s powerful private secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, for his alleged liaison with prime accused Swapna Suresh. A multi-agency headed by the National Investigation Agency is probing the case. State higher education minister K T Jaleel is also in trouble after he accepted “monetary gift and religious books” from the consulate flouting the foreign contribution regulations act. Last week many important files were destroyed after a fire at the state secretariat and the opposition alleged that it was a sabotage to weaken the smuggling case. Kerala has reported 2,154 virus cases on Sunday taking the total cases to 73,798_ 49,849 people have recovered and the active cases in the state now stand at 23,658. With seven deaths, the toll has gone up to 288. There are complaints that many Covid-19 deaths are not finding place in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-pinarayi-vijayan-unveils-100-day-action-plan-for-kerala-ahead-of-onam/story-vOzZHRZfpifbaidiIOAPpJ.html
30-08-2020||India||How race for vaccines is shaping up||A look at where some of the leading Covid-19 candidates stand, and what we know about them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-race-for-vaccines-is-shaping-up/story-tHzEMkbNcrTlxesqid00hI.html
30-08-2020||India||Authorities bust pangolin smuggling racket in Satara, 6 arrested||The Maharashtra forest department and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) in a joint operation busted a pangolin smuggling racket in Satara with six persons arrested between Saturday and Sunday, officials said.The forest department and WCCB officials acted as dummy customers to lure and nab the smugglers.Investigators also rescued a live pangolin and seized three motorcycles, six mobile phones, and other items from the smugglers. All six accused, residents of Warje, Ramnagar and Pune, were arrested and will be presented before a district court on Monday.Hunting pangolins is an offence as the animal is protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, akin to the protection status given to a tiger, leopard or elephant. The crime invites imprisonment between three to seven years and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000.Senior WCCB official said this was the second major pangolin smuggling racket busted along west Maharashtra this year, and authorities were edging closer to bust the overall racket. On June 10, six people were arrested from Nanded and one from Pune, all involved in a similar racket and two live pangolins were rescued.“Illegal pangolin trade has become a serious matter of concern along west Maharashtra. Both these cases (Nanded and Satara) have opened up trade routes and information that will help us nab more persons involved in this money-making scheme,” said M Maranko, regional deputy director, WCCB.In the latest case, forest officials said they were tipped off about a group of persons involved in this trade. WCCB member Rohan Bhate and a team of forest and police officers headed by Sachin Dombale, range forest officer (vigilance squad) Satara portrayed themselves as buyers and set up a trap to nab the accused. “Pangolins are being used for their meat, their scales are valuable in the international market, and they are also kept by some as a sign of good luck or superstitions allegedly involving witchcraft. This is activating the illegal trade, which involves a lot of money,” said Dombale.Bhate said one of the six accused had a bogus identity card showing he assisted the forest department. “We are coming across such frauds that are either smuggling snake venom or pangolins using such illegal ID cards. Their registration needs to be cancelled at the earliest to prevent such crimes,” he said. Maranko said from both cases, Nanded and Satara, WCCB believe there is a poultry farm located somewhere between Pune and Satara where live pangolins were being stored for trade. “We are working with local teams to identify and arrest more persons to nip this illegal trade in the bud,” he said. Meanwhile, in another incident from Karad, a dead Indian crested porcupine (schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972) was recovered from a flat and one person was arrested,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/authorities-bust-pangolin-smuggling-racket-in-satara-6-arrested/story-gY4VstOGe4GCV386hBP1TM.html
30-08-2020||India||Over 3 million tested in Bihar for Covid-19, recovery rate climbs 87%||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,35,013 on Sunday with the addition of 2,078 new cases while the death toll mounted to 688 with nine more casualties, the health department said in a bulletin. Meanwhile, the total number of tests for Covid-19 has crossed the 3 million mark.The recovery rate also climbed to 86.88%, which was more than 10% than the national average, said information and public relations secretary, Anupam Kumar. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the past 24 hours 1,07,730 tests were conducted out of which 2,078 tested positive. “In past 24 hours, 2,231 patients have recovered, taking the total count of people who recuperated from the disease to 1,17,305,” he said, adding there were 19,259 active cases in Bihar. So far 30,97,137 tests have been conducted in the state, he said. Also read: Covid-19 case fatality dips to 1.79%, active cases cross 765,000 in India: Health ministryPatna still remains a hotspot with detection of 253 cases on Sunday and pushing the tally to 20,889. Muzaffarpur has the second highest number of cases at 5,879, followed by 5,409 in Bhagalpur. Among the latest casualties was a 12-year-old boy who became one of the youngest victims of Covid-19. Five patients died in Patna, two in Begusarai and one each in Nalanda and Sitamarhi, the health bulletin said. The child and a 78-year old person died at AIIMS-Patna, said its nodal officer, Dr Sanjeev Kumar. While on the day 15 patients were admitted, 17 were discharged. No death was reported from NMCH, said its nodal officer, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. The flow of patients in NMCH has drastically fallen. On Sunday, just nine positive patients were admitted while seven discharged. Dr Singh said 410 beds were available in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-million-tested-in-bihar-for-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-87/story-w6RjKiwuqmUD0F8aAeG06H.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inauguration and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inaugurationWork on the long-delayed strategic all-weather Atal Rohtang Tunnel that will connect Manali to Lahaul and Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh throughout the year has been completed and will be ready for inauguration in two weeks, officials aware of the development said.Read more. Covid-19 case fatality dips to 1.79%, active cases cross 765,000 in India: Health ministryIndia reported around 78,000 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, as the number of active viral infection cases climbed to 7,65,302 until Saturday night, according to the data shared by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).Read more. Lucknow double murder: Scribbled notes, scary pictures puzzle police probing casePolice in Lucknow, probing the killing of an Indian Railway officer’s wife and teenage son on Saturday allegedly by his 14-year-old daughter, are puzzled by scribbled notes in her notebook, plastic skulls, scary pictures and a sad emoji drawn on her bedroom wall, officials privy to the investigation said on Sunday.Read more. Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till September 30 amid coronavirus outbreakState-wide lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended till September 30, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced on Sunday. In the fresh guidelines for the lockdown, all places of worship, hotels and resorts are allowed to re-open. As of Sunday, Tamil Nadu has 52,726 active cases taking the cumulative tally to 3,55,727.Read more. ‘How Modi govt destroyed Indian economy’: Rahul Gandhi’s new video series trailerCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday announced a new series of videos to talk about the Centre’s handling of the Indian economy after attacking the government over the border standoff with China in July.Read more. Watch: PM Modi hails Army dogs who sniff out bombs, says adopt Indian breedsPrime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the contribution of canine units in national security and disaster response. He began with invoking the work of Vida and Sophie, two dogs who were recently felicitated with the Chief of Army Staff Commendation Cards. Vida, a labrador deployed with the canine unit at Army’s Northern Command, has helped find 5 mines and 1 grenade buried underground. Read more. Disha Patani takes Kokilaben’s place in recreated ‘Rasode Mein Kaun Tha’ video as she grills her two dogs, watchDisha Patani has shared her own version of the Rasode Mein Kaun Tha viral video. While the actor plays Kokilaben, her two dogs play Gopi and Rashi in the hilarious video.Read more. ‘Back to Hogwarts’: Potterheads get robes and wands ready as ‘classes’ resume in wizarding worldSeptember 1 is a momentous day in the Wizarding World, as it marks the day that Hogwarts students return to school for the new term and this year, you can be among the students boarding the Hogwarts Express.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-strategic-atal-rohtang-tunnel-ready-for-inauguration-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5fM69rCagSWaKJeGeTgtIK.html
30-08-2020||India||Increased testing, opening economy, complacency among people behind Covid-19 case surge: Experts||The surge in coronavirus infections in India can be attributed to increased testing on one hand and opening of the economy on the other accompanied by complacency among people towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour, experts have said, as the country witnessed over five lakh cases in a week.A record single-day spike of 78,761 cases took India’s Covid-19 tally to 35,42,733, on Sunday, according to Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am. The country has been registering over 70,000 cases for the last four days.Dr Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said this increase in cases was expected but pointed out that it is not a homogenous phenomenon across the states.“It is happening in some pockets and among groups where there is an intermixing of the susceptible population and asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases which is leading to a transmission of the disease. So, efforts have to be made to interrupt this transmission in these pockets,” Dr Panda said.Also, testing has been ramped up exponentially which is leading to more number of cases getting detected, he said.“Further, with the opening up of the economy and people’s movement increasing, some complacency is being seen among people towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour which is also contributing to the rise in cases,” Panda said as he stressed on the need for a sustained Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Leading virologist Shahid Jameel said that people are not following advisories on wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. “This is driven by a complacency that results from the official narrative which only talks of increasing recovery and low death rate. The fact is that we are producing the largest daily numbers. We are now third in total infections and going to be on the third spot on total deaths as well,” he said.Experts underlined that the way forward is for the people to follow Covid-appropriate which includes wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette in a sustained manner while the government should focus on preventing deaths. Dr K K Aggarwal, the president of the Confederation of Medical Association of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO) and former IMA chief said, “There is no way the number of cases can be checked by government efforts at this stage.” He stressed that prevention will have to be at an individual level now.“If this current trend continues, nobody can stop India from crossing Brazil and America (in the number of cases). That would happen in probably six weeks. There is no way we can check the number of cases by government efforts. Now, prevention will have to be an individual effort.“Opening up (of the economy) will lead to a surge in cases. The locking period was to prepare and sensitise people about how to prevent themselves from getting infected. What is more important now is to put a check on mortality. So government efforts should focus on mortality reduction,” Aggarwal said.India has till Sunday recorded 63,498 fatalities linked to Covid-19 with 948 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data.According to sources in the government, a record 10.5 lakh tests were conducted for detection of Covid-19 on Saturday, which took India’s cumulative tests to 4,14,61,636. India’s Covid-19 positivity rate as on date in 7.50 per cent.The number of recoveries has surged to 27,13,933 pushing the recovery rate to 76.61 per cent while the fatality rate has declined to 1.79 per cent.The health ministry had on Saturday said, “The global comparison depicted that India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 and 107.2 respectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increased-testing-opening-economy-complacency-among-people-behind-covid-19-case-surge-experts/story-Qq5lXz1xFg11EXKe01M8GM.html
30-08-2020||India||J-K police DySP was tasked by Pak to establish ‘contact’ in MEA: NIA chargesheet||The suspended Deputy Superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Devender Singh, who has been chargesheeted by the NIA for providing support to banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen, was tasked by his Pakistani handler with establishing a “contact” in the Ministry of External Affairs for carrying out espionage activities.According to the chargesheet of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed before a special court in Jammu, Singh, who was posted in the sensitive anti-hijacking unit of Jammu and Kashmir police, had been in constant touch with his handlers in the Pakistan High Commission who have since been repatriated to Islamabad.The 3,064-page chargesheet, filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code against Singh and five others, gave a graphical description of the police officer’s involvement in providing shelter to the terrorists of the banned group.The chargesheet said he had saved the number of his contact at the Pakistan High Commission as ‘Pak Bhai’ (Pakistani brother). The contact had been giving him various tasks which included deployment of forces and arrival of “VIPs” in the Kashmir valley.After having committed himself to Hizbul Mujahideen, Singh was asked to establish a contact in the Ministry of External Affairs by his Pakistani handler so that espionage activities could be carried out there.However, Singh was unable to make any headway into the nefarious plan of the Pakistani embassy officials, the NIA officials said.The chargesheet, filed in the first week of July, has accused Singh and others of allegedly waging “war against India” with the help of Pakistan-based terrorists and members of the country’s high commission in Delhi.Besides Singh, others named in the chargesheet are self-styled commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu, his brother Syed Irfan Ahmad as well as the group’s alleged overground worker Irfan Shafi Mir, alleged accomplice Rafi Ahmad Rather and businessman Tanveer Ahmad Wani, former president of the Line of Control Traders Association.Detailing the conspiracy, the NIA alleged that Deputy Superintendent of Police Singh, who is in a jail here, was “in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information”. The central agency said in the chargesheet that the probe in the case has brought “on record that the Pakistani establishment has been devising all possible ways and means to fund, arm and sustain the terrorist activities of the banned terrorist organization Hizbul Mujahideen”.Singh was arrested on January 11 this year along with Naveed Babu, Rather and Mir, an advocate, when their car was intercepted by Jammu and Kashmir police near Qazigund on the national highway connecting the Valley with the rest of the country.A search of the vehicle led to the recovery of an AK-47 rifle, three pistols and a cache of ammunition and explosives. The NIA took over the case on January 17.The investigation found that Singh, in an apparent bid to shield Naveed Babu, had shifted him along with the advocate to Jammu and arranged safe shelter for them in the city in February last year.Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons, the NIA alleged.Investigations show that the accused were obtaining weapons and ammunition from across the border with the help of arms smugglers and Singh. These weapons were later used for terrorist activities, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-dysp-was-tasked-by-pak-to-establish-contact-in-mea-nia-chargesheet/story-8AtdujTdk7Ls2tq42lpGsM.html
30-08-2020||India||Covid-19 case fatality dips to 1.79%, active cases cross 765,000 in India: Health ministry||India reported around 78,000 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, as the number of active viral infection cases climbed to 7,65,302 until Saturday night, according to the data shared by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).With 65,000 recoveries, 77% people diagnosed with Covid-19 have recovered from their viral infection during the same period. So far, 2.7 million Indians have recovered from their viral infection.Maharashtra is still the epicentre of Covid-19 pandemic in the country, as it reported 16,286 new cases on Saturday. While Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Karnataka reported 10,548 and 8,324 new Covid-19 cases, respectively, the data collated by HT showed. The Centre has credited the effective implementation of its testing, tracking and treating policy for the high recovery of Covid-19 cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.India has been focussing on increasing the daily testing of swab samples. Around 1.5 million swab samples being tested in the last 24 hours. Tracking and timely surveillance of close contacts and effectively treating those with the viral infection through widening medical infrastructure has increased the recovery rate, the ministry said. The ministry has attributed the low case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.79% until Saturday to the effective and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases. In a meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoMs) on Saturday, Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan said that India has been able to keep the CFR much lower than many countries, despite resource constraints. On average, 3.42% of the patients diagnosed with Covid-19 died across the world. The CFR in the United Kingdom (UK) and Mexico is 12.55% and 10.79%, respectively, he pointed out. “It was noted that despite the resource constraints and being densely populated, timely lockdown restrictions and rapid augmentation of infrastructure by India have helped to keep the Covid-19 case per million and deaths per million considerably lower, as compared to other countries,” the minister tweeted. The minister said that only 2.88% of the active Covid-19 cases were on oxygen, 1.93% in the intensive care units (ICUs) and 0.29% on ventilator support. Almost 81% of the Covid-19-related deaths have been reported from seven states such as Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, AP, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, the minister said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-fatality-dips-to-1-79-active-cases-cross-765-000-in-india-health-ministry/story-LUxIizUZtkR6QzGl6Uh5dP.html
30-08-2020||India||Lucknow double murder: Scribbled notes, scary pictures puzzle police probing case||Police in Lucknow, probing the killing of an Indian Railway officer’s wife and teenage son on Saturday allegedly by his 14-year-old daughter, are puzzled by scribbled notes in her notebook, plastic skulls, scary pictures and a sad emoji drawn on her bedroom wall, officials privy to the investigation said on Sunday.Her ‘unpredictable behaviour’ too perplexed the police, the officials added.Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) Sujeet Pandey said it was important to consult a psychologist about the girl’s behaviour to understand the crime.ALSO WATCH | Daughter of senior railway officer killed mother, brother in Lucknow, say cops“We would mention in the judicial proceedings (the need) to consult a psychologist as her father had also admitted before me that she was in depression and her behaviour was not normal,” Pandey said.The police commissioner said the girl wrote ‘disqualified human’, on the washroom mirror and similar words were scribbled in her notebook.“The writing was not very clear, so it took time to understand it. We compared the scribbled notes with the handwriting in the girl’s other notebooks that matched hers,” he said.“We will seek the opinion of forensic experts on these points,” he said.Pandey said a dedicated team had been constituted to contact the girl’s class mates, friends and teachers, who could reveal more about her behaviour. A police team also spoke to the girl’s close relatives to know about her but nothing very conclusive emerged, he added.The commissioner said the initial findings suggested that she was a meritorious student and actively participated in sports like shooting from a very early age. She was a trained shooter, he said, adding that the.22 bore weapon used in the crime had already been recovered and it was registered in her father’s name. He said a similar bore weapon was often used by shooters and the girl was trained to use it.On Saturday, the girl allegedly shot dead her mother and elder brother while they were sleeping in their room at a bungalow under the city’s Gautampalli police station limits.The victims’ relatives told reporters that it was the railway official’s birthday on Sunday and his wife and son had planned to celebrate the occasion.The bodies of the two victims were cremated at Baikunth Dham crematorium on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scribbled-notes-scary-pictures-puzzle-cops-probing-murder-of-rly-officer-s-wife-son/story-EY1MmVVZFJYiyfsIOMCifO.html
30-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel to go in isolation after 2 staff members test Covid-19 positive||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said he will go in isolation for the next four days as a precautionary measure after two of his staff members, including a personal security officer, tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister has tested coronavirus negative.“My OSD (Officer on Special Duty) and PSO (Personal Security Officer) have found corona positive. My (test) report is negative at the moment, but I will be in isolation for the next four days as a precautionary measure. This is a period of crisis, everyone please be careful,” CM Baghel tweeted.Chhattisgarh on Saturday recorded 1,157 new coronavirus cases and eight fatalities, taking the count to 28,390 and death toll to 262.The state has 12,313 active cases at present, and as many as 15,818 people have recovered from the disease. As per Saturday’s tally, worst-hit Raipur district reported 630 new cases which took the total case tally in the district to 10,078.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-to-go-in-isolation-after-2-staff-members-test-covid-19-positive/story-EM32DyRZW6jrifJ5ylzNPI.html
30-08-2020||India||Karnataka CM flags off first ever RORO train between Bengaluru and Maharashtra’s Solapur||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday flagged off first-ever Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO) train between Bengaluru (Nelamangala) and Solapur in Maharashtra through video-conferencing.Yediyurappa said RORO is a hassle-free and environment-friendly service.“Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO) service is hassle-free, reduces accidents on the road, is environment friendly, and presents a win-win situation to truck operators and industries. Happy to flag the maiden RORO train service between Bengaluru and Solapur. My best wishes to all stakeholders,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet.South Western Railway in a tweet said, “Hon’ble MoSR while addressing said that it is dream of Hon’ble PM to extend multimodal connectivity that will boost trade, reduce travel time.”Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi, state revenue minister R Ashoka and senior railway officials were present during the event.A RORO train has wagons on which trucks and other vehicles with goods can be loaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-flags-off-first-ever-roro-train-between-bengaluru-and-maharashtra-s-solapur/story-raUwKyOzePYbvBGRF1SyGI.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM meets DRDO chairman, discusses plans of promoting defence sector in region||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday met Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy at his residence in Dehradun. During the meeting, the two discussed the possibilities of promoting the defence industry in the state after the recent restriction by the Centre on the import of 101 defence items. They also discussed about taking the help of DRDO in developing state-based industries and in agricultural activities in the border villages of the state. During the meeting, CM Rawat discussed the matter regarding providing training and internship to the state’s engineering students in DRDO establishments in Dehradun and other places. to which Dr Reddy gave his approval. The DRDO has one of its defence laboratories named Instruments Research & Development Establishment (IRDE) in Dehradun. In July this year, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S Deswal met CM Rawat and raised issues related to roads, mobile and power connectivity, land for housing ITBP personnel and the promotion of tourism in remote and border areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-meets-drdo-chairman-discusses-plans-of-promoting-defence-sector-in-region/story-LWkpyfplPs4GVqaF5Pip4H.html
30-08-2020||India||BSF to lodge protest with Pakistan Rangers, show photographic evidence of tunnel||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday said that it would soon lodge a strong protest with Pakistan Rangers with photographic evidence of a trans-border tunnel. On Saturday, the BSF detected the trans-border tunnel originating in Pakistan and entering India through Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector.“The BSF will soon lodge a formal protest with Pakistan Rangers with pictorial evidence along with a written note,” said BSF Jammu Frontier Inspector General, NS Jamwal. He said that the trans-border tunnel that originated in Pakistan was being dug from about 500 yards of the Rangers’ Afzal post.“It would not have been possible for the rogue elements to dig the tunnel without their (Rangers) knowledge, approval and guidance,” said JamwalHowever, Pakistan Rangers remain in denial mode to any such activity whenever detected and conveyed to them, he added. The BSF IG also informed that there were no tell-tale signs, which could suggest successful infiltration.“The markings on sand bags to reinforce the mouth of the tunnel had recent dates of August 18 and 20. So, it was a fresh activity, which has been detected well in time.”Around 10 plastic sandbags, which had ‘Karachi and Shakargarh’ written on them have been recovered from the opening of the tunnel. The bags have a manufacturing and expiry date printed on them. The tunnel’s opening was around 170 meters from the international border. It opened into a farmer’s field.In September last year, the BSF had launched a massive operation along the International Border (IB) with Pakistan to detect underground cross-border tunnels The BSF also uses ground penetrating radars to detect tunnels. In the past, infiltrators have attempted digging underground tunnels in Hiranagar, Samba, RS Pura, Pallanwala and Munawar Tawi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-to-lodge-protest-with-pakistan-rangers-show-photographic-evidence-of-tunnel/story-ef60WI47hfG4axn8Xp9svK.html
30-08-2020||India||Toy cluster at Koppala can generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||India’s ‘first toy manufacturing cluster’ to come up at Koppal has the potential to create 40,000 jobs in five years and attract over Rs 5,000 crore investment, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said here on Sunday.“In line with PM @narendramodi ‘s vision of #VocalForLocal & boosting toy manufacturing, Koppala will have India’s first toy manufacturing cluster.With the eco-system to support toy cluster in place, this 400 acres SEZ will have top-class infra & generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years,” Yediyurappa tweeted.The tweet by the chief minister came following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme, pitching India to become the world’s toy hub.Modi on Sunday said India has talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being “vocal about local toys”. He said the global toy industry is over Rs seven lakh crore, but India’s share was very small, as he stressed on the need to work to increase it.The Karnataka government is inviting global toy makers to the “first of its kind” toy manufacturing cluster in India at Koppala and had recently held a webinar cum panel discussion with a panel of leading toys manufacturers.Karnataka is poised to emerge as a leading toy-making cluster in the country due to the robust ecosystem the state has created to support toy making industries, the state government had recently said.It said, the state has supported and nurtured the setting up of Tool Manufacturing & precision engineering (TMTP), polymers manufacturing clusters Bengaluru, Dharwad, Tumkuru and Mysuru, robust design capacity and testing certification agencies in Bengaluru, Dharwad and Koppal and GTTC (Government Tool Room & Training Centre).With such a dedicated push by the government towards toy manufacturing, the state’s toy industry has grown at a CAGR of 18 per cent (2010-17) and is expected to reach USD 310 million by 2023, it added.Karnataka is the third-largest market for toys in India (USD 159 million) 9.1 per cent of the national market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toy-cluster-at-koppala-can-generate-40-000-jobs-in-5-yrs-cm/story-7IDmItj0GpF23SxZjso1UP.html
30-08-2020||India||Census, NPR unlikely in 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic: Official||The first phase of the Census and the exercise to update the National Population Register (NPR), scheduled for this year but deferred due to the coronavirus outbreak, may be delayed by a year as there is no sign of slowdown of the pandemic. The Indian census is one of the largest administrative and statistical exercises in the world, with the involvement of more than 30 lakh officials who would visit each household across the length and breadth of the country. “Census is not an essential exercise for now. Even if it is delayed by a year, there would be no harm,” a senior official told PTI. The official said no final decision has been taken on when the first phase of the Census 2021 and NPR update would take place, but it is almost certain that it would not be held in 2020 due to the rising cases of the coronavirus. The house-listing phase of the Census and the exercise to update NPR were scheduled to be carried out across the country from April 1 to September 30, 2020, but were postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “As the entire exercise needs the involvement of lakhs of officials and visit to each family, we can’t undermine the health risk involved in it,” the official said. With a record single-day spike of 78,761 cases, the total coronavirus cases in India rose to 35,42,733, while the death toll climbed to 63,498 as on Sunday. According to the earlier schedule, the census would have its reference date as March 1, 2021, and in the snow-bound areas of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, it would be October 1, 2020. “The COVID-19 threat is still looming large. The census and NPR are not in the priority list of the government as of now,” another official said. In March, when the coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced, the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India was all set for the first phase of the census and updation of the NPR that was scheduled to begin from April 1. Even though some state governments opposed the NPR update, all offered full support to the census exercise. The census is the largest single source of a variety of statistical information on people of India which helps the State to chalk out various policies. With a history of more than 130 years, this reliable, time tested exercise has been bringing out a veritable wealth of statistics every 10 years, including on the rich diversity of the people, and has become one of the tools to understand and study India. The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country. The database would contain demographic as well as biometric particulars. The NPR is a register of the usual residents of the country. It is prepared at the local (village and sub-town), subdistrict, district, state and national levels under provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. The data for NPR was last collected in 2010 along with the house listing phase of the Census 2011. Updating of this data was done during 2015 by conducting a door-to-door survey. While updating the register in 2015, the government had asked details like Aadhaar and the mobile number of people. This time, the information related to their driving licence and voter ID card may also be gathered, the officials said. Though information regarding the place of birth of parents will be sought, it is up to the residents whether to respond to the question as it is voluntary. For the NPR, a usual resident is defined as a person who has resided in a local area for the past six months or more or a person who intends to reside in that area for the next six months. The law compulsorily seeks to register every citizen of India and issue a national identity card. The demographic details required for every usual resident are name, relationship to head of household, father’s name, mother’s name, spouse’s name (if married), sex, date of birth, marital status, place of birth, nationality (as declared), present address of usual residence, duration of stay at present address, permanent residential address, occupation and educational qualification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/census-npr-unlikely-in-2020-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-official/story-VFrI5tOfRuZKAqXfk3PAkN.html
30-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till September 30 amid coronavirus outbreak||State-wide lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended till September 30, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced on Sunday. In the fresh guidelines for the lockdown, all places of worship, hotels and resorts are allowed to re-open. People can travel across Tamil Nadu without e-pass and public and private bus transport within districts shall resume, the new lockdown guidelines state. Shopping malls, show rooms and big formal stores can open with 100 per cent staff but cinema halls cannot function yet, the chief minister said. Complying with the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines, Tamil Nadu government will allow the Chennai Metro to resume from September 7. Measures like prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPc, closure of educational institutions and restrictions in containment zones without any relaxations, have been extended till September 30. As of Sunday, Tamil Nadu has 52,726 active cases taking the cumulative tally to 3,55,727. The extension of lockdown in the state - third worst-hit in India - comes on the day when death toll mounted to 7,137. Tamil Nadu is among the seven states -- Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- account for 81% of total Covid-19 deaths, according to the health ministry.India on Sunday recorded 78,761 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data. This pushed the nationwide tally to 3,542,733.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-september-30-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-V3XP8EqQvpRvy23g3W5AOO.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP killing democracy using money power, investigative agencies: Ajay Maken||The Congress’ Rajasthan in-charge and national general secretary Ajay Maken hit out at the BJP on Sunday, accusing it of “killing democracy” using “money power and misusing investigative agencies”.During his first visit to Rajasthan after he was appointed the party’s Rajasthan in-charge, Maken addressed party workers in Alwar district’s Shahjahapur and alleged that the BJP “killed democracy” in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Manipur.But when they tried doing so in Rajasthan, they faced defeat, he said.“Across the country, they (BJP) killed democracy by using money power and misusing the CBI and ED. The braves of Rajasthan... at least 102 MLAs have proved that no matter how much money is offered or pressure is mounted, we will not bend. We will protect the democracy, the way Congress fought with British and got freedom,” Maken said.The senior Congress leader, however, warned that “there would be more such attack on democracy” in the days to come. “We have to be prepared for them and by no chance should allow democracy to be defeated in Rajasthan,” he said.Maken is also the member of a three-member central panel set up by the Congress to address issues of disgruntled MLAs including Sachin Pilot. The panel would help evolve a mechanism to ensure better coordination between the government and the party in Rajasthan as well as among all factions.During his visit to Rajasthan, Maken would hear out senior leaders, office bearers of the party’s state unit, former and present legislators and ex-MPs. The aim of the visit is to strengthen and reorganise the party at block and district levels.On Monday, Maken is scheduled to meet leaders and workers of Jaipur division at state party office. Such meetings will continue for the next two days in Ajmer and Kota, in which about 50-60 leaders of every district would attend, Congress leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-killing-democracy-using-money-power-investigative-agencies-ajay-maken/story-RjMMJfqzAIYq9LTqwVrXsL.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate at 76.61%, case fatality rate dips to 1.79%: Govt||The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has crossed 2.7 million, pushing the country’s recovery rate to 76.61% while the case fatality rate has come down to 1.79%, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.On a day when India posted 78,761 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily spike in the world, recoveries from the infection also rose to 2,713,933 keeping the hope up.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The ministry underlined that of the total 3,542,733 confirmed cases in the country, 765,302 are active, implying that the active cases comprise only 21.60% of the total caseload. The number of recoveries exceeds the active cases by 3.55 times, it added.The Centre credited effective implementation of its policy of “testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively through timely surveillance of close contacts and treating effectively through a widening medical care infrastructure across the country” for the rising number of recoveries. “With the recovery of 64,935 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Recovery Rate amongst the COVID-19 patients has improved to 76.61% and is demonstrating a continuous progress. The number of patients recovering is on a steady rise over the past several months,” it said.The recovery rate was 7.69% on April 5. It improved to 26.59% on May 3 and 47.76% on May 31. It was recorded at 60.77% on July 5 and has now gone up to 76.61%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Even as the death toll from the viral disease has climbed to 63,498, the case fatality rate is on a downward slope. “Timely and effective clinical management of the patients in critical care through a slew of holistic measures has been instrumental in keeping the case fatality rate low and on a steady downward trajectory. It has further dipped to 1.79 per cent today,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-at-76-61-case-fatality-rate-dips-to-1-79-govt/story-FpRgH2pPXNNclDB3CWMiFI.html
30-08-2020||India||‘How Modi govt destroyed Indian economy’: Rahul Gandhi’s new video series trailer||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday announced a new series of videos to talk about the Centre’s handling of the Indian economy after attacking the government over the border standoff with China in July.Gandhi released the promo of his upcoming video series ‘Arthvyavastha Ki Baat, Rahul Gandhi ke saath’ (A Talk About The Economy with Rahul Gandhi). He said the video series will be available on Monday at 10am.Watch my video series on how the Modi Govt has destroyed Indian economy.First video tomorrow at 10am on all my social media channels.देखिए मेरी वीडियो श्रृंखला कि मोदी सरकार ने भारतीय अर्थव्यवस्था को कैसे नष्ट किया।मेरे सभी सोशल मीडिया चैनलों पर पहला वीडियो कल सुबह 10 बजे। pic.twitter.com/AZBhObLxopAlso read | In Rahul Gandhi’s latest video, a message to PM on China and ‘national vision’“The BJP government has attacked the unorganised economy. I can give you three examples right now - demonetisation, wrong GST and lockdown,” he said in the promo in Hindi.Gandhi had previously attacked the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the country’s border row with China in the Galwan Valley. In several videos, Gandhi talked about India’s ties with China after the brutal Galwan Valley faceoff in June when 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-modi-govt-destroyed-indian-economy-rahul-gandhi-s-new-video-series-trailer/story-36oRJ9bOUCv5vjt06ZW5xO.html
30-08-2020||India||Rape accused Uttarakhand BJP MLA seeks narco analysis, woman insists on DNA test||Amid the ongoing probe in the case involving BJP MLA Mahesh Negi who has been accused of rape and fathering a child by a woman, the lawmaker and his wife have asked police to conduct narco test on him and the woman to ‘reveal truth’. Negi’s wife Rita Negi who had earlier accused the woman of allegedly blackmailing and trying to extort Rs 5 crore from Negi by threatening to frame him in false case, wrote to the police for a narco test, circle officer (CO) Sadar, Anuj Kumar who is investigating the case.Negi said he has requested the police for the narco test because it will reveal everything about all those who are involved in this conspiracy against him and planning to extort Rs 5 crore. “It is a very big conspiracy and many people are involved in it, hence it is important that a narco test is held”, he said. Confirming the development, Anuj Kumar said, “The MLA’s wife Rita Negi had given the letter to us two days ago, requesting a narco test on both Negi and the woman.” “In the letter, she also stated that the MLA will bear the cost of the test. We are, however, looking for legal options and probing the matter,” said Kumar. On Saturday morning in a series of four videos, the woman accused Negi of ‘manipulating police to influence the probe with the request for a narco test. She said, “I have been demanding a DNA test of Negi and my daughter to prove my allegations. Nothing is being done on that and now he is requesting a narco test.” “Why is he doing that? He should agree for a DNA test as it will reveal the truth and not the narco test,” she said. The woman also refused to undergo ‘any sort of tests with Negi’ and alleged that Negi is trying to twist the case with his ‘dragnet of words’. “I will not undergo any type of test with Negi. He is trying to trap me in his dragnet of words. He shouldn’t manipulate the probe. He should undergo the DNA test to let the truth come out. He knows very well that my daughter is his blood then I don’t know why he is not ready to give his name to her,” said the woman. On the allegations of Negi that Congress is conspiring against him with the woman, she said, “No third party is involved in this or behind me. I am all alone in this fight. In the last two years during sexually harassing me, he had forced me to keep mum by threatening me, but not anymore.” In the videos, she also accused the police and administration of working under ‘pressure of the ruling party of which Negi is the MLA.’ “There are two different types of treatments in the state; one for the common man and another for VIPs like Negi. This has been proved in this matter where police is not taking any action against Negi. My daughter’s and my lives are under threat from Negi and his associates,” she said. On the woman’s demand of DNA test and allegations of manipulating the police probe, Mahesh Negi said, “I have never refused any test and am ready for both DNA and narco. As far as the allegations of influencing the probe is concerned, they are all baseless. Police are investigating it on their own and will reveal the truth soon.” The police also rubbished the woman’s claim that they were working under pressure.“We are not working under any pressure. We are probing the whole matter unbiasedly and fairly as per the law. We are questioning all the parties involved in it as per the requirements of the probe,” said CO Kumar. Earlier the police recorded the statements of the woman, her mother, Negi and his wife. It is yet to record the statements of the woman’s husband who too has been named in the blackmailing and extortion case registered on the complaint of Negi’s wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-accused-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-seeks-narco-analysis-woman-insists-on-dna-test/story-KnhNxPca0fahSO27d6b7zM.html
30-08-2020||India||Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inauguration||Work on the long-delayed strategic all-weather Atal Rohtang Tunnel that will connect Manali to Lahaul and Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh throughout the year has been completed and will be ready for inauguration in two weeks, officials aware of the development said. The tunnel is scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September. The strategic tunnel which is nearing completion, is a step in the direction of providing all weather connectivity to remote border areas of Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, which otherwise remained cut off from the rest of the country for about six months during winters. The tunnel is also significant from a military logistics point of view and will provide better connectivity to the armed forces in reaching Ladakh.ALSO READ | 8.8 km long, 3,000 metre above sea: Know everything about Atal TunnelOn completion, it is set to become the world’s longest road tunnel at an altitude above 3,000 metres. The Rohtang Tunnel is being constructed in the Pir Panjal ranges of Himachal Pradesh, since the Manali-Sarchu-Leh road remains closed for nearly six months in a year due to the Rohtang Pass being completely snow clad between November and April. Upon completion, the all-weather tunnel will connect Manali to Lahaul and Spiti valley throughout the year and will reduce the road length of the Manali-Rohtang Pass-Sarchu-Leh road by 46 km. The Rohtang Tunnel was rechristened Atal Tunnel by the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December last year. The decision to construct a strategic tunnel below the Rohtang Pass was taken by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2000.In 2002, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee declared the construction of Rohtang Tunnel and laid the foundation of the approach road to the tunnel. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) engaged RITES in March 2002 to undertake feasibility studies. The 8.8-kilometre long tunnel is the world’s longest tunnel above an altitude of 3,000 metres. It will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 kilometres and reduce travel time by 4.5 hours. It is a 10.5-metre wide single tube bi-lane tunnel with a fire proof emergency ‘escape tunnel’ built into the main tunnel itself. On September 24, 2009, a contract was awarded to Strabag-Afcons Joint Venture (SAJV) for the tunnel’s construction. Construction for the project finally began in 2010, in the presence of then UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi. The long-delayed tunnel has, however, gone through tough challenges for construction owing to the geographical location and difficult topographic profile of the region. The delays to due tough weather conditions also escalated the cost of the project from Rs 1,458 crore to around Rs 2,500 crore.“The Atal Rohtang Tunnel will be ready for inauguration purpose in the next two weeks…It has been the most challenging project in terms of construction due to geographic conditions, weather and multiple hazards faced during the construction. We have faced multiple avalanches. In 2013, the tunnel collapsed at the north portal. In 2014, we had to evacuate the site in a hurry due to sudden harsh weather conditions… Army helicopters have had to be used to rescue nearly 100-150 workers. Full credit goes to Strabag-Afcons and the Border Road Organisation for their strict safety regulations and hawk-like vigil in the tunnel construction that was able to ensure the tunnel was constructed without any fatality in the project,” Satish Paretkar, Director, Hydro and Underground division, Afcons said. Since there were multiple avalanche zones at both the portals the workforce were also given GPS trackers that could track their location and send a signal to the control room in case anyone was stuck or hit by any avalanche. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and the contractors had to deal with major geological, terrain and weather challenges that included the most difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah Fault Zone. The so-called breakthrough from both ends was achieved on October 15, 2017. “The biggest challenge we faced was due to the Seri Nalla Zone that took us almost four years to excavate 041 km of the zone. At the Seri Nalla Zone in the south portal, we dealt with constant collapse of the tunnel’s face. The zone threw up extremely fractured and pulverized rock and very poor geological conditions. We experienced huge water ingress of up to 127 litres per second. When you have so much water from a top glacier lake it becomes impossible to continue. We could not trace the glacier’s source, and had we not found the solution Rohtang would not have been possible,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-strategic-atal-rohtang-tunnel-ready-for-inauguration/story-Zp8qCpIo92d9zVPzoHmcUN.html
30-08-2020||India||JD (U) makes seat swap offer to BJP for Jharkhand assembly bypolls||The Jharkhand unit of the Janata Dal (United) on Sunday offered a seat swapping formula for the bypolls to Dumka and Bermo assembly seats in the state to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). JD-U also claimed that this would pave the way for reorganization and revamping the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Jharkhand and also enable it to win the upcoming Bihar assembly elections easily.The two parties do not have an alliance in Jharkhand. JD (U)’s Jharkhand unit president Salkhan Murmu said the offer was being made in the wake of reports of former Jharkhand chief minister Babulal Marandi’s reluctance to fight from Dumka assembly seat, which fell vacant as incumbent CM Hemant Soren kept the Barhait seat while vacating the Dumka seat.He said reports suggested that BJP central leadership has sent feelers to Marandi for fielding him from Dumka, which he had earlier won in 1996 defeating JMM stalwart Sibu Soren. This is a plan ‘B’ to counter the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD coalition by keeping the post of the leader of opposition for Marandi pending despite BJP being the largest political party in the state assembly. This even after Election Commission’s ruling the merger of Marandi’s JVM-P’s with the BJP as valid.State assembly speaker Ravindra Nath Mahato, however, has been weighing the merger under anti-defection law and is yet to pronounce his verdict despite repeated demands by the BJP. The BJP is still without a legislative party leader and the assembly without leader of the opposition. The BJP felt Babulal Marandi winning from Dunka on its ticket would help break the deadlock.“As far our information, Babulal Marndi is not very keen to fight from Dumka and the BJP seems not much confident of Louis Marandi as a second choice. Hence, JD-U proposes to support Babulal Marandi if he fights from Dumka and if he does not, JD-U is keen to fight from the seat. In such a case, BJP may fight from Bermo and if Babulal fights from Dumka, then JD-U can settle for Bermo,” Salkhan Murmu said.CM Soren had vacated Dumka seat in January this year while Bermo seat fell vacant after death of Congress MLA Rajendra Singh in May this year. The bypolls are pending amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Murmu, a former BJP MP from Mayurbhanj said he had talked and got the approval for a proposal of 50:50 seat sharing between the JD(U) and the BJP for the bypolls and rural and urban body polls in future from the JD(U) national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and party in-charge of Jharkhand Arun Kumar Singh.“We strongly feel this will have a positive impact in Bihar assembly polls also and will give NDA alliance an upper hand in the upcoming panchayat and urban body elections in Jharkhand. This is just the right time as the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance is already losing ground with its complete failure in dealing with Covid-19 pandemic and it’s dithering on its electoral promises,” said Salkhan. Jharkhand’s BJP president Deepak Prakash said the seat swap proposal was Salkhan Mumru’s personal view and it was also premature. “Let the bypolls be declared. We will discuss the matter and decide within the party forum at the state level and with the Central leadership at the right time. BJP named Babulal as our leader of the legislative party long ago, but the ruling dispensation is trying every trick to deny him the rightful status. We have even sought the Governor’s intervention,” said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-makes-seat-swap-offer-to-bjp-for-jharkhand-assembly-bypolls/story-WzK0N0EHmlprqmILo6JfYO.html
30-08-2020||India||India, France in talks for Mission Alpha-like equipment for Gaganyaan astronauts||Space agencies of India and France are in an advanced stage of discussions for providing necessary equipment to ‘Gaganyaan’ astronauts, similar to the one to be used by French astronaut Thomas Pesquet for Mission Alpha next year, officials said.A senior official of the National Centre for Space Studies (CNES), the space agency of France, said work on the equipment for Mission Alpha is on.French astronaut Thomas Pesquet, as part of the European Space Agency (ESA), will be returning to the International Space Station (ISS) while flying on Crew Dragon spacecraft early next year.“Discussions are in the final stage. An announcement is likely to be made soon. Work on the instrumentation for Mission Alpha is on,” the CNES official said without elaborating on the details of the equipment.India and France share a robust collaboration in the area of space. Space agencies of the two countries are also collaborating on nearly Rs 10,000 crore Gaganyaan mission that aims to send three Indians to space by 2022.Last year, flight surgeon Brigitte Godard, then with the CNES, was in India to train physicians and engineers.France has a well-established mechanism for space medicine. It also has the MEDES (French Institute of Space Medicine and Physiology) space clinic, a subsidiary of CNES, where space surgeons undergo training.“The Indian space surgeons will also go to France next year once the coronavirus situation eases,” an ISRO official said. He also did not comment on specific collaboration for supply of the equipment to Gaganyaan astronauts.Four short-listed Indian Air Force pilots and prospective astronauts for the Gagangyaan mission are currently undergoing training in Russia.Meanwhile, ‘Alpha’ was chosen as the name for Pesquet’s new mission after a competition organised by the European Space Agency in partnership with CNES that attracted more than 27,000 entries.The name came up 47 times in the entries received.Pesquet, who spent six months on ISS between November 2016 and June 2017, is currently training with Crew Dragon spacecraft and station simulators for Mission Alpha.To give Europe’s scientists an opportunity to gain access to ISS and to coordinate activities on the station, the ESA has established User Support and Operations Centres (USOC), of which the CADMOS centre for the development of microgravity applications and space operations at CNES’s Toulouse Space Centre is one, according to an official statement on Mission Alpha.For human space flights, CADMOS is the point of contact between the ground segments in Europe, the United States and Russia and the science teams supporting astronauts, as they perform experiments in real time, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-in-talks-for-mission-alpha-like-equipment-for-gaganyaan-astronauts/story-xbBBBD3HBzRkHDN4EvjfaL.html
30-08-2020||India||Over 1 lakh respond to Jharkhand CM’s Twitter poll on NEET-JEE exams||Over 1.7 lakh people have responded so far to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s call on Twitter, seeking students’ opinion on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Exams (JEE)-Main exams. More than 45,000 students are likely to participate in the upcoming exams across 40 centres in five cities.Chief minister Soren took to Twitter last night and posted a poll, calling students’ to share their opinion over the NEET-JEE exams which are scheduled in September amid the Covid-19 pandemic.ALSO WATCH | Explained: JEE-NEET exams amid Covid | What students must do; NTA rules“I want to particularly ask and seek feedback from all my young engineer and doctor friends. Will students face huge difficulties if #JEENEET exams are postponed?” Soren had tweeted. People responded to the CM’s call, which seeks vote on any of three options - ‘Yes, No and Don’t Know’. The voting will come to an end on Sunday late night.Also read: Flying to India for NEET amid Covid-19 risk stressful, impractical, say aspirants in Gulf nationsIn another tweet, the CM said, “Tonight I’m worried & tensed as India continues to report over 75,000 Covid-19 cases every single day. Yet our union education minister @DrRPNishank ji (Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank) is not even remotely concerned about safety & health concerns of lakhs of students made to write #JEENEET exams in September.”Earlier, the chief minister had written to the union education minister demanding postponement of the examinations.When the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya was asked if this exercise would help in postponing the exams, he said, “Let the exercise get completed. Thereafter, we will say on it.”Reacting on the development, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “This is actually unprecedented. A chief minister is holding a referendum on the Supreme Court’s earlier judgment. This is being conducted at a time when the state has filed a review petition in the Supreme Court and hearing of which is pending.”Shahdeo said, “I think the chief minister should put all his energy to conduct the examination smoothly and in a healthy manner instead of making a strategy to spoil students’ career.”The National Testing Authority, the nodal body to conduct the examinations, and the central government are supposed to hold JEE-Main and NEET between September 1 and 6 and on September 13, respectively. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively. From Jharkhand, more than 45,000 students would appear for both the examinations. Around 23,000 students would write the JEE-Main, while 22,000 would appear for NEET examinations. The exams will be conducted at 40 centres spread across five cites-Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Hazaribag and Jamshedpur. Ranchi has a maximum of 25 centres. The district administrations of respective cities have begun preparations to conduct free and fair examinations. The administration officials in Ranchi said all Covid-19 protocol including mask, social distancing and sanitization would be followed strictly.In view of the examinations, the Jharkhand government has also allowed operation of intra-state bus service, hotel and restaurants from September 1 under the fourth phase of ‘unlock’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-respond-to-jharkhand-cm-s-twitter-poll-on-neet-jee-exams/story-XUPsMo8HA7oZ7MTmYuJCKN.html
30-08-2020||India||Police officer, 3 terrorists killed in night-long gunfight in Srinagar||A counterinsurgency police officer and three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists including a commander were killed in an overnight encounter in Srinagar that ended Sunday morning, police said.Officials said that Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of Special Operations Group of Police, Babu Ram was killed during the encounter with the terrorists which erupted on Saturday night at Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar.“During the exchange of fire we lost a brave and daring officer of our lead SOG team Babu Ram,” said J&K Director General of Police, Dilbag Singh.“He was an experienced member of our SOG team and had been involved in operations for a long time. We pay our tributes to this brave jawan,” he said.The DGP did not identify the three terrorists but said all were working for the LeT.“One of them was a commander who had been involved in terror activities for some time. He was active for the past one and a half years,” he said.The nightlong gunfight was triggered after the three terrorists attacked a checkpoint manned by police and CRPF at Pantha-Chokh late Saturday evening.The DGP said that the attackers, travelling on a bike, opened fire and attempted to snatch the rifles of the security personnel who were checking vehicles on the road.“The police and CRPF were alert and they not only foiled the attack but also chased the attackers who were forced to leave behind their bike and run away,” Singh said.The DGP said that the terrorists entered Dhobhi Mohalla in Pantha-Chokh and when the forces cordoned the area, the militants opened fire. “The forces retaliated in which one terrorist was killed initially,” he said.Babu Ram also lost his life in the shootout.The DGP said that the encounter continued till early morning and before going for the final push, the security forces attempted to convince the two terrorists to surrender.“We gave the terrorists a chance to surrender though we had lost one of our men,” he said.Parents of one of the terrorists were brought from the nearby Pampore area to convince them to come out from the house. “But the firing started again during which the other two terrorists were also killed,” Singh said.“Our alert forces not only averted a major tragedy but also succeeded in a major operation,” he said.To pay respects to the ASI Babu Ram a wreath laying ceremony was held at District Police Lines Srinagar where floral tributes were paid to the fallen policeman. R R Bhatnagar Advisor to the Lt Governor led the officers and other personnel in paying homage to the slain cop. This is the third encounter in the past three day which in which 10 terrorists and two security forces personnel including an army jawan have been killed.Three Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and a soldier were killed on Saturday in a gunfight in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police said Friday, four militants were killed in a joint encounter by the army and paramilitary forces in Shopian district of the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-officer-3-militants-killed-in-night-long-gunfight-in-srinagar/story-e3MPEXPHH9EAGkEEQQr9HM.html
30-08-2020||India||India has record single-day infections as coronavirus hits hinterland||India announced a record number of coronavirus infections for a single day as the world’s second-most populous nation becomes the latest epicenter of the pandemic that has already swept through Europe, the US and South America.As many 78,761 new cases were reported Sunday, according to data from the health ministry. The US had set the previous highest number for a single day at 77,638 on July 17, according to Agence-France Presse.From a former president to multiple ministers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet, the virus has spread further from India’s biggest cities to its vast hinterland, where most of the population lives and health infrastructure is mostly archaic. India has the most number of confirmed cases worldwide after the US and Brazil, while it’s fourth in the overall list of deceased.With one of the world’s fastest-growing epidemics but also one of the lowest testing rates, India in late June started to use quick antigen tests to ramp up detection. But the tests, which can report false negatives as much 50% of the time, threaten to obscure the true picture of its outbreak, further challenging containment efforts.Between 25%-30% of the country’s daily tests now are rapid antigen tests, Balram Bhargava, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told reporters at a briefing in New Delhi. It was the first time India’s premier research group had broken down the testing data -- the ICMR’s website still does not specify what type of tests are being done in its daily data.Despite the surge in recent weeks, India continues to ease the restrictions as the economy faces the biggest contraction in four decades. The government announced new re-opening steps on Aug. 29 that includes permitting metro rail services to resume in a graded manner from Sept. 7, and barring provinces from local lockdowns other than in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-record-single-day-infections-as-coronavirus-hits-hinterland/story-xbu5OCD8OHlYtDds5XworK.html
30-08-2020||India||Hundreds pledge help, donate cycles to get Mumbai’s dabbawalas back to work||Within a few hours after Hindustan Times reported about the plight of Mumbai’s dabbawalas and their appeal to the public to donate cycles, good samaritans on the internet instantly responded with help. Manish Mundra, who has produced films like ‘Masaan’ and ‘Newton’, pledged 100 cycles for the dabbawalas after reading the story. “Anybody in Mumbai can help me negotiate for 100 cycles for Mumbai Dabbawala association. They need Atlas double bar cycle for sturdiness. I am donating 100 cycles. Anybody else wanna donate or contribute for more ?’, he tweeted. Mundra’s appeal got a good response with nearly a 100 people volunteering to help the community. “Please count me in for 10 bicycles,” stated a Twitter user. Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala Association said he was flooded with phone calls. “So many people have come forward to help our dabbawalas. The community is really happy and is looking forward to start work now. Thanks to this, thousands of dabbawalas will now get help. We are all eager to start work soon and are now hoping to get permissions to ply on the trains too,” he added. Anybody in mumbai can help me negotiate for 100 cycles for Mumbai Dabbawala association. They need Atlas double bar cycle for sturdiness. I am donating 100 cycles. Anybody else wanna donate or contribute for more ? @lifeofapatrakar @samarmumbaikhan @Rajput_Ramesh @HTMumbai https://t.co/PLzyDKiQqYOn Saturday, Mumbai Dabbawala Association appealed to people to donate cycles to them as they could not afford to pay the maintenance costs of their rusted cycles which have been lying outside the stations for six months now. The association has been demanding the central government to start regular local trains or allow dabbawalas into the essential services category. They submitted a written request to that effect on Saturday. There are nearly 5,000 dabbawalas working in the city who deliver meals to people on a daily basis. Known for their timely and accurate food deliveries, Mumbai’s dabbawalas have been used as a case study in several management institutes. In 2003, when Prince Charles met a few members of the community, he lauded their work. Ever since, the dabbawalas have always been in the limelight. With the growing uncertainty around the nature of work and the utility of tiffins in future, the community is now clueless about what the future holds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-pledge-help-donate-cycles-to-get-mumbai-s-dabbawalas-back-to-work/story-XiKUNnrfxqeJlOug3eZ9mK.html
30-08-2020||India||Apps developed under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat app challenge’ get praise from PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat on Sunday highlighted the innovation potential of the country’s youth by drawing attention to the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology’s (Meity) Atmanirbhar application (app) challenge that aims to showcase that India could become a self-reliant nation. “Dear countrymen, everyone acknowledges the capability of Indians to offer innovation and solutions. When there is dedication and sensitivity, this power becomes limitless. At the beginning of this month (August) an app innovation challenge was put before the country’s youth,” said PM Modi. “Under #AtmaNirbharBharat App innovation challenge, there is the KutukiKids learning app. This is an interactive app for children that teaches several aspects such as mathematics and science through songs and stories,” he added. Also read: ‘Come, let’s play’ - PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar pushThe challenge was launched by Meity to find an alternative to the Chinese apps that were banned by the Modi government after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops on June 15. The applications securing the first, second and third positions will get a cash reward of Rs20 lakh, Rs15 lakh and Rs10 lakh, respectively.Meity has been launching successive challenges in a bid to promote the Modi government’s flagship scheme, Make in India. The most recent challenge to be launched is Chunauti, which aims to identify 300 start-ups and funnel over Rs 95 crore to boost software products in the country. Chunauti focuses on Tier-II towns. Each selected start-up will be provided Rs25 lakh as seed funding along with other facilities. “I urge the young, talented innovators of India to come forward and avail the benefits of the Chunauti challenge and create new software products,” said minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who heads the ministry..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apps-developed-under-atmanirbhar-bharat-app-challenge-get-praise-from-pm-modi/story-DYBkVZfgKdbnVyDqKlJVEN.html
30-08-2020||India||Will ensure people maintain social distance on Delhi Metro: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot||Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday the government will ensure commuters follow all safety norms to reduce the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when the services of Delhi Metro resume next month in the Capital.Welcoming the lifting of restrictions by the Centre on Metro rail services, Gahlot said the move will bring relief to commuters.Also read | Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic: 10 things you should know“We will ensure that social distancing is maintained in the Metros. Thermal screening of passengers will be done at the entry. No tokens will be issued, smart cards and other digital methods of payment will be used,” Gahlot told news agency ANI.“I am sure that once the Metro gets operational, the crowd in the buses will also be reduced. I am happy that people are getting relief after five months,” he added.The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which Metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while emphasising on the stringent need to wear masks and practising social distancing. The standard operating procedures will be issued by the Centre later.The Metro trains have not been plying since March when the first phase of the lockdown came into effect.The order on the resumption of Metro trains comes amid an increasing number of coronavirus disease cases in the national capital. Delhi on Saturday recorded 1,954 fresh Covid-19 cases, the city’s highest single-day spike in August till date, taking the tally to over 1.71 lakh, while the death toll from the viral infection climbed to 4,404.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-people-maintain-social-distance-on-delhi-metro-transport-minister-kailash-gahlot/story-PcTXOCyBv5iwDkJm9FeMsM.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 NDRF teams airlifted to Nagpur from Pune amid evolving flood situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid evolving flood situation, 4 NDRF teams airlifted to Nagpur from PuneFour teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Pune were airlifted for Nagpur due to potential flood situation in the district. In view of the evolving flood situation in districts of Vidarbha division, the NDRF teams were airlifted from Pune to Nagpur. Read more After Covid-19 vaccine deal with China, Bangladesh firm now inks pact with India’s SIIA pharmaceutical company in Bangladesh has sealed a deal with the Serum Institute of India (SII) to get priority access to the Covid-19 vaccines being developed by the world’s largest drug manufacturer. Read more ‘Can’t see heavens falling’ for need of elected Cong president: Salman KhurshidAsserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he “can’t see the heavens falling” for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue. Read more Bihar polls: Congress to hold virtual rallies across state from September 1The Congress party has decided to hold virtual rallies across Bihar from September 1 ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. The development comes as several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bihar after September 6 in view of the upcoming Assembly polls. Read more Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Nitu Singh asked Shruti Modi for his medical prescription, newly accessed chats revealSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Nitu Singh had a conversation with his ex-manager Shruti Modi in November, 2019 about the details of the late actor’s treatment for depression. Read more Chadwick Boseman’s tweet hits record likes, a perfect tribute to the Black Panther actorChadwick Boseman’s tweet has received at least 6.4 million likes and 3 million retweets and comments. Read more Foodies may relate to this adorable baby’s reaction over seeing his food. WatchThe recording of a baby shows him sitting on a sofa. The cameraperson shakes a bottle of baby milk while approaching the tiny tot. “Me, when I see food headed my way,” reads the text on the screen. Read more Acne remedy: Malaika Arora reveals the ‘terrific trio’ of simple DIY to control ‘bad timing breakouts’Malaika Arora shares the secret to dealing with acne woes, even for sensitive skin and we can’t help but take note this humid monsoon season. WatchSushant Singh Rajput death case: Congress questions Sandeep Singh’s link to BJP leadersCongress has raised 10 questions on the ongoing probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi raised questions about Sandeep Singh’s proximity to BJP leaders. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-ndrf-teams-airlifted-to-nagpur-from-pune-amid-evolving-flood-situation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RjptqG8QN3mNbM1QYCeopL.html
30-08-2020||India||70-year-old Ganga activist on fast unto death says govt indifferent to ecology||Environment activist and spiritual leader Swami Shivanand Saraswati who is on fast unto death in Haridwar since August 3 demanding that hydropower projects on the Ganga and stone quarrying on the riverbed be stopped, has now reduced his daily water intake, his followers said Sunday. In the fourth week of his fast unto death, the 70-year-old founder and head of the famous Matri Sadan ashram in Haridwar has now decided to reduce his daily water intake from 5 to 4 glasses. According to ashramites, he has not eaten any solid food and has been only drinking five glasses of water every day since he started the fast. The seer is demanding scrapping of all hydropower projects on the Ganga, Yamuna and their tributaries, total prohibition on quarrying on Ganga river bed, enactment of Ganga Act, inclusion of pro-environmental activists in the drafting panel and related demands on which another seer Swami Gyan Swaroop Sanand had also agitated. Swami Shivanand said that he is “deeply hurt” by the indifferent attitude of the state and Central government and alleged that the political parties only view the Ganga and ecology through a political angle. “I don’t fear giving up my life for the cause of the holy Ganga, ecology and the society. Until the government accepts all my demands in writing and takes concrete steps, I won’t stop,” he said. Expressing concern that not a single Central or state minister has visited Matri Sadan ashram since Shivanand’s agitation that began four weeks ago, Magsaysay awardee Rajendra Singh said that environmentalists across the country are with Shivanand Saraswati and concerned about his fragile health. “All the demands, earlier put up by Swami Gyan Swarup Sanand, Brahamchari Atmabodhanand, Sadhvi Padmavati and now Shivanand Saraswati are genuine which need to be addressed on priority level by the government,” he said. Ganga Vichar Manch national founder Dr Bharat Pathak has also urged Swami Shivanand to give up his agitation. “We have apprised Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat about Swamiji’s agitation. He is quite concerned and we hope soon the demands are met. The life of Swamiji is precious and the whole society needs such a revered seer to guide us,” said Dr Pathak. Earlier Ganga activist Swami Gyan Swarup Sanand, a former Indian Institute of Technology professor, had staged 112 days of fast unto death and died on October 11, 2018.Shivanand is the latest seer from Matri Sadan ashram to agitate for the cause of the Ganga.Last year Sadhvi Padmavati from the ashram had launched a fast unto death for the same causes before authorities took her away and force fed her. She resumed her fast after returning to the ashram Shivanand prevailed upon her to give up for health reasons and the Covid-19 pandemicSadhvi Padmavati had started her indefinite agitation on December 15, 2019 and fasted for 100 days.Another young seer Brahamchari Atmabodhanand too had started his agitation in support of sadhvi from January 30 and continued for 40 days before Swami Shivanand Saraswati also urged him to break his agitation.In October 2018, Sant Gopal Das had also started fast unto death agitation at Matri Sadan ashram, within hours of the demise of Gyan Swarup Sanand. He was also taken away and force fed by authorities.On June 13, 2011, a young swami named Nigmanand had died after 114 days of indefinite fast at Matri Sadan ashram on the same demands. Ashramites had then alleged that he was poisoned by people with vested interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-ganga-activist-on-fast-unto-death-says-govt-indifferent-to-ecology/story-eJTKwK9nOI96zU5l810AVO.html
30-08-2020||India||Odisha breaches 1-lakh Covid-cases mark, hopes for decline by mid-September||The Covid-19 tally in Odisha breached the 1-lakh mark on Sunday as the state added 3,000-odd more cases over the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 100,934. The number includes 70,714 recoveries and 535 people who have lost their lives because of the Covid-19 infection.The 1 lakh caseload came on the back of massive rise in testing, most of which was rapid antigen testing that gave results within half an hour of the swab being tested. With its resources strained over RT-PCR tests and the results taking 6-8 hours, the government by end-July started doing rapid antigen tests that cleared much of its backlog. In August alone, the labs in Odisha tested over 1 million samples compared to 6.7 lakh tests done in the last 4 and half months.In the last 9 days, the labs have tested around 62,000 samples on an average everyday with sample positivity rate dropping below 5.Odisha’s additional chief secretary of health, Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said the number of positive cases in Odisha have risen as per the predictive model applied by the state government.“As per the model, we were supposed to see around 1 lakh cases by the end of August with 3,000-odd cases every day. We are doing around 60,000 tests every day and seeing 3,000-odd positive cases with the positivity rate over the last 7 days remaining below 5. The mortality rate is less than 0.5 per cent, which is lower than the national average. The recovery rate is now 71 per cent, which is slightly lower than the national average. We would catch up soon,” said Mohapatra.Renowned microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, a former advisor to ICMR, said Odisha’s numbers can start flattening once the recovery rates reach 75 per cent.“The states which have reached recovery rates of more than 75 per cent would experience decline in number of cases. Odisha too would see a plateau in numbers soon,” said Dr Mohapatra.However, public health officials in Odisha said they were not so sanguine about the numbers plateauing. “It’s a new virus and it has defied all scientific models so far due to its better infection rate compared to other viruses. The debate on any state reaching its peak infection is of no use. What we should focus on is limiting mortality, an area where Odisha has done better than other states,” said a senior official of the health department.Ganjam district, which till mid-August was a Covid hotspot with sample positivity rate crossing 60 per cent on some days, has now started seeing a decline in the numbers due to increased testing and tracing of positive contacts. The district which reported 732 cases, its single day-high in July, is now reporting less than 200 cases a day. Though its cumulative Covid number 17,672 is the highest in Odisha, over 90 per cent of these patients have recovered, suggesting that it has turned the corner.Watch: Odisha floods: 18-yr-old rescued hours after being stranded on a tree In comparison, Odisha’s new Covid hotspots-- Khordha district including capital city of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack-- have reported over 24,000 cumulative cases between them.Since last week, the two districts are reporting around 960 cases daily. Khordha’s recovery rate is now down to 61 per cent while in Cuttack it is about 41 per cent.However, senior health officials said the rising numbers is not a major concern except the paucity of ICU beds in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar.Also Read: 6 arrested for raping 14-year-old in Odisha“About 55 per cent of the total active cases of 29,685 in the state are now in home isolation. As the recovery rates are rising, the pressure on health infrastructure is also decreasing. Hopefully, we will start seeing a decline in daily new cases by mid-September. But what remains a matter of concern is the discarding of masks and social distancing measures by the people as it may lead to re-infection and possible mortality. We can’t drop our guards so soon,” said additional chief secretary (health) Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-breaches-1-lakh-covid-cases-mark-hopes-for-decline-by-mid-september/story-9JYyrPoQkC76SH2mtYWX5J.html
30-08-2020||India||After Covid-19 vaccine deal with China, Bangladesh firm now inks pact with India’s SII||A pharmaceutical company in Bangladesh has sealed a deal with the Serum Institute of India (SII) to get priority access to the Covid-19 vaccines being developed by the world’s largest drug manufacturer.Pune-based Serum Institute, in association with AstraZeneca, the Gates Foundation and the Gavi vaccine alliance, will be producing a billion doses of a Covid-19 vaccine to supply to the world. The Oxford vaccine candidate, one of the three being developed by the drug manufacturer, is already in Phase III trial in Maharashtra and some other states.ALSO WATCH | Covid: Serum Institute begins human trials, 5 volunteers given first shotFollow latest updates on coronavirus here The deal comes days after Bangladesh also approved a late-stage trial of a potential coronavirus vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd in a bid to become a priority recipient of the shot.Beximco Pharmaceuticals’ plan to invest in SII was announced on Friday after Dhaka said earlier this month said that it was ready to hold trials of candidate vaccines being developed by India as both countries seek to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.Also read: Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concerns“This landmark agreement reflects the deep-rooted desire for collaboration between the two countries and as representatives of the two nations, between us we can go a long way towards helping to mitigate the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,” the heads of both companies said in the statement.The details about the amount of investment and number of doses to be supplied, however, have not been revealed yet. Beximco’s investment amount will be treated as an advance and once the vaccine receives regulatory approvals, SII will include Bangladesh among the countries which will receive an agreed quantity of the vaccine on a priority basis, according to the statement.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage here Beximco would be the exclusive supplier in Bangladesh for the vaccine, the statement added. The pharma firm will also secure additional doses to be distributed to the private pay market in the country.SII’s deal with Beximco comes at a time when Bangladesh has 310,822 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and the toll from the viral disease has surpassed 4,200, according to worldometer.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-19-vaccine-deal-with-china-bangladesh-firm-now-inks-pact-with-india-s-sii/story-XYQUopTM6jeBDXjrFBRHSL.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Can’t see heavens falling’ for need of elected Cong president: Khurshid||Asserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he “can’t see the heavens falling” for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue.Khurshid, a former Union minister and among the leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, told PTI in an interview that he would not have signed the letter even if he was approached by the group that wrote to Gandhi seeking urgent organisational overhaul, including an active and full-time leadership.ALSO WATCH | ‘People are laughing’: Sanjay Jha on Congress leadership after CWC resolutionOn Ghulam Nabi Azad, the most vocal among the 23 letter writers, seeking organisational elections to ensure that the Congress does not remain out of power for decades, Khurshid said the senior leader from Jammu and Kashmir had been part of the top echelons of the party for years when there has been no such elections and still the party prospered.He said probably Azad wanted a change now in what the party has been doing over the years and expressed confidence that the leadership will give a thought to what he is saying as he is a senior leader Khurshid said the leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi always had access to her and could have approached her rather than writing to her.“It is very clear that the important persons in this letter do belong to the top echelons of our party and therefore Mrs Gandhi has indicated that it was best that they could have discussed it within the confines of the party,” he said.Khurshid’s remarks assume significance as they come days after the ‘group of 23’ wrote to Gandhi calling for far-reaching reforms within the party such as having a “full time, active and visible” leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in line with the party constitution.Asked about the suggestions made in the letter, Khurshid said the discussion seems to be about electing a leader and the Congress president has indicated that it can be done at an appropriate time when physically it is possible.“For people like me, we already have leaders, we have a leader in Mrs Sonia Gandhi, we have a leader in Rahul Gandhi. So for me there is no sense of urgency about electing leaders. Electing a president, yes that will happen when it happens, I can’t see the heavens falling down. What is the sense of urgency that is being expressed, is not clear to me,” he said.“We don’t have a part-time president, we have a full-time president but the full-time president is an interim president and no ordinary person as an interim president as she is the longest serving president. We must just trust and leave it to the longest serving president to take steps when she thinks it is appropriate,” the Congress leader said.On whether it would have been better to go to the president for articulating concerns than writing a letter, Khurshid said the leaders had done that for the last 20 years and he did not know what was different now or had changed that they felt the need to write a letter.Asked about the future of the party with knives out within the organisation at a time it needs to be revitalised, he said, “The pens are out, so what is the problem.Of course the words written with pens can hurt and they did, but they don’t draw blood...it’s only ink, it’s something we can live with and I am sure that the ink will fade in due course.” Khurshid said no one had approached him for signing the letter and even if anyone had done so, he would not have signed because he does not agree with the letter.“There is nothing about that letter that gives an opportunity for me to express and say that I may want to say...We have always spoken directly with the leadership, so I don’t know what changed because of which people are not speaking directly. Nothing has changed for me and therefore, I don’t see the urge for writing the letter,” he said.Khurshid said he still feels that instead of leaders continuously urging Rahul Gandhi to come back as party chief, they must leave the decision to him.“Surely he understands the implications of that letter more than I do, he will do what he thinks is the best to do,” he said, when asked if it was now imperative for Rahul Gandhi to return as party chief to set the house in order.After the seven-hour meeting of the party’s top decision-making body last week, the CWC urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session could be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party.It made it clear no one would be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership.The CWC also resolved that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora and all such issues must be raised within the party “in the interest of propriety and discipline”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-see-heavens-falling-for-need-of-elected-congress-president-salman-khurshid/story-0yeKp4RB1YBJRxVuXYi4aJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand college principal booked for sending obscene messages to girls in Nainital||The principal of an Uttarakhand degree college in Kotabagh area under Kaladhungi police station of Nainital district has been booked for allegedly sending obscene messages to girl students, an official said. “We have booked the principal of the degree college on the complaint of a girl. She had handed over a complaint about the principal’s inappropriate behavior and our probe found the complaint to be genuine,” said Dinesh Nath Mahant, station officer, Kaladhungi police station in Nainital. Some girl students of government degree college Kotabag had alleged that principal Prem Prakash Tamta has not only been sending obscene messages to them but also using inappropriate language while talking to them on their mobile phones for the last one year. They had kept mum due to fear, said police. Mahant said, “After receiving the complaint, we recorded the statement of the girls and then registered an FIR against the principal.” Tamta has been booked under IPC section 254 (assault or use of criminal force against woman) and 504 (intentionally insult), police said. When contacted, Tamta said he used to send ‘good morning’ and ‘good night’ messages to his students. “Some wrong messages might have gone inadvertently. He would apologize to the students concerned for the same and is ready to bear any punishment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-college-principal-booked-for-sending-obscene-messages-to-girls-in-nainital/story-BTMOTc4MgZ1SUhIXpiNxZN.html
30-08-2020||India||Amid evolving flood situation, 4 NDRF teams airlifted to Nagpur from Pune||Four teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Pune were airlifted for Nagpur due to potential flood situation in the district.In view of the evolving flood situation in districts of Vidarbha division, the NDRF teams were airlifted from Pune to Nagpur. The teams will join the NDRF team that was positioned in Nagpur district last week.Also read: Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief camps“These teams will be deployed in Nagpur and Chandrapur district tentatively. These 4 teams are in addition to the one team already deployed for flood water rescue operation in Nagpur district,” said an NDRF official.“There are severe weather warnings at all India level by IMD for next 5 days,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD, Mumbai, tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-evolving-flood-situation-4-ndrf-teams-airlifted-to-nagpur-from-pune/story-v8lWf2dqpowGpEdOTwngDO.html
30-08-2020||India||Bihar polls: Congress to hold virtual rallies across state from September 1||The Congress party has decided to hold virtual rallies across Bihar from September 1 ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state.The development comes as several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bihar after September 6 in view of the upcoming Assembly polls.Earlier, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar and Congress Campaign Committee Chief Akhilesh Prasad Singh had said that the seat-sharing in Grand Alliance (Mahagathbandhan) has still not been finalised but added that all smaller allies like Left front, RLSP, HAM will be adjusted.It was reported that left parties, especially the Communist Party of India (CPI), CPI(M) and CPI(ML), are ready for an alliance with the Mahagathbandhan to “defeat the NDA” in the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections.On August 27, left party leaders had met RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and discussed a greater unity between the Opposition Grand Alliance and the Left parties for the Bihar poll.Bihar has 243 Assembly constituencies and elections in the state are due in October-November as the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29.The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-congress-to-hold-virtual-rallies-across-state-from-september-1/story-ZJDjJq2EmHrKYGoysuVp6I.html
30-08-2020||India||Thrusting GST debt on states a planned strategy to crush federalism: Amit Mitra||West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday said that asking states to borrow and meet the shortfall in revenue from Goods and Services Tax (GST) “appears to be part of a planned strategy to destroy the financial health of the states and crush federalism”. Addressing the media at a webinar, Mitra, who attended the GST council meeting on Thursday, said, “Many people are worried and see this as a pattern. Once the financial health of the states becomes shaky, the brute power of Centralism will come into play. Is this the new ideology?” Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic “as an act of God,” as had been done by some Central ministers, Mitra said demonetization and GST were not acts of God but “acts of man”. Mitra also claimed that Infosys chairman Nandan Nilekani said in his official presentation to the GST Council on March 14 that there had been fraudulent transaction to the tune of Rs 70,000 crore in GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thrusting-gst-debt-on-states-a-planned-strategy-to-crush-federalism-amit-mitra/story-VzYxCMrgwNajllhAvE7t9I.html
30-08-2020||India||TMC takes ‘flagged it first’ approach to tackle corruption taint in poll-bound Bengal||Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has recently ordered a few probes and audits into allegations of corruption or that may lead to it and has asked top bureaucrats to address all grievances that have reached her office immediately. While she has already ordered a probe into the allegations of corruption in purchasing of medical equipment to fight Covid-19 pandemic in the state, she is also displeased to see embankments collapse within three months of repair and has asked senior officials to look into it. ALSO WATCH | JEE, NEET exams: Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee, others discuss postponementIn an administrative meeting, held earlier this week, Banerjee told the chief secretary to address all grievances that have come to the CMO immediately. Officials said that allegations of corruption, like the one related to purchasing of medical equipment, often reach the CMO. A senior official said that the government is considering a third-party audit after allegations of corruption surfaced in the state panchayat department. “The party has already faced several allegations of corruption and these are taking a heavy toll on its image. Elections are coming. The party won’t be able to take any more allegations at this stage particularly when the BJP is looking for an opportunity,” said a senior TMC leader. With Bengal heading for a crucial assembly polls, expected to be a highly polarised political battle between the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, political analysts say the TMC supremo is aiming to nip corruption-related controversies in the bud before the opposition uses it as a tool against the ruling party. “This seems to be a course correction drive of the ruling party in which it has taken up an ‘I flagged it first’ approach so as not to leave opposition with any opportunity to raise allegations of corruption. If the opposition finally raises it, the ruling party would say that we have already ordered a probe. This would help it to remain on the front foot,” said Udayan Bandyopadhyay, a political analyst and professor of political science at Bangabasi College in Kolkata. The TMC had received a jolt in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when its tally came down from 34 seats to 22 while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s tally rose from two to 18 and senior leaders said that the TMC wants to recover from the losses. While Mamata Banerjee’s nine-year rule has been riddled with some major scams such as the Saradha, Narada and Rose Valley, central probe agencies investigating these scams have already heightened their activities. The Enforcement Directorate has sent notices to five TMC leaders and summoned a suspended Indian Police Service officer in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Since May this year, the TMC has already been on the back foot at least twice. Some party leaders had to be expelled and others were slapped with show cause notices after they were found to be involved in corruption in the distribution of relief materials in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan.The Bharatiya Janata Party had also leveled charges of corruption in the public distribution system and had raised demands of a CBI probe. “It is not because of the elections. The party doesn’t tolerate any corruption. Actions have been taken against corrupt leaders in the past too. It is our duty and also ethical to look into any allegations which reach us – be it against officers or party leaders. Mamata Banerjee has made it amply clear that she won’t allow any corrupt leader in the party and no one is indispensable,” said Tapas Roy, a minister and a TMC spokesperson. Also Read: 90% NEET, JEE candidates from Bengal want to sit for exams, Mamata ‘ruining’ their future: VijayvargiyaWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, whose acrimonious relation with the ruling party has often made the headlines and the BJP, however, took a jibe at the ruling party. When the chief minister formed a panel headed by the home secretary to probe allegations of corruption in the purchase of medical equipment to fight Covid-19, Dhankhar had said that it was an attempt to cover up the truth. “Multi Crore Scam-Pandemic Purchase @MamataOfficial. Cover Up Probe-Lacks credibility. Decision Makers (-one) probing to shield culpability #MAP. Post facto saviour mechanism! Independent Probe can alone fasten culpability. Need Probe to track money trail and ill gotten gain,” Dhankhar had tweeted. Also Read: Child labour among school going children increased in lockdown period in West BengalThe BJP has also lashed out at the TMC saying the ruling party won’t be able to hide behind such probes and a change in 2021 in inevitable. They call these probes are just an eyewash so that the opposition’s charges could be mellowed down. “TMC is synonymous with corruption and people have come to know this. They are afraid and hence are coming up with new drama every day. But they won’t be able to hide behind such probes and audits. They have been unmasked and a change is inevitable,” said Sayantan Basu, the BJP’s state general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-takes-flagged-it-first-approach-to-tackle-corruption-taint-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-PA9vi1aJjrjR0pN0jU4BOL.html
30-08-2020||India||Fake college admission list surfaces on social media; features names of actors, adult stars||Authorities of a state-run college in West Bengal lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday after a fake provisional merit list of the college, allegedly featuring names of Bollywood actors and adult stars, was circulated on social media.On Saturday the names of Sunny Leone, Mia Khalifa and Dani Daniels allegedly appeared in a ‘fake’ merit list of Barasat Government College in North 24 Parganas.“A fake merit list, featuring the names of some actresses and stars, was being circulated on social media. The original merit list doesn’t feature these names. Somebody downloaded the merit list and edited it and then circulated it on social media. We have lodged a complaint with the police,” said Debesh Roy, principal of Barasat Government College.Also read: Never met Sushant Singh, saw Rhea in 2017, claims Goa hotelier Gaurav AryaThe Trinamool Congress’ student’s wing filed a separate complaint alleging that people with vested interests are trying to malign the college.This comes a day after Sunny Leone’s name topped the merit list of another Kolkata-based college. Asutosh College authorities too had lodged a complaint. Later the name of Sunny Leone also featured in the merit list of another college in South 24 Parganas.While Leone is a Bollywood actor, Khalifa is a former adult movie star. Daniel is an American adult movie star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-college-admission-list-surfaces-on-social-media-features-names-of-actors-adult-stars/story-zGT1cSzfTVIxFt9f1Wd2mM.html
30-08-2020||India||A year since publication of NRC in Assam, the process remains in limbo||Ending years of speculation and a gargantuan process involving thousands of personnel, the final list of Assam’s updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) was published on August 31 last year. But a year since that date, the process hasn’t moved forward much. The 19 lakh applicants (of the total 3.30 crore) who were left out of the list, meant to identify Indian citizens and leave out suspected foreigners, have not been able to file appeals as they are yet to get rejection slips needed to do so. The state NRC office has to issue to rejection slips. The rejection slips, which will mention reasons for exclusion of an applicant’s name, are required for those left out of the NRC to file appeals in the foreigners’ tribunals (FTs), a quasi-judicial body that decides the fate of those declared suspected foreigners. “While issuing the rejection slips, we need to attach ‘speaking orders’ for each applicant. But several of these are not in order due to some discrepancies. All of these need to be checked before issuing the slips,” NRC state coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma said. “But the process is stuck as state government officials who do the checking are busy in Covid-19 duties for the past six months. We don’t know the exact number of ‘speaking orders’ which have discrepancies. During random checking, several such were detected. If these are not in order, it would lead to legal issues when the applicants file appeals,” he added. The NRC was first prepared only for Assam in 1951 on the basis of the census conducted the same year. The process to update the 1951 list started in 2015 following directions from the Supreme Court, which acted on petitions seeking detection of illegal immigrants, especially from Bangladesh. The updated list was to include names of all those persons (or their descendants) who appear in the 1951 NRC, or in any of the electoral rolls up to the midnight of March 24, 1971- when the liberation war for Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan began. Names of foreigners found residing in Assam illegally after that date, were to be excluded from the updated list. The demand for identification of illegal immigrants, deletion of their names from voter lists and deportation started in 1979, with All Assam Students Union (AASU), spearheading a 6-year agitation. The agitation ended with signing of the Assam Accord in 1985, with March 24, 1971 as the cut-off date for entry of foreigners into the state. The complete draft of NRC released in July, 2018 had left out nearly 40 lakh applicants. An additional list released in June last year, had excluded 100,000 more taking the total tally to 41 lakhs. The final list released on August 31 last year included names of 22 lakh applicants missing from the two earlier drafts. It was clarified that those left out of the final NRC won’t be declared foreigners. They would have the option of filing appeals within 120 days in FTs which will decide their citizenship status based on provisions of Foreigners Act, 1946, and Foreigner (Tribunals) Order, 1964. Publication of the NRC final list was expected to end four decades of demands for detection of illegal foreigners residing in Assam. But the list was immediately denounced by the ruling BJP in the state claiming many genuine Indians have been left out while illegal immigrants have been included. The state government later filed a petition in Supreme Court seeking 20% re-verification of names of applicants from districts bordering Bangladesh. The plea was rejected by the apex court. In November last year, Prateek Hajela, who was the state NRC coordinator and had overseen the entire updating process, was transferred to Madhya Pradesh following a SC order and replaced by Hitesh Dev Sarma, who went on a month’s leave immediately. The developments in court and in the NRC office delayed the process of issuing rejection slips much earlier than the start of Covid-19 pandemic this year. In order to hear appeals filed by those left out of NRC, the state government had last year appointed 221 members for new FTs to be set up across the state. But they are yet to become operational and appointment letters of 1,600 people selected as support staff for these tribunals have also not been issued. “I was selected as an upper division assistant cum accountant in September last year. Following the selection, I resigned from my job in a junior college. But even after 11 months since our selection, the state government hasn’t issued us appointment letters,” said Ritika Panging, a resident of Jonai in Dhemaji district. “Our lives have been turned upside down due to this delay. I was the only earning member of my family, but I’ve been unemployed for 11 months now. Our recruitment was to be valid for a year. The government should clarify whether that time limit will be extended and our appointment letters issued,” she added. These new FTs are in addition to the 100 such tribunals which are already functioning. Those declared foreigners by a FT are sent to detention centres where they are kept for deportation to Bangladesh. But that process is not feasible as India doesn’t have an extradition treaty with that country. Bangladesh has been clear that the NRC process is India’s internal matter and those left out of the list are not its citizens. There are currently around 500 inmates in 6 detention centres in Assam which are inside district jails. A large detention centre that can house around 3,000 inmates is being constructed in Goalpara district. The state government says it can’t appoint the 1,600 support staff for the new FTs as the process of appeals by those left out of NRC hasn’t begun yet due to non-issuance of rejection slips. “The additional FTs are yet to be established and the new members are still attached to existing tribunals. The FT members and support staff were recruited for the NRC purpose,” said MS Manivannan, commissioner and secretary, home and political department. “The process is yet to start due to non-issuance of rejection slips by the NRC office and that’s why the appointment of the 1,600 support staff is also stuck. The Covid-19 pandemic is another reason why there is delay in issuing the rejection slips as officials are busy tackling it,” he added. Both Sarma and Manivannan said that there’s no clarity yet on when the process of issuing rejection slips, starting the new FTs and issuing of appointment letters to the 1,600 support staff would begin. Meanwhile, Assam Public Works (APW), the Guwahati-based NGO on whose petition the SC ordered updating of the NRC, has reiterated its demand for 100% re-verification of NRC list. “The NRC was supposed to be a vital document to bring closure to the pending infiltration issue. But how can we accept this NRC that has included names of illegal Bangladeshis and even ‘jehadis’ in it? A year has passed, but the NRC process is still caught in stalemate,” said APW president Aabhijeet Sharma. Amid all this, the 1.9 lakh applicants left out of the NRC list are still waiting for the process to move ahead so that they can file appeals, remove the ‘foreigners’ tag and get included in the list as Indian citizens. “Our names were in the draft NRC released in July, 2018, but names of 16 of my family members including myself, my three children and 5 sisters were missing in the final list. Despite being Indian citizens, we have been labeled foreigners. I hope the process starts soon and our nightmare ends,” said Idris Ali, (43), teacher in a madrasa and resident of Hahsori in Chaygaon of Kamrup district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-since-publication-of-nrc-in-assam-the-process-remains-in-limbo/story-AOnBZmezYB18Nz6DSZSJCP.html
30-08-2020||India||Watch: IAF rescues elderly man from flooded Madhya Pradesh village||As swollen rivers continue to inundate large parts of Madhya Pradesh, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has been airlifting villagers stranded in different parts of the flood-hit central state.The IAF on Sunday pressed into service a Mi17V5 helicopter to rescue three men, including a senior citizen, from their inundated houses near Mowad village in Balaghat, situated along the banks of the overflowing Wainganga river.In a video shared by the force, an IAF personnel is seen being lowered to a roof of a house surrounded by floodwaters. Shortly after, the personnel is seen being pulled back up holding the elderly man tightly.#SavingLivesToday morning, #IAF launched a Mi17V5 helicopter to rescue 02 youth and an elderly man from their inundated houses near Mowad village in Balaghat,Madhya Pradesh situated along the banks of the overflowing Wainganga river.@SpokespersonMoD#IndianAirForce #AirWarriors pic.twitter.com/I7MNoHiXTNAfter the rescue, the man is seen drinking water in the IAF chopper. In the same video, the two men were also seen being rescued from the roof of their house.Also read | Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief campsThe government has launched operations in different parts of the state as a group of people, including women and children, were rescued from Somalwada village in an IAF chopper on Sunday. Around 20 to 25 people were rescued by the IAF personnel.Earlier in the day, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the flood situation in the state.At least eight people have been killed and more than 9,000 moved to relief camps as hundreds of villages across 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh were affected by floods following incessant rains since Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-iaf-rescues-elderly-man-from-flooded-madhya-pradesh-village/story-HQHjwvaFwoS90bdwg5IxFI.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s gun toting MLA Pranav S Champion in fresh row, warned||Uttarakhand BJP MLA from Khanpur constituency Pranav Singh ‘Champion’--whose political isolation ended recently with re-induction into the party after over a year-long expulsion -- has been asked by the state party brass not to hold any political rally during the Covid 19 pandemic following surfacing of a couple of videos showing him possibly in a poor light.Pranav Singh has also been asked to stay away from any controversy and not to hold any rally or political event during the present health crisis. He was summoned on Saturday after two of his videos went viral on social media; in one of these, he is purportedly seen standing with his head protruding out of a car’s sunroof in a motorcade of about 10 cars.The video surfaced after his re-induction into the party on August 24 at party state president Bansidhar Bhagat’s residence in Dehradun. He was expelled from party’s primary membership last year after a video went viral in which he was seen dancing with guns and liquor while abusing Uttarakhand and its people. “He was initially summoned by Bhagat but since he (Bhagat) tested Covid-19 positive, Pranav met party general secretary (organisation) Ajaey Kumar,” said a party office bearer, asking not to be named. Also Read: Uttarakhand govt stresses on safety measures for NEET-JEE tests, Congress intensifies protests“When questioned on the video, he said it was not a motorcade rally but his supporters, who joined his car, while he was returning home after re-induction into the party. He was then directed by Kumar to stay away from controversies and follow the party discipline to which he agreed after issuing an apology,” the leader said. The MLA was also asked not to hold any rallies or political events during the pandemic, the leader quoted above added. Also Read: With 658 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand crosses 18,000-markKumar said, “We have asked him not to speak or act against the party line or its constitution. He has been asked not to indulge in any sort of controversies.” Meanwhile, Champion said, “I am a servant of the party and will abide by its constitution. I have also apologised to the party leadership and will not indulge in any controversy like I haven’t in the 13 months of my expulsion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-gun-toting-mla-pranav-s-champion-in-fresh-row-warned/story-jc08VjRMvzN8FalRFRMQcM.html
30-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat thrusts brave army dogs into limelight||A pair of army dogs, honoured with the army chief’s commendation card on Independence Day for their heroics, found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday, with the PM hailing them as “bravehearts” who performed their duties diligently to protect the country. While Vida, a black Labrador, sniffed out landmines and grenades during a de-mining operation in Jammu and Kashmir and prevented army casualties; Sophie, a Cocker Spaniel from a bomb disposal unit, helped avert a tragedy by detecting explosives in Delhi, two army officials said. Their names and unique service numbers will be put up on roll-of-honour boards at their respective units. Army dogs have contributed to a raft of successful operations during the last one year --- they helped recover 30 improvised explosive devices (IEDs), played a key role in tracking and locating five terrorists who were later eliminated and facilitated the recovery of soldiers stuck in avalanches, the officials said. “Our armed forces and security forces have many such brave dogs, who not only live for the country but also sacrifice themselves for the country. Such canines have played a very important role in thwarting numerous bomb blasts and terrorist conspiracies,” the PM said his in his monthly radio address, referring to the outstanding contribution of dogs to military service alongside soldiers. Five Labradors were awarded commendation cards on Army Day 2020 for helping soldiers track down terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir and sniffing out deadly explosives in the North-east last year. The army has more than 1,000 dogs trained for a variety of roles such as detecting mines and explosives, tracking, assault, infantry patrol, and search and rescue. “Army dogs and their handlers perform dangerous tasks but they receive little attention. Many of them have been killed in the combat zone. The PM has thrust them into the limelight by highlighting their contribution in his address,” said a senior army officer, asking not to be named. Watch:Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar push’; seeks to make India a ‘toy hub’Mansi, a Labrador, was posthumously “mentioned in dispatches” (the highest honour that a dog can get in military service in India) four years ago for her role in a counter-infiltration operation in north Kashmir. Her handler, Bashir Ahmed War, was posthumously awarded Sena Medal for gallantry.The army’s Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC) pioneered war dog training in India in the late 1950s. “RVC trained dogs are in demand in countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar and Cambodia. Also, South Africa, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Seychelles are getting their dog handlers trained in India,” the officials said. In his address, the PM also talked about the gallant actions of Balaram, who detected explosives on the Amarnath Yatra route and Bhavana, who sniffed out an IED many years ago but was killed as terrorists managed to trigger the explosive.Also Read: PM Modi congratulates National Sports Awards winners“Two or three years ago in Bijapur, Chattisgarh, a sniffer dog Cracker of the CRPF also attained martyrdom in an IED blast. You might have seen a very moving scene on TV a few days ago in which the Beed Police were giving their canine colleague Rocky a final farewell with all due respect. Rocky had helped the police in solving over 300 cases,” the PM said. The PM said indigenous dog breeds such Mudhol Hound, Himachali Hound, Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai were “fabulous,” cheaper to raise and better adapted to the Indian environment. He said the security forces were increasingly inducting these local breeds. The PM said, “The next time you think of raising a pet dog, consider bringing home one of these Indian breeds. At a time when Atmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-thrusts-brave-army-dogs-into-limelight/story-VzN97LwkJkBXi6lLvmcLfP.html
30-08-2020||India||Yamuna river flowing close to warning mark||On Sunday morning, the water level of the Yamuna river at Old Railway Bridge in Delhi was recorded at 203.98 metres, which is close to the warning mark of 204.50 metres. The level rose after 4,353 cusecs of water was released from Haryana’s Hathini Kund barrage into the Yamuna at 8am.Officials in the Delhi government’s irrigation and flood control (I&FC) department said that the level recorded is much below the warning mark and could go up only if a higher volume of water is released into the river, or if there is heavy rainfall in the national capital.At 4am on Sunday, the river was flowing at 204.06 metres and by 8am, the water level had receded, said officials.An I&FC official said that water is released into the barrage every four hours. On a regular basis, only 350 cusecs of water is released. However, during monsoon, because of higher volume of water in the barrage and also because of rainfall in the hilly regions, more water is released, which leads to a surge in the Yamuna. “It takes between 36 and 72 hours for the released water to reach Delhi. We are monitoring the water levels,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.Also read: ‘Doorstep Covid testing, sit and deliver speech’ - Top suggestions for monsoon sessionLast year, Haryana had released over eight lakh cusecs of water in a day following which the water level had breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres.I&FC Officials said that preparations are in progress in case a higher volume of water is released and evacuation operations need to be launched. “We have identified locations for pitching tents. Social distancing is a norm because of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. We have also identified schools, which are closed because of the pandemic, where the flood-hit public can be provided temporary shelter while maintaining adequate physical distance among them,” the official said.Delhi had reported a major flood in 1978, when the water level in the Yamuna had risen to its highest-ever level recorded to date at 207.49 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yamuna-river-flowing-close-to-warning-mark/story-11zCy2CwM81qP6FjopTBMI.html
30-08-2020||India||Need to nurture the nature, celebrate sanskars: RSS chief Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday stressed on the conservation of nature, saying it should be nurtured and not just consumed as is being done in the present world.Addressing a programme organised by the Hindu Spiritual Seva Foundation through virtual mode to celebrate ‘Prakruti Din’, Bhagwat emphasised on the way of living followed by our ancestors who nurtured nature as an important part of their life.He said people believe nature is for their consumption and that they do not have any responsibility towards it.“We are living like this for last 200 to 250 years and its ill-effects and consequences are coming to the fore now.If it continues like this, then neither we nor this world will survive,” he said.In order to address this problem, the concept of the Environment Day came into existence, Bhagwat said.“Our ancestors understood the truth of existence in its entirety and that we are one part of the nature and it is the responsibility of humans to nurture the nature,” he said.“Our way of life was respecting all, but we were misguided by the world’s way of living. Hence, today we have to remember all this by observing the Environment Day,” he said.Referring to the ‘Nag Panchmi’, ‘Govardhan Puja’ and ‘Tulsi Vivah’, Bhagwat said “all these ‘sanskars’ should be celebrated and rejuvenated, and the new generation will also learn that we are part of the nature and we need to nurture the nature and not just consume it”.“If the future generation will think this way, then only we will be able to correct the harm done over the last 300 to 350 years, in next 100 to 200 years wherein the world and humankind will be safe and life will be beautiful,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-nurture-the-nature-celebrate-sanskars-rss-chief-bhagwat/story-lPD3B3HWY1FT9RVm0u2HaL.html
30-08-2020||India||Never met Sushant Singh Rajput, saw Rhea Chakraborty in 2017, claims Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya||Hotelier Gaurav Arya, who has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a parallel probe into allegations of money laundering in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, on Sunday claimed he had never met the actor.ED officials have called Arya, who runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa, for questioning on Monday.“I have no connection with the case. I never met Sushant Singh Rajput. I met her (Rhea) in 2017,” the Goa-based hotelier was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ALSO WATCH | Sushant death case: Congress questions Sandeep Singh’s link to BJP leadersArya has also been linked to the drugs angle in connection with Rajput’s death at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. His name sprang up in Chakraborty’s WhatsApp conversations related to drugs. Investigators believe he used to supply drugs to Chakraborty.He has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and is being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The bureau had on Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) against Chakraborty, her brother Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the NDPS act.Also read: Drivers explain why two ambulances were present at Sushant Singh Rajput’s houseED officials had also visited Hotel Tamarind run by Arya at Anjuna, a coastal village in north Goa, but found the property to be shut. They stuck a notice on the door of the hotel stating that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11am on Monday in connection with a case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.According to officials, the hotel has been shut since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Also read: Here are the 14 people facing probe in Sushant Singh Rajput caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Rajput’s death case and has so far questioned Chakraborty, Showik, Rajput’s manager Samual Miranda, domestic help Keshav, cook Neeraj Singh, flatmate and friend Siddharth Pithani and accountant Rajat Mewati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-met-sushant-singh-rajput-saw-rhea-chakraborty-in-2017-claims-goa-hotelier-gaurav-arya/story-Pi3Obcd9RbEIjeMCZ495nI.html
30-08-2020||India||Jails across India remained overcrowded and under-staffed in 2019: Report||Jails across India remained overcrowded in 2019 with these facilities lodging 4.78 lakh prisoners against the actual capacity of 4.03 lakh, reveals the latest data by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).On the other hand, the prisons were under-staffed with a sanctioned strength of 87,599, while the actual strength was 60,787 as on December 31, 2019, the data showed.The actual capacity of prisons has increased to 4.03 lakh in 2019 from 3.91 lakh in 2017 and 3.96 lakh in 2018 (as on December 31 of these respective years), it said.The number of prisoners lodged in various jails increased to 4.78 lakh in 2019 from 4.50 lakh in 2017 and 4.66 lakh in 2018 (as on December 31 of each year).The total number of prisons in the country were 1,361, 1,339 and 1,350 at the end of 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The occupancy rates during the period rose steadily at 115.1 per cent, 117.6 per cent and 118.5 per cent, respectively, according to the data.Out of the 4.78 lakh prisoners in 2019, 4.58 lakh were men and 19,913 women, the NCRB, under the Union home ministry, stated.The total 1,350 prisons in the country in 2019 consisted of 617 sub jails, 410 district jails, 144 central jails, 86 open jails, 41 special jails, 31 women jails, 19 Borstal School and two other jails, it added.The central jails of the country had the highest capacity of inmates (1.77 lakh) followed by district jails (1.58 lakh) and sub jails (45,071) last year.Among the other types of jails, special jails, open jails and women jails had the capacity of 7,262, 6,113 and 6,511 inmates, respectively, as on December 31, 2019, the data said.The highest number of inmates were lodged in central jails (2.20 lakh) followed by district jails (2.06 lakh) and sub jails (38,030). The total number of inmates in women jails were 3,652, the data showed.The highest occupancy rate was in district jails (129.7 per cent) followed by central jails (123.9 per cent) and sub jails (84.4 per cent). The occupancy rate in women jails was 56.1 per cent by the end of 2019, it showed.According to the data, the sanctioned strength of jail staff was 87,599, while the actual strength was 60,787 by the end of 2019.Among the jail staff, the sanctioned strength of officers (DG/Additional DG/IG, DIG, AIG, superintendent) was 7,239, but the actual strength was 4,840.Similarly, the sanctioned strength for jail cadre staff (Head Warder, Head Matron, Warder) and correctional staff (probation officer or welfare officer, psychologist/psychiatrist) was 72,273 and 1,307, respectively, while their actual strength was 51,126 and 761, respectively last year, the NCRB data said.The sanctioned strength of medical staff was 3,320, while the actual strength was 1,962 as on December 31, 2019. The actual strength of women jail officers and staff was 7,794 (including 254 medical staff) that year, the data added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-jails-remained-overcrowded-and-under-staffed-in-2019-report/story-lLC0LU5sqHibUeSIshuCbM.html
30-08-2020||India||Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief camps||At least eight people were killed and more than 9,000 have been moved to relief camps as hundreds of villages across 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh were affected by floods following incessant rains since Thursday. The state government had to seek the Indian Army’s help in the rescue operation. Rains came to a halt on Sunday morning bringing respite to people and rescue teams in affected areas. However, as per the forecast, western MP which covers the Malwa region of the state may witness heavy rain on Sunday, the state government said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday morning and had earlier spoken with defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday evening to convey them the flood situation in the state. Chouhan sought their help in rescue operations being carried on by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Home Guards, police and personnel of other departments. Flood-hit districts of the state include Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sehore, Bhopal, Vidisha, Chhindwara, Balaghat, Seoni, Katni, Sagar, Shivpuri and Ujjain, as per official information. Several villages in these districts were marooned due to flood water. A large number of people were airlifted with the help of Air Force helicopters, including 62 people from Somalwada village alone in Sehore district. Army personnel too have joined the rescue operations. In Sehore district, people were accommodated in boats which converted into relief camps in several villages, the officials said. Talking to journalists on the rescue and relief operations on Sunday morning, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “the rescue operations have been continuing since Friday evening. There are 454 villages in 12 districts affected by the flood. As many as 9,300 people have been moved to 170 relief camps. About 1,200 people trapped in flood in 40 villages are yet to be rescued. Air Force personnel lifted several people from Hoshangabad, Chhindwara, Balaghat, Sehore and Raisen districts.”The CM said, “I monitored the flood situation in the control room set up at my residence whole night along with all concerned authorities. The NDRF, SDRF, Home Guards and Police’s joint teams are carrying out excellent rescue operations. Two companies of the Army are reaching Sehore and Raisen districts. There is a sense of relief that there is no casualty among those who were trapped in flood. The eight who were killed were because of the collapse of mud walls or people crossing culverts submerged by floodwater while ignoring the warning.”He said, “Gates of several dams, including Gandhisagar, Indira Sagar, Bargi, Tawa etc., were opened as the dams were overflowing. This also added to the increasing water level in various rivers but this was inevitable given the dams overflowing. Last year, a delay in the opening of gates of Gandhisangar dam had caused havoc in western Madhya Pradesh. Narmada, Pench and several other rivers were flowing much above danger mark causing floods in towns and villages. In Hoshangabad, Narmada river was flowing at 982 feet, 16 feet above the danger mark causing flood in a part of the city.” Chouhan said, “Huge damage has been caused to standing crops too. A survey to assess the damage will be conducted after the situation becomes normal. The affected farmers will be provided relief under the crop insurance scheme and RBC (Revenue book circular) provisions.”“I will conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas today. The health department has been instructed to be prepared to help people post-flood situation as after flood there is apprehension of diseases affecting people,” the chief minister added.Four children, including a girl, belonging to three families were killed when a mud wall of a kutcha house collapsed on them at Banihara village of Dheemarkheda tehsil of Katni district on Saturday. The children were playing near the house when the incident took place, said sub-divisional magistrate Sapna Tripathi. In Sehore district, a kutcha wall collapsed on Saturday night and four members were trapped under debris. Three of them were rescued while the remaining one couldn’t be saved, administrative officials said.(With input from Mahendra Thakur in Sehore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-batters-madhya-pradesh-8-killed-over-9-000-moved-to-relief-camps/story-3ukQao6rtSn0Of4tLby6VM.html
30-08-2020||India||Goyal asks Asean nations to strengthen rules of origin to check influx of Chinese goods||Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for commerce and industry, has asked the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to strengthen the “rules of origin” provisions, one of India’s key concerns, because the nation’s markets are being flooded by Chinese goods through some Asean countries.Goyal co-chaired the 17th Asean-India Economic (AEM) Ministers’ Consultations held on Saturday via videoconference in a bid to maintain social distancing norms because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.He highlighted that the free trade agreement (FTA) has to be “mutually beneficial” and expressed the need to strengthen the rules of origin provisions, work towards removal of non-tariff barriers and provide better market access, a ministry statement said on Sunday.Goyal asked for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITIGA), as the trade pact is hurting India’s interest, particularly because of the violation of rules of origin clauses. Also read: PM Modi lauds India’s farmers for higher crop production amid Covid crisisIndia is concerned and wants to review FTAs, as several Chinese goods are dumped in its markets through a third country with which the nation has an agreement, a government official said requesting anonymity.The review is necessary, as many items enter Indian markets taking advantage of Asean-India FTA. Imports at reduced or zero duty put the domestic industry at a major disadvantage, the official said.Goyal used the Asean ministerial forum to reiterate India’s consistent position that the review of the FTA has been inordinately delayed. He asked for a closer engagement ahead of the Asean-India Leaders’ Summit scheduled to be held in November and to start the full review before the end of this year, the commerce ministry said in the statement. Goyal co-chaired the meeting with Tran Tuan Anh, Vietnam’s minister of industry and trade.A report of the Asean India Business Council (AIBC) was also presented in the meeting. It also recommended a review of the AITIGA for mutual benefit. The ministers from India and Asean countries instructed the officials to start the discussions to determine the scope of the review at the earliest to make the FTA more user-friendly for businesses.Sangita Reddy, co-chair of AIBC (India), said the nation and Asean should develop a road map for collaboration in healthcare and pharmaceuticals sectors along with exchange of knowledge and digital connectivity. “She shared that special incentives for Indian pharmaceutical companies should be introduced for setting up plants in dedicated Asean zones,” the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) said in a statement. The industry association is the Indian secretariat of AIBC.The meeting was attended by the trade ministers of all the 10 Asean countries such as Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The ministers reaffirmed their commitment to take collective actions in mitigating the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and resolved to ensure macroeconomic and financial stability and resilient supply chain connectivity, particularly the unimpeded flow of essential goods and medicines in the region, in compliance with the World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, the statement said.AIBC also recommended elimination of non- tariff measures to enable seamless movement of goods and services, FICCI said in the statement. It proposed the introduction of a business travel card which would facilitate business travel between India and Asean countries with a minimum 90-day validity. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goyal-asks-asean-nations-to-strengthen-rules-of-origin-to-check-influx-of-chinese-goods/story-x9qZTXOW9jVkU26cFNCI7M.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Just because you did it…’: Jaishankar’s crushing comeback to Imran Khan’s barb||External affairs minister S Jaishankar has dissed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s effort to run down the growing partnership between India and the United States and call India a frontline state of western countries such as the United States.“Those who say all this — they are perhaps reflecting their own history and their own self-worth. This is certainly not India,” Jaishankar told Hindustan Times in an interview on Saturday, delivering his sharpest comeback to the Imran Khan government that aligns with China and accuses India of playing for the United States.ALSO WATCH | Pak terror tunnel unearthed in J&K; Karachi sacks used in construction‘For peace along border, one must adhere to agreements’: S Jaishankar | InterviewIn an interview to Dunya News, Imran Khan had linked Pakistan’s future with China, asserting that China was the only country to have always stood by it. In the same interview, Khan also said that “it was unfortunate that western powers were using India to contain China”. This, he added, was one more reason why China needs Pakistan on its side; its geo-strategic location was the other.Jaishankar’s acerbic counter to Imran Khan’s description of India-US ties is seen to allude to Islamabad’s policy over the past few decades to operate like a proxy for a powerful country, first for the Americans and over the last decade or so, for China.“Think about it,” Jaishankar said.“India is a civilisational state of very unique nature. Look at our history. Because we went through two very difficult centuries, we particularly prize our independence. Some people feel that because they did something, we will also do the same. India has a certain self-perception of itself,” he said.Jaishankar said India has a personality of its own. “India has interests of its own. India has a character of its own. It cannot be defined negatively as being against somebody,” the minister said, echoing India’s stand on QUAD, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue with the US, Japan and Australia that is also viewed as an anti-China front in Beijing.China and the United States have been at loggerheads after trade and human rights issues, coupled with China’s attempts to arm twist its neighbours in the disputed South China Sea and beyond.India and the US have found themselves on the same side vis-a-vis China, mostly after People’s Liberation Army soldiers were parked at India’s doorsteps along the Line of Actual Control in India’s East Ladakh sector. The deployment of soldiers set off a stand-off between the two armies that will complete four months next week. China has, despite agreements to disengage, not withdrawn its soldiers from many forward locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-because-you-did-it-jaishankar-s-crushing-comeback-to-iman-khan-barb/story-9DkSDC3MrShA2AkpwmYSJI.html
30-08-2020||India||NDA govt not concerned enough to deal with problems caused by Covid: Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi has charged the NDA government with not showing enough concern to address the job losses and other adverse effects brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country He said 1.8 crore people all over the country were now not receiving salaries and eight crore daily wage labourers were out of work.Also, 10 crore school children who used to get mid-day meals have reportedly been deprive of it because of the lockdown, he said, addressing an online public meeting here on Saturday night. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ‘invited’ all this on the country by imposing an unplanned, unconstitutional lockdown, he alleged. He also alleged that there has been a 64 per cent dip in child immunisation and that 10 lakh children had not received their BCG vaccination during the lockdown.Besides, six lakh children had missed getting their oral polio vaccine since the Covid-19 outbreak, he said.The Prime Minister, he alleged, also was not worried about Chinese intrusions along the nation’s borders.Owaisi urged his supporters to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic, regardless of ones religion. He said his party would contest the coming assembly polls in Bihar.AIMIM had gained a foothold in Bihar in 2019, winning minority Muslim dominated Kishanganj assembly seat in a bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-govt-not-concerned-enough-to-deal-with-problems-caused-by-covid-owaisi/story-z6WuOZtBQaxtq4qmJwnKhP.html
30-08-2020||India||September to be observed as ‘Nutrition Month’: PM Modi in Mann ki Baat||September would be celebrated as the nutrition month and schools should have not just report cards but also nutrition cards and nutrition monitors along with class monitors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday.In his monthly radio broadcast “Mann Ki Baat”, the PM also called on teachers to involve students in finding out the stories of the unsung heroes of the country’s freedom struggle. The country would soon celebrate 75 years of Independence, he pointed out.Referring to the importance of nutrition, he said it had played a key role in building the nation. Also Watch | Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar push’; seeks to make India a ‘toy hub’“September will be celebrated across the country as the nutrition month,” Modi said. In this campaign towards nutrition, the participation of the public is important, the PM said and added that attempts were being made to spread its awareness.Also read: ‘Come, let’s play’ - PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar push“Schools are being involved. There should be a nutrition monitor just like there is a class monitor. There should be a nutrition card along with the report card. These initiatives are in the works,” he said.Modi said a Bharatiya Poshan Krishi Kosh was being developed to provide information about food produced in every district of the country.The PM also mentioned that the country would soon celebrate the 75th year of independence. He said the students should be made aware of the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters. School students could be involved in spreading information about the unsung heroes of Independence and this should be the central theme of this year’s Teachers’ Day programme on September 5, he added.Also read: PM Modi lauds India’s farmers for higher crop production amid Covid crisisThe PM pointed out that this time of the year is usually festive, but the situation is different this year because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. He said there has been unprecedented restraint and simplicity in festivals this year. He said many Indian festivals celebrate nature and cited the Bihar’s Tharu tribe as its worshipper and also Onam, a harvest festival, in Kerala.Modi lauded farmers because the sowing of kharif crops had seen an uptick, as compared to last year, despite the Covid-19 outbreak. The PM said he had held talks with various ministries on how students and children should spend their time during nationwide lockdown restrictions that were enforced from March 25 for 68 days in a bid to prevent the spread of the pandemic. He urged India to emerge as a hub for toy production. The global toy industry is over Rs7 lakh crore, but the nation’s share is insignificant and India would need to increase it, Modi said. Some areas are being developed as toy clusters, he said. The best toys are those that encourage the creativity of children, he said. He suggested start-ups to produce local toys. “The seed sown should grow into a big tree through the Atmanirbhar Bharat mission,” Modi said.The PM also emphasised on making progress in the gaming industry. At present, most of the games are based on foreign themes. Make games in India and also about India, he said. Small start-ups would turn into big global companies with time, Modi said. He said an application (app) innovation challenge had received a huge response.He also singled out the role played by two Indian Army dogs – Sofi and Vida – who were feted for protecting the country. He said dogs of Indian breeds were being inducted in Indian armed forces and urged the public to adopt them as pets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/september-to-be-observed-as-nutrition-month-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat/story-v2RsEgpelrW1RhowjcPcvO.html
30-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, 208 deaths in last 29 days||With the highest single-day spike on Saturday, Chhattisgarh recorded total 208 deaths in last 29 days out of 262 deaths reported in the state till now. The state capital witnessed highest toll of 139 deaths so far, as per figures provided by the health department.On Saturday, Chhattisgarh reported 1,157 new coronavirus cases and eight fatalities, taking the count to 28,390 and death toll to 262.“On July 30, the total deaths reported in the state were 54 and on August 29, total deaths in the state increased to 262. More than 200 people died in this is period which is concerning for the health department, “said an official. Also read: Unlock 4 from September 1 - What changes, what remains the sameThe state, at present, has 12,313 active cases, as many as 15,818 people have recovered from the disease. As per Saturday’s tally, worst-hit Raipur district reported 630 new cases which took the total case tally in the district to 10,078.On Saturday, other districts where fresh cases were detected were Durg (172), Rajnandgaon (66), Bilaspur (66), Bastar (59), Dhamtari (44), Sukma (43), Janjgir-Champa (41), Raigarh (40), Mahasamund (27), Kanker (27), Narayanpur (23), Kabirdham (21), Bijapur (21), Gariaband (18), Balod (15), Koriya (15), Balodabazar (14), Surguja (9) and Bemetara (8).Seven cases each were reported from Mungeli and Jashpur districts, four each from Korba and Dantewada, three from Surajpur and two from Kondagaon, the official said.“Among the eight fatalities, two patients were from Raigarh district while one each was from Raipur, Durg, Balod, Mahasamund and Rajnandgaon districts. Besides, a person from Nuapada district of neighbouring Odisha died at a private hospital,” he said.Five of these deaths took place on Saturday while died in the last three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-208-deaths-in-last-29-days/story-pdDiEFHhuxg1qHRNUmCPGK.html
30-08-2020||India||Meet Vida and Sophie, army dogs PM Modi spoke about on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the role of dogs in various security operations in the country during his 68th Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday. He lauded the Indian Army dogs Vida, a labrador, and a cocker spaniel Sophie who were earlier this month awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day. Vida of an army dog unit located in Northern Command was instrumental in detection of five mines and one grenade buried underground thus preventing any casualties/injuries to own troops.Also read| ‘Come, let’s play’: PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar pushSophie of Special Frontier Force (Bomb Disposal Squad), on the other hand, is an explosive detection dog that sniffed out the presence of initiator/accelerant which could have been hastily used to fabricate an IED, thereby saving lives.The Prime Minister hailed the dogs for performing their duty and also urged the people to bring home dogs of locals breeds when planning on adopting a pet.The army dog unit, fondly called “The Silent Warriors”, have time and again proven to be an asset for the security forces. Also read| ‘Bring home dogs of local breeds’, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat: Top quotesAlso, to increase the operational capabilities of its troops, the army had in December last year developed an audio-video surveillance system integrated with a protective bulletproof jacket, which can be mounted stealthily on the army dogs to receive information about location and strength of enemy from a safe distance. The camera and transmitter on the gadget send the information on the receiver that can be at a safe distance up to one-km from the enemy location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-vida-and-sophie-the-army-dogs-pm-modi-spoke-about-on-mann-ki-baat/story-NfETgTiVwog2FlWzDQ0hYO.html
30-08-2020||India||Gurugram Cyber City accident: Car owner arrested, released on bail||The police on Saturday arrested a 50-year-old Gurugram businessman, owner of the vehicle that was allegedly driven by a minor that crashed into a motorcycle and killed its 49-year-old rider on August 23 in Cyber City area of the millennial city. Police said the minor had taken the car to return home from his friend’s party that day. The arrested businessman is the father of the friend and allegedly allowed the minor to take the car. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (east), said that the accused was booked under section 5 of Motor Vehicle Act as he gave his car to a juvenile despite knowing he was a minor and had no licence. “As the offence is bailable, he was granted bail,” he said. The suspect did not respond to messages and calls. On August 26, police had added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (for drink driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act to the FIR as the minor was allegedly inebriated while driving and had allegedly confessed this to police. Police said the minor and his parents joined the investigation and will be produced before the juvenile justice board (JJB) and court while police files the challan. Also Read: New drain channels to stop flooding in GurugramPolice said they have followed the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Arnesh Kumar of 2014 where it was directed that in offences involving punishment up to seven years’ imprisonment the police may resort to the extreme step of arrest only when the same is necessary and the applicant does not cooperate in the investigation.Mohan said the minor’s family was cooperating. “If not, then they would have been arrested. The offence is bailable so we have not apprehend the juvenile and have given direction to parents not to allow him to travel abroad or outstation without informing us. We will send him for counselling to child welfare committee once his injuries are healed,” he said. Also Read: Greater Noida: Three killed in two separate road accidentsThe motorcyclist, Alok Gupta, was on his way to Jewar in Greater Noida on Sunday morning, when the accident happened near Belvedere Towers in DLF Phase-2 and he died on the spot. He was accompanied by a friend, who was following him in another bike who took him and two minors in the vehicle to a private hospital in an ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-cyber-city-accident-car-owner-arrested-released-on-bail/story-XyeQCATMVssnaVJ7vKkHnM.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Doorstep Covid testing, sit and deliver speech’: Top suggestions for monsoon session||Doorstep coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests, liberty to sit and deliver a speech in the House, freedom to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at a constituency, a one-way movement in the Central Hall and key corridors are some of the new measures Parliament will offer to the Members Parliament (MPs) to ensure a safe and secure monsoon session that will be held between September 14 and October 1.In the meeting with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, health experts gave several suggestions to ensure maximum safety for MPs during the upcoming monsoon session. The MPs will sit maintaining the minimum required distance between two seats in a mini cubicle, which will be separated by plexiglass sheets.Also read: Unlock 4 from September 1 - What changes, what remains the sameDr. Randeep Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, suggested in the meeting that MPs should be allowed to sit and talk instead of the tradition of being on their feet. Sitting would ensure no spread of aerosol, Dr. Guleria explained. Speaker Birla is believed to have appreciated the suggestion, the officials said.Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary, health and family welfare, suggested another plan and that, too, met Speaker Birla’s instant approval. Bhushan suggested that on the lines of the Vande Bharat Mission evacuees, who would undergo RT-PCR test before boarding a flight, similarly, MPs could be requested to undergo the Covid-19 test 72 hours before attending Parliament. Lawmakers could be asked to take the RT-PCR test either at their homes or respective constituencies, he added. Also read: Row over Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics concernedDr. Guleria also suggested that one-way movement be allowed in some key corridors and the Central Hall of Parliament. Visitors and media persons will not be allowed access to these areas during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. The measure, the AIIMS chief explained, would prevent MPs coming from face to face frequently and reduce the chance of transmission of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Speaker Birla has taken the call that Indian Tea Board and Indian Coffee Board would supply the beverages in disposable paper cups and no glass would be used. There was also some debate on installing an RT-PCR machine in the Lok Sabha. While Birla asked if such a machine can be installed in the Lower House of Parliament, health experts pointed out that handling large quantities of swab samples could be a risky proposition, as some might prove to be Covid-19 positive.Instead, Dr. Guleria suggested that technicians could be sent to an MP’s residence in the national capital to collect the swab sample that could be sent for a test in a government-run laboratory. Birla lapped up the proposal and quipped: “Why didn’t I get such a good idea earlier?” In the Vande Bharat Mission, the evacuees are required to upload their Covid-19 negative test report 72 before boarding a repatriation flight, if they would like to avail exemption from the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine. The guidelines stated that within 96 hours before boarding the flight, the evacuees could undergo an RT-PCR test at their city of departure, and if the tests show Covid-19 negative, they must post the result and go to their respective homes upon arrival in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doorstep-covid-testing-sit-and-deliver-speech-top-suggestions-for-monsoon-session/story-LUTRuhdWQ1dZze3qXK46LK.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concerns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concernsA controversial imam in Australia has asked Muslims not to get the vaccine for the coronavirus disease being developed by Oxford University. Sufyaan Khalifa claimed the vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca is ‘haram’ - meaning forbidden. Read more Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic: 10 things you should knowAfter five months, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will finally resume its service in the national capital from September 7. As per the Union ministry of home affairs in its guidelines for Unlock 4.0 issued on Saturday, the service will resume in a “graded manner.” Read more Sushant Singh Rajput case: Here are the 14 people facing probeIn the 78 days since Sushant Singh Rajput passed away (since June 14), the CBI has narrowed down its probe and is now focussing on 14 people. Read more Haryana govt revokes order directing markets to be shut on Mondays, Tuesdays: Anil VijHaryana government revoked its August 28 order directing markets to be shut on Mondays and Tuesdays in view of coronavirus crisis, according to cabinet minister Anil Vij. Read more Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer on reports of her confessing to drugs chats: ‘We go by what CBI, ED, police or NCB officially says’Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde dismissed anonymous reports which claimed that she confessed to having drugs-related chats. Read more Covid-19 travelling rules: New dos and dont’s for flights and trainsWherever you’re headed and whatever the reasons, it’s going to take longer and cost more. Airports are distanced and digital. Train bookings open a week in advance. And don’t forget to pack your own snacks. Read more ‘It takes time’: Smriti Irani’s latest Instagram post is all about motivationUnion Minister Smriti Irani often takes to Instagram to share witty or inspirational posts which are highly relatable. Her latest motivational post is no different and now it has left many impressed, including actor Neena Gupta. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-controversy-around-oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-australia-some-clerics-raise-concerns-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PIgTKVdRwFZQpjJWk9h6jI.html
30-08-2020||India||JCO killed in Pak shelling at LoC in Jammu’s Rajouri||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was killed in Pakistani shelling along the LoC (Line of Control) in Nowshera sector of Jammu division’s Rajouri district on Sunday morning. A defence official said that Pakistan resorted to ceasefire violation on Sunday morning using small arms at Kalsian, Khanger and Bhawani areas along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri.“A JCO sustained injuries in Pak shelling in the Kalsian sector. He was immediately evacuated to an army hospital but he succumbed to his injuries,” said the official.In the incident, Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries, said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.“Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” said Colonel Anand.The deceased soldier belonged to Goindwal Sahib village in Khadur Sahib Tehsil of Amritsar district in Punjab.On Saturday, the BSF had detected a transborder tunnel that originated from Pakistan and stretched 150 meters into Samba sector of the union territory. Also Read: Police personnel killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s SrinagarSince the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, Pakistan has been regularly pushing militants across and also opening heavy fire on the LoC and international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jco-killed-in-pak-shelling-at-loc-in-jammu-s-rajouri/story-pdVNTCWbUYZVFvdOMVfo7M.html
30-08-2020||India||Haryana govt revokes order directing markets to be shut on Mondays, Tuesdays: Anil Vij||Haryana government revoked its August 28 order directing markets to be shut on Mondays and Tuesdays in view of coronavirus crisis, according to cabinet minister Anil Vij.In a tweet, the minister said that the Unlock 4.0 guidelines released by the Centre on Saturday did not allow states to impose a lockdown. केंद्र सरकार ने अनलॉक 4 में प्रदेश सरकारों को लॉक डाउन करने का अधिकार नही दिया है इसलिए हरियाणा सरकार का दिनांक 28 अगस्त का सोमवार और मंगलवार को बाज़ार बंद रखने का आदेश वापिस ले लिया है । इसलिए अब कोई लॉक डाउन नही होगा ।Unlock 4.0, the fourth phase of opening of the economy after coronavirus lockdown, will start from September 1.On Friday, an official spokesperson of the Haryana government had said all shops and shopping malls could now remain open on weekends but would shutdown on Mondays and Tuesdays.Meanwhile, India on Sunday set a grim world record of highest Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours. With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, the country’s tally has breached the 35 lakh-mark. As many as 63,498 people have died of the infection in India so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-directing-markets-in-haryana-to-be-shut-on-mondays-tuesdays-revoked-anil-vij/story-DMPizXjjvFDmdwyfYphpkK.html
30-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee haemodynamically stable, still on ventilator support: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, according to a bulletin issued by the Army Hospital (R&R), Delhi Cantt where he is being treated. The 84-year-old is being treated for lung infection and his condition is haemodynamically stable, the hospital addedAs per doctors, a patient is said to be in a haemodynamically stable condition when his or her blood circulation parameters, which include blood pressure, heart and pulse rate, are normal. Mukherjee suffered at fall at his Rajaji Marg residence in the national capital and was hospitalized on August 10 where he underwent a surgery to remove a clot in his brain. Earlier, he tweeted that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.  On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for COVID-19. #CitizenMukherjeeWith a political career of five decades, Mukherjee, a senior Congress leader served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-haemodynamically-stable-still-on-ventilator-support-hospital/story-n4qza68XY4ZB8cpOGWzeTL.html
30-08-2020||India||DGCA in touch with Boeing after 3 international airlines pull back 8 Dreamliner aircraft||The country’s aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), is in touch with Boeing after the aircraft-maker asked three international airlines to pull back eight of their B787 (Dreamliner) aircraft on discovering manufacturing defects.Currently, India has 28 operational B787 aircraft (27 with Air India and one with Vistara). Arun Kumar, director-general, DGCA, said, “We are in touch with them, if need be suitable action will be taken (sic).” As per latest information, the eight Boeing 787 aircraft belonged to Air Canada, United Airlines and Singapore Airlines. In a telephonic conversation with HT, Boeing spokesperson, said, Boeing has identified two distinct manufacturing issues in certain 787 aircraft “(near or towards the tail of the aircraft) body fuselage sections, which, in combination, result in a condition that does not meet our design standards.”Sources, however, told HT that no 787 flying for Indian airlines’ will be pulled back for this reason. Former defence pilot and aviation expert Vipul Saxena said the aft fuselage portion – called aft pressure bulkhead – that carries the load of rear passengers is made of lightweight or composite material. Also read: Pitching for Made in India toys, PM Modi discusses Aatma Nirbhar plan in Mann Ki Baat“It (aft fuselage portion) helps an aircraft aerodynamically, and is usually made by third party manufacturers. It is subsequently integrated with the front portion of the fuselage using metallic joints, chemical compounds and sealants to withstand the aerodynamic pressure and stress that an aircraft encounters while flying,” said Saxena. “For the safety of aircraft and passengers, there are periodic checks to ensure that the front portion of the fuselage and aft bulkheads are joined together securely and are intact as an integrated body.”Saxena further added, “This step by Boeing is subsequent to observing some signs of material failure due to fatigue /excessive stress, risking safety of aircraft. Hence, Boeing being manufacturers of 787 issued the recall to mitigate the risk in the interest of aircraft and passenger safety.”Boeing also said they have notified and briefed US aviation regulator, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), about the issue. “We are conducting a thorough review into the root cause and in addition, as part of our assessment, we determined that eight airplanes in the delivered fleet are affected by both issues and therefore must be inspected and repaired prior to continued operation. We immediately contacted the airlines that operate the eight affected airplanes to notify them of the situation, and the airplanes have been temporarily removed from service until they can be repaired,” said the spokesperson.This is not the first time when Boeing787 aircraft are reported to have a technical problem. On January 16, 2013, the FAA had issued an emergency airworthiness directive ordering all US-based airlines to ground their Boeing 787s until modifications were made to the electrical system to reduce the risk of the battery overheating or catching fire. This step, which was the first such, was taken after smoke was detected from a Japan Airlines flight from Tokyo landed at Boston’s Logan International Airport in January 2013. Though the smoke was observed after all passengers deboarded, from the plane’s electrical bay, it was later learnt traced to one of its two lithium-ion batteries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-in-touch-with-boeing-after-3-international-airlines-pull-back-8-dreamliner-aircraft/story-Vj7MJtg6w9KyySOFrkMpaK.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt stresses on safety measures for NEET-JEE tests, Congress intensifies protests||Uttarakhand government is gearing up to conduct the NEET-JEE examinations even as Opposition Congress has started protests across the state on the issue.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday evening instructed all the district magistrates to take necessary protective measures including enforcing necessary physical distancing and limiting the number of students at each centre holding the JEE-NEET examinations in view of the coronavirus pandemic.“Social and physical distancing should be followed and for this, the number of examination centers can be increased if required. Along with this, all the necessary guidelines of JEE-NEET exam should be followed in the larger interest of the students,” said Rawat.Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress has started protesting across the state demanding the postponement of the entrance exams.Pritam Singh, president state Congress unit said, “The prime minister of the country or the chief minister are all working from their homes using different online methods, then why are they forcing students to come out and give exams during a pandemic.”Also Read: With 658 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand crosses 18,000-markHe claimed that safety of the entire official apparatus engaged in holding of the examinations as well as of the parents will be compromised if the tests are not postponed.“It is not just about the safety of the students but also their parents and all the staff involved, who will be there during the exam. Just increasing the number of exam centres does not solve the problem, what about the safety of all the support staff needed to conduct the exams,” Singh asked.Also Read: Covid-19: No lockdown in cities conducting JEE, NEET exams, says Odisha govtMost opposition states are demanding postponement of the twin examinations while NDA ruled governments including Uttarakhand government have expressed their willingness to conduct the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-stresses-on-safety-measures-for-neet-jee-tests-congress-intensifies-protests/story-lBKgerG1flimBeKYRWQu6K.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Bring home dogs of local breeds’, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat: Top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 68th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. Click here for Mann Ki Baat highlightsThe PM’s address comes a day after the Centre releases guidelines for Unlock 4.0, the fourth phase of opening of the economy after coronavirus lockdown. Meanwhile, coronavirus cases in India crossed the 35 lakh-mark according to the health ministry dashboard on Sunday morning.Here are PM Modi’s top quotes from the broadcast:• On Mann ki Baat, PM Modi hailed the discipline shown by people during festival time in view of the coronavirus crisis.• The PM also praised the farmers of India for having proved their mettle during the pandemic. Sowing of Kharif crops has been seven per cent higher than the last year while cotton has been sown about three per cent higher, he said.• ‘I thought about children during Covid-19 lockdown and discussed ways to make India a global hub in making toys’, PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat. • ‘We have given focus on toys in the National Education Policy too. Learning while playing, making toys etc has been made a part of curriculum’, said PM Modi.The global toy industry is worth Rs 7 lakh crore, but India’s share in it is quite small, he said, adding that India now needs to become vocal for local toys.• PM Modi encouraged youth to be more innovative. He asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games and talked about Niti Ayog’s Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge. This challenge is aimed at identifying the best Indian Apps that are already being used by citizens and have the potential to scale and become world class Apps in their respective categories. “India is known as a land of innovators,” he said.• India is celebrating Nutrition Month in September, PM said, pointing out the importance of nutritious diets for pregnant women and children. “Schools are being involved. There should be a nutrition monitor just like there is a class monitor. There should be a nutrition card along with the report card. Such initiatives are also being taken,” the PM said.• PM Modi hailed the role of dogs in various security operations. He spoke about the Indian Army dogs Vida and Sophie, who were awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day this year. He urged all Indians who were thinking of adopting pets to bring home dogs of local breeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-home-dogs-of-local-breeds-says-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-top-quotes/story-PU29dQMYaSX8UwnS4KKkTI.html
30-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Here are the 14 people facing probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has questioned a number of people in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The CBI took over the case after a recommendation from the Bihar government on request from Rajput’s family.In the 78 days since he passed away (since June 14), the CBI has narrowed down its probe and is now focussing on 14 people.Rhea ChakrabortyShe was Rajput’s girlfriend and is the prime suspect. Chakraborty had left the actor’s house on June 8, a few days before his death. Rajput’s family has accused her of siphoning off money from his account, and harassing him mentally. Rajput’s father has accused Chakraborty of abetting his suicide.Showik ChakrabortyHe is the brother of Rhea Chakraborty and was the director in two of the companies floated by Rajput. The actor’s family claims these companies were used to siphon off Rajput’s money.Siddharth PithaniPithani was Rajput’s close friend and his flat-mate. He was present in the house on June 14, when Sushant was found dead. He has told the CBI that Rajput an Chakraborty had a fight before she left the house on June 8.Also Watch: 5 reasons why SC chose CBI probe for Sushant Singh Rajput death case Neeraj SinghHe used to work as a cook at Rajput’s house in Mumbai. He was also present on the day the actor was found dead. The CBI is questioning him.KeshavHe was Rajput’s domestic help. He was also present at Rajput’s house on June 14, and gave him banana, juice and coconut water for breakfast (according to what he has told the CBI).Deepesh SawantSawant was Rajput’s housekeeping manager and used to stay with him. He was among the people who first spotted Rajput’s body.Samuel MirandaHe was Rajput’s former housekeeping manager. He was appointed by Rhea Chakraborty in May last year. He used to manage all the household expenses. Rajput’s family claims Miranda helped Chakraborty in this entire plan.Mahesh ShettyCommon friend of Chakraborty and Rajput. It has been reported that the later actor had called Shetty the night before he died, but they couldn’t speak. The CBI and other agencies involved in the probe are questioning Shetty to know about the relationship between Chakraborty and Rajput.Sandeep SinghHe claims to be a close friend of Rajput. He wasn’t in touch with the late actor after September 2019, but Rajput’s family doesn’t trust him.Surjeet Singh RathoreHe is a member of the Karni Sena and has linked Rajput’s death with Dubai.Jaya SahaShe worked as talen manager for Rajput. Her name was revealed after a link with drugs came to fore in the probe in Rajput’s death. Saha has been accused of giving drugs to Rajput. The investigators have said that Chakraborty spoke to Saha twice on phone on June 14 and five times on June 15.Gaurav AryaHe has also been linked to the drugs angle. Investigators believe he used to supply drugs to Chakraborty.Indrajeet ChakrabortyHe is the father of Rhea Chakraborty. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent summons to him in connection with the probe into missing Rs 15 crore from Rajput’s account.Rajat MewatiHe was Rajput’s former accountant. He was fired after Rhea came in Rajput’s contact. He has claimed that transparency in handling of Rajput’s fund ended after Chakraborty entered his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-here-are-the-14-people-facing-probe/story-b2mC7eSBKDsC2tZYKk19KI.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP to organise ‘Seva Saptah’ next month to mark PM Modi’s 70th birthday||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise a week-long Seva Saptah from September 14 to 20 to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday on September 17.The party has sent a circular to all its state unit chiefs, suggesting activities that could be taken up as part of the week-long campaign.Arun Singh, who is in-charge of the BJP’s central office and a party general secretary, has sent a circular that contained the list of programmes, including social initiatives, with the theme 70 that states have been asked to organise.According to the circular, the programmes will include the presentation of artificial limbs and other equipment to 70 differently-abled people in every district of the country. Spectacles will be distributed to 70 blind people in every district. BJP leaders will distribute fruits in 70 hospitals and poor colonies while complying with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines.Also read: ‘Come, let’s play’ - PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar pushThe party has asked its leaders and members to make arrangement for the donation of plasma to 70 Covid-19 patients in accordance with local hospitals’ need.Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), led by Poonam Mahajan, has been asked to organise at least 70 blood donation camps in major states and at least one camp in every district of smaller states, according to news agency reports.Plantation of 70 saplings in every booth has to be done by BJP workers. Cleanliness drive is to be organised in 70 villages of every district and a pledge will be taken on the occasion to get rid of single-use plastic. Cleanliness drive will be undertaken at 70 public places in each district headquarters.Also, 70 virtual conferences on the Life and Mission of PM will be organised through webinars.The circular stated that the party would not be able to organise exhibitions on the “splendid work” done by PM Modi highlighting various aspects of his personal life because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Instead, the party will circulate 70 slides on the PM’s feat via social media. The BJP’s central leadership has also asked all its Members of Parliament (MPs), members of legislative assemblies (MLAs) and public representatives to participate in all these programmes while adhering to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-mark-pm-modi-s-birthday-bjp-to-organise-seva-saptah-next-month/story-BNUqw4uoa8dIhSttjWagDK.html
30-08-2020||India||JP Nadda chairs virtual meet with Bihar BJP MPs for impending state polls||Ahead of electioneering for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, BJP chief JP Nadda on Saturday chaired a virtual meeting, in which party leaders in the State who are MPs were present.Bihar BJP President Sanjay Jaiswal said that every MP will visit two panchayats every day in September to prepare for the elections. Jaiswal further said that all the MPs will also meet the district officials separately.“There will be virtual meetings in every block and every MP has the responsibility to conduct these meetings,” he added.Earlier on August 23, Nadda addressed the Bihar BJP State working committee via video conferencing and said that BJP, and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) will fight elections together under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and win the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar.“BJP, JDU, and LJP will fight elections together and win. We have to add value not only to BJP but to our alliance partners also,” Nadda had said addressing Bihar BJP State Karyasamiti via video conferencing.The party, aiming to retain power in the state, has asked former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to go visit the election-bound state.Bihar has 243 Assembly constituencies and elections in the state are due in October-November as the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29.The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-chairs-virtual-meet-with-bihar-bjp-mps-for-impending-state-polls/story-tJ7kkqK4BjNX46p76xFiPN.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Come, let’s play’: Pitching for Made in India toys, PM Modi discusses Aatma Nirbhar plan in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday once again exhorted the people of the country to make India self-reliant. Addressing the nation on ‘Mann Ki Baat’, PM Modi focussed on toys to realise this dream.“Global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India’s share is very small. We will have to work to increase it,” he said.The prime minister said that thinking about children during Covid-19 lockdown, and held discussions with industry representatives to increase the production of indigenous toys.He also called upon start-up entrepreneurs to ‘team up for toys’, saying it is time to get vocal for local toys. “Come, let’s play,” said PM Modi on the 68th edition of his monthly radio address.Also read| Verve of Onam can be felt everywhere: PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatHe also said that the new National Education Policy too focuses on toys for children to nurture their creativity and innovation quotient. The prime minister also asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games in and about India.He talked about an app innovation challenge which was held earlier this month in which many indigenous applications won great honours. “Everyone acknowledges capability of Indians to offer innovation, solutions. And when there is dedication and sensitivity, this power becomes limitless,” he said.“Under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat App innovation challenge, there is an app called Kutuki Kids Learning app. This is an interactive app for children in which they can easily learn many aspects of maths, science through songs and stories,” he said. The prime minister also listed other similar apps on different topics.PM Modi also hailed the discipline shown by the people of India during the festival season, which will help check the spread of Covid-19.“We have seen unprecedented restraint and simplicity in our festivals during Covid-19 times,” said PM Modi. “People are being responsible. They are showing great discipline in celebrating festivals.”Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordHe also hailed the farmers for increase in sowing area for different grains. “Our lives and society are driven by the power of agriculture only. Our farmers have proved their mettle even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.The prime minister talked about the importance of nutrition and said it is the duty of every citizen to eat healty food. PM Modi said that apart from children, the women too should have healthy food. “We have a saying ‘Yatha Annam Tatha Mannam’. It means our mental and intellectual development is directly related to the quality of our food intake,” said PM Modi.He ended the Mann Ki Baat address with wishing people good health and urging them to stay safe during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-let-s-play-pitching-for-made-in-india-toys-pm-modi-discusses-aatma-nirbhar-plan-in-mann-ki-baat/story-f6jklWE3oh35I6TFOGv4oJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Two members of Khalistan Zindabad Force arrested for hoisting Khalistan flag on DC office in Punjab||Two suspected members of the banned terror outfit, Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), have been arrested from GT Karnal Road in north Delhi on charges of hoisting a Khalistan flag at a Punjab government office in Moga district on the eve of the Independence Day on August 14, the Delhi Police’s special cell said on Sunday. Police identified the two arrested “hard core members” of the KZF as Inderjeet Singh Gill and Jaspal Singh, who belong to Moga district. Also read: ‘My son had left home to find a job with his brother,’ says father of man lynched in Naraina“On the eve of the Independence Day, the two men had hoisted a Khalistan flag on the roof of the office of district collector of Moga,” said Sanjeev Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (special cell), Delhi Police. They had also joined the Sikhs for Justice (SJF), a secessionist group based in the United States of America (USA) that supports the secession of Punjab from India as Khalistan. “We had received a tip-off on Saturday evening that the two KZF members would visit Delhi and we could catch them from GT Karnal Road in north Delhi. We laid a trap and nabbed them,” said the DCP Yadav. No weapons were found on them. Delhi Police has alerted its counterparts in Punjab to take custody of the two KZF members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-members-of-khalistan-zindabad-force-arrested-for-hoisting-khalistan-flag-on-dc-office-in-punjab/story-J9iwZmy9NHgI6LBQMPe4xH.html
30-08-2020||India||Verve of Onam can be felt everywhere: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday during his monthly “Mann Ki Baat” programme said that the verve of Onam festival can be felt everywhere and it is turning out to be an international festival. “The zest of Onam today has reached distant shores of foreign lands. Be it America, Europe or Gulf countries, the verve of Onam can be felt everywhere. Onam is increasingly turning out to be an international festival,” the Prime Minister said. “Onam festival is also being celebrated with gaiety and fervour. This festival arrives in the month of Chingam. During this period, people buy something new, decorate their homes, prepare Pookalam, enjoy Onam-Saadiya. Variety of games, competitions also held,” he said. Tere is a close link between nature and our festivals, the Prime Minister stated. “This is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the Covid-19 situation,” said PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verve-of-onam-can-be-felt-everywhere-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-lPU4fnNgJhVQ8UifUUEPMJ.html
30-08-2020||India||‘My son had left home to find a job with his brother,’ says father of man lynched in Naraina||The youth (23), who was lynched on Friday in west Delhi’s Naraina on suspicion of stealing a mobile phone, was on his way to Gurugram in neighbouring Haryana to find a job with his elder brother’s help. He was caught, tied to a tree and beaten to death , his father alleged. Four men have been arrested for allegedly lynching the victim, identified as Rahul, in a park in Naraina, said Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (west), Delhi Police. The victim was a resident of Jawahar Camp in Kirti Nagar, which is located across the railway tracks from Loha Mandi in Naraina. “We were pestering Rahul to get a job after he was released from jail on August 17. On Thursday at around 8 pm, he packed his clothes and said he was leaving for Gurugram to meet his elder brother, who would help him find a job in his company,” said his father, Raghubir (58). “I had spoken to my eldest son, who had said that he had found a job for Rahul in the same private company, where he works,” said Raghubir, a private security guard in west Delhi’s Mayapuri. Also read: Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today - IMDThe family members said they had urged Rahul not to leave the house at around 8 pm on Thursday. “I had requested him to leave the next morning, but he was adamant to leave at that point in time. I regret for failing to stop him from leaving,” said Raghubir.The police had received a call about the assault on Rahul at around 6 am on Friday and found him lying unconscious under a tree in the park. A coconut fibre rope and a white muffler found at the spot showed that Rahul was tied to the tree. He succumbed to his injuries at a hospital allegedly due to the thrashing he had received with wooden sticks and iron rods. Raghubir said that it wasn’t the first time Rahul was assaulted. “About two months ago, Rahul was left with a fractured arm after he was roughed up following a quarrel,” said Raghubir. “The police would catch him, whenever there was any crime in our neighbourhood. He could be involved in quarrels and fights, but not in thefts. He was the son of a security guard, who prevents thefts,” Raghubir added. Though police said Rahul was named in a dozen crimes and jailed thrice in the past, they did not find any evidence that he had stolen the mobile phone for which he was lynched. He was sent to jail last in mid-July and released on August 17 for allegedly carrying a knife and a pistol. Rahul is survived by his parents, elder brother, wife and two children.He had got married four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-son-had-left-home-to-find-a-job-with-his-brother-says-father-of-man-lynched-in-naraina/story-RZeknYxNZKaBQ0vnWnXcZM.html
30-08-2020||India||PM Modi recalls martyrdom of Imam Hussain on day of Ashura||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday recalled the sacrifice of Imam Hussain (AS) on the day of Ashura, saying nothing was more important to him than the values of truth and justice.“We recall the sacrifice of Imam Hussain (AS). For him, there was nothing more important than the values of truth and justice. His emphasis on equality as well as fairness are noteworthy and give strength to many,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet.Ashura, the 10th day of Muharram is celebrated as the annual commemoration of Imam Hussain’s martyrdom.Muharram, the first month of the Islamic calendar, reaches a crescendo on 10th Muharram, the day when Imam Hussain Ibn Ali, grandson of Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon Him), and his followers were martyred in 61 Hijri or 680 CE at Karbala, in present-day Iraq.The tenth day of Muharram is the Day of Ashura, which to Shia Muslims is part of the Mourning of Muharram. Sunni Muslims fast during this day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-recalls-martyrdom-of-imam-hussain-on-day-of-ashura/story-V1BJkGi4jlQMXr32oah5GJ.html
30-08-2020||India||West Delhi car crash: 11-yr-old boy dead, four family members injured||New Delhi: A boy (11), Mayank, died on the spot in a road accident after the car he was travelling in crashed into a road divider and flipped twice at Sector 22 in Dwarka, west Delhi, on Thursday night. Four of Mayank’s family members -- parents, sister (2), and grandmother -- sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dwarka, said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (Dwarka), Delhi Police. Mayank’s family lives in an apartment at Pochanpur village in Dwarka. Mayank’s father, Sujeet Kumar (35), owns another property in Pochanpur village that has been put on rent.“The accident occurred at Sector 22 in Dwarka at around 9pm on Thursday while the family was returning from a relative’s home. Kumar was driving the car and Mayank was seated next to him. Kumar’s wife, mother and daughter were in the back seat,” said a Delhi Police official, who is investigating the case.Preliminary probe revealed that some “distraction” caused the car to veer towards its right and crash into the road divider. The vehicle flipped twice before landing on its side. Also read: Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today - IMD“Mayank’s neck got severed while the car was flipping. Either, the car’s front left window was half open at the time of the accident, or the window’s glass got shattered while the vehicle was flipping,” said the official. Local residents came to the family’s rescue and admitted them to a nearby private hospital. “Mayank had died on the accident spot,” he added. A case of causing death due to negligence and rash driving has been registered against Kumar at Dwarka’s Sector 23 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-delhi-car-crash-11-yr-old-boy-dead-four-family-members-injured/story-LeY52jpBunUx1OCUMVHKsM.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Private hospitals to spare 50% beds for Covid-19 patients if needed’: UP govt||Private hospitals will have to spare 50 percent of their beds for Covid-19 patients and provide treatment at the rates prescribed under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in case the available Level 2 and Level 3 beds in any district fall short of the requirement for coronavirus infection patients, stated an order issued by a state government official.The fee to be taken is also prescribed and coordination for the bed requirement will be done at the district level by the administration and the health department, the order said.The order issued on Saturday by special secretary, UP government, stated that a shortfall may arise as the positivity rate was high in some districts. Some districts have a 5 percent positivity rate while in some others it is up to 10 percent.Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordPrivate hospitals have been divided into two different categories. Rates for National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) - accredited hospitals and those not accredited have already been fixed. The new order is in addition to this.Currently, not all beds at private hospitals are being utilised as the number of (non-Covid-19) patients there are fewer. On the other hand, there is a shortage of beds for critical care. Hence, it will be binding on private hospitals to provide 50 percent beds at the Ayushman Bharat scheme rates, the order said.The rates announced earlier in July for private hospitals admitting Covid-19 patients varied from Rs 8,000 to Rs 18,000 per day, depending upon facilities and category of cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-to-spare-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients-if-needed-up-govt/story-1ZA9H2Wb7pNVU9Vgr6nozM.html
30-08-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat 68th edition highlights: PM Modi urges startups to team up for making innovative toys locally||Bring an Indian breed dog home: PM ModiPM Narendra Modi hailed the role of dogs in the security operations in the nation. He also spoke about the Indian Army dogs Vida and Sophie who were awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day this year for their role in different operations.He urged the citizens to bring home dogs of Indian breeds next time they think about adopting a pet.PM Modi shares value of nutritionPM Modi said that India is marking Nutrition Month in September that will benefit young children. He also talked about the importance of a nutritious diet for pregnant women. India is known as a land of innovators: PM ModiOn the 68th edition of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi said “India is known as a land of innovators.” He also talked about an Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge.Our responsibility to make India self-reliant: PM Modi”The seed that was sown during non-cooperation movement 100 years ago, it is our responsibility to transform that into a tree of self-reliant India”, says PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi urges startups to team up for making innovative toys locallyIn a push for self-reliance, PM Narendra Modi said that India’s share in the Rs7 crore worth global toy industry is very small and urged startups in the country to team up for making toys and go vocal for local. “The global toy industry is worth Rs 7 lakh crore, but India’s share in it is quite small”, he said. “Making toys for the entire world...India has the talent and the ability to become a toy hub,” he added. National Education Policy focuses on toys too: PM Modi“We have given focus on toys in the National Education Policy too. Learning while playing, making toys etc has been made a part of curriculum”, says PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi pushes for India to become a global hub of making toys“I thought about children during Covid-19 lockdown and discussed ways to make India a global hub in making toys”, PM Modi says on Mann Ki Baat“The best toys are those that bring out creativity,” he said. PM Modi hails close link between nature and our festivalsPM Modi said that there is a close link between nature and festivals in India. He said that many of our festivals inspire us to conserve the environment. Sense of discipline among people due to Covid-19 situation: PM ModiThis is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the Covid-19 situation, says PM Modi on Mann ki Baat.PM Modi addresses nation on 68th edition of Mann ki BaatPM Modi addresses nation on 68th edition of Mann ki Baat PM Modi to address nation at 11 amPM Narendra Modi will address the nation on his monthly Mann ki Baat programme at 11 am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-68th-mann-ki-baat-address-to-nation-live-updates/story-h1giAEJ5MrSQefvK4BUssJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Amid pandemic, Mumbai’s dabbawalas seek cycle donations; want trains to start||The last time Keshav Jadhav, 35, delivered a lunch box (dabba) on his cycle on March 22, little did he know that it wouldn’t happen again for the next six months. Jadhav, a dabbawala, who lives in a 10x10 room in a chawl complex in Borivali, has been out of work ever since the lockdown was implemented in the city due to rising Covid-19 cases. As he returned to Mumbai from his hometown in Sangli last week, he first headed to the station to fetch his cycle. “Since we were all out of work with offices shut and trains suspended, many of us returned to our hometowns. Our cycles were still parked outside the railway station, but are in a poor condition now due to heavy rains,” said a distraught Jadhav. On Saturday, the Mumbai Dabbawala Association (MDA) appealed to people to donate cycles as they could not afford to pay the maintenance costs of their rusted cycles once work begins. The association has also been demanding the central government to start regular local trains or allow dabbawalas into the essential services category. They will submit a written request to that effect on Saturday. Also read: Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic - 10 things you should knowSubhash Talekar, president, MDA, said with business being at a standstill, dabbawalas, once acclaimed across the world for their professionalism and precision in delivering food, are staring at an uncertain future. “Over the last 6 months, the community has faced a lot of hardships. With local trains remaining shut for so many months, we have no source of income. Many have taken odd jobs like driving auto-rickshaws, gardening etc. to make ends meet. We are thus requesting the government to at least allow us to travel by train. We will take all the necessary precautions and use sanitisers, masks and gloves while delivering dabbas,” he added. Talekar said that even when things reopen, they might still have to struggle to start work. “Our cycles have not been used for so long now as business is closed. Besides, many dabbawalas have gone to their hometowns and thus once they come back, they might have to spend Rs. 7,000 to 8,000 to get them fixed,” he said. A Borivali-based dabbawala said many from the community are forced to move to other means of earning as there is uncertainty around their work. Also read: Unlock 4 from September 1 - What changes, what remains the same“The state government has said things will open in a phased manner. While hotels, offices and everything else is operating, why are dabbawalas, who are considered as the city’s lifeline, not allowed to work? Especially in the current situation wherein people prefer home food due to the risk involved in outside food, our job is very important,” he added. With many corporates introducing work from home policies for their employees, the future seems dismal. Nearly 5,000 dabbawalas are working in the city who deliver meals to people daily. Known for their timely and accurate food deliveries, Mumbai’s dabbawalas have been used as a case study in several management institutes. In 2003, when Prince Charles met a few members of the community, he lauded their work. Ever since, the dabbawalas have always been in the limelight. With the growing uncertainty around the nature of work and the utility of tiffins in future however, the community is now clueless about what the future holds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-mumbai-s-dabbawalas-seek-cycle-donations-want-trains-to-start/story-BRvUJwdIZXQefrO8fk8OfN.html
30-08-2020||India||Now, call to oust Ghulam Nabi Azad from Congress citing indiscipline||After venting their ire against senior party leader Jitin Prasada, Congressmen in Uttar Pradesh are now targeting senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and questioning his earlier role as the All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh.Azad is one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who signed the controversial letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a full-time, “effective”, “active” and “visible” party president.Now, former Uttar Pradesh Congress committee president Nirmal Khatri has accused Azad of forcing the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance on the party in the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“As far as I know, Rahul Gandhi, too, was opposed to the alliance, but probably kept quiet due to Azad’s recalcitrance and defeatist political thinking….His principles of political science focused on the politics of alliance,” said Khatri in a post on the social media, directly targeting Azad.In an interview to a news agency, Azad, who is the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, had defended the letter, saying, “Any Congress worker having a genuine interest in the party will welcome the letter.”Khatri has countered the points raised by Azad in his interview after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting.“Azad forgot to mention his role as in charge of Uttar Pradesh where he destroyed the Congress. In 1996, the Congress alliance with the BSP failed to work. He (Azad) entered into an alliance with the SP in 2017 and the Congress won the lowest number of seven seats in the state assembly,” Khatri said.He questioned Azad for pointing out that no election had been held in the CWC for the past 23 years and asked why he didn’t raise the issue for so long. He also targeted Azad for raising issues on a public platform, saying “CWC resolved that no leader will ever speak about internal issues. Azad’s interview (to a news agency) is a violation of the spirit of the resolution.”In response to Khatri’s post, a demand to expel Azad from the Congress is being made on social media.“I demand from Soniaji and Rahulji that in the interest of the Congress, Ghulam Nabi Azad should be expelled from all the party posts,” read a post on social media. Khatri, in his posts, had made point-to-point rebuttal to Azad and said he had realized from the latter’s observations that he was senior to Azad.Also Read: UP Congress leaders slam Azad over letterKhatri said Azad got only 320 votes in the first assembly election from Jammu and Kashmir in 1977 while he (Khatri) lost the poll for the Ayodhya assembly seat by 428 votes only.Lakhimpur Kheri district Congress committee (DCC) has already passed a resolution, demanding action against all the 23 senior leaders, including Jitin Prasada. Khatri’s comments, shared by many other partymen on social media, have become a point of discussion in the party circles.Also Read: Congress likely to set up panel for internal polls After the Lakhimpur Kheri resolution, the DCC president Prahalad Patel claimed that DCC passed it under pressure from an office bearer of UPCC.This is not the first time that controversies are in focus in the state unit of the party. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s (UPCC) revamp after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had led to a section of partymen questioning the rejig and accusing the new team led by UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu of being anti-upper caste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-call-to-oust-ghulam-nabi-azad-from-congress-citing-indiscipline/story-1PdmXAKcseldLGuI4isqWP.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Standard Covid-19 treatment protocol is saving lives’: Health ministry||Adherence to standard treatment protocol by all health facilities across the country as well as daily monitoring of positive cases under home isolation has led to progressively improving recoveries from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, the Union health ministry has said.The total recoveries in India have surpassed 2.7 million, with the current recovery rate reaching 76.47 percent.“A significant feature of India’s management of Covid-19 cases is the growing rate of recovered patients. A higher number of patients are recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases). These recoveries are being achieved because of adherence to the “National Standard Treatment Protocol” by all health facilities across the country as well as by regular daily monitoring of positive cases under home isolation,” said the health ministry in a statement.Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordApart from implementing standard treatment protocol, the ministry also attributes improved numbers to the holistic and strategic policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently in supervised home isolation, facility isolation, and in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.To ensure there is no shortage of skilled doctors to man intensive care units, the health ministry has designated All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, to impart training to critical care experts largely working in peripheral hospitals.Also read: Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic - 10 things you should knowAIIMS, Delhi, through its tele-consultation sessions every Tuesday and Friday is building the clinical treatment capabilities and skills of the doctors in the states. With better ambulance services ensuring reduced response time, focus on the standard of care and use of non-invasive oxygen, steroids and anticoagulants, the recovery rate has not only improved but the case fatality rate (CFR) has also been low when compared to the global average.India’s case fatality rate, which is the percentage of deaths out of total positive cases diagnosed, is on a continuous decline and currently stands at 1.81 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standard-covid-19-treatment-protocol-is-saving-lives-health-ministry/story-V9M4YYtkLXXrUNuqTwmm9J.html
30-08-2020||India||NGT directs pollution control bodies to study impact of brick kilns on MMR air quality||Mumbai: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has questioned the Centre and Maharashtra government on how brick kilns in the densely-populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are being allowed to function because they contribute to the worsening of air quality and also cause a potential health hazard for the public.A brick kiln is a traditional method of baking bricks in an insulated chamber or clamp, which is similar to a large oven, by stacking unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them and then setting the fuel on fire. Traditional brick kilns use clay, while the comparatively modern ones use fly ash and other industrial waste for brick manufacturing.A study by the air pollution research group, Urban Emissions, has identified that brick kilns account for 2.3% of all particulate matter (PM2.5) sources for Mumbai. Also read: Maharashtra’s decision on final-year varsity exams to be announced by MondayThe western NGT bench, comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Siddhanta Das, directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorities to study the impact of permitting brick kilns in MMR and submit a report within three months. The matter was heard on July 1, while the order was published on August 28. The case will be heard next on October 10.NGT was hearing a January 2, 2018, application by the environment group, Vanashakti, that had sought action – both closure and penal -- against brick kiln manufacturers operating without licences and environment clearance in the MMR. The plea had expressed concern about the desertification in the Tansa valley region. It had drawn the tribunal’s attention to villages in the Thane and Palghar regions. The application had focused on Usgaon village, which has a population of 700 people. But the plea had stated that the MPCB authorities were aware of the fact that there were 35 operational brick kilns, which were located 300 metres away from the village, and posed a grave health hazard for the villagers. NGT noted that the emissions from brick kilns could worsen the air quality in Palghar, Thane, Mumbai and Pune districts. It directed both bodies to assess different types of brick kilns, their respective source emissions based on fuel usage, their impact on degradation of top soil, carrying capacity assessment, including the number of brick kilns, evaluate their performance against background pollutant concentration and carrying capacity of the area, and assess the impact of their operation on ambient air quality.“It is necessary to look at the relevant data at different locations (for) 24-hour and monthly average during the relevant months. CPCB may collect such data for corresponding months of March, April, May and June 2019 and submit them before the next date (October 10). The break-up of location of the brick kilns district-wise may also be submitted,” the order stated.The operation of brick kilns in MMR should be regulated through a graded response action plan (GRAP), it added. “In view of the expected higher concentration of PM emissions during winter months, brick kilns of high pollution in the region may be kept closed during this period,” it further stated.The application had alleged that these illegal activities had not only caused water and air pollution but also affected the flora and fauna of the ecologically-fragile areas close to the Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS) and Tansa river valley. The plea had also drawn attention to the negative impact on agriculture in the Thane and Palghar districts. “The state government is assisting these brick kiln units in illegal manufacturing and transportation of bricks through an informal lobby of builders in the Vasai-Virar and Palghar areas. Though such units are banned in an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), such operations are underway at a rampant pace within the TWLS ESZ,” alleged Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Both CPCB and MPCB officials said they were preparing the report and it would be submitted before the next date of hearing but refrained from commenting on the matter because it was subjudice.Vanashakti’s application had requested the tribunal to provide fly ash at site for brick manufacturers to avoid damaging the environment and to direct authorities to frame a comprehensive policy for regularly monitoring and inspecting brick kilns in Maharashtra. NGT directed both the bodies to provide expert opinion on the issue of using fly ash, which is a by-product for making bricks after coal is burnt at thermal power plants. Fly ash utilisation in making bricks within a 200-kilometre radius of thermal power plants helps reduce groundwater deterioration and improves air quality since it is an environmental hazard, if dumped openly or near water bodies, according to the Central government guidelines. “This NGT order is most welcome because it emphasises the importance of ascertaining the carrying capacity of a region for allowing operation of brick kilns. Many places in MMR have a high number of brick kilns that continue to use old and traditional methods. The order directs the need for a cumulative impact assessment from CPCB and MPCB,” said Zaman Ali, the legal counsel for Vanashakti.According to MPCB’s submissions before the NGT, a site inspection of brick kilns was undertaken between August 21 and 24, 2018, in Thane and Palghar districts, along with members of Vanashakti and the state revenue department. The team had identified around 150 brick kilns in Vasai, Wada and Bhiwandi talukas. Each kiln had around 20,000 to 40,000 bricks and most of them were traditional brick kilns. Some of them had coal stored on the premises or were spotted transporting coal through trucks. The report requested NGT to direct CPCB to formulate and notify emission standards for traditional brick kilns. However, NGT struck down the report, as it did not show the total number brick kilns in the two districts and also failed to highlight whether they were complying with air quality norms.Maharashtra has over 15,000 brick kilns, producing around 17 billion bricks annually. They are located in rural areas in and around Thane, Palghar, Pune, Karad, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Nashik, Kolhapur, and Sangli districts. According to the state environment department, these brick kilns are classified as orange category industries. The brick kiln units that produce more than 50,000 bricks a year require consent under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, but there are no guidelines on emission reduction or fuel technology use. MPCB records show the Thane district alone had 996 brick manufacturers since 1991 of which 33 were using fly ash during manufacturing. The district collector had recommended the cancellation of lease for the rest 963 brick kilns. However, MPCB could not verify how many of these brick kilns had been shut down over the past 29 years..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-pollution-control-bodies-to-study-impact-of-brick-kilns-on-mmr-air-quality/story-UA7FzYFzISHgoAVOuQDmVL.html
30-08-2020||India||ISIS suspect Mustakim Khan used to train youth near his village, wanted to carry out suicide attack: Report||Mohd Mustakim Khan, the terror suspect who was arrested by the Delhi Police earlier this month, used to train the youth near his village in Uttar Pradesh, police officials said.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, Khan used to visit a local mosque in Siddharthnagar district where he would lure the youth towards his cause. He wanted to establish the rule of terror outfit Islamic State in India, officials told Hindustan.He was busy in these activities for- the past two years, Hindustan further quoted officials as saying. Khan wanted to carry out a suicide attack, the officials said. When he got no help, Khan started building the suicide vest by himself, they added.Talking about the methods adopted by Khan, top police officials told Hindustan that around a dozen youth were indoctrinated by Khan but all his efforts were brought to nought by the Delhi Police.Khan, a former cosmetics shop owner, who goes by his alias Abu Yusuf Khan according to police, was allegedly riding a motorcycle from Dhaula Kuan towards Karol Bagh on Friday night, when he was arrested from the Ridge area in New Delhi on August 21.Police said two “pressure cooker-based improvised explosive devices (IEDs)” were seized from him. The IEDs were loaded with around 12 kg of explosives. A pistol and a few bullets were also recovered from Khan.Pramod Kushwah, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (special cell), Delhi Police, had said on August 22 that Khan was acting at the behest of his ISIS handlers, who are based abroad, to carry out “lone wolf attacks” at places with a high footfall in the national capital.On Sunday, the DCP said that a host of explosives and devices meant to be used for detonation have been recovered from Khan’s home in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isis-suspect-mustakim-khan-used-to-train-youth-near-his-village-wanted-to-carry-out-suicide-attack-report/story-tniSvFBNggc6cXZScwkAlN.html
30-08-2020||India||Extreme rain, flooding rivers in central India, more rain likely says IMD||New Delhi: Parts of central India recorded exceptional rain in the past two days leading to overflowing reservoirs that are at “extreme flood situation”.Extremely heavy rain was recorded at Chhindwara, Seoni, Hoshangabad and Harda districts of Madhya Pradesh (MP). Chaurai in MP recorded 41 centimetres (cm) of rainfall. The threshold for extremely heavy rain is 20 cm.According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), eight dams have breached 100% capacity. Extreme flood situation is declared, when the highest flood level is breached.CWC on Saturday said the Mahanadi river at Kalma in Janjgir Champa and Surajgarh in Raigarh districts, respectively, in Chhattisgarh are flowing in extreme flood situation with a rising trend. Also read: Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today - IMDThe water level of Hirakud dam on river Mahanadi in Odisha is also rising because of the high precipitation in Chhattisgarh. The Wainganga river in MP’s Seoni district continues to flow in extreme flood situation due to which very heavy inflows are coming into the Sanjay Sarovar dam. River Narmada at Gadarwara in Jabalpur, MP, is also flowing in extreme flood situation. Narmada is in flood in its upper and middle reaches up to the Sardar Sarovar dam because of extremely heavy rainfall in its catchment area, CWC’s Saturday report said.There is a well-marked low-pressure area lying over western MP and adjoining eastern Rajasthan. It is likely to move west and north-westwards during the next two days and weaken gradually, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Sunday bulletin. The monsoon trough -- the line of low pressure --- is active and is lying south to its normal position -- from Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal.Widespread and very heavy rain is very likely over eastern Rajasthan and Gujarat on Sunday and over west Rajasthan on Sunday and Monday.Widespread and heavy rain; thunderstorms are lightning are very likely over north-west India and the western Himalayan region on Tuesday and Wednesday, the bulletin said.The Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) had released a report called “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, earlier this year. The report had stated that from 1950 onwards there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extreme heavy rain events over central India along with a decreasing trend in the moderate rain events.A study published in the Nature journal in 2017 by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) had concluded that there was a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India between 1950 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-rain-flooding-rivers-in-central-india-more-rain-likely-says-imd/story-OJ937h15d9zGNRuZXgfB7J.html
30-08-2020||India||With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world record||India on Sunday recorded 78,761 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data. This pushed the nationwide tally to 3,542,733.The number of active cases in the country stand at 7,65,302, while the death toll has reached 63,498. The health ministry update on Sunday said that 948 people died due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.The ministry, meanwhile, said on Saturday that the country’s recovery rate has reached 76.47 per cent which it said has been made possible by the strategic policy of “testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently” in supervised home-isolation, facility-isolation and hospitals.The case fatality rate (CFR) has also been low when compared to the global average. It is on a continuous decline and currently stands at 1.81 per cent, the health ministry said.A significant feature of India’s management of Covid-19 cases is the growing rate of recovered patients. A higher number of patients are recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, it highlighted.Health minister Harsh Vardhan chaired a meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19 on Saturday where he said that India has one of the lowest cases per million and deaths per million compared to the global average of 3,161 cases and 107.2 deaths, respectively.The meeting was informed that as of Saturday, eight states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana - contribute to around 73% of the active caseload of the country.Seven states - Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal - account for 81% of total Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry data revealed.On the Covid-19 vaccine front, Dr Vinod K Paul, chairperson of the empowered group-1 on medical emergency management plan, said that India was progressing satisfactorily. He further apprised the group of ministers of the process of Covid vaccine development in India and around the world.As of now, 29 vaccine candidates, including two Indian ones, are in clinical trials; out of which six are in Phase 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-79-000-new-cases-of-covid-19-india-sets-grim-world-record/story-JBYibFMqdCPdL2omb0587O.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP to observe ‘Seva Saptah’ to mark PM Modi’s 70th birthday on September 17||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will observe ‘Seva Saptah’ from September 14 to September 20 to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17. Party leaders will take various social initiatives across the country to mark the week. All state unit chiefs have been sent circulars with a list of programmes to be carried out during ‘Seva Saptah’.Also read: PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am todayThe theme of the programmes will be ‘seventy’ as the Prime Minister turns 70 this year.Presentation of artificial limbs and other equipment to 70 differently-abled people in every Mandal of the country, presentation of spectacles to 70 blind people, cleanliness drives in 70 villages of every district and distribution of fruits in 70 hospitals and poor colonies are some of the activities that will be carried out by BJP leaders, the circular said.The party has also asked leaders to make arrangement for donation of plasma to 70 Covid-19 patients on this occasion. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha led by Poonam Mahajan has been asked to organise at least 70 blood donation camps in big states and at least one donation camp in every district of small states, the circular added.Also read: In self-reliance push, PM Modi says govt aims to increase defence manufacturingOn the occasion, 70 virtual conferences on ‘Life and Mission of the Prime Minister’ will be organised through webinars.Seventy slides on aspects of his personal life and work done for the development of the nation will be displayed on social media, as an exhibition to display these cannot be organised amid Covid-19 crisis.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-observe-seva-saptah-to-mark-pm-modi-70th-birthday-on-september-17/story-pfJH1A7ODABd7MjS7AeuvJ.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD says Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rainfall today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today: IMDAfter a hot and humid day, Delhi is likely to get relief from the heat with light to moderate rain and thundershowers expected on Sunday. Also, gusty winds are likely to keep the weather pleasant throughout the day, said officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreJammu-Srinagar national highway to be thrown open for fresh trafficFollowing an improvement in weather conditions and progress in restoration works, the 270 km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway is likely to be thrown open to fresh traffic on Sunday enabling supply of essentials to the valley. Read moreTop union ministry officials review management of Covid-19 in UTsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla and secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday jointly reviewed the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the country’s union territories (UTs). Read moreDonald Trump’s intel chief ends election security briefings on Capitol HillThe nation’s top intelligence official has informed Congress that his office will no longer give in-person election security briefings on Capitol Hill, a move that raised concern among lawmakers Saturday about the public’s right to know about foreign interference in the upcoming presidential election. Read more‘MS Dhoni was not able to finish off games the way he used to earlier’: RP Singh on what led to MSD’s retirementFormer India fast bowler RP Singh, one of MS Dhoni’s closest friends in the cricketing circuit believes the postponement of the T20 World Cup to 2022 has played a role in the former India captain’s decision to retire from international cricket. Read moreKangana Ranaut says top actor tried to silence her because she knows ‘secrets’ about his drug overdoseActor Kangana Ranaut has alleged that a ‘top star’ had a drug overdose and tried to get her jailed because she knows secrets about him. In an interview to Republic TV, Kangana said that she was witness to drug consumption on the sets of the star’s film. Read moreLove the highly relatable ‘mother with sign’ Instagram page? Here’s how it all startedIf you are a regular user of the Internet, then you may have seen a post or two by Poonam Sapra, who is more popularly known by her Instagram alias ‘mother with sign’. Read moreThe lessons learnt while suiting up for Zoom“There are days when I change from one set of PJs to another, and then there are days when I put on jeans because I’ve missed being in them,” laughs celebrity stylist Saanchi Gilani when asked about her preferred attire to wear months after being in lockdown. Read moreWatch| CU Soon: Director Mahesh Narayanan on the new wave of Malayalam cinemaCU Soon director Mahesh Narayanan talks to Hindustan Times about coming up with innovative techniques to shoot his lockdown thriller on phone and computer screens, and why Kerala is the hotspot for the best Indian films being made right now. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-says-delhi-likely-to-receive-light-to-moderate-rainfall-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-76pifSEBN7coJ8r1O0exqI.html
30-08-2020||India||Unlock 4 from September 1: What changes, what remains the same||The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while social and religious congregations of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.However, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12.With these guidelines, the government has allowed more activities outside the containment zones, but has kept some things unchanged.What is new in Unlock 4 guidelines?• The metro trains, which has been shut since March, when the first phase of the lockdown came into effect, have been allowed to resume services from September 7. The resumption, however, will be gradual, the Centre said in its guidelines. In this regard, standard operating procedure will be issued by the Centre later.• Bars, which have been shut since March, will be allowed to open from September 1.• In a significant directive, the home ministry said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.• Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 people, with effect from September 21 but the organisers have to ensure social distancing norms and wearing of masks is followed.• Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers.• Open-air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21.What remains unchanged?• Apart from some relaxations for students of Class 9 to 12, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till September 30.• Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain shut.• International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by the home ministry, will not be allowed.• There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission, approval, e-permit will be required for such movements.• Vulnerable persons - those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years - have been advised to stay at home.• The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged, according to the guidelines.The coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25 and it was extended in phases till May 31.The Unlock process had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities.Unlock 4 will come into effect from September 1 and will continue till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-from-september-1-what-changes-what-remains-the-same/story-d5x9u21h05Cfnc44c49WWN.html
30-08-2020||India||Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic: 10 things you should know||New Delhi: After five months, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will finally resume its service in the national capital from September 7. As per the Union ministry of home affairs in its guidelines for Unlock 4.0 issued on Saturday, the service will resume in a “graded manner” and standard operating procedures will be issued by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry.Metro services in Delhi were shut on March 22.While the decision is a big relief for commuters in the city, travelling in Metro trains is no longer going to be the same. The DMRC has prepared SOPs for Metro operations, which will be modified as per the HUA ministry’s guidelines.Here are 10 things you should know:1. No tokens, only smart cards: The DMRC plans to do away with the token system to bring down the infection risk. To ensure contactless and cashless travel in Metro, the DMRC recently launched a smart card with automatic top-up facility. Commuters can avail the facility by downloading Autope, a mobile application specially developed for this purpose. The card will be automatically recharged with Rs 200 at the automatic fare collection (AFC) gates whenever the value goes below Rs 100. Commuters can upgrade their old mobility cards to the new one.2. Social distancing in trains: Commuters can sit on alternate seats. DMRC has put posters to mark seats where commuters can’t sit. This has been done to ensure social distancing in trains. Standing inside trains is likely to be allowed, but commuters will have to maintain a gap of six-foot between each other.Also read: After spike in cases, Delhi amps up Covid-19 norms enforcement3. Social distancing at stations: DMRC has put markers on the floors of the stations and platforms indicating space where commuters can stand while waiting for the train or at the customer service counter. This has been done to ensure social distancing norms are followed.4. Frisking and thermal checking: The moment a person will arrive at a metro station a CISF personnel will check their temperature using thermal scanners. Only those with normal temperature and face mask will be allowed entry. The passengers will be frisked just the way it used to happen earlier.5. Precautionary measures: Wearing masks will be mandatory inside the stations and during the journey. Hand sanitisers will be placed on stations. Trains will be sanitised after regular intervals. Also read: India’s Saturday Covid-19 count more than worst-hit US’ July 25 spike6. Using lifts and escalators: Only three people will be allowed at one time in a lift and commuters will have to maintain a one step gap on escalators.7. Train stoppage time: The stoppage time of trains on each station will increase to ensure social distancing between commuters while boarding/de-boarding trains. The current stoppage time is 10-20 seconds.8. Limited entry gates to open: In order to ensure there is no crowding at the stations, DMRC has decided to limit the entry/exit points at each station. There are some stations such as Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Central Secretariat, etc .,which have more than two entry and exit points. DMRC is planning to open “a specified number of gates” to manage the crowd at stations. 9.Temperature control: It is no longer going to be cold inside the trains. The DMRC will maintain a temperature of 26 degree Celsius in the trains.10. Fine for flouting norms: Travelling without a face mask, sitting on seats that are meant to be left vacant in order to maintain social distancing, spitting, and littering in trains or platforms, may attract hefty fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-travel-during-covid-19-pandemic-10-things-you-should-know/story-C3rL2OcH2XLwRfUzNYHlzI.html
30-08-2020||India||Jammu-Srinagar national highway to be thrown open for fresh traffic||Following an improvement in weather conditions and progress in restoration works, the 270 km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway is likely to be thrown open to fresh traffic on Sunday, enabling supply of essentials to the valley. In the morning, stranded vehicles from the Srinagar side were being allowed to pass through the highway, which became incommutable on Wednesday due to damage caused by incidents of landslide and incessant rains. SSP National Highway, JS Johar, said stranded traffic from Srinagar was being allowed to come down to Jammu. Thereafter, up traffic carrying essentials to Kashmir shall be allowed. On Saturday, the administration was only allowing vehicles stranded for 4 days to pass through towards Srinagar after a partial restoration of the highway. Also Read: Police personnel killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Srinagar“Priority will be accorded to trucks carrying essential supplies to Valley,” Johar said indicating that the movement of fresh traffic towards Srinagar will be allowed soon on the highway. A portion of road had been washed away in a mudslide at Dalwas on Wednesday in Ramban district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-to-be-thrown-open-for-fresh-traffic/story-Zjrpn2eJl3ADHSkEf3liGO.html
30-08-2020||India||Top union ministry officials review management of Covid-19 in UTs||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday jointly reviewed the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the country’s union territories (UTs). The review by the top union ministry officials to check the measures adopted was done for UTs namely Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu through video conferencing on Saturday. During the virtual meeting, senior officials from these union territories briefed the two secretaries about several steps taken by them to combat the spread of Covid-19 such as isolation of infected patients, availability of doctors, para-medical staff and testing management of positive cases. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe secretaries advised the officials to ramp up testing facilities, ensure proper surveillance for early detection of cases along with other measures such as social distancing, regular sanitization, wearing of masks etc. Meanwhile, the Centre issued guidelines for Unlock 4 which will come into effect from September 1 with an aim to open more economic activities outside the containment zones. A home ministry release stated that the fresh guidelines are based on feedback received from states and UTs along with consultations held with several central ministries and departments. As per the guidelines, metro rail services are allowed to resume in a graded manner from September 7 and all public gatherings- political, social, religious - will be allowed with crowds of not more than 100 people. Also read| Unlock 4 from September 1: What changes, what remains the sameHowever, educational institutions and coaching centres along with movie halls, swimming pools and similar places will continue to remain closed till September 30. Earlier, Union home secretary Bhalla wrote to chief secretaries of states and UTs asking them to not impose any local lockdown outside containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre.According to the union health ministry’s dashboard, India’s Covid-19 tally on Friday went over 3.4 million after 76,472 cases and 1,021 deaths were registered in the last 24 hours. The total cases include 752,424 active cases, nearly 2.7 million recoveries and 62,550 deaths. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-union-ministry-officials-review-management-of-covid-19-in-uts/story-DmNq3idDif0085fP38K5FM.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s count of nearly 79,000 Covid-19 cases on Saturday more than worst-hit US’ July 25 spike||India on Saturday recorded its highest-ever single-day spike of the number of coronavirus disease cases, even higher than the worst-affected United States.Data on new Covid-19 cases from various states and union territories shows that the country recorded 78,751 new cases of the coronavirus disease pushing tally to 34,63,972, according to news agency PTI. The death toll stands at 62,550, PTI reported quoting the data of the Union health ministry.The number of cases is higher that the worst day of United States which recorded 78,427 new cases of the disease on July 25, the country was recording a surge in the daily cases. The number of cases has fallen since in the US.The ministry said that 26,48,998 people have so far recovered from the infection.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that eight states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana - contribute to around 73 per cent of the active caseload of the country.Seven states - Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal - account for 81 per cent of total Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry data revealed.He also said that India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 cases and 107.2 deaths, respectively.At a meeting conducted to review the current status of the coronavirus outbreak in India, the health minister said: “...despite being resource constrained and densely populated, timely lockdown and rapid augmentation of infrastructure by India have enabled to keep the case per million and deaths per million considerably lower compared to other countries.”Among the key challenges that the government was currently facing in stopping disease transmission was to ensure people strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-count-of-nearly-79-000-covid-19-cases-on-saturday-more-than-worst-hit-us-july-25-spike/story-LuGMWnrBYp7ju8o2vgmaWJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Book on Lalit Bhasin’s life released||A pictorial biography on senior lawyer and chairperson of the Society of Indian Law Firms (SILF), Lalit Bhasin, was released on Saturday by eminent jurist Fali S Nariman.The coffee table book titled ‘Lalit Bhasin – A Lifetime Dedicated to Law’ was released at a function organised at Nariman’s residence in south Delhi. Bhasin, who has been at the forefront of promoting interests of law firms in India through SILF, which was founded in 2000, said that the book is dedicated to the legal profession and lawyers of the country.Bhasin, 81, was born in Rawalpindi, which is now in Pakistan. His father TR Bhasin was a well-known senior lawyer whose last assignment was as counsel for the Khosla Commission, constituted in 1970 to probe into the disappearance of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. Bhasin pursued law from Faculty of Law, Delhi University and started his law practice in 1962. The book, published by Matrix Publishing Group, captures Bhasin’s life from his pre-Partition days as a child in Rawalpindi to his shift to Delhi and rise in Delhi legal circles.“Life was not a bed of roses after Partition when we were uprooted from Rawalpindi. It was a period of struggle. What I have tried to convey in this book about me is that one can start from scratch and yet achieve one’s goals if one has the mission in mind and work towards it,” Bhasin told HT.Bhasin said that Sanjay Sethi, who is the CEO of the Matrix Group, contacted him a couple of years ago, saying he wanted to bring out a coffee table book about Bhasin’s life as a lawyer. “He really prevailed upon me to bring out this book. Thereafter, I devoted a lot of time with him since we had to capture about 81 years of my life out of which 58 years were (in) the (legal) profession,” Bhasin said. “This is an excellent book and makes for a very interesting read,” Fali Nariman said at the launch.Bhasin has previously served as chairperson of the Bar Council of Delhi and is also the current president of the Bar Association of India, which is a federation of various lawyers’ bodies.“My mission has been to give back to the society and to help legal professionals, particularly the junior members of the bar who might not have libraries or resources. I also wanted to make Indian legal profession known throughout the world. We have been able to do that through the Bar Association of India and through Society of Indian Law Firms which have placed India on the world map of the legal profession. Now, Indian lawyers are considered as second to none. I am very happy to see India’s legal profession emerge as a force to reckon with,” Bhasin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-on-lalit-bhasin-s-life-released/story-w6ZtTfp0eJjM6FcmZFWmdP.html
30-08-2020||India||Police personnel killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Srinagar||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of police lost his life and three terrorists were killed by security forces in an encounter that broke out at Pantha Chowk in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Saturday night. The encounter ensued after terrorists fired upon a checkpoint manned by Police and CRPF at Pantha Chowk, a police official said.The joint parties of the forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation there. During the search, terrorists fired upon search parties again, who retaliated, leading to an encounter, said the official.The operation is underway and more details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-1-security-personnel-killed-in-encounter-in-srinagar/story-tdIzl4KdEu1PKMA34As30J.html
30-08-2020||India||Assam minister, three more BJP MLAs test positive for Covid-19||Assam hill areas development minister Sum Ronghang became the first minister of the BJP-led state government to contract Covid-19, even as three more saffron party MLAs tested positive, officials said on Saturday.A total of 20 legislators have so far tested positive for coronavirus in the state, they said.Ronghang, also the mines and minerals minister, has received flak for getting admitted to a private hospital here without informing anyone in his office, after testing positive on August 25.“His action has evoked sharp reactions as these things should not be hidden. Unfortunately, his driver and a PSO have also tested positive,” an official said.Apart from Ronghang, Ganesh Kumar Limbo (Barchalla), Sibu Misra (Lumding) and Bir Bhadra Hagjer (Haflong) also tested positive and are being treated at different hospitals, officials said.While Limbo and Misra’s test results came out on Friday, Hagjer was diagnosed with Covid-19 through a rapid antigen test (RAT) inside the assembly premises.The assembly is conducting RAT for all its employees, officials, MLAs and media persons ahead of the four-day Autumn Session from Monday.During the two-day testing in the assembly, the reports of 14 persons, including a journalist and an MLA, have come out positive, another official said.Out of the 20 legislators who have contracted the virus, 12 are from the BJP and four from its allies, including two from the AGP.Former chief minister Tarun Gogoi had tested positive on August 25 and was admitted to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital.BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kamakhya Prasad Tasa, too, tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-minister-three-more-bjp-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-38Ta1CF3AShUFGmpj296WM.html
30-08-2020||India||PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 68th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday.“Tune in at 11 AM on 30th August,” the PM tweeted on Saturday.Earlier this month, he had sought suggestions from people on Twitter on topics to discuss in this edition of the programme. “What do you think should be discussed during this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 30th?” he asked on Twitter.He had tweeted to ask people to send their inputs by writing to him using NaMo or MyGov App or by recording their messages by calling on 1800-11-7800. Phone lines have been opened from August 10.Every month in his address to the nation, the PM discusses a range of issues the country faces, talks about what the upcoming month is going to bring for the county and comment on the previous month’s achievements and developments. In the 67th edition of Mann Ki Baat on July 26, also Kargil Vijay Diwas, PM Modi paid tributes to the soldiers who fought valiantly against Pakistan’s forces during the Kargil War. He also reiterated that people need to follow all precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease. Sunday’s programme will be streamed live on the following websites, the official Twitter account of the Bharatiya Janata Party tweeted:• http://facebook.com/BJP4India• http://pscp.tv/BJP4India• http://youtube.com/BJP4India• http://bjplive.org||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-today/story-5ThiU3O7kyQIZLLzKExocL.html
30-08-2020||India||A balance between societal dynamics, policy-making must||It may be hard for diplomats to digest, but the Indian Street has often displayed better instincts than Lutyens’ Delhi when it comes to assessing opportunities and risks abroad. Their geopolitical understanding may not be formal. But they intuitively know with whom to trade and where to travel. Their choices in emigration and education were made well ahead of policy shifts by Indian diplomacy. A game-changing event like 9/11 was seen for what it was. The sharp popular imagery of nations has also captured the complexity of diplomacy. Say what you will, but the Street has a well-developed instinct, whether it is about Russia or America, China or Pakistan.Now, this is not to suggest that the measured deliberations of statecraft are less important than the passions of society. But it is also a fact that we have entered a different era where the availability of information, tools of technology and cultural identities drive contemporary nationalism. The democratization of societies that bring to the fore more grounded politics also contributes to this process. Therefore, convolutions of policy and the accumulated weight of experiences sometimes struggle to meet the demands of society, particularly on issues where public opinion is exercised. The challenge today is to strike the right balance between societal dynamics and the mechanics of policy making. Mandarins can no longer be impervious to the masses.An inability to reconcile the two can only come at the cost of political credibility, a phenomenon that we have seen in so many other countries. India is obviously not immune to this paradigm shift and the changed discourse reflects a newer era with its own driving forces. How to capture Indian nationalism in policy terms is a complex task that must simultaneously address issues of history, identity, interests and politics.Among the more arrogant assertions of an era of hubris was that of the ‘end of history’. The complacency of this pronouncement is only matched by its limitation as a Eurocentric analysis that disregarded what was happening in Asia at the same time. But nevertheless, we were supposedly staring at a universal and invincible globalized order led by the US. However, what appeared then as permanent was a transient moment of American unipolarity, as it was with other powers in history before. Larger competitiveness and political contestation proceeded to return the world to a more natural diversity. The real truth about this revival of nationalism is that it has actually been a very durable basis for organizing societies. At various times, it has defeated conflicting ideologies that appealed to both larger and narrower loyalties. Multinational empires struggled with nationalist sentiment and by and large, lost out. But national entities that encountered sub-national dissensions have usually won. Western imperialism was eventually undone by nationalist sentiments awakening in their former colonies.Communism was the next of the transnational ideologies on a global scale. This too eventually foundered when socialism acquired national characteristics.Faith-based movements have also attempted to cut across national divides. Being outcomes of high emotion and exceptional circumstances, nationalism eventually returns them to business as usual. The globalization of our era represents yet another effort at transcending an entrenched organizational principle of modern politics. But because it rests on a deeper technology basis and stronger economic interests, its tension with nationalism will continue for the foreseeable future.Contestation between two such powerful rationalizations is not unnatural. So, rather than visualize either of them as an event, we should see them as currents of history. Coming in different sizes and shapes, nationalism can be assertive, reactive or just expressive. The confident category reflects the real and psychological outcome of shifts in the world power hierarchy. It is represented by the rise of nations like China and India, of a continent like Asia and the consequent rebalancing of the global order. A second driver of greater nationalism is its very opposite: the reaction in more privileged societies to this rebalancing. The offshoring of manufacturing and creation of extensive global supply chains has inevitably had an impact on the West. A third category is the accumulated impact of how sharper cultural identities across the world have played on each other. The epicenter for that has been West Asia; and other regions have reacted to it over time. We should expect uneasy coexistence and shifting equations between globalist and nationalist forces as neither can prevail. And the world it will produce will be very contentious.India is no exception to the larger trends that have strengthened nationalism. In emotional terms, nationalism obviously contributes to a stronger sense of unity. In political terms, it signifies a greater determination to combat both sub-national and supra-national challenges to it. In policy terms, it focuses on how to maximize national capabilities and influence.In India’s current situation, that has a particular relevance to security. Overall, a nationalistic foreign policy outlook is likely to approach the world with more confidence and greater realism. What may be different about India is that unlike in many other powers, that sense of nationalism does not translate into an ‘us versus the world’ mentality. For reasons that derive from our innate pluralism, there is a tradition of reconciling the nationalism with global engagement. Not driven by victimhood, it has the potential to serve as a bridge between the established and emerging orders.At a time when most are pursuing interests narrowly, it is to India’s benefit that it takes a more expansive view of the world. By stepping forward in difficult situations, it can not only underline its greater capabilities and confidence but also build its unique brand as a generous power. This imagery fits in well with the embrace of the world that is inherent in Indian thinking and reinforces its positioning as a power that can bridge divides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-balance-between-societal-dynamics-policy-making-must/story-2BLrix8VPqwQkkuZ0Hv9cM.html
30-08-2020||India||GST: States will get waiver if they opt to borrow Rs 97,000 crore||States will not have to pay either the principal or interest if they opt to borrow only Rs 97,000 crore to meet the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation arising from GST implementation issues, but they will have to bear significant interest costs if they choose to borrow the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which includes revenue losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union finance ministry said in a statement released Saturday. In the case of option 1, the interest and the principal will both come from the compensation cess levied on luxury products and sin goods, and in option 2, only the principal will come from this, finance ministry officials said on condition of anonymity. They added that the cess on such products will continue beyond the current deadline of June 30, 2022. The compensation cess was originally levied only for a five-year period to bridge shortfalls in the guaranteed payments to states with 14% growth in revenue. As the proposed debt options will be serviced from the compensation cess fund, the levy will continue for longer, the officials said.The government has sought to distinguish between the shortfall arising from GST implementation — by the letter of the law, it is liable to pay only this to the states — and that from an “Act of God”, in this case, Covid-19. It is a nuance that isn’t lost on the states, with those ruled by non-BJP parties outraged by the idea. At the 41st GST Council meet held on Thursday, the Centre offered the two options to the states and promised to share details by Saturday.The Union finance ministry said in its Saturday statement: “The two borrowing options to meet the GST Compensation requirement for 2020-21 consequent to the discussions in the 41st meeting of the GST Council held on 27th August, 2020 has been communicated to States.” States have been given seven working days to communicate their preference, it added.“A meeting of State Finance Secretaries with the Union Finance Secretary and Secretary (Expenditure) is scheduled to be held on 1st September, 2020 for clarifying issues, if any,” it said.Opinion | Why the GST framework is in troubleExplaining details of the two options proposed to the states, the Centre’s communiqué to the states said, in case they opt for the second option to borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore, they will have to pay interest from their own resources. One of the officials mentioned above said the GST Act provides for compensation to the states for the loss of revenue arising “on account of implementation” of GST. “In essence, the compensation payable is the projected revenue (at a compound growth rate of 14% from the base figure of 2015-16) minus the actual revenue in each period,” he said, citing from the Act.“Therefore, the Rs 97,000 crore is fully covered by GST compensation cess as per the law, and interest on borrowings over and above that amount will be borne by the states. In any case, the principal will be eventually paid from the cess fund,” he added.The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2017 and also guarantees that their revenue shortfall, if any, would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.An indirect tax expert said on condition of anonymity that the Centre’s letter issued on Saturday could split the council. “This could polarise the GST Council. It appears that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states will go for the first option and the Opposition-ruled states may go for the second option as they would like to borrow more to tide over the current crisis,” he said.Also read | After 5-hr meet on GST compensation, states get 7 days to choose from 2 optionsWest Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra will hold a press conference at 2pm on Sunday to explain why the centre’s proposal on GST is totally unacceptable, said a Trinamool Congress leader who didn’t wish to be named.MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India, said: “It will not be an easy choice for the cash-strapped states. The communiqué, however, makes it clear that neither Centre nor states are willing to include more items under the ambit of cess or raise its rates at least for a year because of the prevailing economic condition. But, it fails to address the larger issue of raising GST collection at a time when overall tax revenue, for both Centre and the states, is falling.”“Unfortunately, businesses and consumers have no respite. Cess on luxury items and sin goods will continue, but certain items such as passenger vehicles, two-wheelers are neither luxury items nor sin goods. It will adversely impact the business sentiment, particularly in the automobile sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-states-will-get-waiver-if-they-opt-to-borrow-97-000-cr/story-XUSIz00cLIxJ93oYxP0bsO.html
30-08-2020||India||EAM S Jaishankar says strain on LAC peace to impact ties||External affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the importance of China adhering to agreements struck over the years with India on how the two countries will approach border issues and said that there will be issues if “peace and tranquillity is put under stress”. His comments are significant, coming as they do amidst differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process at the Line of Actual Control between the two nations.Jaishankar said that the relationship between the two countries moved forward on various other dimensions, including the economic one, because of these agreements and the fact that both countries followed them. “Clearly, if we want peace and tranquillity on the border, we need to adhere to those (previous) agreements… There will naturally be issues if the peace and tranquillity is put under stress,” Jaishankar told Hindustan Times in an interview.Also Read:India withdraws from multi-nation war games involving ChinaIndia has stressed on the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the border standoff along the LAC amid differences despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks.The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key areas.Also Read: New satellite imagery suggests China developing missile bases to cover Doklam, Naku LaSpeaking about which American President will be better from India’s perspective, the minister said: “If you look at the last four American presidents, two Republicans and two Democrats — each very different from the other. Yet, each raised the level of relationship with India further… Different sets of politicians who disagree on many things agree on India. And I think that is a very good place to be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-says-strain-on-lac-peace-to-impact-ties/story-dlglIlpxvl3z8rerYkuI4H.html
30-08-2020||India||RIL to acquire Future’s key businesses for Rs 24,713 crore||Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (RRVL), a subsidiary of the Mukesh Ambani-promoted Reliance Industries Limited, on Saturday announced it is the acquiring the Kishore Biyani-founded Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics, and warehousing businesses for Rs 24,713 crore.Mint reported on June 11 that Reliance Retail was in advanced discussions to acquire these businesses from the debt-laden Future Group.The all-cash deal -- it got a go-ahead on Saturday following a board meeting of Future Enterprises Limited (FEL) -- has been carried out on a “slump sale” basis, according to a media statement by RIL. It is subject to adjustments as set out in the composite scheme of arrangement, the release added. A “slump sale” is the transfer of undertakings through the sale for a lump sum amount without values being assigned to individual assets and liabilities.As a part of the acquisition, Future Group will merge companies involved in some of the businesses listed above into FEL. The retail and wholesale undertaking of Future Group will be transferred to Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited (RRFLL), a wholly owned subsidiary of RRVL. The logistics and warehousing undertaking will be transferred to RRVL directly. The deal will boost Reliance’s retail presence and further its e-commerce ambitions to leverage the Jio mobile phone service’s subscriber base to compete with existing market leaders Amazon and Flipkart. Reliance Retail already runs several retail formats in grocery, electronics and apparel. Some of the big Future Group retail brands that it will now control include Big Bazaar, Fashion at Big Bazaar, Easy Day, Foodhall, and Brand Factory.“As a result of this reorganisation and transaction, Future Group will achieve a holistic solution to the challenges that have been caused by Covid and the macro economic environment. This transaction takes into account the interest of all its stakeholders including lenders, shareholders, creditors, suppliers and employees giving continuity to all its businesses”, said Kishore Biyani, the group CEO of Future Group. Isha Ambani, director, RRVL, said in a statement issued by the company: “With this transaction, we are pleased to provide a home to the renowned formats and brands of Future Group as well as preserve its business ecosystem, which have played an important role in the evolution of modern retail in India. We hope to continue the growth momentum of the retail industry with our unique model of active collaboration with small merchants and kiranas as well as large consumer brands. We are committed to continue providing value to our consumers across the country.” RRFLL has also proposed to invest ~1,200 crore in the preferential issue of equity shares of FEL to acquire 6.09% of post-merger equity holding; and ~400 crore in a preferential issue of equity warrants which, upon conversion and payment of balance 75% of the issue price, will result in RRFLL acquiring a further 7.05% of FEL. FEL will, however, retain the manufacturing and distribution of FMCG goods, integrated fashion sourcing and manufacturing business, its insurance joint ventures with Generali, and joint ventures with NTC Mills. This is not the first time that Biyani has been forced to sell off his companies to escape the debt burden. As on September 30, 2019, debt at Future Group’s listed companies increased to Rs 12,778 crore from Rs 10,951 crore as on March 31, 2019. In the 2012 fiscal, Biyani was grappling with an equally heavy debt of Rs 12,000 crore, which forced him to sell Pantaloons Retail to the Aditya Birla Group for Rs 1,600 crore. It also sold Future Capital to Warburg Pincus for Rs 4,250 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ril-to-acquire-future-s-key-businesses-for-rs-24-713-crore/story-qRYiZT8o3HbKxb3gmRGtEI.html
30-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Metro to open on Sept 7, schools to remain closed||The Centre on Saturday issued guidelines for the fourth phase of an exercise to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that metro rail services can resume in a graded manner from September 7, and political, social, religious and sporting activities with crowds limited to 100 people will be allowed along with limited academic activities.While issuing “Unlock 4” guidelines, which will come into effect from Tuesday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the latest plan was aimed at reopening more economic activities outside containment zones and that it was issued after receiving feedback from states and Union Territories, and extensive consultations with the central ministries and departments.The latest guidelines said that from September 1, states and UTs won’t be able to impose any local lockdowns at the state/district/sub-division/city level or on weekends outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre.Also Watch | Unlock 4: States’ lockdown power curbed; 1st step to school reopeningRead Unlock 4.0 Guidelines here“States/UTs will have to take permission from the Centre now before imposing any lockdowns of their own as these localised restrictions were disrupting economic activities without any logic,” a home ministry official said on condition of anonymity.The guidelines said that metro rail services will be allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner and the standard operating procedure (SOP) for this will be issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.Shortly after the announcement, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I am glad that metro has been permitted to start its operations from 7 Sep in a phased manner”. The Delhi CM has previously demanded the reopening of metro services in the national capital. The transport service, which ferries hundreds of thousands of passengers every day, has been shut since March 22.Also Read: Coronavirus infection unlikely to strike twiceReferring to the resumption of the metro services, ministry of housing and urban affairs spokesperson Rajiv Jain said: “Metro Rail operations have been allowed w.e.f. 7th September, 2020. The SOPs already circulated will be discussed on 1st Sep 2020 through video conferencing by MOHUA with all metro companies and finalised.” “All MDs have been asked to look into SOP prepared by MOHUA earlier in view of the current realities. All suggestions will be considered in the VC meeting and accordingly SOP will be finalised,” he added.The new norms on resumption of metro rail are likely to include contact-less ticketing through metro cards, increase in the average stoppage time at each station, markings for queues across all stations to control crowds and maintaining social distancing and an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air, Hindustan Times reported on August 24.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security to Metros, have chalked out protocols to ensure smooth and contactless travel in the time of the pandemic. CISF has already conducted drills on how passengers will queue up at entry points and platforms, an official in the paramilitary force previously told HT.The fresh development came at a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Delhi. On Saturday, Delhi reported 1,954 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours.The government imposed strict curbs on activities and travel across the country on March 25. After 68 days of a hard lockdown, the government began implementing a graded plan to reopen businesses and bring economic activities, hit hard by the pandemic and the restrictions that followed, back on track in June. It was then that the “Unlock 1” phase guidelines came into place. Shops, malls, hotels and restaurants, offices and religious places have been allowed to open in a phased manner over the past few months. Restrictions on interstate and intrastate travel too have been lifted. Train services and flight operations, including limited flights to and from abroad, have resumed.In the latest reopening exercise, the government has also allowed gatherings with a ceiling of 100 people for social, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and academic functions from September 21, but with strict conditions that everyone present will have to mandatorily wear face masks, follow social distancing norms and go through thermal scanning.For marriages and funeral ceremonies, the current cap of 50 and 20 people respectively will continue till September 20 but after that, the limit will be raised to 100 people for both, the guidelines said. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will continue to remain closed till September 30. However, open air theatres will be permitted to open from September 21. The “Unlock 4” guidelines did not mention that bars will remain prohibited. HT previously reported that bars could be allowed to operate but restricted to running takeaway services and over-the-counter sale of alcohol.Schools, colleges and educational institutions will also remain closed with some relaxations for the students of classes 9-12 and higher education institutions. The guidelines said that from September 21, states and UTs may permit up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work. Students of classes 9-12 may be permitted to visit their schools on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers but only outside containment zones. For doing so, students will have to give written consent of their parents/guardians. The SOPs for the same will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. The MHA recommended that online learning should be encouraged as far as possible.In higher education institutions, only research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory and experimental works will be allowed to visit the institute depending on the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-to-open-on-sept-7-schools-to-remain-closed/story-z0hb3U5gCKfxJyQFPstD9O.html
30-08-2020||India||Cong again writes to FB on JPC probe||New Delhi: The Congress on Saturday reiterated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the alleged links of Facebook employees and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and once again wrote to the global social media giant’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg, asking him to specify the steps being taken to investigate the charges against its India unit.The opposition party also threatened to pursue legislative and judicial actions to ensure that a foreign company does not create social disharmony in India.This is for the second time in a month that Congress general secretary incharge of organisation KC Venugopal has written to Zuckerberg on the allegations of Facebook being biased towards the ruling party.Venugopal’s letter to Zuckerberg came in the wake of an article in Time magazine, which the Congress said “revealed more information and evidence of biases and a quid pro quo relationship” of Facebook India with the BJP. A report in The Wall Street Journal earlier this month had mentioned similar allegations, which were strongly rejected by both Facebook and the BJP.Tagging the Time magazine report, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that it exposes the “WhatsApp-BJP nexus”. WhatsApp is also owned by Facebook.“Used by 40 Cr Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi Government’s approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp,” he alleged. In his letter, Venugopal, referred to his earlier letter dated August 17 in which the party had requested the US-based company to investigate the allegations made in The Wall Street Journal article that the social media platform refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians.“We draw your attention to the article in Time magazine dated August 27 that reveals more information and evidence of biases and a quid-pro-quo relationship of Facebook India with the ruling BJP,” he wrote in the fresh letter. “We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for their pursuit of private profits,” Venugopal warned.At the party’s press conference, spokesperson Pawan Khera and data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarty called for an “exhaustive and unbiased investigation by a JPC between the unending links” of Facebook employees and the ruling establishment.“The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their own regulations,” they said. “In the last 10 days, BJP and Facebook’s close relationship have been disclosed. In a new revelation, an international magazine has disclosed a relationship between WhatsApp and the BJP,” Khera told reporters.“Beyond just Ankhi Das, what has now been revealed exposes that another senior executive, Shivnath Thukral of WhatsApp is an unabashed devotee of the ruling establishment and was partisan in his professional conduct,” he alleged. “The expose’ reveals Thukral was hired by Facebook in 2017 only because he was ‘extremely close’ to the ruling establishment. It elaborates that Mr Thukral’s relationship with the ruling party goes as far back as 2013 when he operated websites and Facebook pages for the 2014 election campaign in conjunction with other BJP affiliates who continue to hold senior positions in the current government,” Khera further alleged. “Can 40 crore (400 million) Indians trust WhatsApp, which is indirectly controlled by one political party? What is the assurance that bank details, transaction details and private data of Indian users using WhatsApp is not being shared with the BJP and misused?” asked Khera. “WhatsApp cannot be granted approvals for its payment operations until the inquiry is complete and the recommended actions are taken by the company,” the Congress leaders said. They also demanded that the report of the investigation ordered by Facebook into the conduct of its Indian unit be made public. “The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their regulations,” Khera said. Earlier on August 16, Gandhi had alleged that the BJP and the RSS control Facebook and WhatsApp in the country. He also alleged that they spread fake news and hatred through these social media platforms to influence the electorate. “BJP & RSS control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-again-writes-to-fb-on-jpc-probe/story-cAHWqz0kNVJOB46nsIMGRM.html
30-08-2020||India||Criticism easy, let’s underline positives: Justice Chandrachud||Criticising the courts and judges is easy, but positive aspects of judicial system should also be highlighted, justice DY Chandrachud said on Saturday.The Supreme Court judge, who is the chairperson of the apex court e-committee, was speaking at the launch of the panel’s dedicated website. “Very often we hear criticism. For a change let us talk about the positives of the judicial system. It is very easy to criticize because criticism has that element of curiosity. But let us also talk about the positives of the judicial system,” he said. Justice Chandrachud further revealed some figures relating to the functioning of the Indian judiciary during the Covid-19 pandemic. Between March 24 and August 28, a total of 28.6 lakh cases were registered in district courts across the country and 12.6 lakh cases were disposed of by the district courts. The Supreme Court heard 15,000 cases and interacted with over 50,000 lawyers during that period, he said.“Let us remind ourselves that when international courts have been talking in single digit figures, we are talking in hundreds and thousands. This, I believe, is a unique achievement of our judicial system,” justice Chandrachud said while thanking the chief justices of high courts for keeping the flag flying by working through the pandemic.About the e-committee’s official website, justice Chandrachud said it will be a storehouse for data and information, and will give details about the initiatives of the committee. The website, he added, is responsive and provides good navigational experience. It will also be accessible to those who have limitations of physical nature, he pointed out.He ended his speech by giving details about the upcoming initiative of the e-committee regarding development of an inter-operable criminal justice system.“As part of this project, we are integrating every element of the criminal justice administration – the prisons, police, courts and forensic laboratories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criticism-easy-let-s-underline-positives-justice-chandrachud/story-3Yck7ZjInQKGKm4wwzBAhO.html
30-08-2020||India||ED freezes accounts of four Chinese firms||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Saturday that it has frozen four bank accounts containing Rs 46.96 crore in a probe related to Chinese apps allegedly running online betting operations in India in a racket possibly worth over Rs 1000 crore. Raids were conducted on Friday at 15 locations spread across Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai and Pune over suspected money-laundering. The ED launched a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of a Hyderabad police FIR against two companies Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd and Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd among others in which the state police arrested a Chinese national, Yan Hao, and two Indians, Dhiraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor, earlier this month. Yan Hao, manager of a company named Beijing Tomorrow Power Company, was allegedly organising an online betting scam. ED said on Saturday that Chinese nationals, with the help of some Indian chartered accountants, floated multiple Indian companies. “Initially dummy Indian directors were used to incorporate the companies and, after some time, Chinese nationals travelled to India and took directorship in these companies. Some locals were hired and used to open bank accounts with HSBC Bank and open trade accounts with online wallets namely Paytm, Cashfree, Razorpay, etc,” ED said. It added that the accused companies launch pan-Indian operations . Detailing the modus operandi, ED said once bank accounts were opened, the internet access credentials were couriered by the Indian employees to China and major payment instructions came from the owners in China. “Accused companies floated large number of similar looking websites which were hosted through Cloudfare, US. These websites attracted gullible persons to become members and to place bets... Further, a network of agents was hired to attract new customers/members. These agents created closed Telegram and WhatsApp based groups and attracted lakhs... Referral codes were used to privately invite new members. This also helped the sponsoring member to earn commission,” ED said. “Paytm and Cashfree were used to collect money and pay commission to all these agent members. Hundreds of websites were created to promote online betting under the garb of e-commerce. All websites were not activated daily. Some were activated for placing bets and the information on daily active websites was shared to members using Telegram groups,” it added. It said that two bank accounts of Dokypay saw a collection of Rs 1,268 crore, of which Rs 300 crore came via Paytm and around Rs 600 crore was transferred out via Paytm gateway. “Account analysis of M/s Linkyun Technolgy revealed a similar pattern.”Large unexplained financial transactions were also seen with other Indian companies running Chinese dating apps for Indians. “There is a suspicion that apart from indulging in banned activities like online betting, this network of companies with their reliance on online wallets and their lax regulatory systems could have been used for hawala transactions as well. ED is in the process of obtaining information from online wallet companies, HSBC Bank, registrar of companies, etc,” ED said. HT couldn’t immediately contact the Chinese firms for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-freezes-accounts-of-four-chinese-firms/story-gK7O0YktgQs4UUJJhSqeQN.html
30-08-2020||India||Images show China facilities for missiles||New Delhi Open source satellite imagery suggests China is developing two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in the Doklam and Sikkim sectors, including an area where Indian and Chinese troops clashed in May. The satellite imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, shows what appear to be two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities. Both these sites are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim. Experts said the location of missile air defence facilities close to radar installations would help the Chinese side to pick out possible targets with greater accuracy. In a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the new missile facilities were apparently part of China’s “ongoing upgrades and expansion of air defence assets along its border with India”. The new missile facilities are located roughly 50 km away from Doka La (Doka pass), close to the Doklam plateau that was the scene of a 73-day military standoff between India and China in 2017, and Naku La (Naku pass), where troops from the two countries had clashed on May 9. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in this clash, the second such reported incident since the current standoff began in early May. The two surface-to-air missile sites would “close the existing air defence gap around the earlier clash zones” for the Chinese, @detresfa said. The Indian side has been “noted running regular intelligence and reconnaissance missions in this sector” during the current standoff with various platforms such as the Boeing P-8 Poseidon surveillance aircraft, @detresfa added. According to the graphic posted on Twitter, one missile site is located at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, while the other is located in Chinese territory opposite Sikkim. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of missile sites by the Chinese. Even after the end of the Doklam standoff in 2017 after several rounds of negotiations, there were reports that the Chinese side had not fully pulled back its troops in the area. There have also been several reports of Chinese troops building trenches, fortified positions and infrastructure to support operation by helicopters and aircraft in the area. Last month, Hindustan Times had first reported that China had officially stated for the first time that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh state, which is also claimed by Beijing. Since this year’s standoff emerged in the open, there have been several reports of PLA beefing up its deployment all along the LAC, including in areas opposite India’s northeastern states. Earlier this month, @detresfa had used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The infrastructure included a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. The imagery showed what appeared to be two sites at which PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both are not far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. The mobilisation of a battalion by PLA near Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations outside of the Ladakh sector that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops in recent weeks, was first reported by Hindustan Times on August 2. India has emphasised the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the standoff after being unable to bridge differences with China on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC in several round of diplomatic and military talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/images-show-china-facilities-for-missiles/story-MySpgNFGoFUoqK7r7ljzQL.html
30-08-2020||India||For peace along border, one must adhere to agreements: S Jaishankar||Covid-19 has affected foreign affairs and the world order much like it has everything else — external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke about this, and other pressing issues in an interview with Shishir Gupta and R Sukumar on his forthcoming book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World. That comes against the backdrop of an ongoing border stand-off between India and China, and continuing reluctance by Pakistan to act against the perpetrators of terror. Edited excerpts:Let us start with China. Where does the situation stand now in the context of the transgressions of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in East Ladakh? We are engaging China through diplomatic and military channels. There are essentially two elements in our approach. One is starting 1993 and then every few years, we have had a series of agreements (with China). Their import is that both sides will keep minimum force on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). But that is not the case now. We have very large number of Chinese forces and frankly, we are at a loss to know why. There are also certain norms of behaviour that were prescribed. Clearly, if we want peace and tranquillity on the border, we need to adhere to those agreements. Second, I accept there are some differences in perceptions in the LAC. But there is again a clear understanding that neither side will attempt to unilaterally change the status quo. It was because of these agreements and the adherence to them that the bilateral relationship moved forward in other, different spheres, including the economic one. And this must continue if the relationship has to grow. But there will naturally be issues if the peace and tranquillity is put under stress.China says that India needs to see the big picture. Who isn’t seeing it right, India or China?(Laughs) The answer I can give. Just read my book. I wrote it over a two-year period before the present set of incidents happened. It is this very issue that I have tried to address in the book. What is the big picture in the world? How have the Chinese risen and how do they see the world? How has India risen and where do we stand? (How the) repositioning of the United States has consequences for the entire world, including India and China.No question, the rise of China is the most remarkable event of our times. It is transformational. In more or less the same time frame but perhaps not to the same degree, India has also risen. The rest of the world recognises the rise of India and also gives it weightage. Just as China is entitled to its ambitions and aspirations, so is India. So how do we find an equilibrium? We are both billion-plus (population) civilisational states who once had an important place in the world. Today again, on the ascendance. So how do we accommodate each other? That willingness to accommodate is at the heart of the relationship. And it is not going to be easy as we have a complicated history.One can understand historical baggage with India, but China has also had issues with the US and ASEAN over the South China Sea and Taiwan; with Japan over Senkaku Islands; with Australia, etc. And that too at a time when the world is facing the coronavirus pandemic. Why open so many fronts?I have joined many dots in my book to present the rise of a potential global power and that too at India’s doorstep. This rise will be reflected in various ways, whether you like it or not. But we need to wake up to the implications of the rise of that potential global power. We need to fashion our path and look at our strategy, keeping that in mind.The world order post 1945 is coming to a state where it cannot be repaired by patchwork. We are clearly at a point where there are fundamental changes. The last time a global power rose was in the middle of the World War — the Soviet Union — but it was masked by the conflict. This time, it is not only (about) the rise of a potential global power, but repositioning of another global power, which was fulcrum of the world order. And the two are linked. You have to look at the effectiveness of the US and its alliances. We have grown up to a concept of united and cohesive West. But today, there are legitimate questions on that. An example is Iran, where the US and Europe are not on the same page. What you have now is a repositioning or retrenching of the US, rise of China, a changing Europe and a more vigorous Russia. In all this, you also have middle powers like Japan, Australia, Turkey, Saudi Arabia or Indonesia trying to look for a bigger role.In this changing world, the concepts and doctrines of the past, which were relevant at some point, may not be so relevant any more. It is a multipolar world, with much of the G-20 being non-Western countries. Contrast this over the last 70 years with G-7, which was completely a Western group. There has been economic, political and military rebalancing and I have also made a case for a cultural rebalancing in my book. There are now more players, less or weaker rules, and fewer areas of agreements. It is going to be a very much tougher world.Is that not a recipe for chaos?It could appear to be disorder. But then disorder is order waiting to happen. Just think back over the last 40 years. In 2020, we have coronavirus; a decade before, the global financial crisis; one before, we had 9/11; and then before the Soviet Union broke up. If four such big changes happened, how can we assume that the world is still the same? How has the pandemic impacted foreign relations in general?I believe major shifts will come in the aftermath of the coronavirus. Countries were already behaving more nationalistically (before it) — be it in Brexit, American nationalism under President Trump, the China Dream under Xi Jinping. But all nationalisms are not the same and in this, Indian nationalism is very unique. As opposed to some societies who have turned insular, in India, be it young or old, there is a greater interest in and willingness to do more with the world. In the past five years, India has stepped out to contribute — after the Nepal earthquake; Yemen civil war; we sent relief material to Beirut after the explosion; gave medical supplies to 150 countries in the world to fight the coronavirus pandemic. In this country, we feel that doing good for the world is part of what the rise of India is all about. In the post-corona world, we should promote Indian technology and talent, looking at a global workplace.The US presidential elections are round the corner. Is Donald Trump better for India or Joe Biden?If you look at the last four American presidents, two Republicans and two Democrats — each very different from the other. Yet, each raised the level of relationship with India further. Each President has developed on the legacy of the previous one when it comes to India. And if you follow the debates in the US now, you will find many differences between the competing candidates, but India is a common point. There are many other policies in which the candidates criticise each other. But that is not happening when it comes to India. I actually believe that India has bipartisan, or in a sense non-partisan, support in American politics. Our footprint is very wide and so is our acceptability. Different sets of politicians who disagree on many things agree on India. And I think that is a very good place to be.Pakistan has already rejected the NIA charge sheet in Pulwana attack, where both the country and the perpetrator from that country has been named. This has happened before in Pathankot attack and in 26/11. With Pakistan living in absolute denial over in-house terrorism targeting India, is there any way forward in this relationship?Many countries have disputes with their neighbours and it is not that unusual. But can you show me where in the world you have a neighbour who openly practises cross-border terrorism? And not just today, but for some years now and does not even bother to hide it? A neighbour who will not do normal trade with you even though you are offering a most favoured nation status. Who will not do normal people-to-people contact. And who will not allow connectivity at a time when the world is becoming more connected. If the fundamentals of international relations are not working with one particular neighbour, the question that I ask myself is should you or should you not be calling that out.To me, the issue is not under what mechanism or instrument should the engagement take place. That is what has preoccupied political and media debates in our country. My point is that the very basis of international relations between neighbours need to be addressed. This is a very, very unique situation. There is no country that uses cross border terrorism in such a prolific and open way. And not just against India. We must have the self-confidence to tell that country that this cannot be the basis for conduct of relations.QUAD is the new acronym that everyone, particularly China, is looking at. Can you explain what QUAD means and where does it go from here?When the world changes, you will not only have new acronyms but new concepts. QUAD is one of the plurilaterals, a working arrangement, a convergence. The Cold War was a world of agreements, a Western Bloc which like the opposing Soviet Bloc agreed amongst themselves. Today, your interests will coincide with others on certain issues. So, the overlaps are issue based and therefore, you would have convergences with different powers. QUAD reflects the convergence of participating countries in areas like maritime security, connectivity and counterterrorism. It is part of a future world. Even though people are attributing a novelty to this, there is another acronym called RIC (Russia, India and China) going on for 20 years. BRICS is yet another one. They too are plurilateral and issue based.China sees QUAD as an alliance against itself and this has led to people like Imran Khan saying that US is using India as a frontline state in the context of current Ladakh stand-off?Think about it: India is a civilisational state of very unique nature. Look at our history. Because we went through two very difficult centuries, we particularly prize our independence. Some people feel that because they did something, we will also do the same. India has a certain self-perception of itself. India has a personality of its own. India has interests of its own. India has a character of its own. It cannot be defined negatively as being against somebody. Those who say all this — they are perhaps reflecting their own history and their own self-worth. This is certainly not India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-peace-along-border-one-must-adhere-to-agreements-s-jaishankar/story-4KVo5SRRVr5GR5PUKn6zkM.html
30-08-2020||India||Defence ministry sets up 3-member panel for better functioning of Army HQs||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved the setting up of a three-man committee to identify posts in the service headquarters that are currently held by civilian officers but need to be manned by military officers with necessary domain expertise for effective functioning, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. The new committee has been constituted as a follow-up to the recommendations made by the Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar committee in its report on enhancing the military’s combat potential and rebalancing defence expenditure. A key recommendation in that comprehensive report dealt with aspects related to the effective utilisation of the armed forces headquarters civil service (AFHQ-CS). Shekatkar will chair the new three-man panel consisting of R Chandrashekhar who retired from the AFHQ-CS and AN Das who is from the defence ministry’s finance wing. While identifying posts that need to be manned by military officers due to their expertise is a key task assigned to the panel, it will also conduct a study and identify appointments in service headquarters that may fall within the domain of AFHQ-CS officers due to their longer tenures and expertise, according to the terms of reference in the government order reviewed by Hindustan Times. Shekatkar told HT that the setting up of the panel was a step in the right direction as it would improve the overall functioning of the service headquarters and inter-services organisations. He said the committee was likely to submit its report in November. Military and civilian officers hold posts in different wings of the service headquarters and inter-services organisations including administration, finance, policy formulation and coordination, personnel management, training, vigilance and legal matters The Shekatkar panel made 188 suggestions in its report submitted in December 2016 of which around 100 have been accepted by the ministry and others are under consideration. The defence ministry is working towards implementing more recommendations made by the panel. In May, the ministry announced that more than 9,300 posts in the Military Engineer Services (MES) would be abolished as a follow-up to the recommendations made by the Shekatkar committee. The MES is a construction and maintenance agency of the armed forces and has an annual budget of around Rs 13,000 crore. The ministry said the recommendation to cut the posts (9,304 out of total 13,157 vacancies) was aimed at making the MES an effective organisation, with a leaner workforce well equipped to handle complex issues in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The recommendations made by the Shekatkar committee relate to several organisations including the MES, Defence Research and Development Organisation, Directorate General of Quality Assurance, Directorate General of Defence Estates, the Ordnance Factory Board and defence accounts.The panel’s recommendations also covered optimisation of signals establishments, restructuring of the army’s base workshops, revamp of ordnance depots, better utilisation of supply and transport units, closure of military farms and army postal establishments in peace locations and improving the efficiency of the National Cadet Corps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-sets-up-3-member-panel-for-better-functioning-of-army-hqs/story-jSPkrqa7jw2CnSplgAH9AK.html
30-08-2020||India||Three Hizbul terrorists, army jawan killed in J&K gunfight||Three Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were gunned down in an encounter, in which an Indian Army soldier also lost his life, during a security operation in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said the terrorists were killed in a joint operation in Zadoora village of the district where 40 CRPF troopers were killed in a suicide attack last year. “The operation was launched on a specific input and in the ensuing encounter, three terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter. They have been identified as Adil Hafiz, Arshid Ahmad Dar and Rouf Ahmad Mir -- all residents of Pulwama,” he said. Police said that during Saturday’s encounter one army jawan received critical injuries and was shifted to an army hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.Police said the terrorists killed in Saturday’s encounter had been involved in planning and carrying out previous records in the Valley. “They were part of groups involved in planning and executing several terror attacks in the area including attacks on police and security establishments. As per police records, Adil Hafiz was involved in case FIR No. 112/2020 pertaining to attack on naka [patrol] party at Prichoo Bridge in which one police personnel was killed and another was injured, an official aware of the matter said.The bodies of the terrorists have been be sent to Baramulla in the Valley, where family members can carry out the last rites, a police spokesperson said.This was the second such encounter in 24 hours. On Friday, security forces killed four terrorists and captured another in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.On Friday forces in an encounter had killed four militants, including a top commander of Al-Badr, and captured one in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. One of the four terrorists was identified as a key commander or Al-Badr , Shakoor Parray, a former police constable who was involved in recruiting youths into militant ranks in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-hizbul-terrorists-army-jawan-killed-in-j-k-gunfight/story-06O8bsEojpAYNAufeldacM.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s cases, deaths per mn lowest globally, says Centre||India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 cases and 107.2 deaths, respectively, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday while chairing the 20th meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19.At the meeting conducted to review the current status of the coronavirus outbreak in India, the health minister said: “…despite being resource constrained and densely populated, timely lockdown and rapid augmentation of infrastructure by India have enabled to keep the case per million and deaths per million considerably lower compared to other countries.”The meeting was informed that as of Saturday, eight states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana -- contribute to around 73% of the active caseload of the country.Seven states -- Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- account for 81% of total Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry data revealed.The group of ministers was also briefed on the recent health ministry directives on the bi-directional tuberculosis (TB) and Covid-19 screening and diabetes management in Covid-19 facilities, etc., and also on efforts being made to ramp up testing and reduce Covid-19 related deaths to below 1% of the total positive cases.Among the key challenges that the government was currently facing in stopping disease transmission was to ensure people strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.According to Dr Sujeet K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) who was present at the meeting presented a detailed report on surveillance efforts undertaken in India during the pandemic. “…there needs to be continued attention on promotion of wearing masks, physical distancing and respiratory etiquettes. Behaviour changes communication, therefore, assumes a priority role in covid-19 management,” he said.On the Covid-19 vaccine front, Dr Vinod K Paul, chairperson of the empowered group-1 on medical emergency management plan, said that India was progressing satisfactorily. He further apprised the GoM of the process of Covid vaccine development in India and around the world.As of now, 29 vaccine candidates, including two Indian ones, are in clinical trials; out of which six are in Phase III.“In India, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate based on inactivated virus procured by ICMR is in Phase II trial along with Zydus Cadila’s candidate which is based on viral DNA. The Oxford vaccine candidate developed by Serum Institute of India is already in Phase III trial in Maharashtra and some other States,” Paul informed the group.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has also met thrice during this month.The group is tasked with facilitation of vaccine development including issues of trial and stockpiling, sorting out issues of financing, risk-management, selection of potential beneficiaries and their order of reference, envisioning logistics, scale up of procurement and distribution, digital system, defining principles for selecting beneficiary categories, and defining scientific basis for selecting vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-cases-deaths-per-mn-lowest-globally-says-centre/story-o8O0ePs5nQukMARTt9OWVK.html
30-08-2020||India||Q1 growth of FY21 likely to be worst: EY report||: India’s growth in the first quarter of the current financial year is likely to be “the worst” among the four quarters of FY-21 because of economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, an EY India’s report said, indicating improved economic performance from the second quarter.“High frequency indicators for India are giving positive signals after the first two months of the pandemic,” the consultancy firm said in its latest edition of Economy Watch before the scheduled release of official gross domestic product (GDP) data on Monday.The optimism of the report is based on indicators such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), sales of passenger vehicles, power consumption and the rise in the foreign exchange reserve.“In June and July 2020, PMI manufacturing was close to the benchmark level of 50 at 47.2 and 46.0 respectively. Although IIP has continued to contract in June 2020, its rate of contraction has come down to -16.6% from its May 2020 level of -33.9%. In June 2020, passenger vehicle sales picked up sharply with sales of 1,20,188 units as compared to sales of 33,546 units in April and May 2020 considered together,” it said.Although power consumption shows a continued contraction, the rate of contraction has been coming down over successive months since April 2020 when it was at -25%. This fell to -0.4% in the first 20 days of August, it added. It also pointed out that foreign exchange reserves continued to rise steadily reaching $538 billion by August 7.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor of EY India, however, said one adverse development is the slowing down of bank credit growth to 5.8% in the fortnight ending July 17. “Due to subdued demand, average credit growth fell to 6.4% in the first quarter of FY21 as compared to 7.1% in the fourth quarter of FY20,” he said.He said the Center’s capital expenditure grew by 40.1% in the first quarter of FY-21 as compared to a contraction of -27.6% in the corresponding period the previous year, indicating frontloading of capital expenditure. Srivastava said it is welcome as it signals investment in infrastructure” in line with the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) objectives.In his Independence Day address on August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled over Rs 110 lakh crore infrastructure projects to boost the economy and create jobs. “In order to rapidly modernise India, there is a need to give a new direction to overall infrastructure development,” he said, adding that over 7,000 projects under NIP have been identified.EY India’s report, however, pointed at a rising fiscal deficit. The Controller General of Accounts data released for June shows that the Center’s fiscal deficit in 1Q FY21 is 83.2% of the annual budgeted target. “In terms of magnitude, the fiscal deficit in 1Q FY21 is 53.3% larger than the corresponding magnitude in 1Q FY20. The Center’s revenue deficit during 1Q FY21 stood at 94.8% of the annual budgeted target as compared to 77.1% in the corresponding period of FY20,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/q1-growth-of-fy21-likely-to-be-worst-ey-report/story-r0GUFYeMhkifpLS3cFO3NL.html
30-08-2020||India||UP Congress leaders slam Azad over letter||After venting their ire against senior party leader Jitin Prasada, Congress leaders in the state are now targeting senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and questioning his actions during his role as the All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh.Azad is one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who signed the controversial letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a full-time party president, and also several reforms to strengthen the party. The letter outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the 134-year-old organisation, called for an introspection of the reasons behind the party’s “steady decline”, and appealed to the Congress to take the initiative for the formation of a “national coalition of democratic and secular forces” against the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Now, former Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Nirmal Khatri has accused Azad of forcing the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance on the party in the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“As far as I know, Rahul Gandhi too was opposed to the alliance, but probably kept quiet due to Azad’s recalcitrance and defeatist political thinking….His principles of political science focused on politics of alliance,” said Khatri in a post on the social media, directly targeting Azad.In an interview to news agency ANI, Azad, who is leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, the letter, saying “Any Congress worker having a genuine interest in the party will welcome the letter.” He added in that interview that if the party didn’t change, it would continue to be in opposition for the next 50 years. “Azad forgot to mention his role as in charge of Uttar Pradesh where he destroyed the Congress. In 1996, the Congress alliance with the BSP failed to work. He (Azad) entered into an alliance with the SP in 2017 and the Congress won the lowest number of seven seats in the state assembly,” Khatri said.He questioned Azad for pointing out that no election had been held in CWC for the past 23 years and asked whyhe chose to remain silent all these years. He also targeted Azad for raising issues on a public platform, saying “The CWC resolved that no leader will ever speak about internal issues. Azad’s interview (to a news agency) is a violation of the spirit of the resolution.”There have also been demands for his removal from the post of the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. Veteran Congress leader KK Sharma questioned Azad’s loyalty to the party and demanded his removal from the LoP post. Another UP Congress leader, Naseeb Pathan, said he was pained to hear Azad’s interview and claimed that he had reached this position only through nominations. “As he has broken the party’s discipline, Ghulam should be made ‘azad’ (free) and expelled from the party,” he said. The Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress Committee has already passed a resolution, demanding action against all the 23 senior leaders including Jitin Prasada. Khatri’s comments, shared by many other partymen on the social media, have become a point of discussion in the party circles.After the Lakhimpur Kheri resolution, a local Congress functionary, DCC president Prahalad Patel claimed that it had been passed under pressure from an office bearer of the state level Congress leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-congress-leaders-slam-azad-over-letter/story-pJjdzVM9f22WzFlExuzApK.html
30-08-2020||India||India pulls out of multilateral exercise amid China tensions||NEW DELHI: India has withdrawn from a multi-nation army exercise being hosted by Russia in which around 20 countries including China are expected to take part next month at a time when talks with China to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh are stuck in a stalemate, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. Exercise Kavkaz-2020 will be held in southern Russia’s Astrakhan region from September 15 to 27. The Pakistan army is also likely to take part in the joint drills that are part of a four-year exercise cycle of the Russian army.The decision not to go ahead with participating in the Kavkaz-2020 multilateral exercise was made following consultations between the defence ministry and the external affairs ministry that took into consideration several factors, the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity. “There is a decision not to take part in contact exercises in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to ensure the safety of our troops,” the officials said. The expected presence in the exercise of troops from South Ossetia and Abkhazia, both states that aren’t recognised by India, in Kavkaz-2020 was also a factor in the decision, said one of the officials.Most UN member states see Abkhazia and South Ossetia as part of Georgia, though both are recognised by Russia. India doesn’t recognise both as independent states as they are not members of the UN. India’s presence at such as an exercise could have given rise to delicate diplomatic issues, a second official said. Criticism of India’s possible presence at Kavkaz-2020 alongside Chinese and Pakistani troops has been growing ever since reports first emerged that New Delhi was extended an invitation to send a tri-services contingent to the exercise.India was earlier planning to send around 180 troops from an infantry battalion along with elements of the air force and observers from the Indian Navy for the exercise. A total of 13,000 troops from different countries are expected to take part in the drills.Questions have also been raised about India participating in an exercise featuring Chinese troops amid the months-long standoff along the LAC and the death of 20 Indian soldiers in the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15.The Russian exercise has also sparked tensions with Ukraine, which is organising its own command-staff exercise United Efforts-2020, for which it plans to involve NATO countries. This exercise, too, will be held at around the same time.While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), India’s participation in Kavkaz-2020 had assumed importance because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector.India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during recent diplomatic talks, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pulls-out-of-multilateral-exercise-amid-china-tensions/story-yZUvfQHIT7dyiWLxFldLhP.html
30-08-2020||India||Influence of dictatorship on democracy is rising: Sonia||Raipur Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said alleged that the influence of dictatorship on the country’s democracy has increased in the recent past with “gareeb virodhi (anti-poor)” and “desh virodhi (anti-nation)” forces are spreading hatred.“Bad thinking is dominating good thinking, freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. The influence of ‘tanashahi’ (dictatorship) has been increasing on ‘lokshahi’ (democracy),” she said, , during the ground breaking ceremony of the new Chhattisgarh Assembly building.“We have come a long way since Independence, we have faced many problems and also managed to solve them but we are way behind the dreams of our forefathers. In the last few years, there have been attempts to derail our country. There are new challenges in front of our democracy,” she said.“Today the country is at a crossroads. Gareeb virodhi (anti-poor) and desh-virodhi (anti-nation) forces and those who rule by making people fight each other and have been spreading hatred and venom of violence in the country,” she said.The senior party leader underscored that freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. “What do they want? They want that the people of India, tribal, youths, women, farmers and small businessmen should not speak. They want to suppress the country’s voice.”“After two years, we will complete 75 years of our Independence, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, JV Mavalankar and Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, along with our forefathers, would have never imagined that after 75 years of Independence we would face such a difficult time,” Sonia Gandhi said.Praising the government of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Sonia Gandhi said that the state government is taking care of its poorest people. “After 15 years, the Congress formed a government in Chhattisgarh ….Many of our leaders were martyred. The 15 years of the BJP government is an example that a visionless government can never think about peoples’ benefit. Chhattisgarh is a resourceful state but the misgovernance has made this state the most undeveloped state...I am happy that the Congress government has made several steps in a positive direction for the people of the state,” she said.However, leader of opposition in the assembly, Dharmlal Kaushik, said that the Congress leader was misleading the people. “The party which imposed an Emergency and thousands of people were booked just for speaking has no right to talk about dictatorship. ...hence the party should not mislead people,” said Kaushik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/influence-of-dictatorship-on-democracy-is-rising-sonia/story-42B5wG6zizNCb9Y9Tlbk8H.html
30-08-2020||India||Congress likely to set up panel for internal polls||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will soon announce the creation and composition of a new panel tasked to conduct organisational polls to pick a new chief of the party and the members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), three people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.The composition of the new central election authority (CEA) that conducts the organisational polls is currently being discussed and the Congress president is expected to announce the names soon, one of the people, a senior party functionary said. “Experienced leaders will be part of this election authority,” he added. “It (the creation of the body) is also as per the requirement under the Congress constitution.”This person’s reference to experienced leaders is significant. Earlier this week, a letter signed by 23 Congress members, including many senior leaders, seeking change in the way the party works so as to strengthen it created a stir in the party. A hurriedly-called CWC meeting discussed the timing of the letter but not its contents. Soon after, organisational announcements by the party, including for parliamentary roles, saw preference being given to younger leaders perceived to be closer to former party president Rahul Gandhi. The previous CEA, headed by present Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran, was dissolved soon after the election of Rahul Gandhi as the party chief in December 2017. Madhusudan Mistry and Bhubaneswar Kalita, who is now in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were its other two members. Rahul Gandhi resigned from the post in May last year following the party’s rout in the general elections and Sonia Gandhi took over as its interim president in August last year.At Monday’s CWC meeting, Sonia Gandhi agreed to continue on the post till a new president is elected and an All India Congress Committee (AICC) session is convened. The CWC also authorised her to carry out organisational changes.The letter, written by leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, sought, among other things, complete reorganisation of the party, a full-time president and internal polls from block level to CWC.Four of the 23 dissenters who are members of the CWC – Azad, Wasnik, Sharma and Jitin Prasada – came under attack at the stormy meeting for allegedly questioning the leadership of the Gandhi family.In their letter, the dissenters outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the 134-year-old organisation. One of the points was constitution of an independent election authority.According to the Congress constitution, the CEA chairman is the ex-officio returning officer for the election of party president. At Monday’s meeting, both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi asked the CWC to hold the organisational elections within one month but some members, including Azad, maintained that it was not feasible because of Covid-19. Finally, an upper limit of six months was fixed for completing the internal elections.The last time an election was held to the president’s post was in 2000 when Sonia Gandhi comprehensively defeated Jitendra Prasada, father of Jitin Prasada. That was the only time Sonia Gandhi faced a contest during her over 20 years as Congress chief.As per the Congress constitution, 12 of the 25 CWC members have to be elected by AICC delegates and the rest are appointed by the Congress president.The CWC has not seen an election in over two decades now. The last time there were elections to the CWC was in 1997 during the Kolkata plenary. Prior to that, the CWC polls took place in 1992 at the Tirupati session.Meanwhile, Jitin Prasada, one of the 23 signatories, said that contents of the letter were being misconstrued and insisted he has full faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. He said the letter was not to undermine their leadership but to suggest ways to rejuvenate the party.Two other signatories Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Kaul Singh Thakur also expressed their full faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Tharoor, too, has called for an end to the ongoing debate over the letter. Still, the appointments made on Thursday are seen as an attempt to sideline the dissenters.Gandhi named Gaurav Gogoi as the party’s deputy leader in the Lok Sabha, overlooking Tewari and Tharoor. She also formed a panel each for the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha for formulating the party’s strategy in Parliament, effective coordination and better floor management. Azad, Sharma, Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh are in the group for the Rajya Sabha while Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu are in the panel for the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-likely-to-set-up-panel-for-internal-polls/story-ECczd7cauPitUnrxwQMHEL.html
30-08-2020||India||6 arrested for raping 14-year-old in Odisha||The Odisha police have arrested six persons on charges of raping a minor tribal girl several times over the last seven months. The victim is now pregnant.Police officials in southern Odisha district of Rayagada said the 14-year-old girl from Gunupur sub-division area was six months pregnant when her mother found out about the incident.“A few days ago, the girl’s mother found her daughter’s condition had deteriorated and called a local ASHA worker to take her for check-up. During a medical test at a government hospital, she was found to be six months pregnant. The girl then revealed to her mother how six persons had been sexually assaulting her on different occasions,” said Rayagada SP Dr Vivek Saravana.The accused, five from the same village as that of the victim, have been arrested. All of them will be tested for Covid. “The accused first assaulted the girl seven months ago when she was bathing alone at a nullah near her village. The six allegedly sexually assaulted her and then threatened her against revealing the incident to anyone,” said an official of Gunupur police station.Though the victim, one of the four daughters of a daily wage labourer and tribal from Sabar community, was pregnant, the accused allegedly kept sexually assaulting her. “There was not much change in the victim’s physical appearance despite her being six months pregnant. It was only when the girl started vomiting frequently that her mother sensed something amiss and got her tested. The girl then revealed the name of the accused,” said Ramesh Nayak, district child protection officer of Rayagada. The girl is now stable.However, the people in the victim’s village wanted to hush up the matter and had called a meeting. But when the DCPO visited the girl’s father, he agreed to lodge an FIR against the accused, all in the age group of 22-45 years.According to the 2018 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, 1427 cases of rape of minors were registered in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-in-odisha-she-is-6-months-pregnant/story-xfig5g5QlJHI9BDappAiSK.html
30-08-2020||India||India withdraws from multi-nation war games involving China||India has withdrawn from a multi-nation army exercise being hosted by Russia in which around 20 countries including China are expected to take part next month at a time when talks with China to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh are stuck in a stalemate, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. Exercise Kavkaz-2020 will be held in southern Russia’s Astrakhan region from September 15 to 27. The Pakistan army is also likely to take part in the joint drills that are part of a four-year exercise cycle of the Russian army. “Russia and India are close and privileged strategic partners. At Russia’s invitation India has been participating in many international events. However, in view of the pandemic and consequent difficulties in exercise, including arrangements of logistics, India has decided not to send a contingent this year to Kavkaz-2020. The same has been informed to the Russian side,” said a defence ministry spokesperson.The decision not to go ahead with participating in the Kavkaz-2020 multilateral exercise was made following consultations between the defence ministry and the external affairs ministry that took into consideration several factors, the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity. “There is a decision not to take part in contact exercises in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to ensure the safety of our troops,” the officials said. The expected presence in the exercise of troops from South Ossetia and Abkhazia, both states that aren’t recognised by India, in Kavkaz-2020 was also a factor in the decision, said one of the officials. Most UN member states see Abkhazia and South Ossetia as part of Georgia, though both are recognised by Russia. India doesn’t recognise both as independent states as they are not members of the UN. India’s presence at such an exercise could have given rise to delicate diplomatic issues, a second official said. Criticism of India’s possible presence at Kavkaz-2020 alongside Chinese and Pakistani troops has been growing ever since reports first emerged that New Delhi was extended an invitation to send a tri-services contingent to the exercise. India was earlier planning to send around 180 troops from an infantry battalion, along with elements of the air force and observers from the Indian Navy for the exercise. A total of 13,000 troops from different countries are expected to take part in the drills. Questions have also been raised about India participating in an exercise featuring Chinese troops amid the months-long standoff along the LAC and the death of 20 Indian soldiers in the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Russian exercise has also sparked tensions with Ukraine, which is organising its own command-staff exercise United Efforts-2020, for which it plans to involve NATO countries. This exercise too will be held at around the same time. While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), India’s participation in Kavkaz-2020 had assumed importance because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector. India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during recent diplomatic talks, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-withdraws-from-multi-nation-war-games-involving-china/story-jMc6qqM0Sv1pKanxTkGatO.html
30-08-2020||India||Youth Congress launches ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign||The Youth Congress on Saturday launched a ‘Rozgar Do’ (Give Jobs) campaign in a bid to reach out to the unemployed youth. As part of the nationwide campaign, Youth Congress president Srinivas B V said the activists will hold protests in front of residences and offices of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarians and ministers across the country and also launch signature and letter campaigns to demand jobs for the unemployed youth. He said the Youth Congress will also stage a ‘Parliament Gherao” to press for their demands. “Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman says that the impact on the economy is due to coronavirus pandemic, but it’s actually lack of vision which has led to unemployment due to wrong policies of the Modi government,” Srinivas said, launching the campaign at the Congress headquarters in Delhi. Gopal Agarwal, BJP spokesperson said “Prime minister is working day and night for fast tracking economic recovery post covid. Those efforts are showing results, starting with uptick in rural and agriculture sector which employs about 60 % of our population. There are green shoots of early recovery sign in many industries also. Further focused reforms on Industrial policy, retail trade and logistics policies are underway. Till they bear results employment benefits are being extended through DBT of MNREGS and 50% salary cover through ESI.“A song for the ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign was also released in different Indian languages. The Youth Congress activists will also organise wall writing and poster making on the unemployment issue, Srinivas added. All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge Krishna Allaveru accused the ruling BJP government of “destroying” the economy even before the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Demonetisation, flawed GST and an unplanned lockdown in March, despite warnings of an ‘economic tsunami’ by Rahul Gandhi were not act of God but the policies and decisions of the Modi government that have led to unemployment among the youth,” he said. Party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera said the unemployment had assumed “fearsome” proportions before the Covid-19 and claimed that around 135 million youth are likely to lose their jobs due to the pandemic. “A record of 45 years of unemployment has been broken,” he added. “We keep warning the government but they are not bothered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-congress-launches-rozgar-do-campaign/story-rK1O7F0a1ty77PGTL55VeP.html
30-08-2020||India||Shrimant Madhav Rao Scindia Marg in Delhi caves in, area barricaded||A portion of Shrimant Madhav Rao Scindia Marg in Central Delhi caved-in on Saturday. Delhi Police has put barricades around the spot in a bid to avoid any mishap.  Delhi: A portion of Shrimant Madhav Rao Scindia Marg caves in. Police put barricades around the spot. pic.twitter.com/8gJILDe1SNDelhi traffic police said that around 5 pm a section of the road, under New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) jurisdiction, caved-in and barricades were placed around the affected portion. However, police said that since this was not an arterial road and being a weekend traffic movement was not affected much. “The cave-in happened on one carriageway, so the traffic movement on the other carriageway was not affected at all. For the safety of passersby we have cordoned off the area,” a senior traffic official said. The official added that the cave-in could have been caused by Friday’s rain, but NDMC is yet to confirm this reason. An NDMC spokesperson said that the reason for the road slumping is being ascertained by its teams and appropriate action will be taken to fix the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrimant-madhav-rao-scindia-marg-in-delhi-caves-in-area-barricaded/story-LgGzilnha09F31aqRP5W1H.html
30-08-2020||India||New satellite imagery suggests China developing missile bases to cover Doklam, Naku La||Open source satellite imagery suggests China is developing two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in the Doklam and Sikkim sectors, including an area where Indian and Chinese troops had clashed in May. The satellite imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, show what appear to be two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities. Both these sites are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim state. Experts said the location of missile air defence facilities close to radar installations would help the Chinese side to pick out possible targets with greater accuracy. ALSO READ | New satellite imagery suggests China is building military infrastructure opposite LipulekhIn a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the new missile facilities were apparently part of China’s “ongoing upgrades and expansion of air defence assets along its border with India”. The new missile facilities are located roughly 50 km away from Doka La (Doka pass), close to the Doklam plateau that was the scene of a 73-day military standoff between India and China in 2017, and Naku La (Naku pass), where troops from the two countries had clashed on May 9. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in this clash, the second such reported incident since the current standoff began in early May. The two surface-to-air missile sites would “close the existing air defence gap around the earlier clash zones” for the Chinese, @detresfa said. The Indian side has been “noted running regular intelligence and reconnaissance missions in this sector” during the current standoff with various platforms such as the Boeing P-8 Poseidon surveillance aircraft, @detresfa added.  Investigations with @SimTack of the #Doklam region in the #China, #Bhutan, #India tri junction area present new evidence of PLA air defense infrastructure being constructed roughly 50 Kms from known clash points of the #IndiaChinaStandoff of 2017 & 2020 pic.twitter.com/5JWFZaoXrXAccording to the graphic posted on Twitter, one missile site is located at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, while the other is located in Chinese territory opposite Sikkim. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of missile sites by the Chinese. Even after the end of the Doklam standoff in 2017 after several rounds of negotiations, there were reports that the Chinese side had not fully pulled back its troops in the area. There have also been several reports of Chinese troops building trenches, fortified positions and infrastructure to support operation by helicopters and aircraft in the area. Last month, Hindustan Times had first reported that China had officially stated for the first time that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh state, which is also claimed by Beijing. Since this year’s standoff emerged in the open, there have been several reports of PLA beefing up its deployment all along the LAC, including in areas opposite India’s northeastern states. Earlier this month, @detresfa had used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The infrastructure included a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. The imagery showed what appeared to be two sites at which PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both are not far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. The mobilisation of a battalion by PLA near Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations outside of the Ladakh sector that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops in recent weeks, was first reported by Hindustan Times on August 2. India has emphasised the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the standoff after being unable to bridge differences with China on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC in several round of diplomatic and military talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-satellite-imagery-suggests-china-developing-missile-bases-to-cover-doklam-naku-la/story-RbrowNVSdOqn8DT5Ri09kL.html
30-08-2020||India||Anti-poor, anti-nation forces spreading hatred and violence: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said “gareeb virodhi ( anti-poor)” and “desh virodhi (anti-nation)” forces are spreading hatred and venom of violence in the country, adding that the influence of dictatorship on democracy has increased in recent past . “Since Independence, we have come a long way, we have faced many problems and also managed to solve them but we are way behind the dreams of our forefathers. In the last few years, there have been attempts to derail our country. There are new challenges in front of our democracy. “Today the country is at a crossroads. Gareeb virodhi (anti-poor) and desh-virodhi ( anti-nation) forces and those who rule by making people fight each other and have been spreading hatred and venom of violence in the country,” Sonia said during bhumipujan ceremony of the new Chhattisgarh Assembly building.Gandhi underscored that the freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. “What do they want? They want that the people of India, tribal, youths, women, farmers and small businessmen should not speak. They want to suppress the country’s voice,” she said. Claiming that the makers of constitution would have never imagined such a crisis, Gandhi said, “ After two years, we will complete 75 years of our Independence, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, JV Mavalankar and Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, along with our forefathers, would have never imagined that after 75 years of Independence we would face such a difficult time,” Gandhi said. Praising Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Sonia Gandhi said that the state government is taking care of its poorest people. “After 15 years, the Congress formed a government in Chhattisgarh ….Many of our leaders were martyred. The 15 years of the BJP government is an example that a visionless government can never think about peoples’ benefit. Chhattisgarh is a resourceful state but the misgovernance has made this state the most undeveloped state...I am happy that the Congress government has made several steps in a positive direction for the people of the state,” Gandhi said. Dharmlal Kaushik, leader of opposition in the legislative assembly, said that the Congress president is misleading the people. “The party which imposed an Emergency and thousands of people were booked just for speaking has no right to talk about dictatorship. Everyone knows about Sikh riots and who spread venom hence the party should not mislead people,” said Kaushik, who was also present at the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-nation-forces-are-spreading-hatred-violence-sonia-gandhi/story-xnKeDKtOS89thIjEfyPMMM.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tests cross 40 million, nearly 9 lakh conducted on Friday alone||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing has crossed the 40 million mark with about 9 lakh tests done on Friday alone.“…9 lakh Covid-19 samples each day for the second consecutive day, keeping a sharp focus on test, track and treat strategy of the Union government. India has already created a capacity of doing 10 lakh tests per day…,” said Union health ministry in a statement.According to the government data, at least 10 million tests have been conducted in the past 2 weeks, which is a feat in itself.The tests per million have also seen a sharp surge to 28,607. It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified at an early stage, their close contacts promptly tracked and isolated as well as timely and effective treatment can be ensured, say experts.“The graded and evolving response has resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing net in the country. To keep up with this strategy, the testing lab network in the country is continuously strengthened, which as of today, consists of 1,564 labs in the country; 998 labs in the government sector and 566 private labs,” said the health ministry in its statement.Also read: Flouting Covid-19 norms in metro may attract heavy fines once it reopensIndia is also registering continuous progress on the recovery front and a reduction in the fatality rate. In the past five months, more than 3/4th of Covid-19 cases have recovered and less than 1/4th are active cases now.With more patients recovering and being discharged from home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases) and hospitals (severe and critical cases), India’s number of Covid-19 recoveries nears 26 lakh. At least 60,000 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the country’s recovery rate to 76.28 percent.The number of recoveries is nearly 3.5 times the active cases, which comprise 21.90 percent of the total cases. Higher number of recoveries has led to a constantly growing difference between recoveries and active cases. Crossing 18 lakhs, the difference stands at 18,41,925.“The government has adopted a graded and evolving strategic response to Covid-19 management in India within the larger evolving global context. The early focus on surveillance and contact tracing through house-to-house survey was continuously strengthened with an increase in testing for ensuring early identification of positive cases. This has ensured prompt isolation of the confirmed positive cases either in supervised home care for the mild and moderate cases, and hospitalisation in case of those who are exhibiting critical symptoms,” said health ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tests-cross-4-million-nearly-9-lakh-conducted-on-friday-alone/story-d3DWu3f3uimSCa4WkpJfHO.html
30-08-2020||India||Coronavirus: Delhi’s hotels check in to new normal||Handshakes these days at city hotels are a thing of the past, having been replaced with the traditional namaste offered by mask-wearing staff — their usual smile, ubiquitous in the hospitality sector, now hidden. Welcome drinks have made way for a quick pump or two of hand sanitising liquid into the hands of the guests.As city hotels reopen for business, with cautious optimism, after five months of lull owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, guests are being subjected to experiences that were previously unheard of in the hospitality industry.Each guest is made to sign a form, declaring that they do not suffer from Covid-19 at the time of check-in. Any accessories/stationery being carried by them are also being collected and put inside UV sanitiser boxes. The UV sanitiser boxes have also made their way to the front desk of most hotels, besides being used for ensuring that kitchen knives and cutlery used are virus/bacteria-free. The Centre’s rules mandate hotels follow standard operating procedures that demand regular sanitisation, disinfection and ensure minimum touch. Hotels have come up with other safety measures to beat the coronavirus — special floor mats that squeeze out fluids to disinfect footwear, disposable fruit forks to press elevator buttons, and security gates with ionisers on top to ensure that the hair of those entering the premises are disinfected. Gaurav Pokhariyal, senior vice-president (operations) in the Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), said: “Five of our hotels — Taj Palace, Ambassador; IHCL SeleQtions; Vivanta Dwarka; Ginger Delhi Rail Yatri Niwas; and Ginger East Delhi —have now opened. Taj Mahal, New Delhi, is expected to reopen in mid-September after ongoing refurbishments .” HT visited several prominent hotels in the city on Thursday . Thermal guns to check body temperatures and automated hand sanitisers seem to be the most common features in all hotel lobbies. Also, paper menus in restaurants have made way for QR codes accessible on phones . Portable fogging machines — for disinfecting all sorts of surfaces ranging from furniture to luggage — housekeeping staff dressed in protective gear were also some common sights at most hotels across the city. Nakul Anand, executive director ITC limited – which owns the Maurya hotel — said they are working to address the important needs of well being and safety through responsible practices that are immensely relevant in the unprecedented circumstances that we face today.” Rohit Arora, area general manager of The Park hotel in New Delhi, said: “People are not planning much in advance and currently there are no major corporate or leisure movements. Individual movements are rather planned on shorter notice. Hence, we need to keep a constant tap on booking trends. The current nature of bookings is largely corporate individual travellers, people seeking work vacations for a change and few social events with limited guest capacity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-guns-uv-sanitising-boxes-how-hotels-in-delhi-are-adjusting-to-new-normal/story-YeJtVTngQEx54COYM5ZvcM.html
