20-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka government announces new Covid-19 restrictions as state reports over 21,000 new cases in record one-day spike||The Karnataka government on Tuesday imposed fresh restrictions after the state reported 21,794 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, a record single-day spike. The new restrictions would come into effect from 9pm on April 21 and stay in effect till 6am on May 4.On Tuesday, 149 people succumbed to Covid-19 which pushed the state’s total death toll to 13,646, according to a state health department bulletin. So far, 1,198,644 cases have been identified in the state. Active caseload currently stands at 159,158 and the total recoveries has reached 1,025,821 after 4,571 patients were discharged, the bulletin showed.Earlier on Tuesday, an all-party meeting took place to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. The meeting was attended by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, governor Vajubhai Vala, health minister Dr K Sudhakar, and opposition leaders Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar and HD Kumaraswamy. Basavaraj Bommai, the minister of state for home affairs, said that the chief minister would take a call on the lockdowns after discussing with experts, news agency ANI reported.Please click on link below to view Guidelines to contain COVID-19 in the State.https://t.co/36ks4glZctHere is a look at the new restrictions that are set to come into effect from April 21 in Karnataka -Also read | Rajasthan to come under curfew for a month, essential services to get exemption“For the enforcement of social distancing, Commissioners of Police/Deputy Commissioners may, use the provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) of 1973,” the order said. The government also asked the district authorities to strictly enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and the new guidelines issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-government-announces-new-covid-19-restrictions-as-state-reports-over-21-000-new-cases-in-record-single-day-spike-101618941114938.html
20-04-2021||Bangalore||They sold saline in Remdesivir vials to 900 desperate Covid patients; arrested||A group of five people who had been selling saline solution mixed with paracetamol in vials of anti-viral drug Remdesivir to Covid-19 patients have been arrested, the Mysuru police chief Dr Chandragupta said on Tuesday. Dr Chandragupta said the police had also started a massive exercise to trace at least 900 patients who bought fake doses over the last six months or so.The Mysuru police stumbled upon the racket when it started investigating possible instances of people selling Remdesivir on the black market. There have been multiple reports of shortage of Remdesivir vials in Karnataka due to the surge in coronavirus cases. According to medical practitioners, the drug which costs between ₹1,000 to ₹5,000 was being sold for upto ₹40,000 by unscrupulous people.One of the leads that the investigators received led them to a nurse working in a private hospital in Mysuru’s Vidhya Nagar locality, identified by the police as Girish.“We arrested him after sending a decoy (customer) to purchase the vials,” the Mysuru police commissioner Dr Chandragupta said. Girish had sold the vial to the decoy customer at the maximum retail price though he sold the medicine on the black market.Dr Chandragupta said when they tried to ascertain the source of his supply, he was evasive. “When we continued to question him about his supply, he claimed that he was selling fake medicine,” he said.Many vials labelled as Remdesivir, but filled with a mix of paracetamol and saline solution have been seized during the raids that followed.According to the national treatment protocol, Remdesivir is one of the investigational drugs approved for use in treating hospitalized Covid-19 patients. The drug has been in huge demand after the surge in Covid-19 cases; most chemists have run out of stocks due to its indiscriminate use by patients even though several experts contend that it is largely ineffective in the treatment of the viral disease. According to the Mysuru police, Girish, who had been selling fake doses of Remdesivir for months, procured used bottles of the medicine from a couple and filled it with saline solution. The couple who supplied the used vials and two medical representatives who helped Girish sell the fake does have also been arrested.Police said Girish has sold at least 900-1,000 vials to customers in Mysuru, Bengaluru and other places. Chandragupta said they were trying to trace the people who bought the fake doses. “We are collecting information from the accused and we will track down the patients who have taken medicines. Since he has been doing this since 2020 and he was selling the fake medicine at MRP (maximum retail price), there were a lot of customers,” the commissioner added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/they-sold-saline-in-remdesivir-vials-to-900-desperate-covid-patients-arrested-101618933598400.html
