01-11-2021||India||India to go carbon neutral by 2070, pledges Modi at climate summit||India will achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2070, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the COP26 summit in the Scottish city of Glasgow on Monday, spelling out the target for the first time that gives the country 10 years more than China and 20 more than the US and European Union, ndvt.com reported. Considered a milestone in climate action pledges, "net zero" refers to a balance where emissions of greenhouse gases that raise the globe's temperature continue but are offset by the absorption of an equivalent amount from the atmosphere. The pledge was among five commitments by the Prime Minister at the UN Conference. "First - India will reach its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 GW by 2030," he said. "Second - India will meet 50 percent of its energy requirements from renewable energy by 2030," he said. "Third - India will reduce the total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes from now to 2030," the PM said. "Fourth - By 2030, India will reduce the carbon intensity of its economy to less than 45 per cent," he said. "And fifth - by 2070, India will achieve the target of net zero," he added. Experts see ‘net zero' targets as a critical measure to successfully tackle climate change and its devastating consequences. Earlier, speaking at a side event Action and Solidarity: The Critical Decade' at the 26th UN climate conference in Glasgow, Modi stressed on the need to include in the school syllabus the importance of living in harmony with nature as per traditional practices. Adaptation has not got as much importance as mitigation in the international climate debate. It is injustice to those countries which are highly vulnerable to climate change, he told the gathering. "Many traditional communities have the knowledge of living in harmony with nature. In our adaptation policies, the traditional practices should be given importance. To ensure this knowledge reaches the next generation, it should be added to the school syllabus, Prime Minister Modi said. He stressed that climate change is a huge challenge for the agriculture sector in developing nations, including India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
01-11-2021||India||Centre constitutes empowered group of secretaries to monitor roll-out of PM Gati Shakti||The government on Monday said it has constituted an empowered group of secretaries (EGOS), headed by the cabinet secretary, which will be a monitoring mechanism for the development and implementation of the PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan. The commerce and industry ministry in a notification said this 20-member group will set out procedure and definitive timeframe for synchronisation of various activities for construction of roads and rail, etc., along with all utility services in an area-based approach for development of infrastructure on a pilot basis. The other terms of references of the group include review and monitor the implementation of the plan to ascertain the logistics efficiency accruing; adopt framework and norms for undertaking any amendments in the plan; and coordinate for any changes in the projects already included in the plan. It will also align various initiatives on the development of common integrated portal which serve the needs of all stakeholders; and issue appropriate directions for achieving the objectives and for complaince of guiding principles of the plan and in addressing demand side requirements of the ministries concerned, it said. The members of the group includes secretaries of key ministries, including road, shipping, civil aviation, telecom, coal, mines, agriculture and expenditure. Chairman of the railway board is also a member. The Union Cabinet had last month approved the Pradhan Mantri Gati Shakti National Master Plan for providing multi-layered connectivity, which includes implementation, monitoring and support mechanism. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 13 launched the Rs 100 lakh crore National Master Plan to reduce 'logistic' costs and develop infrastructure that boosts the economy. PM Gati Shakti plan involves the creation of a common umbrella platform through which infrastructure projects can be planned and implemented in an efficacious manner by way of coordination between various ministries/departments on a real-time basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
01-11-2021||India||Adityanath hits out at Akhilesh for 'comparing' Jinnah with Sardar Patel||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday attacked Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav for "comparing" Muhammad Ali Jinnah with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, saying Talibani mentality believed in breaking the society. Yadav on Sunday spoke of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah in the same breath as leaders who fought for India's independence, prompting a criticism from the BJP. "I was listening to Akhilesh ji's statement yesterday. He was comparing Jinnah, who divided the country, with Sardar Patel, who brought the nation together. This is a shameful statement," Adityanath said in a programme in Moradabad. He said "Talibani mentality" believes in breaking the society. "Sometimes it is in the name of caste... When they are not succeeding, they are raising fingers at 'mahapurush' (great personalities) and insulting the entire society," he said. The chief minister said this cannot be accepted and everyone should condemn it. "Yadav should regret his statement as insulting Sardar Patel will not be accepted," he added. "Sardar Patel is the basis of India's unity and integrity, and also is the nation's architect," he said, adding that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi the belief of 'ek Bharat, shresth Bharat' is being taken forward. “The credit of keeping free India 'undivided' goes to Sardar Patel,” Adityanath said. “The divisive mentality of glorifying Jinnah by comparing him with Sardar Patel is back in light,” the chief minister said. "I think the people of the country, especially those from Uttar Pradesh, will never accept this divisive mentality," he added. The BSP hit out at Yadav on Monday for speaking of the four leaders in the same breath and alleged that there is a "collusion" between the SP and the BJP. In a tweet in Hindi, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati alleged that Yadav's remarks on Jinnah and the BJP's response to it are part of a well-thought-out strategy of the two parties to vitiate the atmosphere on Hindu-Muslim lines ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi also criticised Yadav's remarks, saying that Muslims who stayed in india had rejected Jinnah's two-nation theory and the SP leader should instead talk about the present. The SP president, in his address at an event in Hardoi on Sunday, had lavished praise on Patel on his 146th birth anniversary but raised eyebrows at one point when he appeared to equate the four leaders, including Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan. The SP leader had said, "Sardar Patel understood the ground and he made decisions accordingly. Hence, he is also known as Iron Man." "Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," Yadav had said. He had also referred to the ban imposed on the RSS by Patel, the then home minister, following Mahatma Gandhi's assassination in 1948, saying only he could do it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
01-11-2021||India||Congress party launches nationwide membership campaign ‘Join Congress Save India’||The Congress on Monday launched its membership drive across the country with all its state units holding meetings to discuss ways to ensure a large number of people join the grand old party. The drive was launched by state unit presidents of the Congress, which also started an online membership campaign ‘Join Congress Save India’. It urged people to join the party to save the country from forces trying to destroy constitutional values. The Congress has accused the BJP of spreading hatred and dividing society, and has said that it will fight back with Mahatma Gandhi's teachings of non-violence, truth and unity. The membership drive, which started on Monday, will continue till March 31 next year. Those wishing to take up the primary membership of the Congress will have to make a declaration of abstention from alcohol and drugs. They will give an undertaking to never criticise the party's policies and programmes in public forums. New members will also have to give a declaration that they will not own any property in excess of ceiling laws and will undertake tasks, including "manual labour", prescribed by the Congress. People can become a member of the Congress by paying a fee of Rs 5. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot urged the youth to join the party and said its ideology is dedicated to uphold the country's Constitution and its democratic values. Gehlot said the Congress is the oldest party in the country with a proud history and its leaders have sacrificed their lives before and after independence to keep it united. He said the Congress aims at ensuring unity, social harmony and equality and urged people to join hands with it to end the current era where "fascist forces" are bent upon destroying constitutional values. The Congress will also focus on training its cadre to counter the BJP's "false propaganda" and will work out modalities for the upcoming training programmes. The party's membership drive will be followed by organisational elections, which includes election of state unit presidents, vice presidents, treasurers, executives and AICC members by the Pradesh Congress Committee general body which will be held between July 21-August 20 next year. The election for the new Congress president would be held between August 21 and September 20 next year. The election of Congress Working Committee members and other bodies by AICC members will take place at a plenary session, dates for which will be announced before October 2022. The Congress will also undertake a mass agitational programme - 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan', across the country over rising prices from November 14 to 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Bypolls: Counting of votes on Tuesday in three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly constituencies||Counting of votes will take place on Tuesday in three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly constituencies spread across 13 states and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli where by-elections were held on October 30. The assembly by-elections which saw a high turnout were held in five seats in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one seat each is in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana. Out of the 29 Assembly seats, the BJP had won in around half a dozen constituencies earlier, the Congress had nine, while the rest were with the regional parties. The seats where Lok Sabha by-elections were held are Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh. In all the three Lok Sabha constituencies, the sitting members had died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||SC sets aside HC order banning firecrackers in Bengal ||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside the Calcutta High Court order banning firecrackers during Kali Puja, Diwali and other festivals this year to check air pollution amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The apex court said that firecrackers that are environmental friendly are allowed. A special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi also asked the West Bengal government to explore the possibility to ensure that banned firecrackers and related items are not imported in the state at the entry point itself. The bench, which assembled during the Diwali break to hear the matter, was hearing the pleas against the October 29 order of the high court banning the sale, use and purchase of all types of firecrackers in the state. Calcutta High Court had on Saturday banned the use of all forms of firecrackers, including green crackers, in celebrating the upcoming occasions of Diwali, Kali Puja, Chaath Puja, Christmas and New Year’s Eve. "The state should ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers of any type at all during Kali Puja, Diwali celebrations as well as Chhath Puja, Jagadhatri Puja, Guru Nanak's birthday and Christmas and New Year's eve celebrations this year," the high court had said. A division bench said that “only wax or oil-based diyas might be used”. The cracker ban, which covered the whole of Bengal, would have applied to  Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday as well. The bench gave primacy to the “right to live” and citizens’ larger interests, choosing to overlook the “smaller interest” of those dependent on the firecracker industry. “We are not convinced that firecrackers of any form, either green or of any other category, ought to be permitted to be used during the coming festive season,” the bench of Justices Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya and Aniruddha Roy said, passing an order on a batch of public interest litigation petitions. The order cited the “pandemic situation, which is getting marginally worse by the day” and “the fact that even moderate Air Quality Index (AQI) can cause severe difficulties for people suffering from respiratory problems”. On Wednesday, the state pollution control board had issued a directive banning all types of fireworks, except “green fireworks” that could be burst for two hours from 8pm on Diwali (November 4). But the division bench of Justices Bhattacharyya and Roy had said that even green crackers would not be allowed, adding that It would be an impossible task for the police and/ or law-enforcement agencies to ascertain the veracity of the certificates of the crackers. On the livelihood of those dependent on the firecracker industry, the order said: “It is submitted that keeping in view the larger interest of the citizens of the state, the smaller interest of the firecracker manufacturers and all concerned with such business might be overlooked.” The bench observed: “Right to live is the fundamental right of the people. This right cannot be curbed by allowing the firecrackers to be used.” It had said that many were suffering from breathing problems amid the pandemic. “Their problem will further increase if firecrackers are allowed (on) festive days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Pilgrims will soon be going to Kailash-Mansarovar by car: Union minister||Pilgrims will soon be able to visit Kailash-Mansarovar by car as Rs 60 crore has been sanctioned by the Centre to upgrade the border road from Ghatiabagar to Lipulekh into a metalled one, Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said. Making the announcement at the concluding ceremony of a religious festival at the high-altitude Gunji village in Pithoragarh district on Sunday, Bhatt said the metalled road will not only help defence personnel reach border outposts quickly but also help tourists reach the unique place. Gunji is a border village located on the way to Kailash-Mansarovar at a height of 10,000 ft in Vyas Valley of the Dharchula subdivision in Pithoragarh. "In the coming days, this area will emerge as the most favoured border tourism destination," he said. "The road network at the Indo-China border will also help locals settle in their villages to run homestay and other tourism-related businesses," the Union minister added. The minister also praised the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for laying the road network in difficult terrains. "The BRO has constructed a border road at Om Lingla located at a height of 19,300 ft in Ladakh," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||89 per cent pollution complaints pending in Delhi-NCR, says CPCB data||The agencies in the Delhi-NCR region have fared badly in tackling air pollution-related complaints and have resolved just 11 per cent of such issues since October 15, when the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) came into force to deal with the worsening of air quality in the region. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), only 47 out of 424 complaints have been resolved by agencies in Delhi and the NCR cities in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan between October 15 and October 30. According to the CPCB, most complaints are related to construction and demolition activities, unpaved roads, road dust, open dumping of garbage and industrial waste and traffic congestion. Of the 277 complaints registered in Delhi, 26 have been resolved 91 per cent of the issues are pending. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has been able to address only two of the 103 complaints received. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) resolved only two of the 88 complaints addressed to it. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation has attended seven of the 20 complaints, Delhi Development Authority has one of 20 and the Public Works Department has two of the 15 issues raised. The authorities in NCR areas of Uttar Pradesh have worked out only six out of the 43 complaints received so far. The agencies in Haryana have dealt with 15 out of 86 air pollution-related complaints, while none of the 12 complaints in Rajasthan has been resolved. GRAP is a set of anti-pollution measures followed in Delhi and its surrounding towns according to the severity of the situation. It comes into force in mid-October when air pollution levels in the region start worsening due to unfavourable meteorological conditions and stubble burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Mumbai Crime Branch takes Sachin Waze's custody||The Mumbai Crime Branch on Monday took the custody of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze in connection with an extortion case registered against him at suburban Goregaon, an official said. After taking Waze's custody, the crime branch personnel took him to the Esplanade court here to seek his further remand for interrogation in the case. A special court here last week allowed the Mumbai police to take the custody of Waze, who was lodged in Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail, for interrogation in the case. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh is also an accused in the case. Waze, the 49-year-old assistant police inspector, was dismissed from service after his arrest in March this year in the case related to recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. The Mumbai Crime branch, probing the extortion case registered at Goregaon police station, had sought his custody from the special court, saying it was necessary for further probe into the offence. Considering the fact that Waze recently underwent bypass surgery, the court had called for a report about his health condition from the prison authorities. The court, after finding that he was fit to travel for a few days, last week directed the jail authorities to hand over his custody to the Mumbai police on November 1. The extortion case had been registered against Waze, Param Bir Singh and others on a complaint of builder-cum-hotelier Bimal Agrawal. Four others - Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Babloo and Riyaz Bhati - have also been named as accused in the case. As per the complaint by Agarwal, the accused extorted Rs 9 lakh from him for not conducting a raid on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership, and also forced him to buy two smartphones worth around Rs 2.92 lakh for them. The incident occurred between January 2020 and March 2021, police earlier said. Accordingly, the case was filed under Indian Penal Code Sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) 34 (common intention) against the six accused and a probe in the case is on, they had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Stalin wants funds for rural employment scheme payment  ||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin on Monday flagged a "wage liability" of over Rs 1,000 crore to the beneficiaries of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the state and urged the Centre to release funds immediately, considering the festival season. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Stalin said MGNREGS is considered as a "stable livelihood opportunity" in rural areas and the present delay in wage payment was causing hardship to many thousands of rural households. He said the entire amount of Rs 3,524.69 crore released from the Centre to Tamil Nadu during FY 2021-22 has been fully utilised by crediting into the workers' account up to September 15, 2021. "Since then no further funds has been released towards wages by Government of India which led to the wage liability of Rs 1,178.12 crore up to 1-11-2021. MGNREGS is considered as a stable livelihood opportunity in rural areas and the present delay in wage payment is causing hardship to many thousands of rural households and may lead them to disowning the scheme and lead to urban migration for employment opportunity which is to be averted by MGNREGS," he told Modi. "Hence, funds towards wage payments may be released immediately particularly considering the festival season," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav won’t contest UP polls||In a startling disclosure, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said he will not be contesting the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls early next year. The former chief minister also announced that an alliance between his party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal has been finalised. "Our alliance with the RLD is final. Seat-sharing is to be finalised," he told PTI in an interview. The RLD enjoys support among farmers of Western Uttar Pradesh and is on the same page with the SP on the issue of opposing the Centre's three farm laws. The SP has already announced an alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar's Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SPSP). Yadav also said his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav, who broke away from the SP to form the Pragatisheel Samajwadi party Lohia (PSPL) will get the due honour from his party. On chances of taking uncle Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) along in the polls, he said, "I don’t have any problem in this. He and his men will be given due honour". Yadav, who is an SP MP from Azamgarh and regarded as the CM face of his party, said, "I will not be contesting the assembly election myself". The SP supremo, who was a Member of Legislative Council (MLC) when he served as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh from 2012-2017, did not give any reason for the decision. However, Yadav said a final decision on his contesting the polls will be taken by the party later. On whether he has held any talks with the AIMIM or Mamata Banerjee's TMC for the state polls, he said there have been no discussions with them. Terming his party's tie-up with the SBSP as a natural alliance, Yadav said people in eastern Uttar Pradesh have accepted it and it will ensure the BJP's defeat. On the poll promises made by the SBSP to provide free electricity and RLD of providing over one crore jobs, Yadav said every party has its agenda. "We all raise issues of farmers, employment, common man. Everyone is releasing their manifesto. If voted to power, our government will try to accommodate them and prepare a common minimum programme," he said. Asked about the joining of Congress leaders and also of a BJP and BSP MLA in his party, he asserted, "The joining will continue. It shows that people are seeing the SP as an alternative to the BJP, which only spread lies and deceit people with promises." He said that people of the state have not forgotten the pain and treatment meted to them during the peak of Covid and added that maximum cases were lodged against his party workers during the pandemic for helping people. "SP workers were on the street during Covid peak. We provided all necessary help to people when government was missing from action and left people on their own to survive. Instead of helping, maximum number of cases were lodged against SP workers during the pandemic but it did not deter them," he said. Countering the "tall claims of BJP of helping people", Yadav said, "Why not a single case was filed against BJP workers during Covid. As our workers were out for help, cases were lodged against them." He was asked about Union Home Minister Amit Shah's recent remark as to where was the SP supremo during the Covid period. Lashing out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Yadav accused him of ruining the state. "By saying that it has fulfilled 90 per cent promises of its 'Sankalp Patra' (manifesto), the BJP is only lying," he charged. About the government's move to provide tablets or smart phones to students, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, "What was it doing for the past over four-and-a-half years? This shows their intention." The Samajwadi supremo said people are facing inflation and youth are unemployed. People faced hardships during Covid peak and lost their near and dear ones for lack of treatment, non-availability of beds, and oxygen and now they will think twice before voting for the BJP, he asserted. "The SP is the only party that can face BJP and stand tall before them in the interest of people. Farmers are also with the SP. This time there will be a change in the state and people of the state have made up their minds," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh appears before ED in Mumbai||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here for questioning in a money laundering case, officials said. They said the federal probe agency will record the statement of the 71-year-old NCP leader under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with the criminal investigation being carried out by it in the alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra Police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. Deshmukh had skipped at least four summons issued by the ED in the case but after the Bombay High Court last week refused to quash these summons, he appeared before the agency. The ED case against Deshmukh, who was earlier the home minister in the MVA government, and others came after the CBI booked him in the corruption case related to allegations of bribe made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Repeal farm laws by November 26 or farmers will intensify protest: Tikait to Centre||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said the Centre has time till November 26 to repeal the contentious farm laws, after which farmer protests around Delhi would be intensified. November 26 would mark one year of the ongoing farmers' protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. The protests are led by farmers collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). Farmers' union BKU, whose supporters are encamping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, is also a part of the SKM. "The central government has time till November 26, after that, from November 27, farmers will reach the border at the movement sites around Delhi on tractors from villages and strengthen the tents at the movement site with solid fortifications," Tikait, the BKU national spokesperson, tweeted in Hindi. Hundreds of farmers are encamped at the three Delhi borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for crops. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogues with the farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protestors claim they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
01-11-2021||India||Congress woos women with a separate manifesto, free LPG cylinders, bus rides for UP polls||Eyeing the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls slated for next year, Congress is offering a slew of sops to women. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said her party has prepared a separate manifesto for women for the upcoming polls, and promised them free LPG cylinders and travel in government buses if voted to power. Gandhi, who is also the Congress' Uttar Pradesh in-charge, had last month announced that her party will give 40 per cent tickets to women in the polls slated for early next year, saying the decision is aimed at making women, who constitute roughly half the vote bank, a "full-fledged partner in power". "My dear sisters of Uttar Pradesh, your day is full of struggles. Understanding this, the Congress party has prepared a separate manifesto for women," Vadra said in a tweet in Hindi. "On the formation of the Congress party's government, three LPG cylinders will be given for free to women annually and women will be able to travel for free in state government buses," she said. Priyanka Gandhi has also tagged a picture along with the tweet listing the Congress' promises to the women if the party comes to power in the Uttar Pradesh. The assurances also included an honorarium of Rs 10,000 per month to ASHA and Anganwadi workers, appointment of women to 40 per cent posts according to the provisions of reservation, giving pension of Rs 1,000 to old widows, and opening of 75 skill schools across the state that will be named after the brave women of the state. The Opposition party is facing an uphill task of consolidating its support base in Uttar Pradesh and Priyanka Gandhi is going all out to woo women in her election campaigns. The Congress general secretary had last month said all class 12 pass girls will be given a smartphone while all graduate girls will get an electric scooter if her party forms a government in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede meets chairperson of National Commission for Scheduled Castes ||Fighting allegations that he forged documents, Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal head Sameer Wankhede on Monday presented his original caste papers to prove he is a Dalit to National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairperson Vijay Sampla. The proofs and documents provided will be verified with the Maharashtra government and no action can be taken against him if they are found to be valid, Sampla told reporters after meeting Wankhede, who is leading the probe in the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. Sources added that Wankhede also submitted divorce papers of his first marriage, birth certificate and other related documents. Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik has alleged that the officer forged his caste certificate and other documents to secure a job as IRS officer under the SC quota after clearing the UPSC examination. He also said Wankhede is a Muslim by birth, a claim the officer has denied. The NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into allegations made by a witness in the case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including Wankhede, and others for letting off Khan. On Sunday, Arun Halder, NCSC vice-chairperson, came out in Wankhede's support, saying the officer is doing good work and making his department proud but a minister has launched a personal attack against him and his family members. Halder also visited Wankhede's residence in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 248 days||With 12,514 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,85,814, while the active cases declined to 1,58,817, the lowest in 248 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,58,437 with 251 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infection has been below 20,000 for 24 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 127 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.46 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the ministry said. A decline of 455 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 106.31 crores. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,68,560, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. As many as 8,81,379 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 60,92,01,294. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 28 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.17 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 38 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 106.31 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 251 new fatalities include 167 from Kerala and 20 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the past few days. A total of 4,58,437 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,216 from Maharashtra, 38,082 from Karnataka, 36,116 from Tamil Nadu, 31,681 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,141 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Schools reopen for all classes in Delhi ||Several schools in the national capital reopened on Monday with 50 per cent seating capacity for junior classes after remaining closed for 19 months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Several private schools, however, have chosen to defer the reopening post-Diwali. Masked students, thermal scanning, and volunteers guiding staggered entry and exit for students was a common sight at the schools which reopened on Monday. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia visited the Rajkiya Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in East Delhi's Vinod Nagar and interacted with students. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had last week announced that schools would reopen for all classes from November 1, even though teaching and learning would continue in blended mode. The DDMA had also said that schools would have to ensure that there is not more than 50 per cent attendance in a class at one point of time and no student is forced to attend physical classes. Following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the national capital, the Delhi government had announced the reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions from September 1. However, this is the first time after March 2020 that schools in Delhi are reopening for classes upto 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Modi to present India's climate action agenda at COP26 in UK||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be presenting the formal position on India's climate action agenda and lay out the best practices and achievements in the sector at the COP26 summit in Glasgow on Monday. During the high-profile segment of the World Leaders' Summit, the Prime Minister is scheduled to deliver a national statement alongside other world leaders and India's statement will come after that of Prime Minister of Poland Matuesz Morawiecki, with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan set to follow. "Landed in Glasgow. Will be joining the COP26 Summit, where I look forward to working with other world leaders on mitigating climate change and articulating India's efforts in this regard," Modi said on Twitter soon after he landed here from the G20 Summit in Rome on Sunday night. Modi was received to the notes of Scottish bagpipes as he arrived at his hotel in Glasgow, where he was greeted by a large group of Indian diaspora representatives with chants of Bharat Mata Ki Jai . On Monday morning, he is scheduled to hold a meet and greet with around 45 Indian diaspora representatives from Glasgow and Edinburgh, including prominent medics, academics and business people. He will also meet the Indian winner of Prince William's Earthshot Prize, Delhi-based recycling firm Takachar founder Vidyut Mohan, and 14-year-old prize finalist from Tamil Nadu Vinisha Umashankar, inventor of a solar-powered ironing cart. He will then proceed for the opening ceremony of day one of the World Leaders' Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), being held at the Scottish Event Campus (SEC) in Glasgow. Modi's bilateral meeting with his British counterpart Boris Johnson is expected to take place soon after Monday's opening ceremony, which will include cultural performances and a speech by Johnson. Johnson has said the summit will be the "world's moment of truth" and has urged world leaders to make the most of it. "The question everyone is asking is whether we seize this moment or let it slip away," he said, ahead of the two-week conference. According to official sources, the Johnson-Modi talks are expected to be quite brief and will focus on the UK-India climate partnership as well as a stock-take of the 2030 Roadmap for stronger UK-India Strategic Partnership signed by the two leaders during a virtual summit in May this year. Modi is expected to reiterate his invitation for Johnson to visit India. Both governments remain committed to the implementation of the Roadmap, within prescribed timelines. Accordingly, we are looking to launch negotiations in November 2021 for an Interim Agreement to be signed in March 2022 and eventually a comprehensive agreement, if all goes according to schedule, by November 2022, India's High Commissioner to the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, said ahead of the prime ministerial talks. It would be the first in-person meeting between Modi and Johnson following the latter's twice cancelled visit to India earlier this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The bilateral meeting will be followed by a leader-level COP26 event entitled Action and Solidarity: The Critical Decade, for which the UK has extended a special invitation for Modi to deliver an address on the subject of "adaptation". "India is among the top countries in the world in terms of installed renewable energy, wind and solar energy capacity. At the WLS, I will share India's excellent track record on climate action and our achievements," Modi said in a statement ahead of the summit. "I will also highlight the need to comprehensively address climate change issues including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience building measures, mobilisation of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles for green and inclusive growth," he said. At the end of day one of the World Leaders' Summit on Monday, Modi will join more than 120 Heads of Government and Heads of State at a special VVIP reception at Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum one of Scotland's most popular visitor attractions. The reception will also involve members of the royal family, including Prince Charles and wife Camilla and Prince William and wife Kate Middleton. Queen Elizabeth II was due to attend this special reception but pulled out last week after a medical advice against travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Class IX, X CBSE students need not come to school for lab work||CBSE students enrolled in Class IX or X need not come to school to do hands-on science assignments like sublimation, filtration or evaporation. They can do these, and many other experiments and practical tasks, at home using easily available tools and materials and with the help of instruction videos and written guidance texts uploaded by the CBSE. For sublimation, filtration and evaporation, for instance, all they need are stuff like plastic bottles, insulation tape, cotton, rulers, teaspoons, common salt, sand, and ice cream sticks. Academics have welcomed the move, which comes at a time schools have reopened for Class IX upwards in most states but attendance has been low because of parents’ Covid jitters. Last year, with schools closed because of the pandemic, the CBSE allowed students of Classes IX to XII to perform lab experiments virtually on the online platform OLab. The students issued instructions step by step while a computer carried out the experiments as directed, a science teacher from a Navodaya school explained. On Friday, the CBSE issued a circular listing video and guidance material for 75 experiments the students are required to do in Classes IX and X. “Further to this (experiment through OLab), the CBSE has curated a set of alternate experiments using simple, readily available household materials that learners can use to do these activities at their homes,” the circular said. “The hands-on activities have been designed to have similar learning outcomes for all the lab experiments required to be done in (the academic year) 21-22 for class 9 and 10.” After doing the experiments, the students can record their observations in writing. While the activities and materials prescribed are deemed to be safe for the children to do on their own, schoolteachers are required to review the experiments and materials before assigning tasks and advise parents whether supervision is necessary for any particular activity, the circular said. A CBSE official said no decision had been taken about introducing similar provisions for Classes XI and XII. A teacher said: “This can be advised for higher classes too. For example, the students can easily do experiments like isolation of DNA from spinach or dissection of flowers at home.” Kiran Mehta, former principal of Salwan Public School, said the CBSE was gradually getting the students to “learn independently”. “The students can themselves acquire certain skills at home. It’s a welcome step,” Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Study reveals 71% NREGA workers did not receive their wages on time||Ashok Munduri from Chhotalagia village in Jharkhand borrowed Rs 5,000 in July to rent a tractor to plough his land. He had to sell a pig to repay the amount a month later, for he hadn’t received his rural job scheme wages. A study’s findings, released on Friday, said 71 per cent of those who had worked under the scheme between April and September this year did not receive their wages on time. “I had worked 23 days on a land development project in my village under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in June and July,” the paddy grower from West Singhbhum district said. “I borrowed the sum in the last week of July, hoping to repay it in a week after I got my wages. But I didn’t receive my wages even by the end of August. So I had to sell my pig.” The Union rural development ministry sent the wages to his account in September. The scheme requires the wages to be paid within 15 days of the end of each phase of a project. State officials are mandated to send to the Union ministry funds transfer orders (FTOs) within eight days, seeking payment for the workers. The ministry is supposed to pay the wages in another seven days. Munduri said the job plan, which entitles every rural household to up to 100 days’ paid and unskilled work a year, was a “good” scheme. “But delays in wage payment are a big problem,” he added. LibTech India, a team of independent researchers, studied the FTOs issued for 18 lakh rural job scheme workers, having randomly selected 10 per cent of the FTOs raised per block from 10 states including Bengal. The data are available on the scheme website. It found that while the state officials had largely met their eight-day deadline, the Union ministry had mostly exceeded its mandated seven-day period. While 71 per cent of the transactions had exceeded the seven-day deadline, 44 per cent had exceeded 15 days — that is, witnessed a delay of eight days or more. “It’s the central government that is responsible for the delay in wage payment as the states sent their FTOs on time,” said Rajendran Narayanan, academic and lead researcher who presented the findings at an online news conference. The study found that the rural development ministry had delayed by at least eight days the payments to nearly two-thirds of Jharkhand’s workers, and to half or more among the workers from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Bengal. About 45 per cent wage payments to Bengal’s workers were pending on October 13. On March 2 this year, the rural development ministry had issued a circular dividing the workers into three caste-based categories — Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Others — and stipulating separate payment for each group. It cited accountancy needs as the reason without elaboration. But this added to the state officials’ burden in processing the data and segregating the FTOs. LibTech found that the time taken for wage payment by the Union ministry varied according to category. While 46 per cent of payments to the Scheduled Castes were completed in the mandated seven-day period, the figure was 37 per cent for the Scheduled Tribes and 26 per cent for the rest. “The caste-based segregation of FTOs led to no benefits. On the contrary, it has caused a threefold increase of work for block officials, and created caste-based and religious frictions among communities,” Rajendran said. Social activist Nikhil Dey, who is associated with the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan that works for implementation of the rural job scheme in Rajasthan, said the Union ministry deliberately delayed wage payment to discourage the panchayats from taking up too many projects. This was because the scheme had almost exhausted its funds already, he said. “Already, 90 per cent of the budget for the scheme has been exhausted, but the finance ministry is yet to release additional funds,” Dey said. An email sent to rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha seeking the reasons for the wage delays has brought no answers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Kerala graduates rush for jobs at South Korean onion farms||Techies and management graduates are among applicants for jobs at onion farms in South Korea, for which a Kerala government recruiting agency has been conducting pre-recruitment orientation seminars over the past few weeks. The last of the four seminars, held in Kochi on Friday, drew hundreds of aspirants seeking jobs that offer a monthly salary between $1,000 (Rs 74,900) and $1,500 (Rs 112,300). Although the job description says it’s for men and women who have cleared Class X and have farming skills, many applicants have higher qualifications. Overseas Development and Employment Promotion Consultants Ltd, a state government undertaking that facilitates recruitment for foreign employers seeking workers from Kerala, had advertised on its website openings at two South Korean onion farms. The farms had contacted the agency two months ago. “We received some 5,000 applications for the 100 vacancies, which sent our system crashing,” ODEPC managing director Anoop K.A. told The Telegraph on Saturday. “As is our practice, we then invited them to orientation seminars — we held two each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi — where a total of about 1,000 aspirants turned up.” The two onion farms are located on the Korean islands of Sinan and Muan. Initially, a year’s job contracts will be offered. This can later be extended by another three years. The agency has verified the genuineness of the employers through the Indian and South Korean missions in Seoul and New Delhi. India’s first government agency for overseas recruitment, ODEPC has helped foreign employers hire more than 10,000 workers from Kerala since 1977. NORKA-Roots is the second Kerala government agency that offers similar services. The applicants will now be interviewed online by the employers before the successful candidates are sent job contracts. “There are three categories of applicants, 90 per cent of whom are already employed,” Anoop said. “While one small segment has experience of farming, another group wants to spend at least a year in Korea and learn modern farming techniques before returning to Kerala to implement them.” He added: “The third category are mainly techies and management graduates who see this as a launch pad for jobs in Korea suited to their qualifications. Since getting a South Korean employment visa is not easy, the educated applicants want to travel to the country, learn the Korean language and look for jobs.” On Friday, many who had been unable to apply online after the ODEPC site crashed just walked in at the Kochi seminar. A 32-year-old MBA graduate, Kiran KS, who had lost his job during the first wave of the pandemic, was quoted in The New Indian Express as saying: “I have no prior experience in agriculture. But I am desperate for a job with a decent salary. I am ready to toil abroad for that.” ODEPC’s orientation seminars are meant to acquaint the applicants with the work culture, lifestyle, cost of living, climatic conditions and food they would encounter in the host country. “We brief the applicants about all aspects of life in the host country. For example, most Korean dishes contain pork and beef. Knowing this, the applicants can decide whether to go ahead,” Anoop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||Drug short, TB patients at risk||A 12-year-old girl with tuberculosis in a government hospital in Mumbai has received for over a month daily injections of amikacin, a drug that doctors say she should not receive under the current TB treatment guidelines. Doctors have diagnosed her as an extensive drug resistant (XDR)-TB patient, eligible to receive an oral patented drug named delamanid produced by a Japanese drugmaker Otsuka and whose supply in India is controlled by the Union health ministry. Guidelines adopted by India’s National TB Elimination Programme (NTEP) in 2018, in line with World Health Organisation recommendations, prescribe delamanid as a potential life-saving alternative oral drug to pre-XDR-TB and XDR-TB patients to replace injectable drugs like amikacin. XDR-TB is a type of multi-drug resistant (MDR)-TB in which the germs are resistant to at least two key first-line drugs, one an injected drug, and one drug from the family of fluoroquinolones. And pre-XDR-TB is marked by resistance to first-line drugs and at least one fluoroquinolone. Studies from multiple countries have suggested that anti-TB regimens that include delamanid and another oral drug called bedaquiline can increase treatment success rates in XDR-TB patients from below 40 per cent to over 72 per cent. When tests revealed the Mumbai girl had XDR-TB, her doctors first started a treatment regimen that included kanamycin — another injected drug — but switched to amikacin after she developed hearing loss, a known side effect of kanamycin. Amikacin too comes with a high risk of hearing loss. The girl is among thousands of pre-XDR- or XDR-TB patients across the country who have been exposed to the risks of low-efficacy regimens because the NTEP has been unable to supply sufficient doses of delamanid, doctors and patients rights’ groups have said. “Patients have to suffer consequences of obsolete injected drugs because the government is not making available the new medicine,” said Ganesh Acharya, a Mumbai-based TB survivor who is among activists campaigning for improved access to delamanid. Leena Menghaney, a New Delhi-based lawyer who also works on access to treatment issues, said denying delamanid to pre-XDR- and XDR-TB patients “reduces their chance of treatment success and also puts those around them at risk of becoming infected with drug-resistant TB”. Senior NTEP officials have not responded to queries from this newspaper about delamanid shortages reported by patient rights groups, current stocks of the drug, and how many patients have received delamanid across the country so far. But a March 2021 report from the NTEP said 22,729 patients had received bedaquiline regimens and 652 patients had received delamanid regimens up to 2020. An NTEP official who requested anonymity told The Telegraph that those numbers need to be updated. Health activists, however, say those published numbers themselves expose the scale of unmet demand. A nationwide survey in 2018 had estimated the number of MDR-TB patients at 147,000, with about 22 per cent resistant to fluoroquinolones. Under current treatment guidelines, Menghaney said, those counts would translate into nearly 30,000 patients needing both bedaquiline and delamanid. India had estimated an incidence of 124,000 MDR-TB patients in 2019 and, applying the 22 per cent resistance to fluoroquinolones to that estimate would mean over 20,000 patients would be eligible for bedaquiline and delamanid each year. Patient rights groups have attributed the delamanid shortages to the Centre’s refusal to use provisions for compulsory licensing in Indian patent laws to facilitate domestic production of inexpensive generic versions of the drug and delays by the NTEP in procuring the drug from its sole supplier. Earlier this year, the Union commerce ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade, responding to a petition by patient rights advocates in Bombay High Court, rejected their demand for compulsory licensing saying that the Centre had enough stocks for the next nine months. “This was tantamount to misleading the court,” said Menghaney. “If the health ministry has sufficient stocks for nine months, why are so many patients not getting delamanid now?” Interviews with sections of district and state NTEP officers suggest that access to delamanid remains patchy with some conceding shortages, others asserting there are no shortages, and some saying they do not need delamanid as they make do with bedaquiline. Rameshchandra Reddy, an NTEP officer in Karnataka, told this newspaper that eight patients in the state are currently on delamanid but around 25 patients need the drug. “We have already made an indent (a requisition) and are waiting,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||MP minister issues ultimatum to Sabyasachi to withdraw ad||Madhya Pradesh home minister and BJP leader Narottam Mishra on Sunday issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw an advertisement with an “objectionable and obscene” portrayal of the mangalsutra or face legal action. The mangalsutra ad shows a woman wearing a low neckline dress and posing solo and in an intimate position with a man. After Sabyasachi shared the pictures, it created a controversy with some social media users terming it against Hindu culture and obscene. Mishra said: “I have warned earlier about such advertisements. I am personally warning designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee, giving him a 24-hour ultimatum. If this objectionable and obscene advertisement is not withdrawn, a case will be registered against him and legal action taken. Police will be sent for action.” Last week, Dabur had withdrawn its Fem cream bleach ad, which showed a same-sex couple celebrating Karva Chauth and watching each other through a sieve, after Mishra termed it objectionable and threatened legal action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
01-11-2021||India||A park where Indira gave her last speech in Bhubaneswar||Tens of thousands had packed a patch of green in the heart of this city to hear Indira Gandhi deliver her “blood and unity” speech on October 30, 1984. Thirty-seven years on, the open playground where the then Prime Minister delivered her last public speech a day before her assassination has been turned into a public park that still draws some 10,000 people every day. “I still get goosebumps when I remember her speech that day — it was so forceful,” Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik told The Telegraph on Sunday, Indira’s death anniversary. “She said she might not be alive tomorrow but every drop of her blood would strengthen India and keep it united,” Patnaik, now in his early 70s, added. “Meri khoon ki har boond Bharat ki ekta ko mazboot banayegi (Every drop of my blood will strengthen India’s unity),” the then Prime Minister had said, aware of a threat to her life following the army operation to flush out militants from the Golden Temple in Amritsar in June that year. The morning after her Bhubaneswar speech, Indira was shot dead by her bodyguards at her Safdarjung Road residence in New Delhi. As a tribute to her, then Congress chief minister J.B. Patnaik converted the playground, which stood opposite the state secretariat and Assembly, into a leafy, 10.6-acre park. A 12ft bronze statue of the late Prime Minister was made in Russia, by sculptors Dimitry Ryebachev and Alexander Ryebachev, at J.B. Patnaik’s initiative and installed at the park. Today, the Indira Gandhi Park boasts a variety of flowers and nearly 8,000 trees including wild date palm, sandalwood and jamun (black plum), apart from a water fountain, a walking and jogging track, and an open gym. The statue was unveiled and the park inaugurated on Indira’s fourth death anniversary — October 31, 1988 — by her son and then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. State Congress leaders pay homage to Indira before the statue every year on her birth and death anniversaries. Indira had addressed three rallies in Odisha on October 30, 1984, campaigning for the upcoming general election in early 1985 — which was eventually advanced to December 1984 following her assassination. Her last meeting of the day was in Bhubaneswar before she flew back to Delhi. Niranjan Patnaik, who was then a young minister in the J.B. Patnaik government, said: “I had been given charge of Indiraji’s meeting at Jajpur. The place is nearly 80km from Bhubaneswar. From Jajpur, she left for another rally in Odisha and I came straight to Bhubaneswar to attend her last meeting of the day.” His voice turned sombre as he added: “We had little idea that it would be her last public meeting.... But her last words continue to inspire generations.” Manoranjan Das, a senior Congress leader who was president of the Congress’s Bhubaneswar district youth wing in 1984, said: “I was among those assigned the job of organising the rally. The meeting began around 5pm, but the ground had been packed by 3pm. “There was absolutely no space left. Even the state secretariat staff had to climb atop the building to listen to her from across the road. The sound system had to be adjusted for that. Such was the crush of people that I could not even get close to the dais.” Das recalled that some people had opposed the conversion of the playground into a park, but J.B. Patnaik had stood firm. “Later, these same people began coming to the park for their morning walk,” he said. Jatni MLA Suresh Routray, who was an MLA back then too, said nearly 350 trucks had been used to bring people from various parts of the state to Bhubaneswar for Indira’s meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
01-11-2021||India|| 260 ITBP personnel awarded the Centre’s Special Operation Medal||As many as 260 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel were awarded the Union Home Minister’s Special Operation Medal on Sunday for their exceptional service during the border standoff with the Chinese army in eastern Ladakh. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km China frontier that passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The army remains behind it. An ITBP spokesperson said the award had been given to its troops in recognition of the “indomitable courage and devotion of duty” shown by them in eastern Ladakh between May 2020 and February this year. He said the special operations of the ITBP were spread over a year and involved a high degree of execution of strategic planning and efficient ground operations. In August this year the Centre had awarded gallantry medals to 20 ITBP personnel who fought shoulder to shoulder with the Indian Army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay in eastern Ladakh in 2020. Earlier, the ITBP had officially said that there had been multiple clashes, besides the Galwan Valley fight, between Indian and Chinese soldiers in May-June last year along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) . So far the Indian Army has remained tightlipped about these clashes. It only admitted two clashes last year — those on June 15 and May 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
01-11-2021||India||Priyanka blames Modi of destroying hard work done by previous govts ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government had destroyed in seven years the hard work done by previous governments across 70 years. “They ask you what the Congress did in 70 years. I can tell you that they have destroyed in just seven years the hard work past governments did over 70 years,” the Congress general secretary told a large rally in Gorakhpur, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s hometown. “We delivered the railways and airports. They are selling these off to private entities, destroying the country’s economy.” The Champa Devi Park, the venue of the rally, can accommodate over one lakh people. It was packed for Priyanka’s meeting. Modi has repeatedly claimed at home and abroad that his government has in seven years accomplished more than what its predecessors did in seven decades, suggesting that virtually nothing good had happened in India before he assumed power in 2014. Priyanka also replied to a general allegation by Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav that there was little difference between the policies of the BJP and the Congress. “The BSP and the SP say the Congress is hand in glove with the BJP. I want to tell you that I would prefer death to leaning towards the BJP. We shall never have any truck with the BJP,” Priyanka said. “The Congress has been fighting a lone hand against the BJP government’s anti-people activities. The rising prices have destroyed people’s lives. Petrol costs more than Rs 100 a litre and the price of the domestic (cooking gas) cylinder has touched Rs 900 to Rs 1,000. I want to ask how you are coping in this situation.” Priyanka targeted Adityanath, saying his “criminals and his police are attacking the public”. “(Union home minister) Amit Shah said in Lucknow two days ago that ever since the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh, one had to search for a criminal with a binocular. I want to tell him to put on his glasses so he can see the minister standing beside him whose son mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri,” she said. Ajay Mishra Teni, Union minister of state for home, had shared the dais with Shah on Friday at an event in Lucknow where the Union home minister praised the law-and-order situation under Adityanath’s rule. Teni’s son Ashis Mishra has been arrested on murder charges after a convoy of cars led by his father’s Thar jeep, with Ashis allegedly in it, ploughed into a crowd of protesting farmers and crushed four to death in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Teni had threatened the agitating farmers a few days earlier. Pariyanka said that while the 11th-century spiritual leader Guru Gorakshnath preached unity, Adityanath was working against unity. Gorakshnath was the disciple of Machchendra Nath, founder of the Nath sect. Adityanath is the current head of the Nath sect and mahant of the Gorakhnath temple, believed to have been established by Gorakshnath. Priyanka ended her speech with the cry: “Guru Machchendra Nathji ki jai, Guru Gorakshnathji ki jai.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
01-11-2021||India||‘Separation of religion and politics a must’ ||Examining the sectarian violence in Bangladesh during Durga Puja, journalist, author and rights activist Shahriar Kabir, the most resolute and renowned secular fighter of the country, has called for a total separation between religion and politics. Bangladesh has been progressing steadily on the economic path — there was no major communal outbreak for quite some time. How and why did this mayhem happen? Was it carefully pre-planned and premeditated? Let us be candid. As you said, we have been progressing at a really fast pace in the sphere of socio-economic development. Indeed, the progress achieved during Sheikh Hasina’s rule has been described by many western commentators as ‘wonderful’ and a ‘role model for other developing countries’, if not ‘magical’. We have also moved ahead in the public health index, hunger index, gender-ratio index and so on. But this advancement does not necessarily mean that we have got rid of the enemies of development and humanity, who are still mired in retrogressive Islamic thoughts and practices. These so-called devotees struck their first blow by killing Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation, and since then the killers, conspirators and their cohorts have tried to radicalise, rather ‘Pakistanise’, he politics, society and culture of Bangladesh. Pakistan was created on the basis of Mohammed Ali Jinnah’s sectarian ‘two-nation theory’. We fought the liberation war in 1971 to establish a secular democratic state and society. Three million people sacrificed their blood irrespective of Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, Muslim, believer, non-believer and indigenous people for a secular democratic Bangladesh. Bangladesh adopted a magnificent constitution in 1972 that enshrined ‘democracy’, ‘secularism’, ‘socialism’ and ‘Bengali nationalism’ as the basic principles of the republic. Bangabandhu constitutionally banned the formation of any political party or organisation in the name of religion in order to safeguard the secular spirit of the state. This constitution buried the concept of Pakistan in Bangladesh. Bangabandhu was killed by the pro-Pakistani anti-liberation forces who wanted to convert Bangladesh into a mini-Pakistan. General Ziaur Rahman and General Ershad, two military dictators, are mainly responsible for the Pakistanisation of our constitution, politics and society. Since the assassination of Bangabandhu in August 1975, most of the time Bangladesh was ruled by the pro-Pakistani communal forces. Of course, the enemies were defeated lock, stock and barrel in the last election but this does not mean that they have melted away into thin air. They are still active, they want to include divisive religion in the arena of politics, and they want, ultimately, a monolithic Muslim state like Gen. Ziaul Haque’s Pakistan or Mulla Umar’s Afghanistan. Continuous persecution of religious minorities, more specifically the Hindus, is an integral part of their political agenda. Unfortunately some of them have infiltrated the ruling Awami League in the past decade. As we have seen in the past, this time also these pro-Pakistani religio-political forces engineered and fuelled destructive acts and the mayhem that occurred during Durga Puja. In other words, what we witnessed was a pre-planned and premeditated carnage. Quite some planning and calculation fuelled this carnage. In fact, striking at different points on the same day or days bear witness to this premeditation. Moreover, now that the cat is out of the bag —placing the Quran in a Puja mandap — this pre-planned element stares us in the face. Would you please identify the destructive forces that were behind these murderous attacks? Very simple, the entire pro-Pakistani Opposition camp ignited this outrage. In this context, I shall name the BNP and the Jamaat in particular, and in general the reactionary and Rightist forces. They were of course joined by hoodlums, goondas and desecrators. If you watch the pro-Pakistani mullas’ rhetoric on social media, their main target is India and Sheikh Hasina. How have Sheikh Hasina and her Awami League government handled the flagrant situation? As in the past, she has been tough and determined from the very first moment. When she perceived that in some regions police assistance came a trifle too late, she directly ordered the home minister to take prompt and immediate steps. One of her forceful comments bears a recall. She said: ‘We shall punish the perpetrators in such a way that they will no longer dare to repeat what they have done.’ Quite a few hundreds have been taken to prison and we hope they will be punished in an exemplary manner. What steps are being taken by the civil society? Did they rise to the occasion? As in the past, the civil society has played an exemplary role. Please recall the protests and demonstrations launched by the common people — students, teachers, journalists, writers, artists and rights activists. Rousing street plays were enacted by cultural groups and students and the placards they were carrying bore testimony to their anger and outrage. These placards carried statements like, ‘The Great War of Liberation did not envisage such a tragic outcome’, ‘Demons of Pakistani politics go back to Pakistan’ or ‘We shall stamp out all efforts which aim to transform Bangladesh into a theocratic state’ or ‘We demand a permanent breach between religion and politics’. For the last 30 years, our Forum for Secular Bangladesh (popularly known as Ekattorer Ghatak Dalal Nirmul Committee), the largest civil society organisation in Bangladesh, is on the street for implementation of the spirit of the liberation war that is separation of religion from politics and state affairs. We have also asked the government to set up a national minority commission with judicial power to identify and punish the criminals who are involved in communal violence, as well as to address all issues related to the rights and dignities of the people belonging to the minority communities who are deprived of many rights guaranteed by the constitution. You have hit the nail on the head — ultimately it is a remorseless fight between two kinds of politics. On the one hand we have enlightened, democratic and secular politics divorced from religion and obscurantism and, on the other, religion-directed narrow and sectarian politics of the Taliban type. Many Bangladeshis still think in terms of Taliban politics, which would make the Shariat the determining legislation. These so-called illegitimate soldiers of Islam want only Muslims to live and flourish in Bangladesh. In fact, the one common slogan voiced by the rioters was, ‘Hindus, go back to Hindustan, for Bangladesh is an Islamic state’. The entire civil society, as well as the government, stands firmly opposed to this precarious design. They do not want a sectarian and monolithic Muslim state, which in essence, turns out to be a failed state like Pakistan. The real battle is being waged by these two opposing movements, and I am sure that we shall win this battle. But in order to ensure the victory of the democrats and secularists, we have to introduce far-reaching changes in the age-old Code of Criminal Procedure of 1898. There is an urgent need to enact new laws to punish the perpetrators of social violence or communal atrocities. Under the old witness law it’s not possible to try the perpetrators. We have to adopt a secular education policy, students in madrassas must learn the secular history of the Bengalis, the history and spirit of the liberation war. They must respect the secular democratic constitution of Bangladesh that was written with the blood of three million martyrs of the liberation war. Above all, reinstallation of the magnificent secular constitution of 1972 is on the top of our agenda. When we look at the Indian subcontinent we find a really divisive picture. Buddhist fundamentalists are guiding Myanmar, Muslim fundamentalists are guiding Pakistan and Hindu fundamentalists are guiding India. If devastating fire singes one country, the neighbour is also affected. Right, we are here emphasising the pernicious effects of chain reaction. We can change this situation by implementing one basic principle. That is, while religion should not cross the territory prescribed for it, politics and state should operate in a fully separate and independent manner and should hold religion at bay. This separation is direly needed at this hour because the present world as such is given to sponsoring retrograde, Right-wing, divisive politics. Bangabandhu, the Father of the Nation, insisted on this basic separation between religion and politics. And even before him, Indian statesmen like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and even Maulana Abul Kalam Azad had said that religion was a private and sacred disposition that should not cross its prescribed limits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
01-11-2021||India||NSUI members hurl eggs at Ajay Mishra Teni in Odisha ||Members of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress, on Sunday hurled eggs at Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni and showed him black flags near the airport here to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. The vehicle of Mishra’s son Ashis had allegedly mowed down four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3 and the minister had been accused of trying to shield his son and his associates. Mishra was on a one-day tour to the state to attend the Central Industrial Security Force’s function at Mundali near Cuttack where he inaugurated two barracks. When he came out of the Biju Patnaik airport in Bhubaneswar, NSUI members showed him black flags. At the Biju Patnaik Square near the airport, one of the NSUI workers pelted eggs at the car in which Mishra was travelling. “Two eggs hit the windowpane of the car,” police sources said. Congress youth wing president Dr Smurti Ranjan Lenka said: “ The minister should resign immediately. The way he has been trying to shield the crime of his son Ashis is unfortunate. We are opposed to his visit to the state and will also oppose other Union ministers’ visit to the state.” State BJP spokesperson Golak Mohapatra said: “Ashis has already been arrested. Congress is doing politics on the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
01-11-2021||India||Biju Janata Dal hits the streets on fuel price rise||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Sunday launched an agitation against rising prices of fuel and other essential commodities and submitted a memorandum addressed to the President to the governor. Hundreds of BJD workers rode cycles and rickshaws to reach the protest site near the Raj Bhavan. The women members of the party were seen cooking food in the traditional chuli instead of LPG cylinders and questioned where the “achchhe din” promised by the Narendra Modi government were. The protest coincided with the price of petrol crossing Rs 110 per litre in Bhubaneswar and Rs 115 in the tribal-dominated Malkangiri district. However, the BJP termed the agitation a counter-strategy to divert public attention from the Kalahandi teacher murder case. “They are in the habit of organising protests when the Opposition rakes up any issue,” BJP senior leader Prithiviraj Harichandan said. The BJP and the Congress have been demanding the resignation of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged closeness with the prime accused in the murder of Kalahandi school teacher Mamita Meher. The BJP on Sunday organised a demonstration under the leadership of its national spokesperson Sambit Patra in New Delhi demanding Mishra’s resignation. Meher, 24, used to work as a teacher at a school at Mahaling in Kalahandi district where Gobinda Sahu, alleged to be close to the minister, was the managing committee president. Mamita went missing on October 8 and her body was exhumed from an eight-feet deep pit on October 19. Sahu, who has been arrested, has confessed to his crime. The Opposition has accused the minister of trying to shield the accused and demanded his resignation. The BJD, however, has made it clear that it would intensify its agitation on the price rise issue. “The price of a cooking gas cylinder has touched Rs 1,000. Its going to increase further, making the life of women miserable,” said senior party MLA Snehangini Chhuria. Former minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak said: “People even find it tough to go to hospital using a motor cycle as they are unable to buy petrol. The Centre has failed to keep fuel prices in check.” The BJD will organise protest rallies in all the 147 Assembly constituencies on Monday. The party will also hold dharnas in front of all the petrol pumps across the state for three days from November 5. However, the Congress questioned why the ruling BJD had remained silent on the price rise for so many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
