02-11-2021||India||Hiring activity in India grows by 43 % annually in October: Report||Hiring activity expanded by 43 per cent year-on-year in October driven by strong demand for technology professionals, according to a report. According to the Naukri JobSpeak report, with 2,523 job listings in October 2021, there was a 43 per cent year-on-year (Y-O-Y) growth. However, sequentially there has been 8.35 per cent decline as the total number of job listings was 2,753 on the portal in the previous month. The Naukri JobSpeak is a monthly Index that calculates and records hiring activity based on the job listings on Naukri.com website month on month. The report further stated that demand for tech professionals continued to soar as the sector witnessed a significant 85 per cent Y-O-Y growth in October. The upcoming launch of 5G and related services coupled with the government's product linked incentive scheme (PLI) and the recent relief package for players in the field has boosted employment opportunities in the Telecom/ISP sector that grew in October, it observed. Hiring activity has also picked up in sectors like Retail (51 per cent) and Hospitality/Travel (48 per cent) with the ongoing holiday season, opening up of major offline outlets and peak sale season for e-commerce retailers. Other sectors like Education/Teaching (41 per cent) and Banking/Financial Services (39 per cent) also experienced growth as compared to October 2020. Growth of the IT-software/software services sector has enabled metro cities to outperform their tier II counterparts in the annual growth charts. The average Y-O-Y growth recorded in metro cities was 59 per cent whereas non-metros grew at a slower pace of 30 per cent. Bengaluru (84 per cent), Hyderabad (80 per cent), Pune (69 per cent) and Chennai (57 per cent) recorded the highest Y-O-Y growth in October 2021. “Overall hiring activity in India once again surpassed pre-pandemic levels in October 2021. Sectors like Hospitality/Travel and Retail, which were most impacted during the peak pandemic, have outperformed other major sectors bringing cheer to job seekers across the country,’ Naukri.com Chief Business Officer Pawan Goyal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
02-11-2021||India||CBI names 2 naval commanders, 4 others in Navy info leak case||The CBI on Tuesday filed its first charge sheet in the alleged leak of sensitive information on submarine retrofitting projects against six persons including two serving naval officers, officials said. This is one of the quickest probes in defence corruption cases as the agency filed the charge sheet within 60 days of the first arrests made on September 3 to ensure that the arrested accused do not get easy bail. The CBI has to file a charge sheet within 60 days of arrest of accused in corruption case else they become eligible for bail. The limit is special crime cases is 90 days. In its charge sheet filed before a special CBI court at Rouse Avenue, the CBI slapped section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act. The case began when the agency received the input that some serving officers in the Western Headquarters of Navy working on retrofitting of Russian Kilo class submarines were allegedly being influenced by retired naval officers and were receiving pecuniary benefits, the officials said. After registering a case on September 2, the CBI carried out searches the next day during which two retired officers Commodore Randeep Singh and Commander SJ Singh, who works for a Korean Submarine company, were arrested, they said. During further searches, the CBI claimed to have recovered Rs 2 crore from the residence of one of the retired Navy officers. Later during the probe, the CBI took into custody a serving Navy officer Commander Ajeet Kumar Singh, and another Commander working with him, they said. An alleged hawala dealer and director of a private company were also taken into custody during the probe, officials said. It is alleged that the serving officers were allegedly leaking confidential information to their retired officers in return for pecuniary gains. Sources said further probe is continuing and the role of some foreign nationals is also under scanner. The Anti-Corruption Unit of the agency, which handles sensitive and high profile corruption cases, was tasked to unearth the leakage of information following which the operation was started, they said. The unit has questioned several other officers and ex-servicemen who were in regular touch with the arrested officer and retired personnel, they said. The CBI is conducting a forensic analysis of digital products used by the officer to understand if the information had fallen into the hands of people with vested interests, they said. "Investigation related to alleged information leak of administrative and commercial nature being with some unauthorised personnel has come to light and is being investigated by appropriate government agency," the Navy had said in a statement. The investigation by the agency with complete support of the Indian Navy is in progress, it had said. An internal inquiry by the Navy is also being progressed, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
02-11-2021||India||Subdued 56th birthday of relief for SRK with family at Alibaug farmhouse||November 2 is an auspicious day not just for King Khan fans but also for film aficionados across the country. The birthday of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan is revered and celebrated, and the fan frenzy takes unprecedented heights. However, this time around, November 2 is akin to a birthday of relief and not celebrations in the true sense of the term as Shah Rukh Khan is far away from the limelight at his farm house in Alibaug. Beleaguered by his son’s alleged involvement in the drugs-on-cruise case which ruffled several feathers, the Badshah who turns 56 today, saw his image get a beating with even some sections of the media putting the blame on SRK and his wife Gauri for failing to live up to the billing of being "worthy parents". But with Aryan out on bail, the smile is back on King Khan’s face. However, the customary waving at his fans from his Mumbai home Mannat was missing on Tuesday. And as media reports indicate,  he along with  wife Gauri and sons Aryan and AbRam, ushered in a low-key birthday unlike previous years. However, there is no dearth of zeal among  fans as they thronged  in numbers outside his Bandra residence with cakes and bouquets. In fact SRK’s manager Pooja Dadlani has spilled the beans on his boss’s plans to a senior cop who is in charge of managing the crowd outside Mannat. A man who loves to be the cynosure and is a prolific social media user, SRK has surprised many with his stoic silence all throughout the Aryan episode which was beset with meticulous and at times harsh scrutiny. Despite his IPL team Kolkata Knight Riders’ implausible turnaround in the second leg of the cash-rich tournament, SRK preferred not to go gaga. King Khan who tweets at the drop of a hat to air his emotions irrespective of his team’s performance, did raise quite a few eyebrows with his stance. And his subdued birthday celebrations are only an extension of the poise he has been maintaining since his son’s incarceration and subsequent release. But the film fraternity is inundating him with wishes that is a reflection of SRK’s stardom which hasn’t hit a purple patch in recent times with not even a single release since Zero in 2018. Right from Madhuri Dixit, Anushka Sharma to Karisma Kapoor, Vinod Kambli, his IPL franchise Kolkata Knight Riders, Kareena Kapoor Khan and Katrina Kaif, wishes have been pouring in. Yet,  SRK maintains silence. His  fans are ofcourse dying to hear a word from their icon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
02-11-2021||India||Amarinder Singh formally resigns from Congress||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday resigned from the Congress and also christened his newly launched party as Punjab Lok Congress. He sent a seven-page resignation letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, sources said. Singh had quit as the Punjab chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Sidhu. A few days ago, Singh had dismissed reports of back channel talks with the Congress as incorrect , saying the time for rapprochement was over and his decision to leave the grand old party was final. He has indicated that he will float a political party ahead of Assembly polls in Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
02-11-2021||India||2 in 3 households have no plans to burst crackers this Diwali, finds Survey||A majority of people, 2 in 3 households, have no plans to burst crackers this Diwali for several reasons including growing pollution and non-availability of crackers due to ban imposed by authorities, according to a survey by a community social media platform. Around 42 per cent of households are in favour of some type of ban on cracker-bursting on Diwali while 53 per cent are not in support of any restrictions, the survey conducted by LocalCircles showed. Many households do not want to burst crackers because they believe crackers cause pollution and many consider it a wasteful spending, it said. The survey is based on responses from 28,000 citizens from across 371 districts of India. Moreover, many households have lost a family member this year or have a family member still struggling with the COVID-19 pandemic or other ailments and hence not celebrating. Besides, there are others who are facing a financial crisis due to a lost livelihood, whose number is around 2-3 per cent, it added. "Coming to crackers, on an aggregate basis, 2 in 3 households will not burn crackers this Diwali. This question in the survey received 9,363 responses," the survey said. The first question in the survey, having a sample size of 28,000, asked citizens about their plan to burst firecrackers this Diwali. "In response, the majority of 45 per cent of citizens said they will not be burning any crackers. However, there was 15 per cent of citizens who said that they will be burning green crackers and 11 per cent will just be burning sparklers but no crackers and 6 per cent will be burning regular crackers," it said. Around 5 per cent said they do not have a choice as crackers are banned in their city/district, while 10 per cent could not reply and 8 per cent said not applicable" or do not plan to celebrate Diwali this year. In the survey, 42 per cent of households believed crackers are a "wasteful spending" in addition to the pollution they cause. However, a majority of 53 per cent said no restrictions need to be placed as crackers are not the root cause of pollution. While 28 per cent voted for a national ban on crackers, 8 per cent were in favour of a state-level ban on crackers where pollution levels are high. About 6 per cent want a district-level ban and 5 per cent did not have an opinion. "On an aggregate basis, 42 per cent of households surveyed are in favour of some type of ban on cracker burning," it added. In response to why they do not plan to burst crackers this Diwali, 31 per cent said it causes pollution while 15 per cent said they do not have anyone in the family who likes to burst crackers and 13 per cent said they do not want to spend on crackers. Nearly 63 per cent of respondents in the survey were men while 37 per cent were women. In that, 41 per cent of respondents were from tier I cities, 33 per cent from tier II and the rest 26 per cent were from tier III and below cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Business visionary Aditya Belnekar Reveals How He Overcame Challenges In His Journey||Aditya Belnekar is a notable business visionary, advanced showcasing, and internet business master in India. In his mid 20s, he is partaking in the achievement that a great many people require a long time to accomplish. Notwithstanding arriving at such extraordinary statures, he is an unassuming individual who needs to help other people progress throughout everyday life. He runs an advanced showcasing, internet business and has utilized a few abilities individuals who help his business prosper. A great many people these days have simple admittance to the web. The present youth learn and take online seminars on an assortment of points. Essentially, Aditya showed himself the internet business and advanced showcasing enterprises. He became immersed there and chosen to construct a business in them. Aditya started his business venture try subsequent to moving on from secondary school in 2017. He started as an independent SEO master, giving computerized promoting administrations, online standing administration, and different administrations. He began his web outsourcing business in the wake of getting sufficient experience, and it has been incredibly effective. He had a few difficulties right away, however he gained from them and dominated at his specific employment. Aditya Belnekar's experience has impacted numerous youthful and yearning business visionaries. Via online media, he every now and again gets messages from adolescents looking for counsel and help. Aditya readily gives them all data they need to work on their capacities. Actually like each fruitful individual, Aditya has additionally confronted disappointments and difficulties. So how could he defeat them? Belnekar uncovers, "right away, I was annoyed with thing not turning out great. However, I let myself know that these disappointments and difficulties are the venturing stones to something significant. Thus, I chose to work on in regions where I was falling frail. As time elapsed by, I began making not many to no mistakes by any means. I stayed zeroed in constantly during the initial not many months of my business to keep away from any sort of wreck. I genuinely think remaining energetic and predictable pays off."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Dr Tareq Burezq's expertise as a prosthodontist has made him a prominent figure in the industry||The kind of success and the level of momentum certain industries have achieved today can be attributed to not just the technological advances the world has seen, but most importantly, the amount of hard work, passion and resilience people and professionals have shown across fields. No one can deny the tremendous growth and development the medical industry has seen over the years, and major credit must go to the revolutionary work of some of the doctors worldwide across different domains. One such domain is dentistry, and a subset of it is prosthodontics, in which one name has been making all the buzz right now for all the right reasons; he is Dr Tareq Burezq.  Dr Tareq Burezq is a Kuwait-based prosthodontist who has taken the world of dentistry to incredible heights of success with his mastery in the same and his quest to go above and beyond to treat patients even in the most critical or extensive procedures and treatments, which may include replacing missing teeth or repairing teeth that have suffered extensive damage.  Dr Tareq Burezq specializes in complex facial and dental matters that may include replacing or restoring missing or damaged teeth with artificial devices. This has made him highly trained in dental implants, dentures, bridges, crowns, jaw disorders and much more. However, Dr Tareq Burezq is more than just a dentist and as a full-service prosthodontist who practices in Asnan Tower. His treatments ensure that the patient's mouth functions properly while emphasizing that the smile looks its best, which stands as his main objective.  Dr Tareq Burezq is a Fellow of the renowned International College of Dentists and also a Fellow of the American Council of Dental Studies. In addition, he attained the Certificate of Advanced Graduate Studies from Harvard University. The much-talked-about prosthodontist has been making exceptional success in the industry and has thus become a trusted name across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Feel Good About Looking Good with Ombré Men||Men’s personal care is traditionally small, but over the last several years, we’ve seen things become more and more expansive. According to research, from 2020 to 2027 the segment is expected to grow over 6% YoY. The new generation of men tends to care about nutrition and fitness, but wellness goes beyond that, into grooming, skincare, and haircare. Demand and popularity are growing exponentially and do not appear to be slowing down anytime soon. When the co-founders of Ombré Men, Justin Tarin, Abraham Ancer, and Aron Marquez discussed a men’s line, they knew there was opportunity to create a line that could tackle sustainability, product efficacy, and design. By choosing sustainable materials, the brand can positively impact the global plastic waste issues. Through high standards for only the best, plant-derived ingredients they could achieve efficacy. And, with attention to detail, they could accomplish a masculine, sleek product design. The co-founders acknowledged that the cosmetic and beauty industry has a huge plastic problem, and are determined to use sustainable, eco-friendly containers and boxes in every component of the line.  Ombré Men is conscious of their company’s goals for social and environmental responsibility.  “Understanding the importance of our corporate responsibility was at the top of our list when developing Ombré Men”, Marquez said. When it came to design and aesthetic, Tarin said, “Our products are displayed in sleek, matte-black packaging. We wanted to create a product that looked classy and sexy, but still maintained a masculine aesthetic on my bathroom counter”.  Branded and designed by the marketing and advertising firm, Visionary Playground, Ombré Men needed to be selective with the materials used in manufacturing their packaging, and design played a big role in that.  While working with the brand’s marketing agency Tarin knew matte black was the way they wanted to go but standing out in a crowded market is difficult. “I called my co-founder, Aron Marquez, and posed the question, he instantly responded with ‘what about a teal line around the top of every product’, That’s it!”, Tarin said. In addition to practicing sustainable packaging methods, Ombré Men is dedicated to producing effective, natural products. Using proprietary formulas, the brand combines ancient science derived from plants, with modern technologies to create highly efficient products with benefits you can see and feel. “100% of our line is produced from plants. From the oils to the extracts and beyond — it’s effective and from our planet. Finally, consumers can feel good about looking good”, Ancerc said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Facebook gets 14-day extension to depose before Delhi Assembly panel on 2020 riots||The Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony committee has granted a 14-day extension to Facebook India and asked the social media platform to send a senior representative to depose before it on November 18 over the February 2020 northeast Delhi riots, an official statement said on Tuesday. According to the statement, Facebook had sought an extension from the MLA Raghav Chadha-led Peace and Harmony committee to identify the best possible officials for the deposition. The request was accepted by the committee. The committee had earlier asked Facebook India to send a senior representative to depose before it on November 2 over the riots in northeast Delhi. The statement said that in response to the summons dated October 27, Facebook India had requested for an extension of 14 days to appear before the committee, in order to enable them to ensure the availability of senior representatives with the requisite knowledge and "who are best placed to provide the committee with the data required". The request was made by the Public Policy Head of Facebook India, communicated vide email dated October 29. "Considering the request and reasons stated therein, the Chairman (of the committee) and MLA Raghav Chadha has decided to grant the extension to Facebook India to make available the suitable senior representatives. Pursuantly, the committee proceedings are rescheduled for November 18 at 12:30 pm," the statement said. At least 53 people died and hundreds were injured in clashes between supporters of the Citizenship Amendment Act and those opposing it between February 23 and February 26, 2020, in northeast Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Money laundering: Anil Deshmukh produced in court by ED for remand||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh was on Tuesday produced before a special court here by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) following his arrest in a money laundering case. Deshmukh was produced for remand before additional sessions judge P B Jadhav, who is presiding over the special holiday court, a little after noon. The ED is likely to seek his custody for further questioning. Deshmukh was arrested by the ED late Monday night after over 12 hours of questioning in the money laundering case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police establishment. Before producing him in court, the prosecuting agency had taken the NCP leader to the state-run J J Hospital here for a regular medical checkup. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed its FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The ED's case is that Deshmukh, while serving as the state's home minister, misused his official position and through dismissed cop Sachin Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, an education trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. Deshmukh had refuted these allegations earlier and said the agency's whole case was based on malicious statements made by a tainted cop (Waze). The ED has so far arrested two persons in the case Sanjeev Palande (additional collector rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant). The agency last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Environment Minister hails Modi's speech at COP26||Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address at the UN COP26 underway in Glasgow, UK, where India pledged to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2070 and asserted itself as the only country that is delivering in "letter and spirit" the commitments on tackling climate change under the Paris Agreement. In a post on Monday in his blog 'COP26 Diary', the minister said: "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has once again shown that India is a responsible global power house and is at the forefront to fight climate change with climate action in the true spirit of climate justice by proposing a five-point climate agenda." "Delivering the 'national statement' today (Monday) at the COP26 Summit in Glasgow, the Honourable PM reminded the world that despite being 17 per cent of the world's population, India has been responsible for only 5 per cent of its emissions because India has left no stone unturned in fulfilling its duty to save the planet from the scourge of climate change," Yadav wrote. He said the prime minister had rightly reminded the developed economies of their responsibilities to avert the so called "climate doomsday". Modi, in his speech, had asked the developed nations to fulfil their promise of USD 1 trillion as climate finance, emphasising that this should be tracked the same way as climate mitigation. "India expects developed countries to make USD 1 trillion available as climate finance as soon as possible. As we track the progress of climate mitigation, we must also track climate finance. Justice would truly be served if pressure is put on those countries that have not lived up to their climate finance commitments," Modi had said. Yadav mentioned other key pointers in Modi's address. "With the world listening to him, the PM highlighted how more passengers than the entire world's population travel by Indian Railways every year. This huge railway system has set itself a target of making itself 'Net Zero' by 2030. The PM underscored that India will meet Net-Zero emissions target by 2070, he said. Modi at the UN climate conference told world leaders that India was working hard in fighting climate change and it will show results. He presented the country's national statement at the summit, listing out five commitments of India to combat climate change. He also raised the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) of achieving 450 giga watt non-fossil energy capacity to 500 giga watt. "India will increase its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 giga watt by 2030; India will fulfil 50 per cent of its energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2030. Between now and 2030, India will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by 1 billion tonnes and by 2030; India will reduce the carbon intensity of its economy by 45 per cent and India will achieve the target of net zero by 2070, the prime minister said. "These five elixirs will be an unprecedented contribution by India towards climate action," he added. Modi also called for lifestyle changes which can go a long way in tackling climate change and urged to make 'Lifestyle for Environment' a global mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||HP Bypolls: Cong wins three assembly seats, ahead in Mandi Lok Sabha seat||In a setback to the BJP in Himachal Pradesh, the opposition Congress won all three assembly seats of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai and is leading in Mandi Lok Sabha seat where bypolls were held on October 30. The Congress retained Fatehpur and Arki Assembly seats while it wrested Jubbal-Kotkhai seat from the BJP, according to poll results announced by the Election Commission on Tuesday. Congress is also ahead in Mandi, where BJP's Ram Swaroop Sharma had won by a whopping 4,05,000 votes in the last Lok Sabha election in 2019. Congress candidates Bhawani Singh Pathania, Sanjay and Rohit Thakur have won from Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies, respectively. In Mandi parliamentary seat, late chief minister Virbhadra Singh's wife Pratibha Singh of the Congress is leading from her nearest rival -Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Thakur of the BJP. State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on moral grounds after the BJP's defeat. He told reporters that the Congress has won the "semifinal" and will also emerge victorious in the Assembly election scheduled in December next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Bypolls: Election Commission reminds its CEOs of ban on victory processions||The Election Commission has reminded its poll officials that there is a ban on victory processions to prevent spread of coronavirus in states where counting is underway for Lok Sabha and assembly bypolls. Counting is being held for bye-elections to 29 assembly and three Lok Sabha seats. In a letter to the chief electoral officers of Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal and Dadra and Nagar Havelli and Daman and Diu where bypolls were held on October 30, the commission said that its instructions on banning victory processions, issued in April, would also apply on the latest set of bypolls. These instructions were issued to check surge in COVID-19 cases when counting was to be held for assembly elections held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, West Bengal and Kerala earlier this year. "No victory procession after the counting shall be permissible. Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative (to) receive the certificate of election from the returning officer concerned," the letter said citing the April 27 directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Daily Covid cases in country lowest in 259 days||India added 10,423 new coronavirus cases, the lowest in 259 days, while the active cases declined to 1,53,776, the lowest in 250 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,42,96,237. The death toll climbed to 4,58,880 with 443 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 25 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 128 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.45 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.21 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 5,041 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.03 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 29 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.16 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 39 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,83,581, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 106.85 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 443 new fatalities include 368 from Kerala, 20 from Tamil Nadu and 10 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling covid deaths since the past few days. Of the 368 deaths in Kerala, 78 were reported over the last few days, 232 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 58 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said on Monday. A total of 4,58,880 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,226 from Maharashtra, 38,084 from Karnataka, 36,136 from Tamil Nadu, 32,049 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,149 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
02-11-2021||India||Modi, Johnson agree to rein in fringe anti-India extremist groups ||Counter-terrorism and the need to rein in extremist activities by certain fringe separatist outfits were among the issues covered during the short bilateral exchange between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart, Boris Johnson, on the margins of the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow. In a media briefing at the close of Day One of the World Leaders' Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on Monday night, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla was asked if anti-Indian activities by separatist groups who organise pro-Khalistani activities in the UK were among the issues raised during the talks between the two leaders. "The meeting was short, but it did allow short exchanges on concerns that both our countries have on increasing radicalism," Shringla said in response. "In many senses, the extremism that we are seeing in certain fringe groups seem to be speaking out on issues that they have no legitimate right to do so and without traction of any kind. But nonetheless, it's causing a certain level of disequilibrium and concern in both our countries," he said. "Prime Minister Johnson felt fully that some of these groups need to be reined in and that clearly, steps have to be taken to see how such activity, which under no means is democratic or constitutional, could be addressed," he added. During the media event, the Foreign Secretary reviewed the developments of the World Leaders' Summit, during which the Prime Minister made a seminal statement on India's contribution towards climate action by unveiling its National Determined Contributions (NBC) of setting a realistic, responsible and ambitious goal of achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2070. "As the Prime Minister has said, climate change for him is an article of faith and India is more than fulfilling its commitments," said Shringla. He also revealed that while the subject of the extradition of high-profile economic offenders such as Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering, was not specifically discussed at length during the short bilateral meeting, the National Security Advisers (NSAs) of both countries were due to deliberate on the issue at length at an upcoming meeting on Wednesday. "The issue of extradition is important and the two Prime Ministers agreed that the specifics of this issue will be discussed between our National Security Advisers who are going to meet in London on 3rd November. So, they would go into detail of consular, security and other aspects of the UK-India relationship," the Foreign Secretary said. Earlier, 10 Downing Street also issued a readout of the Johnson-Modi bilateral exchange, which it said highlighted the growing strength of the wider UK-India relationship. The Prime Minister (Johnson) highlighted India's leadership on climate change and they discussed ways to work together on global approaches, including scaling affordable green technology. Prime Minister Modi welcomed the new UK India Green Guarantee to unlock World Bank funding, Downing Street noted. The Green Guarantee is set to add GBP 750 million for green projects across India, announced by the UK at the COP26 summit and welcomed by India as a welcome initiative that can help towards the country's climate action goals. The leaders also discussed recent talks on a potential UK-India free trade deal, and the Prime Minister (Johnson) reiterated the UK's commitment to deepening trade, investment and business ties between our two countries, Downing Street noted. Further strengthening cooperation on bilateral defence and security and on international issues, including the situation in Afghanistan, were also among the topics of discussion flagged from the latest India-UK exchange on the sidelines of the World Leaders' Summit which concludes on Tuesday. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Deshmukh's arrest politically motivated, claims Nawab Malik||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's arrest is politically motivated and aimed at maligning the image of the state's Maha Vikas Aghadi government leaders, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said on Tuesday. Hitting out at the Centre, Malik, a minister in the Maharashtra government, said scaring leaders by abusing power should be stopped. The entire action (of arresting Deshmukh) is politically motivated. It is aimed at scaring the leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance), Malik told reporters. Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) late Monday night after over 12 hours of questioning in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police establishment. Meanwhile, welcoming Deshmukh's arrest, former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab will be the next to face action by a central agency. Somaiya, who has been asked to appear before the Bombay High Court on December 23 in a Rs 100-crore defamation suit filed by Parab, said, Now we will know where the Rs 100 crore collected by Deshmukh went. Somaiya had claimed that Parab, the state transport minister, carried out construction of a seaside resort in Ratnagiri district without the approval of the environment department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Congress launches drive with query on personal freedom||The Congress on Monday launched a nationwide membership drive, inviting people to join the party to save their individual freedom and safeguard the country’s future, and portraying the Narendra Modi government as a threat to constitutional rule. While a membership drive is a ritual before every organisational election, the party this time ran a social media campaign to project the internal exercise as a mission to protect India. The campaign — under the hashtag JoinCongressSaveIndia — has been launched with songs and videos dwelling on the contemporary political challenges. For the first time, the enrolment campaign has woven an antagonistic narrative, suggesting that fighting the regime is a national imperative. The campaign videos ask: “Do you feel your personal freedom is being snatched from you? Are you fed up with violence in society? Do you feel your fellow citizens are being unnecessarily targeted? Are you afraid to speak the truth about this government? Are you incapable of bearing the burden of the so-called achchhe din? Do you see a bleak future? Time for a fightback. Time to join the Congress.” Using visuals of attacks on students, Dalits and minorities, the farmers’ struggle and the street lynchings, the party said: “This government wants you to think that questioning them, criticising them or speaking against them is anti-national. It is not. It is your right.” It exhorted people to join the Congress, saying: “This is a battle to save the country; this is a war against the divisive forces. Let us fight back the way Gandhiji taught us, with non-violence, truth and unity.” The imageries used ranged from the arrest of environmental activist Disha Ravi to the forcible burning of a rape victim’s body in Hathras, leaving no space for doubt about what the party intends to fight although the publicity material avoided referring to the RSS-BJP directly. “Nafrat waale tanashahon se aao mil kar saath laden (Let us come together to fight the dictators whose politics rests on hate),” the party said. An AICC veteran who has seen this exercise for the past 40 years told The Telegraph: “I have never seen such campaigns. We told people to join the party of Gandhi and Nehru but not because the nation was in peril because of some or other leader. The situation is different today with Narendra Modi indeed posing new challenges to the country. “But I must point out that the membership drive was genuine till the Indira-Rajiv days when party workers enjoyed some respect. During the past two or three decades, leaders have started committing fraud and enrolling fake members.” He added: “We remember going door to door or organising camps in villages and towns to enrol members. Initially, people paid 25 paise and later Re 1 to acquire membership. But when the fraud started, leaders paid huge amounts themselves and reported to the high command that they had enrolled thousands. All of it was fake. “But these leaders had a say in picking the state delegates and AICC members, which was supposed to be based on the number of members somebody enrolled. But these leaders destroyed the organisation by giving the names of their servants, drivers and bodyguards.” Another AICC member from Delhi said: “Respect for genuine party workers has diminished. I was surprised to see the absence both of senior and younger leaders from Sakti Sthal on Indira Gandhi’s death anniversary. There was a time when hundreds of leaders came. There are genuine reasons for the party’s decline. Only targeting Modi and the RSS won’t suffice. The organisation has to be built brick by brick. “Areas where there were hardly a few BJP workers and dozens of Congress workers have changed. Now it is difficult to escape BJP workers and find Congress workers. All because the leaders resorted to forgery and took the sycophancy route instead of working at the grassroots.” The central leadership was aware of the fraud by state leaders and therefore made photographs and mobile phone numbers mandatory for members. But leaders used photographs from the voters’ list and gave fake phone numbers while boasting of a successful drive. This time, there is a plan to make the entire exercise digital in at least eight states. Senior office-bearers have been asked to ensure the enrolment of genuine members who are going to be more important in the fight to “save India” than social media campaigns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||BJP plans to foreground Narendra Modi in UP election campaign||The BJP plans to foreground Narendra Modi heavily in the Uttar Pradesh election campaign and replace a chunk of its sitting MLAs, aiming to tackle anti-incumbency and send a message to the ambitious Yogi Adityanath, party sources said. Feedback from the ground suggests that chief minister Adityanath may not alone be able to tide the party over simmering anti-incumbency, BJP insiders said. “Yogiji is a very popular chief minister but his influence is limited to traditional or diehard BJP voters,” a party leader said. He estimated Adityanath’s support base at between 17 and 20 per cent of the state’s electorate. “Modiji, in contrast, has a much wider reach. His name sways more than 50 per cent of the voters across caste and community lines,” the politician, one of the BJP’s poll managers for Uttar Pradesh, said. While seeking votes in Modi’s name in the states is standard BJP strategy, its implementation in Uttar Pradesh is significant because Adityanath is perceived to be pitching himself as Modi’s successor at the Centre. The message from the BJP central leadership, however, seems to be that Modi remains the party’s supreme mascot and that without him the key state of Uttar Pradesh cannot be won. Party managers in Delhi say in private that Adityanath could emerge as a strong leader, next only to Modi, if the BJP wins Uttar Pradesh and the plan therefore is to give most of the credit to Modi. The Prime Minister’s being the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi makes this all too easy. Adityanath would be setting a record if he returns as chief minister after the polls, due in March. No chief minister has ever returned to power in the heartland state after completing a five-year term. Asked whether the plan to foreground Modi was meant to cut Adityanath down to size, a party general secretary was evasive. “You are free to draw your inferences but isn’t it a fact that Modi is our biggest vote catcher?” he said. “In rural Uttar Pradesh the poor, backwards and Dalits know that Modi has given them a pucca house, toilet, gas connection and many other things.” He suggested that Modi had a connect with the poor while Adityanath’s influence was limited to the upper castes and Hindutva die-hards. Launching a party membership drive in Lucknow recently, Union home minister Amit Shah had said that a victory for Adityanath in 2022 was key to a victory for Modi in 2024. Party managers said this line would be followed to tie the Uttar Pradesh polls to Modi’s future and portray Adityanath’s as secondary. A sizeable number of the sitting MLAs are likely to be dropped – a favoured BJP tactic to counter anti-incumbency. Party leaders said one survey had been done and another would be undertaken to identify the Assembly seats where the party needs to drop the incumbent MLAs. Some in the BJP argue that the anti-incumbency sentiments are a key reason for foregrounding Modi in the campaign. They say that Adityanath has few achievements apart from improving law and order – a point the Opposition would contest. “Most of the goodwill we have among the voters owes to central schemes that touch the lives of a wide section of voters,” a BJP leader said. Based on an internal assessment, the central BJP leadership believes the party still has the edge in Uttar Pradesh but the polls will not be one-sided as in 2017, when the BJP bagged 325 of the 403 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||India will become net-zero emissions nation by 2070: Modi ||India will by 2070 become a net-zero emissions nation, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday, outlining five new pledges from India in a national statement at the international climate summit in Glasgow. He also said India will increase installed non-fossil fuel energy to 500 Gigawatts, rely on renewable energy for 50 per cent of its energy requirements, reduce one billion tonne of carbon emissions from its total emissions, and reduce its economy’s carbon intensity by 45 per cent by 2030. But, he said, the developed countries must also increase their support of finance and technology transfer to help developing countries to lower their emissions. “The world cannot achieve the new targets with old goals of climate finance,” he said, saying earlier pledges have been empty promises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Supreme Court allows use of green crackers during Diwali, Christmas||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside Calcutta High Court’s total ban on firecrackers during this Diwali and other festivals like Christmas, saying green crackers can be used. The vacation bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi cited the apex court’s October 29 order that allowed the use of green crackers, and said it applied to Bengal too. However, it asked the state government to ensure that no banned crackers were sold or used. “Everything has been specified by the Supreme Court in the earlier orders. The orders are clear. There is nothing new that we have to say,” the apex court observed. It added: “There cannot be a complete ban. Strengthen the mechanism to ensure that misuse is stopped.” The bench was hearing a batch of petitions and applications from cracker manufacturers and dealers challenging the high court’s October 29 order imposing a blanket ban on firecrackers. Senior advocates Sidharth Bhatnagar and Malvika Trivedi, appearing for groups of manufacturers, said the high court order ran counter to the apex court order allowing the use of green crackers across the country depending on the local air quality. But senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan, representing Arjun Gopal whose petition had prompted the apex court to pass a series of orders restricting the use of firecrackers, supported the high court order. His contention was that although the apex court had allowed only green crackers, some manufacturers were still using barium illegally in their crackers. Senior advocate Anand Grover, representing the Bengal government, said the state administration had taken all necessary measures against any violations of the apex court order. He said more than 10 people had been arrested for the sale of illegal crackers. The high court had banned the use of any kind of firecrackers during Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja, Guru Nanak’s Birthday, Christmas or New Year’s Eve this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||5,000 more troops reveal Jammu and Kashmir’s real status||The Centre has ordered the deployment of an additional 5,000 troops of the central paramilitary forces in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of the recent spate of killings of migrant workers. The decision brings under stress the stated reason for stripping Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and the claims that law and order has improved after the constitutional changes and a prolonged clampdown. Sources in the Union home ministry said the decision to deploy an additional 50 companies was taken considering the present situation in the Valley. “The security situation in the wake of the latest civilian killings in Kashmir is very challenging. An additional 50 companies of the paramilitary forces are being deployed to help J&K police maintain law and order and undertake counter-terror operations,” a ministry official said. Of the 50 companies, 30 are being deployed in Srinagar alone, the official said. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, were killed in October in the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One of the 12 civilians killed was a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Makhan Lal Bindroo. The killings are being construed as a militant design to force religious minorities out of the Valley. Dozens of Pandits have fled the Valley following these killings, prompting many to compare the situation with that in the 1990s. Nearly 70,000 troops of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have already been deployed in Jammu and Kashmir for counter-terror operations. Recently, the Jammu and Kashmir administration allotted land at eight places in south Kashmir to the CRPF to build permanent camps for personnel and their families. On October 22, Union home minister Amit Shah had visited Jammu and Kashmir and reviewed the security situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Centre seeks aid for schools that lack basic infrastructure||The Centre has sought help from citizens to revive government and aided schools that lack teachers and basic infrastructure, a move some educationists have criticised as an abdication of official responsibility. The education ministry’s revised Vidyanjali 2.0 scheme seeks volunteer teachers to offset vacancies, and public contributions towards books, equipment, infrastructure and repairs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Vidyanjali 2.0 programme in September. It remains little known despite Union school education secretary Anita Karwal writing the same month to bodies like the Central Board of Secondary Education, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti and the NCERT to popularise the scheme. Under the programme, volunteers can help teach any academic subject, arts and craft, yoga or vocational skills. Members of the public can contribute or pay for civil, electrical or digital infrastructure, maintenance and repairs, office stationery, furniture, books, and equipment for extra-curricular activities. The schools are to register on the Vidyanjali 2.0 portal and post what services, infrastructure and equipment they need the most. Any volunteer can contribute partially or fully towards the requirements. Delhi University executive council member Ashok Agrawal said it was the government’s responsibility to provide basic rights like education and security, for which it collects cess and income tax. Agrawal said: “The government is duty bound to provide education to all. Allowing members of the public to connect to schools individually will be counter-productive.” “Mostly people with vested interests will volunteer. Some people will teach without any training, and quality will suffer even more.” Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of the State Platform for Common Schooling System, a civil society watchdog in Tamil Nadu, said the school atmosphere is more dignified for a child when schooling is funded by public money and does not depend on private contribution. “Education is aimed at empowering the public. When it is funded by the government, the objective of education as a fundamental right can be fulfilled. Opening the school system to a contributory model will weaken it,” he said. Mitra Ranjan from the Right to Education Forum, an NGO, said Vidyanjali 2.0 was a step towards “informalisation” of the education system. “It will further undermine the role of the schools, of regular and well-trained teachers, of the proper educational environment, and of the formal schooling system,” he said. Ranjan said that nearly 11 lakh teaching posts were vacant in government schools in the states. Only 25.5 per cent of government schools are fully compliant in terms of facilities like classrooms, a playground, toilets and drinking water facilities, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Net-zero goal? India focused on now: Analysts ||India’s refusal until Monday to announce a target year when it would attain net-zero emissions — release only as much of Earth-warming greenhouse gas emissions as it removes — had  caused consternation ahead of the Glasgow climate conference that opened on Sunday. Some scientists and policy makers view the Glasgow meeting as the most consequential since the 2015 Paris conference. Ahead of the conference, 49 countries and the European Union (EU) have pledged a net-zero target amid what scientists believe is an unavoidable goal of steering the global economy towards net-zero emissions. India, the fourth largest greenhouse gas emitter after China, the US, and the EU, might appear to be among the bad guys. But two veteran climate policy analysts argue that India’s position is not only well-founded in science and equity but focuses on the challenge of reducing current emissions now rather than on debates on a target year decades in the future. Anand Patwardhan, professor of public policy at the University of Maryland in the US, and Jayant Mauskar, a former Indian civil servant and lead climate change negotiator for India explain to The Telegraph why they believe the current debate on net-zero is a red herring, a dangerous distraction. Q: Why are some describing the Glasgow climate conference that started on Sunday as the most consequential after the 2015 Paris meeting? A. Every country hosting the (climate) conference wants to leave behind a legacy. However, this conference takes on added significance. It comes months after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change working group report painted an alarming picture of future climate change. It also comes at a time when countries are being encouraged to submit updated nationally determined contributions, or climate pledges, subsequent to their first submissions under the Paris agreement. It represents a real test of the underlying premise of the “pledge-and-review” architecture of the Paris Agreement — that over time, countries will continue to ratchet up their ambitions, and that this mechanism could be an effective replacement for the earlier determined targets and timetables under the earlier Kyoto agreement that have fallen by the wayside. Q: The EU and 49 countries have pledged net-zero emissions by specific target years, albeit distant. Surely, for India too, net-zero emissions are important. A: India continues to demonstrate a low carbon development pathway in action even while tackling its high vulnerability to current climate variability on which the impacts of global warming are superposed. Even today, India’s per capita emissions are well below those of comparable developing countries and the developed world. While China’s net zero target of 2060 is very welcome, the reality is that China’s per capita emissions are already about four times that of India’s and by the time China’s emissions are expected to peak in 2030, Chinese per capita emissions will be 2.3 times India’s. If India were to follow a similar emissions trajectory, Indian emissions would not peak until 2050 and would not reach net-zero until 2087.  The reality is that India is already on a much lower carbon emission pathway consistent with national circumstances and development goals. We would argue that India’s pledge should not only signal ambition but base it on a realistic and equitable pathway of getting there. Signalling ambition is possible without jumping on the net-zero bandwagon but is perhaps better illustrated through markers laid out in India’s current nationally determined climate actions — an economy-wide emissions intensity target, ambitious policies for a move away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and land use change and forestry.  The same should apply for other countries too — rather than take recourse to targets far in the future, present ambitious actions today that will actually make a future net-zero target credible and achievable. Q: By when should the developed countries ideally reach net zero? A: Considering their historical emissions and the available carbon budget, equity requires that the US should have aimed for a net-zero emissions target by 2025 and the European Union by 2033. Equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities pin the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and cannot simply be papered over. If there is a lack of ambition — it rests more squarely on the developed countries than on the developing countries. Q: Is global net zero by 2050 then achievable? A: A global net zero by 2050 is needed. But the way it needs to be achieved is through a global deal that respects common but differentiated responsibilities — the concept that the largest historical emitters — the developed countries — need to do more and faster than the developing countries. Not only does this imply differentiated net-zero timetables with developed countries striving for net zero well before 2050, but also large finance and technology transfers to help developing countries bend the emissions curve. A pledge of US$ 100 billion per year by 2020 had been made. But even that has not been achieved yet. Q: What would you view as a satisfactory outcome from the Glasgow conference? A: The conference would do well to focus on finance and technology transfers needed to achieve a low-carbon trajectory for the developing world within this decade, instead of being distracted by the net-zero red herring, which obscures historical burdens and ignores future development needs. What matters for global climate is not just the year when emissions reach net zero, but rather the full trajectory of emissions. The higher and the more delayed the emissions peak, the more stringent and difficult the mitigation challenge. If the emissions curve is not bent quickly through technology transfers and finance, the inexorable calculus of the carbon budget will lead to the outcomes we are so desperately trying to avoid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Maharashtra ex-home minister arrested in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) late Monday night after over 12 hours of questioning in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police establishment, officials said. They said Deshmukh, 71, was arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). They claimed the senior NCP leader was evasive during questioning and the agency will seek his custody after they produce him before a local court here on Tuesday. The politician arrived at the ED office in the Ballard Estate area of south Mumbai around 11:40 am, accompanied by his lawyer and his associates and was soon after put under grilling sessions with some breaks in between, sources said. Deshmukh appeared before the agency after the Bombay High Court last week refused to quash ED summonses against him. He had skipped at least five ED notices. The money laundering case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The federal probe agency recorded the statement of the NCP leader under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with the criminal investigation being carried out by it in the alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra Police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. The questioning and recording of statements sessions went for long as officials said Deshmukh was a "key person" in this case and needs to be grilled on a number of subjects including the disclosures made by suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze during ED questioning. Deshmukh released a video message before going to the ED office in which he said that he himself is deposing before the agency after the Bombay HC order came last week. "It was reported in the media that I was not cooperating with the ED...I went to the CBI twice after I was summoned...my petition is still pending in the Supreme Court but it will take time and hence I myself have gone to the ED," he said. "I and my family cooperated with the ED when they raided us (in June)," he said. Deshmukh questioned the whereabouts of Param Bir Singh. "He made the bribery allegations against me but where is he now." The Bombay High Court, in its judgement issued on October 29, said Deshmukh failed to prove that probe agencies had been acting in a malafide manner against him. It said if Deshmukh apprehended his arrest by either the ED or the CBI, he had the right that was available to any other citizen or litigant to approach the appropriate court to seek protection. The court, however, directed the ED to permit Deshmukh's lawyer to remain present within "visible distance but not audible distance" during the questioning. The ED case of money laundering against Deshmukh, who was earlier the home minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, and others came after the CBI booked him in the corruption case related to allegations of bribe made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Singh. The first summons to Deshmukh, his wife and son Hrishikesh came soon after the ED raided their premises in Mumbai and Nagpur in June. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The ED also had attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore that were stated to be "beneficially owned" by Deshmukh. It claimed the probe found that "Deshmukh, while acting as home minister of Maharashtra, with dishonest intention has received illegal gratification of approximately Rs 4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners, through (suspended) Sachin Waze, then the assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police." "Further, with the help of Delhi based dummy companies, Deshmukh family laundered the tainted money of Rs 4.18 crore and projected it as untainted by showing the same as amount received in the Trust namely Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha," the ED had alleged. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Singh. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh, while denying any wrongdoing, had maintained that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
02-11-2021||India||Experts voice doubts over climate steps||Climate scientists harbour strong scepticism over whether governments will markedly slow down global warming despite pledges by leaders, a survey by the international science journal Nature has found. Their concerns over global warming have even caused sections of climate scientists to reconsider their major life decisions such as where to live or whether to have children, the anonymous survey has also revealed. The survey results, published by the journal on Monday coincide with a summit of world leaders featuring the heads of state of more than 100 countries at the climate conference in Glasgow. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to speak at the summit alongside heads of state of Australia, European Union, Canada, Germany and the US. The survey is based on responses from 92 of 233 researchers across the world who had earlier this year authored a report for the Inter governmental Panel on Climate Change that called for urgent actions to curb global warming. But 60 per cent of the survey’s respondents expect the world will warm to 3°C by the end of the century, crossing the 1.52°C temperature rise cap required to avert the most devastating impacts of climate change. Around 88 per cent of respondents believe global warming already represents a crisis and 82 per cent believe they will observe catastrophic experiences of climate change in their own lifetimes. Four in 10 respondents said global warming had caused either them or scientists they know to reconsider decisions on where to live, while 17 per cent said concerns about global warming had prompted them to rethink whether to have children. “The pessimism expressed by some IPCC panelists underscores the vast gulf between hopes and expectations for the climate summit … in Glasgow,” the journal Nature said amid analyses indicating that current pledges by countries worldwide are not enough to cap warming at 2°C or below. A report from the United Nations Environmental Programme had last week warned that climate pledges already made by nations ahead of the Glasgow summit would place the world on course to a 2.7°C temperature rise. The world’s major economies agreed at a group of 20 (G20) summit on Sunday to stop international financing of coalfired power plants and committed to revisit and further enhance their emissionsreduction targets “where necessary”. But climate policy analysts said the language in the G20 communique on other things such as netzero emission targets and finance to help developing countries in cutting emissions was muddled. Some environmental groups also expressed disappointment that the G20 meeting did not commit to phase out domestic coal use. “G20 countries deserve credit for sending an unequivocal message that they will stop financing unabated coal power abroad, yet they failed to make the obvious leap to stop building coalfired plans at home as well,” Helen Mountford, vicepresident for climate and economies at the World Resources Institute, an environmental think tank said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
02-11-2021||India||Odisha: Mobile application to save olive ridley turtles||The Odisha government’s fisheries and animal resources development department in collaboration with MS Swaminathan Research Foundation has developed a customised ‘Fisher Friend Mobile Application’ aimed at alerting fishermen on the ‘No-fishing zones’ declared for the olive ridley turtle conservation. The mobile application was launched on Friday. The fishermen will not enter the nesting sites of the endangered olive ridley turtles after getting alert on their mobiles. A ban on fishing within 20km from specified coastal areas, will come into effect from November 1 to May 31, 2022, for protecting the nests of the endangered olive ridley sea turtles. Launching the mobile application here on Friday, fisheries & animal resources development minister Dr Arun Kumar Sahoo emphasised the commitment of the state government in the conservation of the endangered olive ridley turtles. “This mobile application will not require any cellular coverage network and will work in offline mode in the outer sea which will help in alerting the fishing boats to stay away from the fishing ban areas where the turtles congregate for mass nesting,” said Dr Sahoo. Each year, the olive ridley turtles congregate near the Dhamara river mouth, Devi river mouth, Rushikulya river mouth and along the Gahirmatha Marine Wildlife Sanctuary for mass nesting. The fishermen and the boat crewmembers can download this offline mobile application freely. They can clearly know the GPS locations and the boundaries of the no-fishing zones. The mobile application also has additional features for providing fishing boats with near real-time information regarding weather, potential fishing zones, ocean state forecasts, disaster alerts and other information provided by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information System (INCOIS), which will further strengthen the safety and security of the fishermen, while at sea. This free mobile application will benefit more than 22,000 of fishing boats including trawlers, motorised and non-motorised boats which are plying from various fishing harbours and fish landing centres involving over 1.50 lakh active marine fishers. A central monitoring unit would be installed in the office of the chief wildlife warden for the monitoring of the movement of the fishing boats and for awareness generation activities. Secretary, fisheries and animal resources development department R. Raghuprasad, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Sashi Paul and other top officials attended the launching ceremony. Fishermen and officers of the fisheries department from 11 locations in the state joined the launching programme through video conferencing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
02-11-2021||India||Court awards death sentences to four convicts for Modi rally blast ||A special court on Monday awarded death sentences to four convicts for the 2013 serial blasts at the venue of then Gujarat chief minister and NDA prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi’s “Hunkaar Rally” at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan. National Investigation Agency judge Gurvinder Malhotra handed life sentences to two of the nine convicts, 10-year terms to two others, and seven years to one. Some 20 bombs had been planted, of which at least eight went off — some before Modi arrived and some while he was speaking — killing six people and seriously injuring 89. Modi went on speaking as the blasts continued at distances up to 200 metres from him. Another bomb went off at the Patna Junction railway station but caused no serious casualties. Special public prosecutor Lalan Prasad Singh told reporters that death sentences had been awarded to “Hyder Ali, Imtiyaz Ansari, Mujibullah and Noman Ansari”. “Umar Siddiqui and Azharuddin have been given life sentences; Ahmad Hussain and Firoz Aslam have got 10 years and Iftikhar Alam, seven years.” The verdict had been announced on October 27, exactly eight years after the October 27, 2013, blasts. One of the accused was a minor and was transferred to the juvenile justice system. The remaining 10 were kept at Beur Central Jail and tried at the NIA court. One was acquitted for lack of evidence. According to the NIA chargesheet, the accused had learnt to assemble time bombs from an online magazine published by al Qaida. The NIA said Hyder was the mastermind and used several identities in Jharkhand, Kerala and other states. He was allegedly known as “Black Beauty” in terror circles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
02-11-2021||India||Footpath vendor beaten, forced to chant  Jai Sri Ram in Aligarh||A footpath vendor in Aligarh has been allegedly attacked and forced to chant “Jai Sri Ram” by a father and son who the victim’s relatives said had a history of intimidating members of the minority community. Police arrested the accused on Monday but suggested that they are mentally unstable. The victim’s father and uncle, however, said the father and son were known for religious fanaticism. The police have admitted Mohammad Amir, who sells clothes on a handcart, to a local hospital after the alleged assault by Awadhesh Kumar and his son Devesh Kumar alias Raju. The victim is a resident of Silla while the accused live in adjoining Nangla Khem in Harduaganj in Aligarh. Ami’s father Mohammad Raisuddin told reporters on Monday: “Awadhesh and Devesh stopped Amir on the road and asked him to chant Jai Sri Ram. They started beating up my son when he ignored them. They snatched his mobile, Rs 10,000 and some clothes.” A source in the police said Awadhesh and his son slapped two cops when they went to Nangla Khem to inquire about the incident. Rajesh Kumar, police inspector of Harduaganj, said: “They have been sent to jail on the charge of breach of peace and disturbing religious harmony. Our initial inquiry suggests that the father and the son are mentally unstable.” However, Raisuddin said: “They are notorious in the area for their aggressiveness and religious fanaticism. People in general avoid them.” Amir’s uncle Rajjuddin said: “Ask any poor villager and they will tell you the story of the duo’s anti-social activities. They don't want members of the minority community or lower classes in the village. A section of upper caste people support them.” At the police station, Devesh told reporters: "While we were bargaining for some clothes with the vendor, he started misbehaving with us. He attacked us first. We didn't ask them to chant any slogan. They are trying to divert the case."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
02-11-2021||India||Srinagar: BJP leader wants girls skinned for T20 chant||Senior BJP leader and former legislator Vikram Randhawa has publicly urged authorities to peel off the skin of female students of a medical college in Srinagar for supporting Pakistan’s recent victory against India in a T20 World Cup match. Some see the BJP leader’s remarks as a diversionary tactic at a time the business community in Jammu is seething with anger against a host of central government decisions that has badly hit them. They also fear that outsiders are encroaching upon their domain after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was scrapped. Randhawa made the comments during a media conference in Jammu on Sunday. They triggered a protest in Jammu’s Rajouri district on Monday and led to calls for registration of an FIR for hate speech but no action was taken till the evening. The BJP leader, who was accused in 2019 by Leh journalists of trying to bribe them for a coverage in the parliamentary elections, hit out at Kashmiris and Muslims, some for supporting Pakistan and the others for offering prayers at public places. “Whoever is involved in it (cheering for Pakistan), each one of them should be caught and their skin should be peeled off. They should meet such a fate that future generations will know what it means to raise slogans against India or support some other kafir (infidel) country,” Randhawa, who was previously a member of the legislative council, told reporters. “I can assure you that the Centre has taken a strong note of it and there will be a serious action.” He added: “These 22-23-year-old maidservants move in burqas in Jammu but were waving their jackets chanting ‘Pakistan zindabad’ slogans.” The BJP leader said their degrees would be cancelled, and he urged the authorities and cancel their citizenship. “(So much so) that even their parents should realise what kind of kafir children they have produced. They are yet to be born, are just 20, 21 or 22, and are singing praises for Pakistan. The agencies are aware of it and it won’t be taken casually,” he said. Jammu lawyer Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad asked the police to file an FIR against Randhawa for hate speech. “Mr Randhawa has abused our daughters, mothers and sisters…. (The police) should take note that we have Section 153 A of the Indian Panel Code… against people who spread hatred between communities, hurt religious sentiments and create fissures between communities,” Shakeel said in a video appeal. “No action taken against an ex-BJP MLA who calls for genocide of Kashmiris and to skin them alive. But J&K students are charged with sedition for merely cheering the winning team. India is surely the mother of all democracies,” tweeted former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
02-11-2021||India||‘Intolerance’ on Supreme Court judge lips after ad withdrawal||Supreme Court judge D.Y. Chandrachud has expressed anguish over the withdrawal of a Karva Chauth advertisement featuring a same-sex couple due to “public intolerance”, saying there is a need to change the mindset of both men and women. The judge was referring to the Dabur advertisement on Karva Chauth, a Hindu festival celebrated in northern parts of the country in which wives keep a daylong fast and perform puja for the well-being of their husbands. The ad, showing two women celebrating the festival as a couple, was withdrawn by the firm after facing a backlash. Besides attacks from trolls on social media, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra had issued an ultimatum to Dabur to withdraw the ad. “Just two days ago, all of you would know of this advertisement that a company was required to pull down. It was an advertisement for Karva Chauth of a same-sex couple. It had to be withdrawn on the ground of public intolerance,” Justice Chandrachud said. The judge was speaking at the virtual launch of a nationwide legal awareness programme — Empowerment of Women Through Legal Awareness — at Varanasi on Saturday. The programme was being carried out by the National Legal Services Authority, headed by the senior-most judge Justice U.U. Lalit, in collaboration with National Commission for Women and UP State Legal Services Authority. Justice Chandrachud said awareness about the rights of women needed to be created among the younger generation of men. “Awareness is not only a woman’s issue. I believe that the deprivation of rights of women if we have to find an answer to them, the origin must be in the changing of mindset, both of men and women. True freedom for women, in other words, is truly intersectional,” he said. Mishra, the BJP minister who had ordered the Dabur ad and a mangalsutra ad by designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to be withdrawn, appeared satisfied that both had complied but issued a threat. “We considered it a mistake… as it was committed for the first time. If repeated, direct action will be taken without a warning,” he said. Justice Chandrachud said there were real-life situations that revealed a great divergence between ideals of the law and the real state of the society. He added even though legislations such as the domestic violence act, prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace act had been enacted to achieve the goal of fulfilling the constitutional rights of women, the judges came across injustice against women every day. Justice Chandrachud stated that the entitlements which the law had created for women should not become a ruse or an excuse for perpetuating the domination of men. The apex court judge said the Constitution of India is a transformative document that seeks to remedy the structural inequalities rooted in patriarchy. “It has become a powerful tool to secure material entitlements and provide public affirmations of dignity and equality of women,” he added. At the event held at Varanasi, several other top court judges Justices Vikram Nath, Krishna Murari, Judge, Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
02-11-2021||India||Kerala: ‘Jihadi’ attack lie exposed, woman entrepreneur booked||A woman entrepreneur who alleged “jihadis” had attacked her because she planned to open a non-halal restaurant has been booked for spreading communal hatred with false accusations, Kerala police have said. Thushara Ajith Kallayil, 40, and her husband Ajith Kumar also face attempt-to-murder charges over a brawl with two men one of whom needed surgery for serious injuries, officers said. It’s this October 24 brawl with two non-Muslims — possibly over personal motives, the police said — that Thushara allegedly portrayed on social media as a jihadi attack. The couple are in hiding but the police on Sunday arrested two alleged accomplices — Abin Bensus Antony, 22, and Vishnu Shivadas, 26 — saying they had participated in the brawl. The two young men are believed to be employees of another no-halal restaurant that Thushara runs in her hometown of Ernakulam. Thushara had become the toast of pro-Rightwing media outlets and Sangh parivar leaders in January by opening Kerala’s first no-halal restaurant. Her complaint of a jihadi attack received a lot of traction in the local and national media, with Kerala BJP president K. Surendran among those who expressed outrage. “Strongly condemn the attacks against Smt. Thushara Ajith. A group of Muslim fanatics brutally attacked the woman entrepreneur due to non-compliance of Halal in her hotel. What happened in Kakkanad is nothing less than Talibanism. I urge the people of Kerala to reject #HalalInvasion,” Surendran tweeted on October 25. A barrage of social media posts followed from pro-parivar netizens. But Rightwing activist Rahul Easwar, a regular on TV debates, apologised after the police statement. “Apologies for the earlier tweet. I am sorry that I fell for the wrong information which many of our friends also unknowingly fell for in national media. Hope we all correct. Will take more care in the future. Facts are Gods,” Easwar tweeted on Friday. Thushara had rented space in a commercial building in Ernakulam city’s tech district of Kakkanad, planning to open her second no-halal restaurant. But she could not because the building was a subject of litigation between several promoters. The police say that on October 24 night, the couple and the two alleged accomplices vandalised the chaat counter of the Dine Restaurant, located near Thushara’s proposed no-halal eatery. Officers said the act had been captured on CCTV. When the owners of Dine Restaurant, Nakul S. Babu and Binoj George, confronted the four, a fight broke out. George suffered serious bleeding and underwent surgery, the police said without clarifying the type of injury. He is still in hospital. While George named Thushara and Ajith in his complaint, Thushara filed a counter-complaint accusing George and Nakul of assaulting her and outraging her modesty. The police have registered separate FIRs based on the two complaints. After the October 24 incident, Thushara posted a series of Facebook video clips and said “jihadis” had attacked her and Ajith after they displayed a “no halal” sticker outside her Kakkanad restaurant. But the police say there was no functioning restaurant and that the “no halal” sticker had been pasted after the brawl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
