03-11-2021||India||Congress may rope in Prashant Kishor for Punjab Assembly polls, indicates Channi||Political strategist Prashant Kishor may be roped in to develop the election campaign of the Congress for next year's Assembly polls, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has indicated.  Channi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and the incharge of the state affairs at the AICC, Harish Chaudhary, held a meeting of party MLAs and other senior leaders here Tuesday evening to discuss the strategy for the elections.  In a short video of the party meeting, Channi is heard saying that "Harish Chaudharyji was even advising to hire Prashant Kishor".  Channi was also seen discussing recent decision of his government to reduce power tariff and how it had received positive response from people.  There is enthusiasm among people and the party workers, Channi said.  "As per suggestions from you all, power tariff was reduced. We still have a couple of months (before code of conduct comes into effect in view of polls) and I will ensure that whatever you suggest will be done," he said.  Earlier this year, Kishor had resigned as former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's principal adviser.  Kishor is currently lobbying for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the upcoming Goa Assembly elections.  Earlier, Kishor had crafted Amarinder Singh's campaign in 2017 assembly polls.  The Congress had stormed to power with an overwhelming majority in the 2017 polls in Punjab.  Channi recently replaced Amarinder Singh as chief minister following unceremonious exit of the veteran leader, who on Tuesday quit the Congress and announced the name of his own political outfit to contest the upcoming state polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
03-11-2021||India||Sidhu attacks Captain, calls him 'fraud, coward and spent cartridge'||A day after Amarinder Singh gave him top billing in his bitter resignation letter to Sonia Gandhi, Navjot Singh Sidhu railed at the former Chief Minister, calling him a "fraud, coward and spent cartridge". Sidhu, the Punjab Congress chief, accused Amarinder Singh of raising allegations of corruption that he himself did not act on, out of cowardice. "The Captain is a spent cartridge. He is a fraud. Now he claims ministers were involved in illegal mining - then why didn't he act? He is a coward," Sidhu told reporters today. "Now he is saying that these guys robbed the treasury. Was he sleeping? He could see that loot was going on and he didn't do anything? This is a sign of cowardice," he said. He also remarked that "not even a councillor had left" the Congress, not even his wife Preneet Kaur. "Ask him if Preneet Kaur will quit the Congress," he said, referring to the former Chief Minister's wife, who is a Congress Lok Sabha MP and a former Union Minister. Amarinder Singh was forced to quit as Chief Minister in September after months of acrimony and sparring with Sidhu. In July, Sidhu had been appointed Punjab Congress chief as part of the party's attempts to broker peace between the feuding leaders. But any truce reached at the time was short-lived. Amarinder Singh made his split with the Congress, his party of five decades, official yesterday and announced a new party, the Punjab Lok Congress. In his seven-page exit letter, Amarinder Singh called the cricketer-turned-politician "an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state" and "a person of unstable mind". The Captain accused Sidhu of "using the filthiest and most vile language" against him and wrote: "Sidhu's only claim to fame was that he would abuse me and my government on a regular basis. I am old enough to be his father but that did not stop him from using the filthiest and most vile language against me, both publicly and privately." The Captain also expressed his dismay with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for backing Sidhu. "I told you at the time that Sidhu is a person of unstable mind, and you will one day regret this decision... I am sure you must be regretting it now..." he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
03-11-2021||India||Indian schoolgirl gives clarion call to world leaders on climate change||Vinisha Umashankar (15), whose solar-powered ironing cart project made it to the finals of Prince William’s inaugural Earthshot Prize, addressed the World Leaders’ Summit of the COP26 conference in Glasgow spurring them to act and save the planet, according to The Hindu. Vinisha, who hails from Tamil Nadu, was part of the “Accelerating Clean Technology Innovation and Deployment” session that was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi before he flew back to New Delhi on Tuesday. “We, the Earthshot Prize Winners and finalists, are proof that the greatest challenge in the history of our Earth is also the greatest opportunity. We lead the greatest wave of innovation humanity has ever known,” said Vinisha. “We chose not to complain, but take actions that will make us wealthier and healthier. We chose to do these things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard. Rising to these challenges will shape a new generation. A generation that will build a better world for all of us and generations to come,” she added. “We won’t wait for you to act. We will lead even if you don’t. We’ll build the future, even if you are stuck in the past. Please accept my invite. I assure you won’t regret it,” she said. Vinisha was short listed in the 1 million pounds Earthshot Prize under the Clean Our Air category “with her concept of a solar-powered clean alternative to the charcoal-powered street irons that press clothes for millions of Indians each day.” She also held a meeting with Modi along with the Indian winner in the category, Vidyut Mohan. “It was such an honour meeting the Prime Minister, who was very curious about my winning agricultural waste recycling project and had some very encouraging words about scaling this up to help farmers all over India,” said Mohan, co-founder of Takachar named the winner of the prize for its cheap, small-scale, portable technology that converts crop residues into sellable bio-products. “The prize means a lot as it gives the project a global scale and also offers us access to crucial support and funding,” said Mohan. Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge was part of the World Leaders’ Summit, hosted by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson where world leaders discussed plans to tackle climate change along with the finalists who interacted with philanthropists, NGOs and some of the world’s biggest companies and brands representing 3.6 million employees globally for the first time. They will join come under the same roof to support the unique solutions conceived by the 15 finalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
03-11-2021||India||WHO panel finally recommends EUL status for Covaxin||The Technical Advisory Group (TAG), an independent advisory committee of the World Health Organisation (WHO), has recommended Emergency Use Listing (EUL) status for Bharat Biotech COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, sources in the know of the development said. The WHO is in the process of evaluating Covaxin's clinical trial data for use of EUL. The TAG on October 26 had sought "additional clarifications" from the company for Covaxin to conduct a final "risk-benefit assessment" for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. "The Technical Advisory Group of WHO has recommended Emergency Use Listing status for Covaxin," a source told PTI. The TAG-EUL is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a COVID-19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. In June, the company said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
03-11-2021||India||Delay in communication of bail orders affects liberty, says SC judge||Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud has termed the delay in communicating bail orders to prison authorities as a very serious deficiency and stressed the need to address it on war footing as it touches the human liberty of every under-trial prisoner. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at an online event organised by the Allahabad High Court to inaugurate virtual courts and e-Sewa kendras' to facilitate online legal assistance to litigants. Incidentally, although Justice Chandrachud did not mention it, his comments are pertinent in the wake of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shahrukh Khan, spending an extra day in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, despite securing bail from the Bombay High Court in the drugs-on-cruise case. "A very serious deficiency in the criminal justice system is the delay in the communication of bail orders, which we need to address on war footing. Because this touches upon human liberty of every under-trial, or even a convict who has got suspension of sentence..., he said. Prior to this, a CJI N V Ramana-led bench had expressed strong displeasure over reports of delay in implementation of bail orders and had said it would set up a secure, credible and authentic channel for transmission of orders. Even in the digital age, we are still looking at the skies for the pigeons to communicate orders , the bench had said. The Supreme Court had then ordered the implementation of a project -- Fast and Secure Transmission of Electronic Records (FASTER) -- for faster communication and compliance of its orders and had asked all states and union territories to ensure internet facility, with adequate speed, in every jail. Speaking at the event, Justice Chandrachud referred to one of the initiatives of the Orissa High Court which provides for the grant of e-custody certificate to every under-trial prisoner and convict who is undergoing sentence of imprisonment. That certificate will give us all the requisite data with regard to that particular under-trial or convict, right from initial remand to the subsequent progress of each case. This will also help us in ensuring that bail orders are communicated as soon as they are made, from the place they are communicated, to the jails for immediate implementation," he said. Justice Chandrachud also referred to the importance of virtual courts and said that they have been set up in 12 states for adjudicating traffic challans. Across the country 99.43 lakh cases have been completed. Fines have been collected for 18.35 lakh cases. Total fine collected is over 119 crores of rupees. About 98,000 violators chose to contest the case", the judge said. "Now you can imagine that for a common citizen who has a traffic challan, to spend a day away from daily wages and to go to court to pay for the traffic challan is not productive..., he said. Justice Chandrachud said that 2.,95 crore criminal cases are pending in district courts in the country and over 77 per cent cases are more than one year old. Many criminal cases are pending as the accused remain absconding for years. For example, the oldest sessions court case in Uttar Pradesh where the accused is absconding is sessions trial 64 of 1976 at Gorakhpur, he said. The major reasons for delay in disposal of criminal cases is the accused remain absconding, particularly after bail is granted, and secondly, due to non-appearance of official witnesses during the course of the criminal trial for recording evidence, he said. "We can use information and communication technology here also. This is what we are working on presently in the e-committee of the Supreme Court," Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Covaxin gets shelf life extension up to 12 months||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved the extension of shelf life of COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin up to 12 months from the date of manufacture. "The CDSCO has approved the extension of shelf life of Covaxin up to 12 months, from the date of manufacture. This approval of shelf life extension is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to CDSCO," Bharat Biotech said in a tweet. The shelf life extension has been communicated to "our stakeholders," it added. Last month, an expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children in the 2 to 18 years age group with certain conditions. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which completed the phase 2/3 trials of Covid vaccine Covaxin for use in children aged between 2 and 18 years, had submitted the data to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its verification and subsequent approval for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the jab in the beginning of this month. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended grant of market authorisation of the vaccine for the age group of 2 to 18 years for restricted use in emergency situations subject to the certain conditions," the SEC recommendations had stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||No more evidence against Anil Deshmukh, Param Bir Singh tells probe panel||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has submitted an affidavit before an inquiry commission probing his corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, saying he does not have any further evidence to share in the matter. Singh's lawyer on Wednesday confirmed that the senior IPS officer submitted the affidavit in a previous hearing of the commission. In March this year, the Maharashtra government formed the one-member commission of retired Justice Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to probe Singh's allegations against Deshmukh. Despite the commission issuing multiple summons and a bailable warrant against Singh, he has not appeared before the it so far. The commission had thrice imposed fines on Singh - of Rs 5,000 in June and Rs 25,000 each on two other occasions - for failing to appear before it. On the latest development, special public prosecutor in the case, Shishir Hirey, appearing for the inquiry commission, said, "Param Bir Singh has refused to give any more evidence in the matter other than the letter that he had initially forwarded to the chief minister and the home minister." He is also not ready for a cross-examination, Hirey said. Last week, two non-bailable warrants were also issued against Singh in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane district in connection with different extortion cases registered at local police stations. Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to the Home Guards in March this year, Singh had claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister in April this year. The NCP leader has repeatedly denied the allegations against him. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh. Deshmukh was on Monday arrested by the ED in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police. He was on Tuesday remanded in the ED's custody till November 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Covid vaccination drive needed to be taken door-to-door, says Modi||Taking cognizance of dismal vaccine coverage in some areas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asserted that the COVID-19 vaccination drive needed to be taken door-to-door and asked officials of districts having low inoculation to adopt innovative ways to boost the campaign. Modi made the remarks at a meeting, held via video conferencing, with district magistrates of over 40 districts having low vaccination coverage. Pointing out that he recently met Pope Francis at the Vatican City, the Prime Minister said special emphasis was needed on taking message of religious leaders spreading awareness and encouraging the vaccination drive to the people. He urged the district officials to take the help of local religious leaders to spread awareness about COVID-19 vaccines and fight rumours. Modi stressed that there is a need to adopt innovative ways to increase vaccination in districts with low coverage. "So far you've been working to take people to vaccination centres, now it's time to reach every house and work with 'har ghar dastak' campaign," he said. Ensure that the first dose is given to unvaccinated people, but also give equal attention to second dose, the prime minister told the officials. The districts in focus at the meeting were those with less than 50 per cent coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of vaccine. The 40 districts are spread across Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Meghalaya, among other states, according to the Prime Minister's Office. Chief ministers of the states, including Maharashtra's Uddhav Thackrey and Chhattisgarh's Bhupesh Baghel, were present at the meeting. Prime Minister Modi held the meeting immediately upon his return from abroad after attending the G20 and the COP26 meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Gurgaon administration cancels namaz permission to eight approved sites||The Gurgaon administration on Tuesday rescinded permission to offer namaz at eight of the 37 "designated" prayer sites decided in the wake protests against offering prayers in 2018. The cancellation comes following "objections" from residents and warned that if similar "objections" were raised at other prayer sites, "permission will not be given there too", reports NDTV. "Consent from the administration is necessary for namaz in any public and open place. If local people have objections at other places also, permission will not be given to offer namaz there too," Gurgaon authorities said. The sites are Bengali Basti (Sector 49), Block V of DLF Phase 3, Surat Nagar Phase 1 and an area near the DLF Square Tower on Jacaranda Marg, on the outskirts of the Kherki Majra and Daulatabad villages, near the Ramgarh village in Sector 68, and an area between Rampur village and Nakhrola Road. Namaz however can be offered at mosques or Eidgah (or open-air prayer sites), at a private space or a designated site – numbering only 29. According to the administration, a committee formed by Gurgaon Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg would hold parleys on choosing places for namaz. The committee comprises a Sub Divisional Magistrate, an Assistant Commissioner of Police and members of both religious organisations and civil society groups, “and will work, the administration said, towards ensuring local residents do not face any problem in offering prayers.” The committee will also enforce strict measures to stop namaz on roads or public place and permission should be taken from locals before designating a prayer spot. The administration has appealed to religious communities to adhere to rules and all-inclusive security arrangements have been made by the police. Several residents and right wing groups have made objections to Friday namaz at public grounds. Last week around 30 people were arrested following protests against namaz offered at a private property. "Locals staged a protest at  Sector 47  for the fourth consecutive week by performing puja. Efforts are ongoing for a solution, including finding an alternate place for namaz," ACP Aman Yadav said adding, "Earlier also two rounds (of talks) were held under the chairmanship of the Sub Divisional Magistrate (Badshahpur). We are making efforts to find a solution and resolve the issue amicably," he added. "The residents have shown us the list which was issued three years ago. We have to verify the list from our end also. If the ground had given to Muslim community for a single day, then the administration will take necessary action," ACP Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Opposition leaders in Bengal being forced to join TMC at 'sword-point', alleges Vijaywargiya||BJP general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya has claimed opposition leaders in West Bengal are being forced to join the Trinamool Congress at "sword-point , by implicating them in false cases, and that Islam also came to the country in a similar manner. Vijaywargiya, who was the BJP's main strategist for the West Bengal polls held earlier this year, made the comments on Tuesday while responding to a question from reporters on a number of his party leaders switching over to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in that state. "I am reminded of an incident that Islam entered the country at sword-point and in Bengal also, people are being forced to join the Trinamool Congress at sword-point. I feel both the incidents are similar," the BJP leader claimed. He further claimed that the law and order had "totally collapsed" in West Bengal and BJP leaders there were being implicated in false and serious cases of dacoity, murder and corruption. There are 20 cases going on against me alone (in West Bengal). When the government is hellbent on murdering the opposition, then how will a person live there (in West Bengal)? he said. Attacking West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Vijaywargiya said In the history of the country, if a name of a dictator will be written who has no faith in democracy, then Banerjee's name will figure in it. India's democracy is being praised the world over, but I can say it with full responsibility in my capacity as the BJP's general secretary that there is no democracy in West Bengal, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting with DMs of districts with low vaccine coverage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding a review meeting with district magistrates of over 40 districts having low COVID-19 vaccination coverage. The meeting, being held via video conferencing, includes districts with less than 50 per cent coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of the vaccine as well. The 40 districts are spread across Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya among other states, according to the Prime Minister's Office. Modi is holding the meeting immediately upon his return from abroad after attending the G20 and COP26 summits. Highlighting the need to accelerate the pace and coverage of vaccination, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently said that there are more than 10.34 crore people in the country who have not taken the second dose of vaccine after the expiry of the prescribed interval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Close shave: Portion of Green Park automated parking space collapses, some vehicles damaged||A major catastrophe was averted on Tuesday evening when a part of an automated multi-level parking facility at Delhi's Green Park, opened last November, collapsed. Some of the vehicles parked suffered minor damage. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Mayor has ordered a probe into the matter. The automated stack parking facility was inaugurated by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and central minister RK Singh with senior SDMC officials. The Hauz Khas police station sprang into action following an information about the collapse of the electrically operated floor plates (that shifts the cars) falling inside the parking space which has now been blocked. "Cars are parked on platforms in such automated stack parking. Due to some technical glitch one platform or floor plate of the tower number 3 on the 8th floor of the parking facility collapsed. It was not a major incident. Neither anyone was hurt nor any car was damaged in the incident," SDMC Mayor Mukesh Suryan told news agency PTI. Suryan warned of strict action against those guilty. "An inquiry has been ordered in the incident. Such an incident should not have happened. We are investigating the entire incident. Those responsible for the incident be it the contractor or officials, will not be spared," the mayor added. The 17-floor multilevel automatic parking near Green Park Metro station provides space to 136 cars including 32 SUVs for parking and the project cost was worth around Rs 18 crore. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) taking swipes at the authorities, said that many cars were damaged due to the collapse. AAP's Chief Spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the cave in was embarrassing for MCD. "A large part of an automated stack parking in Green Park collapsed today. Many cars damaged in the incident. This parking was inaugurated with much funfair by the L-G Anil Baijal and central minister RK Singh and they (BJP) had spoken very highly of this parking facility made with an expenditure of 18 crore. It is a matter of shame for MCD and Delhi BJP," Bhardwaj said in an audio byte. Later, he added that a new parking structure could not stay in place for even a year. "It is an embarrassment brought by the BJP to all people of Delhi." "The accountability for this incident falls on Delhi BJP and all the leaders in Delhi Municipal Corporation who uphold the rule of BJP. AAP demands that the culprits be punished and transparency be brought to MCD," Bhardwaj said in a statement. AAP MLA from Malviya Nagar, Somnath Bharti who visited the spot said, "Car platforms in Newly built Multi level parking by BJP ruled MCD in green park have collapsed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Rahul slams Centre over price rise issue||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over price rise amid Diwali celebrations and said he wished that the Modi government had a sensitive heart for the people. "It is Diwali. Prices are at their peak. It's not a matter of sarcasm. I wish the Modi government had a sensitive heart for the public," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi and the Congress have been extremely critical of the government over the rise in fuel prices. The opposition party has accused the government of extortion in the name of taxes on petrol and diesel. It has also charged the government with "profiteering" from fuel tax and "fleecing" the common people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||Centre sends expert teams to nine states, UTs with high dengue cases||The Union health ministry has sent teams of experts to nine states and union territories, which are reporting a high number of dengue cases in a bid to support them in public health measures for control and management of the disease. This is in accordance with the directions issued by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya during a review meeting on the dengue situation in Delhi on Monday, a health ministry statement said. These nine states and union territories are Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir. Mandaviya had directed the ministry to extend help to states and union territories that have a high incidence of dengue cases, the statement said. It said that 1,16,991 dengue cases have been reported by states and union territories across the country. The statement said that a significantly higher number of cases in some states have been reported in October as compared to the number of cases during the same period in the previous year. Fifteen states and union territories are reporting their maximum cases in the current year. These states have contributed to 86 per cent of the country's total dengue cases till October 31, it stated. In view of this, central teams, comprising experts from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Regional Offices, have been sent to the nine states and union territories that have reported more cases in October compared to September, the statement said. The teams are tasked to assist and support these states and union territories to mount an effective public health response. They have been asked to report on the status of vector control, availability of kits and medicines, early detection, availability and use of insecticides, status of anti-larval and anti-adult vector control measures, among others, the statement said. They will also brief state health authorities about their observations, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
03-11-2021||India||11,903 new COVID-19 cases, 311 deaths in India; active case count declines further||India's Covid-19 tally reached 3,43,08,140 with a single-day rise of 11,903 cases, while the number of active cases declined to 1,51,209, the lowest in 252 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,59,191 with 311 daily fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 26 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 129 consecutive days now. The number of active cases has declined to 1,51,209, comprising 0.44 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.22 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 2,567 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.11 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 30 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 40 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,97,740, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 107.29 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Vigilante censorship: How in recent times big brands are bowing down to trolls||Bhopal, the city of lakes, has been a favourite for filmmakers, especially Prakash Jha whose films Aarakshan and Rajneeti were shot here. Jha and his crew were recently assaulted by the Bajrang Dal while shooting the third season of the web series Aashram, which some Sangh parivar leaders have accused of offending Hindu sentiments. Ink was thrown on Jha, who did not lodge a police complaint but secured police protection to continue shooting. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra of the BJP has said that in future, scripts with religious scenes will have to be cleared by the district collectors before shooting. Mishra told reporters: “Let alone the content, I object to the name (Aashram) itself. Hinduism is becoming a soft target.” Jha’s series is about a conman preacher and is being shot in a state where religious leader Asumal Harpalani aka Asaram Bapu was arrested for alleged rape in 2013 after a massive police operation at his Indore ashram. Mishra has also asked state police to probe a Ramleela skit at AIIMS Delhi that the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had opposed, to warn Dabur against a fairness bleach ad with a lesbian theme for Karwa Chauth, and gave fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee a day to withdraw ads of his designer mangalsutra wedding necklaces that featured models in intimate poses. Both Dabur and Sabyasachi withdrew the ads before the Madhya Pradesh police could act. “It seems the government is attempting some damage control. While Narottam Mishra makes his statements, the police provide protection for the shooting,” former Madhya Pradesh chief secretary Sharad Chandra Behar told The Telegraph. “But what message will go out to others planning to shoot here — that of Mishra’s statements and the vandalism, or the subsequent police protection?” The state’s tourism department directly approached filmmakers during the pandemic and 35 films and web series were shot in Madhya Pradesh over the past year. This was at a time when most scenic locations in other parts of India were out of bounds because of Covid. National award-winning director Hansal Mehta, whose face was blackened by Shiv Sena supporters in 2000 for a line in his film Dil Pe Mat Le Yaar!! — which ironically means “don’t take it to heart” — said the brave find a way. “This (pre-censorship) is restrictive, draconian and takes away my constitutional freedoms. But artists have found ways to express themselves even in the most repressive circumstances,” Mehta told this newspaper. “By such acts (attack on Jha and crew) you are actually empowering those who are fearless. The fearful will always be fearful. As Bashir Badr wrote, ‘Kuchh toh majbooriyan rahi hongi. Yuun koi bevafa nahin hota (There must have been some compulsion. No one is disloyal without reason)’.” When Tanishq jewellery was forced to withdraw an ad showing a Hindu girl with Muslim in-laws last year, communication and brand guru N. Chandramouli had warned that this would set a precedent. This week, he told this newspaper: “When brands like Tanishq pull back, smaller brands start rethinking. Many consumers would have a positive response to cultural intermingling and LGBT themes. But today you can’t express creativity or even normal feelings….” “But when huge brands can’t or don’t stand up for their ads fearing a backlash, there is no brand personality. What will they be known for?” he said. Chandramouli, the CEO of Mumbai-based brand intelligence and data insights firm TRA Research, explained: “I don’t buy a brand because I like the product but because it reflects my personality. A product can be copied, a personality cannot. The bigger challenge that brands don’t understand is that by appeasing trolls who may be 20 per cent of your consumers, you have actually let down 80 per cent of your consumers. There are Davids and Goliaths. You still have Ritu Kumar whose Diwali collection has models not wearing bindis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Kerala: Vaccines creating two classes, says high court||The Centre’s vaccination scheme has created two classes of citizens in India — those who have got Covaxin and whose movements are restricted, and those who have received Covishield and can go anywhere — Kerala High Court said on Tuesday. The observation by Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan came during the hearing of the petition of a man who was working as a welder in Saudi Arabia. He has moved the court for a third jab as the two doses of Covaxin he had received were not recognised in the Gulf nation. He stands to lose his job as he cannot go there without being jabbed by an internationally recognised vaccine. The court said the creation of two classes of citizens resulted in “infringement of the fundamental right of movement of the petitioner”. “His movement is restricted. A citizen is suffering because of a State-sponsored vaccination scheme. It is a clear case of infringement of the fundamental rights of the petitioner,” the court observed. The judge said he would not order as to whether a third jab be administered to the petitioner but would direct the Centre to redress his grievance within one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Window to Facebook in Delhi riots summons||The Delhi Assembly has given 16 more days to Facebook to depose before a committee probing the company’s alleged role in communal riots in the capital that claimed 53 lives last year. However, questions have been raised on the delay in the summons after the Supreme Court permitted it. Also, no executive of the company has been named, unlike last year when its country head had been specifically summoned. The Indian arm of the social media giant is being probed for alleged culpability for allowing the spread of hate speech that aggravated rioting in North East Delhi. Facebook’s managing director for India, Ajit Mohan, avoided the summons last year by pleading before the Supreme Court that the Assembly of the Union Territory did not have jurisdiction over law and order. The court dismissed the plea in July. The hearing of the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony was initially scheduled for Tuesday, but has now been deferred to November 18 on a request from Facebook. The summons sent last week to Facebook’s Indian subsidiary based in Mumbai asks the company to email the names of its representatives who would appear before the committee, thereby giving Mohan a window to not appear in person. Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, told The Telegraph: “There almost seems to be a lethargy in the institutional processes regarding such inquiries because it seems to only match media cycles where there is a high degree of public attention directed towards any such hearing, rather than regular conduct and schedule being drawn up….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||‘Cringe-worthy’ tag on Narendra Modi’s Covid-time hug||On Sunday, some social media users had commented that Prime Minister Narendra Modi looked lost among the gaggle of leaders when they posed for a picture in front of the Trevi Fountain after the G20 summit in Rome. A day later, unwittingly or otherwise, the pendulum swung to the other end. Prime Minister Modi’s decision to hug UN secretary-general António Guterres at COP26 in Glasgow on Monday was described as “cringe-worthy” by the Daily Mail. The Mail reported: “India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and United Nations secretary-general António Guterres shared an awkward moment after the former went in for a hug at COP26 — despite Britain being gripped by high Covid case numbers on the opening day of the climate conference.” It went on: “The Indian premier shared the awkward moment with Guterres as they met at the start of the Glasgow conference. Modi has been pictured getting cozy with several leaders over the course of the first days of COP26. “He has been pictured with his arms wrapped around Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Luxembourg’s Xavier Bettel and Canadian PM Justin Trudeau as world leaders arrived in Glasgow after many were at the G20 summit in Rome this weekend.” It added: “The cringe-worthy moment comes on the same day that Modi pledged that India will target net-zero carbon emissions by 2070 — two decades later than the targets for the conference.” Among those who have warned that COP26 will cause a surge in Covid cases is Devi Sridhar, professor and chair of Global Public Health at Edinburgh University. She is an Indian from America and has become high profile during the pandemic. She sits on the Scottish government’s Covid advisory group. She said COP26, with 25,000-30,000 delegates and more than 100 world leaders in attendance, would make the coronavirus situation in Scotland worse and lead to new curbs on freedoms. “A mass event — with major movement of people in and out — with an infectious virus will cause an increase in cases... which triggers need for further restrictions.” The summit was taking place at “probably (the) worst timing ever in a pandemic”, Sridhar said, as winter approaches and socialising increasingly takes place indoors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||NEET: Students from marginalised community score cut-off marks meant for general category||Over three-fourths of the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes students who have qualified in the undergraduate medical exam NEET this year have cleared the cut-off meant for the general category. They did not require the support of marks relaxation. The results announced by the National Testing Agency on Monday show that over 83 per cent of the 3.97 lakh OBC candidates, more than 80 per cent of the 1.14 lakh SC candidates and close to 77 per cent of the 40,000 ST candidates have scored more than the 50th percentile cut-off meant for the general category and students from the economically weaker sections (EWS). Out of the 8.7 lakh candidates declared qualified in the written exam, 7.7 lakh have scored more than the general merit cut-off while nearly 1 lakh have qualified on the relaxed cut-off of the 40th percentile. The qualified candidates will now be called for counselling, the last round of filtering for admission to MBBS and BDS (dental) courses in medical colleges. Nearly 75,000 MBBS and 25,000 BDS seats are on offer. The success of the candidates belonging to the SC, ST and OBC categories seeks to counter the questions raised by sections of advanced social groups on the merit of the socially backward sections, experts said. N. Sukumar, who teaches political science at Delhi University, said SCs, STs and OBCs could do even better if they are provided proper training and guidance. “The NEET results show that ‘merit’ is a manufactured term that is used to discriminate against SCs and STs. The fact is they are doing well without the support their peers (in the general category) usually get. SCs and STs coming from rural backgrounds do not receive much guidance and training. Yet they perform well,” Sukumar said. He suggested that the government spend more on better training of aspirants from SCs and STs, especially for professional courses, by using the budget’s special component fund meant for these communities. Amol Meshram, an alumnus of IIT Kharagpur, said the definition of merit as used by the dominant castes ignored the deprivation faced by the Dalit-Bahujan students. “The definition of merit is discriminatory in nature and fails to consider the socio-economic background of India. It suits well those who can afford to get enrolled at expensive coaching institutes,” he said. Meshram said 65.07 per cent of India’s population resided in villages and studied in vernacular languages. But the syllabus of exams like the NEET is more CBSE-oriented. “When the government is planning a ‘one nation, one ration card’, why not one nation, one syllabus?” he asked. This year, 16.14 lakh students had registered for the undergraduate NEET while 15.44 lakh took the exam and 8.7 lakh qualified. Those who scored between 720 and 138 were placed in the general-merit category. The relaxed cut-off for SCs, STs and OBCs was 108 marks. The SC, ST and OBC candidates who have scored more than 138 will have the choice to avail themselves of the benefits of reservation or get admission in the common-merit category. Largely, though, these students choose the reserved category as the chances of getting admission in their preferred colleges is more considering there is less competition. Mrinal Kutteri from Telangana and Tanmay Gupta from Delhi have topped the undergraduate NEET with full marks, or 720. Sandeep Kumar Kandi from Madhya Pradesh is the topper among SCs with a score of 710 and a combined rank of 43. Naman Singh from Rajasthan is the topper among STs with a score of 705 and a combined rank of 75. Among the non-creamy layer OBCs, Deepak Sahu has topped with 715 marks and a combined rank of 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Tripura: USCIRF chief expresses concern over attacks on Muslims ||The chairperson of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) has expressed concern over last week’s attacks on Muslims in Tripura and urged the Union government to “stop violence against religious communities”. The violence took place during a rally taken out by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on October 26 in North Tripura in protest against the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh. The High Court of Tripura has initiated a suo motu PIL. On Monday, USCIRF chairperson Nadine Maenza tweeted: “USCIRF is concerned about ongoing violence in #Tripura against #Muslims, which some regard as retaliation for attacks against #Hindus in #Bangladesh last month. The Indian government must stop violence against religious communities.” This was amplified by the USCIRF from its Twitter handle, as was a similar tweet by commission member Anurima Bhargava: “USCIRF is particularly alarmed about reports from #Tripura of mobs desecrating mosques & torching properties of #Muslims. The Indian govt must bring those responsible for instigating & engaging in religious violence to justice & must prevent further attacks.” The USCIRF is an independent and bipartisan federal government entity created under the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act to monitor the universal right to freedom of religion or belief overseas. While fellow travellers of the Narendra Modi government tend to see an international conspiracy in such comments from watchdogs like the USCIRF, the fact is that the commission had also expressed deep concern about the attacks on Durga Puja festivities and the communal violence in Bangladesh last month. At the same time, the USCIRF acknowledged the measures taken by the Sheikh Hasina government in Bangladesh to crack down on those responsible for the violence. The Modi government, too, had acknowledged these measures, noting publicly soon after the first incidents were reported that the Bangladesh government was taking action in these cases. While the Indian government has received flak for not being more vocal on the violence against Hindus in Bangladesh, officials maintained that since Dhaka was taking action there was no reason why India should be issuing public statements and making things difficult for the Hasina government. Over 600 arrests have been made and Prime Minister Hasina herself had taken the lead in speaking out against the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh bypolls: Congress wins three assembly seats||The Congress on Tuesday rejoiced in its thumping victory in the Lok Sabha and Assembly seats in Himachal Pradesh but the bypoll results from across the nation by no means signalled the revival of the party. The Congress snatched the Mandi Lok Sabha seat from the BJP in Himachal, apart from winning three Assembly constituencies. But there were worrying signs for the Congress from many other states as the BJP appeared to have protected its support base despite the price rise, the economic slide and unemployment. The Congress’s performance was pathetic in Assam, a state it ruled for decades and hoped to regain in the last Assembly election. A tough contest in Assam would have given the party some consolation but the vote difference ranged between 40 per cent and 50 per cent. There were no signs of revival in the rest of the Northeast as well. The BJP and its allies won all the nine Assembly seats spread over three states in the Northeast. In Bihar, where the Congress fought separately from old partner RJD, voters contemptuously rejected its candidates despite powerful campaigning by Kanhaiya Kumar and other leaders. While the Congress candidate fetched 4.28 per cent votes in Kusheshwar Sthan, the performance in Tarapur was worse at 2 per cent votes. The party will have to work very hard to rebuild its organisation in Bihar if it intends to persist with the go-alone strategy. In Telangana, where the Congress nurtures illusions of a strong revival, its candidate got 1.48 per cent votes, forfeiting deposit. Although the Congress did well in Rajasthan by winning both the Assembly seats — Dhariawad and Vallabhgarh — it failed to slice away BJP votes in Madhya Pradesh despite making a huge issue of the Covid deaths and petrol-diesel prices. The BJP won the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh and shared the honours with the Congress in two Assembly seats. In Karnataka, too, the Congress and the BJP won one seat each. While Congress leaders described this as resurgence, the BJP has shown it can hold onto its vote in spite of the inflation and the Covid mismanagement. Haryana vindicates this argument. The Congress presumed the farmers’ agitation will knock the BJP out but that’s not the indication from the bypoll result. The Congress candidate came third in the Ellenabad seat, polling 39,000 votes fewer than the BJP candidate. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala won the Ellenabad bypoll, defeating his nearest rival, Gobind Kanda of the BJP, with a margin of 6,739 votes. In the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency, the Shiv Sena wrested the seat from the BJP while the Congress candidate was nowhere to be seen. In many constituencies, Congress candidates were found to be competing with Nota votes. This was the case in Bihar, a state where the Congress is out of power for decades, and Assam, a state the Congress had won three successive times recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Two climate challenges in Narendra Modi's vows: Analysts||India’s new pledges to accelerate its moves away from fossil fuel energy over the next decade and achieve net-zero emissions by a distant 2070 represent a carefully crafted challenge to itself and to developed countries, climate policy analysts said on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday India would aim for net-zero emissions — release as much emissions as it removes — by 2070 but also sought $1 trillion from developed countries, reminding them of their unkept promises of financial and technological support. Analysts said a pledged target year for net-zero emissions was a reversal from India’s position only a week ago, but the other pledges Modi outlined in his speech at the Glasgow climate summit were in line with its stand that the focus should be on curbing emissions now. Only last week, India’s environment secretary Rameshwar Prasad Gupta had underplayed the significance of a net-zero target year for India, saying “it is how much carbon you put in the atmosphere before reaching net-zero that is more important”. Modi said India would by 2030 cut one billion tonnes of carbon emissions, meet 50 per cent of its energy needs from renewable energy, reduce its economy’s carbon intensity — the emissions produced per unit gross domestic product — by 45 per cent, and increase its installed non-fossil fuel energy to 500 GW from 134 GW in 2019. “We shouldn’t view these pledges in isolation — Modi in his speech linked India’s ambitious targets with the need for more financial and technological support from developed countries,” said Anand Patwardhan, professor of public policy at the University of Maryland. Modi said India expected developed countries to provide the climate finance of $ 1 trillion at the earliest. At earlier climate summits, developed countries had pledged $100 billion annually to help the developing countries switch to clean energy. “We all know this truth that promises made till date regarding climate finance have proved to be hollow,” Modi said. “While we all are raising our ambitions on climate change, the world ambitions on climate finance cannot remain the same as they were at the time of the (2015) Paris agreement.” The Centre for Science and Environment, a New Delhi-based non-government think tank, said the targets announced by Modi were “bold and ambitious, but they will be immensely challenging to achieve”. “By announcing these targets, India is literally not just walking but running the talk,” CSE director-general Sunita Narain said. “Given our comparatively low contributions to global emissions, coupled with the fact that our economy needs to grow and meet energy needs of millions of poor citizens, we did not need to make such ambitious pledges — but India’s pledges also represent a challenge to the already rich world to step up.” Some analysts view the 2070 target year as driven more by political need than climate urgency. “Developed countries such as the UK and the US were putting enormous pressure on India to announce a net-zero year,” said Harjeet Singh, a senior adviser with the non-government organisation Climate Action Network International. Climate policy analysts said the pledge to cut carbon emissions by a billion tonnes by 2030 was the first time India had expressed an absolute emissions reduction target. And the 500 GW non-fossil fuel capacity target means almost two-thirds of installed capacity will come from non-fossil fuel energy by 2030. “This is a truly ambitious target which will require India to more than triple the present non-fossil fuel capacity in less than a decade,” said Ulka Kelkar, an economist and director of the climate programme at the World Resources Institute, India, in a statement. “It will require additional policies as 500 GW is more than what is projected through cost minimisation alone,” she said. Patwardhan said it was notable that India had outlined enhanced targets for the near-term, the period between now and 2030, while setting a distant 2070 target year for net-zero emissions. Sections of climate analysts and summit negotiators have expressed disappointment that India’s target year is the most distant for a major emitter. The US and the European Union have set 2050 as their net-zero years, while China has announced 2060. But, Patwardhan said, a comparison of the current emissions trends between China and India would necessitate India’s target year to be long after China’s. “If India were to follow China’s trajectory, its emissions would peak by 2050 and attain net-zero by 2087,” he said. Others argue that India’s per capita emissions — emissions per person —  are and will remain well below those of developed countries. Under its pledges, India would be emitting less than 3 tonnes of carbon dioxide per capita by 2030, compared with the US at 9.42, the European Union at 4.12 and China at 8.8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||A month in jail over ‘fake’ RT-PCR Covid test report||Naseema, 62, her daughter-in-law Muhsina, 31, and Haleema, 65, were preparing to return to Kerala after running from pillar to post in Uttar Pradesh in search of their jailed kin when 30 police personnel knocked on their hotel door in Lucknow. What followed was over a month in jail on the charge of carrying fake RT-PCR Covid test reports in Uttar Pradesh, an ordeal made worse by the three Malayalam-speaking women’s complete lack of understanding of Hindi. The three women had travelled to Uttar Pradesh from Pathanamthitta and Kozhikode in Kerala in September to meet Naseema’s son Anshad Badruddin and Haleema’s son Firoz Khan who were arrested from a train on their way to Delhi from Kerala on February 11 on terror charges. The three women, who were granted bail on October 23 by the Lucknow additional sessions court and released on October 31, landed at Kochi airport on Monday after having spent 36 days in jail since September 25. The women pleaded innocence, saying they had no idea why they were arrested in the first place since the RT-PCR reports had been given by a lab in Lucknow. They said they had to do the Covid test as a negative report was needed to enter Lucknow district jail, where Anshad and Firoz are lodged. The three women could not say from which lab they had got the tests done. Upon landing at Kochi airport on Monday, Naseema narrated their ordeal. “We went to the court (in Lucknow on September 24) assuming that our children would be brought there. But they were not produced that day.” The following day they went to Lucknow district jail to meet Anshad and Firoz but were not allowed, Naseema said. Eventually they made up their mind to return to Kerala when they were arrested over the allegedly fake Covid test reports. “Some 30 armed police personnel came to our hotel and took us in their vehicle. We had no idea what was happening,” Naseema recalled. Azhar Badruddin, Anshad’s brother, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that Naseema had told him that there were only two policewomen among the cops. Naseema’s daughter-in-law and Anshad’s wife Muhsina said the policemen asked them to carry their Aadhaar cards with them. “We had no idea why we were being taken,” Muhsina said. The three women were taken to the Lucknow jail. During the time they were lodged there, the women were allowed to meet Anshad and Firoz. “We were allowed to meet and speak to our children. But they had no idea why they were arrested,” Naseema said. Muhsina kept her seven-year-old son with her during the judicial custody, Azhar said. Shailendra Kumar, the officer in charge of Gosainganj police station in Lucknow who is probing the case of the women, said he was on leave when they were arrested. “We are looking into all angles,” he said, refusing to go into the specifics of the case. Police sources in Lucknow said the three women had been booked under the Pandemic Act. Anshad and Firoz had reportedly been arrested with a cache of explosives, battery detonators, a bundle of red wire, a .32 bore pistol and seven live cartridges. Uttar Pradesh police had said the two men were members of the Right-wing Popular Front of India (PFI). The PFI is not a banned organisation. Anshad and Firoz were arrested by a special task force for plotting the assassination of Hindu leaders and terror attacks at sensitive spots in the BJP-ruled state, Uttar Pradesh police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
03-11-2021||India||Defence ministry approves Rs 7,965 crore order for arms and choppers||The defence ministry on Tuesday approved the procurement of arms and military equipment worth Rs 7,965 crore, including 12 light utility helicopters from the State-run Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). The procurement proposals were approved at a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh. The procurement is likely to pave the way for the replacement of the ageing Cheetah and Chetak fleet of helicopters that were designed in the 1960s. “Key approvals of procurement from domestic sources include 12 light utility helicopters from HAL and Lynx U2 Fire Control System from Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), which will enhance the detection tracking and engagement capabilities of naval warships…, ,” a statement from the defence ministry said. The DAC also approved “mid-life upgradation” of Dornier Aircraft from HAL to increase the naval capacity of maritime reconnaissance and coastal surveillance, the statement said. “As a further impetus to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India), a global procurement case of naval guns has been foreclosed with these guns added to the upgraded ‘super rapid gun mount’ (SRGM) being manufactured by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL),” it said. These SRGMs provide niche capabilities of engaging fast manoeuvring targets using guided ammunition and range extensions and are to be fitted on the warships of the Indian Navy. However, the navy has been opposing the inclusion of HAL in a planned Rs 22,000-crore deal to manufacture naval utility helicopters under the Make in India model for the past two years. Under the deal, 95 helicopters are to be manufactured in India under a strategic partnership between foreign companies and Indian private sector firms and HAL, while 16 more choppers will be bought from abroad. Initially, only private firms from India had been involved in the proposed project but HAL was included on a request from the public sector utility, the sources in the defence ministry said. The navy has contended that the Bangalore-based HAL’s products do not meet the force’s requirements as the choppers do not have foldable rotor blades that allow them to be parked within the cramped confines of warship hangars. The navy has contended that it wanted a foreign version of the advanced light helicopter that meets its requirements to be built under the strategic partnership model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
03-11-2021||India||Kerala HC grants bail to eight accused in a gold smuggling case||Kerala High Court on Tuesday granted bail to eight accused in a gold smuggling case in which the National Investigation Agency had slapped them with provisions under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The division bench of Justices K. Vinod Chandran and C. Jayachandran passed the order on a batch of bail pleas filed by prime accused Swapna Suresh, Mohammed Shafi, Jalal AM Rabins Hameed, Ramees KT, Sharafudeen KT, Mohammed Ali and Sarith PS. The court ordered them to furnish a bail bond of Rs 25 lakh each and two solvent sureties. All the accused are expected to walk out of jail over a couple of weeks. The case pertains to an attempt to smuggle 30kg gold ingots worth Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic baggage addressed to the attache of the UAE consulate-general in Thiruvananthapuram in July 2020. The customs, Enforcement Directorate and the NIA had conducted separate probes in the smuggling case. The NIA joined the probe upon instructions from the Union government on the suspicion that the proceeds of the gold smuggling was used to fund terror activities. But the high court ruled that the agency had not been able to prove the UAPA charges against the accused. The NIA had opposed the bail pleas on the ground that the accused knew that such activities would threaten the economic stability of the country and the charges were grave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
03-11-2021||India||BJP disowns ex-J&K MLC over derogatory remarks against Muslims women||The BJP and the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday cracked the whip on leader Vikram Randhawa for publicly urging authorities to peel off the skin of female medical students for celebrating Pakistan’s recent victory against India in a T20 World Cup match. While the BJP said it had relieved Randhawa of all his responsibilities and posts, the police have booked him for hate speech. Police sources said Randhawa was booked at Jammu’s Bahu Fort police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by lawyer Muzaffar Ali Shah. The politician said to have been booked under IPC Sections 295-A (outraging religious feelings) and 505 (2) (inciting people for offence against other community). BJP Jammu and Kashmir president Ravinder Raina said: “Vikram Randhawa is relieved from all the party posts/responsibilities….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
03-11-2021||India||Bihar bypolls: JDU bags two seats, wards off threat||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United retained Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur seats in the bypolls on Tuesday, warding off any immediate increase in the threat to the National Democratic Alliance government in the state. The results not only denied the Opposition any additional ammunition to attack the ruling dispensation in the state, but also put a question mark on their decisions and leaderships. JDU’s Aman Bhushan Hazari polled 59,887 votes to comfortably win Kusheshwar Asthan by a margin of 12,695 votes. The seat had fallen vacant after the death of his father Shashi Bhushan Hazari earlier this year. His main opponent Ganesh Bharti of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) bagged 47,192 votes. Congress candidate Atirek Kumar polled just 5,603 votes, thereby forfeiting his security deposit. Incidentally, the Congress had claimed Kusheshwar Asthan to be a part of its traditional stronghold and had broken away from the grand alliance in the state after ally RJD fielded its candidate from there. The Congress went on to field its candidate from Tarapur also. The decision did not work for the two parties. In Tarapur, JDU candidate Rajiv Kumar Singh won by a slender margin of 3,821 votes despite lagging behind RJD candidate Arun Kumar Sah till halfway into the counting. JDU leader and state water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said: “The results are the endorsement of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s work in the state. They scotched the narrative that was being created against him by the Opposition since the 2020 Assembly elections.” While celebrations broke out at JDU state headquarters in Patna, the RJD state headquarters presented a deserted look with most of the senior leaders staying away from the public gaze. Though RJD chief Lalu had campaigned in both the constituencies, his charisma did not work. He spent the day huddled with senior leaders of his party at wife Rabri Devi’s 10, Circular Road residence in Patna. His younger son and former deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav spoke after the results. “We respect the public mandate. We contested Kusheshwar Asthan for the first time since the formation of the RJD. We tried that the elections be fought on public issues instead of personal attacks. We gave a tough fight, such a fight that this government’s ministers had to campaign door-to-door. The Tarapur match went to the last over. It is all right. Our vote share has increased,” he said. “We raised some concerns before the Election Commission and submitted evidence too. It is a constitutional body and if leaders like me do not respect it then who will do so, despite whatever it does,” Tejashwi said in reference to his allegations of government officials working in favour of the JDU. However, Lalu’s eldest son and Hasanpur MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, continuously at loggerheads with Tejashwi and senior party leaders, did speak on the poll performance of the RJD. He also questioned the decisions that led to the Congress breaking away from the Opposition Grand Alliance. The bypoll performance will also question Tejashwi’s election strategy because it has led to several allies quitting the Grand Alliance since last year. Had the RJD won both the seats it would have come very close to taking a shot at forming its government in the state. The poor performance of the Congress will cast doubts on the decisions taken by All India Congress Committee (AICC) Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das. He was instrumental in breaking away from the Grand Alliance in the state, and was called Bhakchonhar (stupid) by RJD chief Lalu Prasad. The results also threw up questions whether new and young Congress leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar, Hardik Patel and Jignesh Mevani who campaigned in the Bihar bypolls had any influence on the voters. The results have come as a setback for them, more so for Kanhaiya, who hails from Begusarai in Bihar. Former MLA and Congress leader Rishi Mishra was among the few who questioned the party’s state leadership. “Who will take the responsibility for such a poor performance? You have relegated the party to the fourth position in the Mithila region. Our leader Rahul Gandhi loses an election and immediately takes responsibility, but you are not even making an offer,” he said. Incidentally, Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) Paswan also forfeited security deposits in both the constituencies, but bagged more votes than the Congress. Nitish thanked the voters for the mandate and said, “The public is the maalik (lord) and it has announced its decision.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
03-11-2021||India||Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences pact with UNDP for tribal growth||The Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences  in Bhubaneswar signed a statement of intent with the United Nations Development Programme on Tuesday to work for tribal development and sustainable development in Odisha. According to the provisions, the two organisations will undertake targeted analytical tribal research activities based on SDG (Sustainable Development Goal) and Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI), skilling through career guidance and counselling, management of natural resources especially water and biodiversity to ensure the overall development of the tribal areas. The statement of intent was signed between Dr Achyuta Samanta, founder, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) & KISS and  Shoko Noda, UNDP resident representative, India, in the presence of the country head, UNDP; Prof. Deepak Kumar Behera, vice-chancellor, KISS Deemed to be University; Dr Prashanta Kumar Routray, registrar and senior officials of the UNDP and KISS. “Both UNDP and KISS are working towards the eradication of hunger and poverty. We are happy to work with KISS to bring about the overall development of tribal areas in Odisha. I have never seen such kind of institution like KISS in my 25 years of career. The approach of this institution is very personalised and individual. KISS is a living example of SDG,” said Noda. Thanking the UNDP for partnering with the KISS, Dr Samanta stated that the KISS has been working towards the eradication of poverty and hunger and fulfilling Sustainable Development Goals for the last three decades. On the occasion, SDG Lab of the KISS also gave a presentation on various SDG initiatives undertaken by the institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
03-11-2021||India||Orissa High Court allows green crackers  for two hours||The Orissa High Court on Monday granted permission for the sale and bursting of green crackers in the state during the Diwali festival on November 4. However, it restricted the bursting of crackers for two hours on Diwali from 8pm-10pm. Use of fireworks beyond the prescribed time frame will be visited with strict penal action, the court observed. While granting its permission, the high court has made it clear that all the green crackers that will be sold and burst must have conformed to the definition and formulation as proposed by CSIR-NEERI (CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute). The order came in response to a petition filed by the All Odisha Fireworks Dealers Association that had knocked the door of the court seeking permission for sale of green crackers in Odisha on Diwali. On September 30, the Odisha government ordered a complete ban on sale and use of firecrackers citing the spread of Covid-19 cases in the state. The court further said that only those traders and dealers who obtain and produce a certificate from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), after due inspection of their existing stock, certifying that the green fireworks stocks in their possession CSIR-NEERI and are genuine will be allowed to sell their products. Traders and dealers who fail to obtain and produce the certificate from PESO shall not be allowed to sell their products, the court said. It has also said that only those retailers who obtain a licence from the authorities under the provisions of the Indian Explosive Act, 1884 shall be allowed to sell green fireworks. “Retailers shall be allowed to set up shops and sell green fireworks only in special zones designated by the respective district administrations and police commissionerate. Green fireworks shall only be sold at designated sites and all Covid-19 protocols shall be strictly followed. Sale of fireworks on the internet shall be strictly banned,” the court observed. The district administrations and police commissionerate will ensure full and complete compliance of the orders through proper verification of the documents and ensure no spurious, unauthorised and banned fire crackers are sold anywhere within their jurisdiction, the court said. “The local officers shall be personally liable for violations of the orders of Apex Court National Green Tribunal and High Court of Orissa,” it observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
