04-11-2021||India||Annual US defence report refers to Arunanchal’s ‘Chinese village’||The annual Pentagon report that slams China for its clandenstine advance along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), also has a reference to a small Chinese hamlet with 100 odd homes created within India’s Arunanchal Pradesh. According to NDTV , this particular report has been submitted to the US Congress. In fact, NDTV claimed it was the first to spot the existence of such a disputed village within India. It also warns Beijing against augmenting its nuclear warheads. NDTV while quoting the US Department of Defence wrote, "Sometime in 2020, the PRC (People's Republic of China) built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between the PRC's Tibet Autonomous Region and India's Arunachal Pradesh state in the eastern sector of the LAC." The report further stated, "These and other infrastructure development efforts along the India-China have been a source of consternation in the Indian government and media." The village that has been mentioned lies along the banks of the River Tsari Chu, which is in the Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. This area has been a zone of Indo-Sino clashes even before the 1962 war. China has maintained a military outpost in the said area for over a decade, until 2020, when it had a village constructed within the Indian territory. The US Department of Defence adds, "Despite the ongoing diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce border tensions, the PRC has continued taking incremental and tactical actions to press its claims at the LAC." The village came up after India and China clashed in the Galwan valley, in which around 40 Chinese soldiers were either killed or injured. The report also refers to the Galwan clashes, "In February 2021, the Central Military Commission (CMC) announced posthumous awards for four PLA soldiers, though the total number of PRC casualties remains unknown."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
04-11-2021||India||HC restrains sale, circulation of Vijaypat Singhania's autobiography||The Bombay High Court on Thursday restrained sale, circulation and distribution of aviator-industrialist Vijaypat Singhania's autobiography titled An Incomplete Life. Vijaypat Singhania (83), former chairperson of the Raymond Group, is embroiled in a legal battle with his estranged son Gautam Singhania and the Raymond Company over the release of the book. In 2019, Raymond Ltd and its chairman Gautam Singhania had filed suits in a Thane district sessions court and a civil court in Mumbai, seeking injunction against the book claiming its contents were defamatory. In April 2019, the Thane court had granted an injunction on the release of the book. The company on Thursday approached the high court seeking urgent reliefs claiming Vijaypat Singhania had surreptitiously released the 232-page book on Sunday (October 31). On Thursday, a vacation bench of Justice S P Tavade heard Raymond's plea and passed an order restraining further sale, distribution and circulation of the book. The company sought the HC to restrain the publishers, Macmillan Publishers Pvt Ltd, from further distributing, selling or making available the book. The petition, filed through advocates Kartik Nayar, Rishab Kumar and Krish Kalra, claimed Vijaypat Singhania and the publishers had breached an April 2019 order issued by the sessions court in Thane district by which an injunction was issued on release of the autobiography. "The high court and the Thane sessions court had passed several orders between February 2019 and April 2019 restraining Vijaypat Singhania from publishing or releasing his autobiography, Nayar said, adding, "However, the respondents (Vijaypat Singhania and publishers) in wilful disregard to the orders have already published the book titled An Incomplete Life and put it for sale in the market." The petition said it had to approach the high court directly as the Thane sessions court was shut for Diwali vacation. Justice Tavade, after hearing the matter, passed an order restraining Vijaypat Singhania and the publishers from selling, circulating or distributing the book. Persons shall cease and desist from advertising, displaying, writing, editing, printing, authoring, selling, offering for sale, further distribution, or otherwise making available the book directly or indirectly, the court said. As per the company's petition, the autobiography infringes upon its right to privacy, defames the firm and also discusses its business operations and other confidential information. "The book is also believed to be containing information and details about the confidential arbitration proceedings and other legal proceedings that are on-going between the petitioner's (Raymond) chairman Gautam Singhania and Vijaypat Singhania," the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||100 days of Bommai: People have responded by defeating BJP in CM's district, says Shivakumar||On a day when the Basavaraj Bommai-led government completed hundred days in office, Congress Karnataka president D K Shivakumar on Thursday said people in the Chief Minister's home district Haveri have responded to his administration's functioning by defeating the ruling BJP in the recent Hangal bypolls. "Let him (Bommai) give good advertisement for the good administration and work done, but the people of his district have given an answer. We are not disputing his achievement or questioning his management, we are not making any allegations. We are happy that his party has decided to go for election (in 20203) under his leadership," Shivakumar quipped in response to a question on the Bommai government's hundred days in office. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "Whether Bommai or Yediyurappa is the Chief Minister, it doesn't matter. For us, it is the BJP government and its policies." Shivakumar was referring to BJP's loss in the Hangal bypolls, which is also seen as a "setback" to Chief Minister Bommai, as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment in Haveri district, where he had extensively campaigned. Chief Minister Bommai earlier today had said that he is satisfied with the decisions taken so far in taking the administration in the right direction, and the work is on towards inclusive economic progress. Ending months of speculation about the change of guard in the state, Bommai on July 28 had taken over as the new Chief Minister of Karnataka, from BJP stalwart B S Yediyurappa, who stepped down from the coveted post, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. Hitting out at the BJP for showcasing reduction in petrol and diesel prices as Deepavali gift, Shivakumar said, it is nothing but "pickpocketing" that was happening every day, has been stopped. "When the price is reduced from Rs 10 to Rs 5 it can be called a gift, not taking Rs 45 and giving back Rs 7 or 10, it cannot be called a gift. If you are getting Rs 10,000 or Rs 20,000 salary and if you are given Rs 25,000 it can be called bonus or gift, not first reducing salary to Rs 15,000 and then increasing Rs 5,000. Can it be called a gift?" he asked. Comparing fuel prices under various governments, the KPCC chief said, "Every day the government is pickpocketing from every pocket, whether you are commuting by car or a two wheeler." He also claimed that the central and state government's decision to slash prices of petrol and diesel was following a message from the people to them, in the bypolls held in various parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||India seeks Pakistani airspace for Srinagar-Sharjah flight ||India has requested Pakistan through diplomatic channels to allow Go First's Srinagar-Sharjah flight use its airspace keeping in mind the larger interest of common people who have booked the tickets on this service, government officials said on Thursday. The development came after Pakistan on Tuesday had not allowed the Srinagar-Sharjah flight to use its airspace, forcing it to take a longer route and fly over Gujarat to reach its destination in the UAE. Go First, previously known as GoAir, had started direct flights between Srinagar and Sharjah from October 23 and the service was inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to the Valley last month. According to the officials, till October 31, the Srinagar-Sharjah-Srinagar service was going through Pakistan airspace. "However, Pakistan on Tuesday did not allow the flight to pass through its airspace, and therefore, the service had to take a longer route, going over Gujarat, adding around 40 minutes to the flight time on the onward journey as well as the return journey," officials said. Longer route means higher fuel consumption, which may push the airline to increase the ticket prices or turn this non-stop service to one-stop service. Therefore, the officials said that India has requested Pakistan through diplomatic channels to grant the overflight clearance to this flight keeping in mind the larger interest of common people who have booked the tickets on this service. "The Pakistan government is yet to give any specific reason for refusing the permission to the flight," they said. According to the officials, the flight, which operates four times a week, did not face any issue when it used Pakistan airspace between October 23 and October 31. Go First has not issued any statement or comment on this matter as yet. The airline's Srinagar-Sharjah-Srinagar service is the first service between Jammu and Kashmir and the UAE after 11 years. Air India Express had started a Srinagar-Dubai flight in February 2009 but it was discontinued after some time due to low demand. Reacting to Pakistan's action, former J&K chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Wednesday had tweeted "very unfortunate. Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but alas that wasn't to be." Blaming the Centre, PDP chief and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet had said, "Puzzling that GoI didn't even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only a PR extravaganza without any groundwork." Inaugurating the flight, Shah had said that the commencement of Srinagar-Sharjah services would boost tourism. "There are many people from Srinagar and Jammu who are settled in the Gulf countries. There are many tourists who want to come from the Gulf countries to Jammu and Kashmir. The tourism of J-K is going to get a big boost with the commencement of Srinagar-Sharjah flights," he added. The officials said the Srinagar-Sharjah flight takes around 3 hours and 40 minutes, while the return flight takes approximately 3 hours to reach the capital of Jammu and Kashmir if Pakistan airspace is used. With Islamabad refusing to allow the flight through its airspace, it adds around 40 minutes time during the onward journey as well as during the return journey, raising fuel and ticket costs, they mentioned. "The Pakistan government, however, had allowed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special flight to Italy to use its airspace on Friday to attend the G20 summit. His return flight from Italy was also allowed to use the Pakistan airspace on Wednesday," the officials added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||4 of a family die in fire tragedy in UP's Bhadohi||Four members of a family were killed when fire broke out in their house in Gopiganj area of the Bhadohi district early Thursday morning, police said. According to preliminary investigation by police, short circuit was found to be the possible cause of the fire. Aslam Ali (75), his wife Shakeela Begum (70) and their two granddaughters Taskia (12) and Alvira (10), were sleeping on the third floor of a house in Chudihari Mohal of Gopiganj police station area, Superintendent of Police (SP), Dr Anil Kumar said. Locals spotted fire on the floor around 4 am, he said. Family members who lived on other floors of the four-storey building rushed to save the trapped, but the fire had spread beyond their control. Help from fire tenders too took time as they were not able to reach up to the house which is located in a very narrow lane, the officer said. While they struggled to reach the house, locals rushed to douse the flames, but they could do only so much. According to the SP, Aslam, Shakeela Begum and Taskia died on the spot, and Alvira was referred to trauma centre in Varanasi where she succumbed later. Bodies of the victims have been sent for a post mortem examination and further investigations are on, he said. According to the police, the building housed 30 members of this family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||Eight dead in suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar||Eight people died on Thursday morning and several others fell ill after consuming suspected spurious liquor in West Champaran district of dry Bihar. Locals claimed that the victims, all residents of Telhua village, had consumed liquor in Chamartoli area on Wednesday evening, but the police did not quite confirm the same as yet. A senior police officer, however, said all eight deceased have been identified. Talking to reporters, Superintendent of Police Upendra Nath Verma said, "It is a case of unnatural death and more information will be available only after a preliminary investigation." Senior officials of the district administration and the police are camping in the village to find out details in the case, he added. A villager, on the condition of anonymity, said, After consuming liquor, people started complaining of uneasiness and were taken to a nearby hospital. All eight of them died this morning. There are others currently undergoing treatment in various local hospitals. Last month, in a similar incident, eight people died in Muzaffarpur. The Nitish Kumar government had on April 5, 2016 banned the manufacture, trade, storage, transportation, sale and consumption of liquor in the state. Kumar had said that "the ban on alcohol has been imposed in the interest of society".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||I am from Earth, says Tamil teenage climate activist as she reads the riot act to world leaders||India now has its own home-grown version of Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. Meet Vinisha Umashankar, a Tamil Nadu schoolgirl who’s 15, and just stole the show from world leaders at the COP26 climate change conference in Glasgow by issuing a clarion call for politicians to “stop talking and start doing.” Vinisha, one of the finalists in Prince William’s Earthshot Prize (nicknamed the Eco Oscars) began her speech by telling her listeners, who included British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, that she was not “just a girl from India -- I am a girl from Earth.” “We need actions rather than promises to live in a habitable world,” Vinisha told the audience. And she emphasized that the actions need to be “practical.” Like 18-year-old Swedish campaigner Greta Thunberg, Vinisha expressed frustration at the slow pace of measures to control climate change. “Young people have every reason to be angry and frustrated at leaders who have made empty promises and failed to deliver,” Vinisha said. "We need to stop thinking about old debates because we need a new vision for a new future. So you need to invest your time, money and effort in us to shape our future," she said. On an upbeat note, Vinisha emphasized that “I’m an optimist.” Vinisha, who’s from the temple town of Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu and studies in Class 10, is described by her school as a “class topper.” Vinisha’s mother, U. Sangeetha, a science teacher, and her father, S. Umashankar, a business consultant, accompanied their daughter to Glasgow and watched her speech. Vinisha’s project that made her an Earthshot finalist and has brought her plaudits globally is her creation of a solar-powered ironing cart that could be used by presswalas instead of the traditional charcoal ironing box. The solar-powered cart offers a coal-free alternative and the idea could also be used for other kinds of street vending carts across the world. The student’s imagination was fired by seeing the charcoal-burning ironing carts around her neighbourhood. She and her mother used to deliver the family’s laundered clothes to the presswala who would iron them using a charcoal-filled cast-iron box. Such ironing carts work well but they belch smoke into the air. And so, Vinisha’s solar-powered ironing court was born.. Her invention won her the prestigious Children’s Climate Prize which was granted last year by Sweden’s Children’s Climate Foundation. Vinisha’s blue-painted mobile ironing cart is called, appropriately, Iron-Max and carries the legend ‘Powered by the Sun’. The Iron-Max is shaped liked an iron box with solar panels on its roof and is mounted on a bicycle to make it mobile. People normally don’t consider ironing carts as major polluters. But it turns out there are an estimated 10-million ironing carts plying the streets in India, data from the government’s science and technology department shows, Each cart uses about 11 pounds of charcoal daily and those emissions add up. So impressed was Prince William by Vinisha’s innovation that he asked her to speak out on the urgent need for clean energy at the conference. Vinisha was the youngest finalist for the first Earthshot Prize, a one-million sterling award. The scheme is aimed at distributing 50 million sterling in awards over the next 10 years to fight climate change. Prince William said later in a message how proud he was to see Vinisha speak. “Feeling optimistic as I head home from COP26 having met our @EarthshotPrize Winners & Finalists and discussed their solutions to repair our planet. Especially proud to see Vinisha speaking in front of the world, demanding change so that her generation can have a better future,” he tweeted. Vinisha didn’t mince words in her speech to global leaders. "You are deciding whether or not we will have a chance to live in a habitable world," Vinisha told climate gathering. "You are deciding whether or not we are worth fighting for, worth supporting and worth caring for." “I am not here to talk about the present, I am the future. In 2030 I will be just 24 years old.. In 2050 when we will assess whether met zero has been achieved or not, I will be in my early 40s … The point is that I and my generation will live to see the consequences of our actions today, ” “Much of my generation is angry at politicians who have made empty promises and failed to deliver. We have reason to be angry. We do not need an economy built on fossil fuels and smoke. Vinisha listed an impressive list of goals that have been set by the Earthshot Prize Winners and finalists They include a commitment by the end of this decade to protect and restore our nature, clean our air, revive our oceans, build a waste-free world and fix our climate. The greatest challenge in the history of our Earth is also the greatest opportunity. We lead the greatest wave of innovation humanity has ever known," Vinisha said. Prince William launched the Earthshot Prize in late 2020, taking the inspiration for its name from US president John F. Kennedy's "Moonshot" project in the 1960s to put a man on the moon. Vinish, who has been passionate about science since her parents gave her an encyclopedia at the age of five, says she aspires to become a scientist and invent products to help protect the planet against climate change. “Remember when it comes to climate change, there’s no stop button. We cannot hit pause or even rewind. There is no rewind, We can only move together -- so united we rise and together we will definitely succeed,” Vinisha concluded in her speech to the COP26 delegates who gave her a standing ovation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||BJP has to be defeated completely to bring down fuel prices by Rs 50: Raut||A day after the Centre slashed the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre, respectively, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the BJP has to be defeated completely if the fuel prices have to be brought down by Rs 50. Slamming the union government, Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, told reporters that one really needs to be harsh to raise the fuel prices to over Rs 100. Petrol prices in the country were over Rs 100 for some time now. On Wednesday, the central government cut the excise duty on petrol and diesel by a record Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre, respectively, to help bring down rates from their highest-ever levels. The move came a day after the BJP lost bypolls in some states controlled by it. Raut said the reduction of price by Rs 5 is not going to serve any purpose and it should have been brought down first by at least Rs 25, and then Rs 50. After the BJP's defeat in the bypolls, the Centre reduced the fuel prices by Rs 5. If the price has to be brought down by Rs 50, then the BJP must be defeated completely, he aid. The Rajya Sabha member claimed people have to celebrate Diwali after taking a loan and there is no atmosphere of festivity because of the inflation. Following the Centre's decision to reduce the excise duty, many states, especially those ruled by the BJP, also slashed the Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuels. The BJP lost all the three Assembly seats in Himachal Pradesh and Mandi Lok Sabha seat in the northern state, bypolls for which were held on October 30. It also failed to win Delgur Assembly bypoll in Maharashtra and the neighbouring Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat by-election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||India-US look to expanding bilateral trade||US Trade Representative Katherine Tai and Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal have agreed to take a "comprehensive look" at ways to expand the bilateral trade ties and also shared perspectives on how to reach "meaningful outcomes" at the upcoming WTO Ministerial Conference.  The virtual meeting between Tai and Goyal took place on Wednesday, ahead of Tai's two-day visit to India from November 22. "Ambassador Tai and Minister Goyal looked forward to their upcoming meetings in New Delhi (November 22-23), and agreed to take a comprehensive look at ways to expand the bilateral trade relationship and ensure the future success of the U.S.-India Trade Policy Forum," according to a statement from the Office of the USTR after the meeting. "They also shared perspectives on how to reach meaningful outcomes at the upcoming WTO Ministerial Conference (MC12)," the statement added.  The World Trade Organisation ministerial conference will be held from November 30 to December 3 in Geneva, Switzerland. Last month, the Office of the United States Trade Representative announced that Tai and Deputy United States Trade Representative Sarah Bianchi will travel to Tokyo, Seoul, and New Delhi to meet with government officials and stakeholders to discuss the enduring U.S. commitment to the Indo-Pacific region and to strengthen trade and economic relationships with key allies and partners.  During Prime Minister Narendra Modi's first in-person meeting with US President Joe Biden in September, the two leaders said they looked forward to reconvening the India-U.S. Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2021, to enhance the bilateral trade relationship by addressing trade concerns, identifying specific areas for increased engagement and developing an ambitious, shared vision for the future of the trade relationship. They noted that ongoing negotiations on an Investment Incentive Agreement that facilitates investment in development projects and committed to an early conclusion. They further discussed how the US and India will work together to set sustainable and transparent rules of the road that will lift economies throughout the Indo-Pacific, according to a joint statement issued after the September 24 meeting at the White House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||Chidambaram wonders if Congress can capitalise on the positive outcome in bypolls||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said the assembly bypoll results show "the honours are even" today between the BJP and the parties opposed to it, as he wondered which way will the wind blow in the 2022 elections in various states. The former Union minister also said there is a "new wind behind the sails" of the Congress and asked whether it will gather strength and speed. Reacting to the bypoll results, he said here is a "thought-provoking analysis of the results of by-elections in 30 assembly constituencies -- BJP won seven seats and its declared allies won eight seats. Congress won eight seats. Non-BJP parties won seven seats of which only one seat was won by a crypto ally of the BJP, namely YSR Congress". The other six seats were won by parties opposed to the BJP, the Congress leader said. "The honours are even today. Which way will the wind blow in 2022?" Chidambaram said. Later in another tweet, he put forward another analysis of the results of the by-elections. "In states where the Congress won, it did so with a significantly higher vote share. In HP, the Congress vs BJP was 48.9% to 28%. In Maharashtra, it was 57% to 35%. In Rajasthan, it was 37.51% to 18.8%. "In states where the Congress lost to the BJP, the spread was narrow, e.g., in MP the Congress' vote share was 45.45% and BJP's vote share was 47.58%. In Karnataka, where the two parties won one seat each, the vote share was Congress 44.76% and BJP 51.86%," Chidambaram said. "There is a new wind behind the sails of the Congress. Will it gather strength and speed?" he said. The Congress on Tuesday had cited bypoll results to attack Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to shed arrogance, repeal the three farm laws and stop petrol and diesel "loot". Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had said the party's victory was that of its workers and asked them to keep fighting hate without fear. The terms of the legislative assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand are coming to an end in March 2022, while the term of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly is scheduled to end in May next year. Polls are also due in Himachal Pradesh in December next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||SP-SBSP alliance will support Mukhtar Ansari in UP assembly polls: Rajbhar||Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Praksh Rajbhar on Thursday said his alliance with the SP will support jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Rajbhar, who forged a tie-up recently with the Samajwadi Party for the UP assembly polls, had met Ansari in Banda jail, prompting the ruling BJP to accuse him of practising the "politics of appeasement". "I have met Mukhtar in Banda jail two days ago. During the meeting, his son Abbas Ansari was also present. The SP and the SBSP alliance will support him in the assembly polls," Rajbhar told PTI. "It depends on Mukhtar whether he contests in alliance with the SP and the SBSP or as an independent candidate," he added. When asked whether Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav will be ready to support him, Rajbhar said, "If he has to form a government, he should not have any problem in giving support. When he can forge an alliance with Mayawati, then there will be no problem in supporting Mukhtar." Rajbhar had earlier termed Mukhtar as an "old friend". He used to go to meet him in Punjab jail, even as a minister in the Uttar Pradesh's BJP government. "Mukhtar is an old friend whom I have known for the past 19 years," Rajbhar had said. In a statement on Rajbhar's meeting with Ansari, Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson and Cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh on Wednesday said, "It was not just a meeting between Rajbhar and mafia Mukhtar Ansari but an evidence of the politics of appeasement that the BJP often talks about." The SBSP had held a rally in Mau on October 27 with SP president Yadav too participating in it and announcing a poll alliance with Rajbhar's party, which is said to have a considerable influence over his community voters in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The SBSP, which had contested the 2017 assembly elections in alliance with the BJP, has four MLAs at present. Rajbhar was also made a Cabinet minister in the Adityanath government but due to differences with the chief minister, he quit the government. In September this year, BSP supremo Mayawati had said her party will make efforts to not field 'bahubali' (strongmen) or mafia candidates in the next year's Uttar Pradesh polls and announced that jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari will not be given a party ticket from Mau again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
04-11-2021||India||Excise duty cut on petrol, diesel to give common man relief, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel is a very sensitive decision by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and it will not only bring relief to the common man but also reduce inflation. The BJP-ruled state governments, under the leadership of Modi, have also done a commendable job of providing more relief to the people by further reducing the prices of petrol and diesel, he said. "Prime Minister @narendramodi ji has given a big relief to the general public on Diwali by reducing the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 respectively. "The relief given even after prices increased internationally is a very sensitive decision. I thank Modiji for this," Shah said in tweets in Hindi. The home minister said this "Diwali gift" by the prime minister to the country would not only bring relief to the common man but also reduce inflation. The Centre on Wednesday cut excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 per litre and that on diesel by Rs 10 a litre to give reprieve to consumers battered by record-high retail fuel prices. Several BJP-ruled states and Bihar, where the BJP is part of the ruling coalition, also reduced VAT rates, giving further relief to consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||Prime Minister celebrates Diwali with soldiers at Nowshera||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday met soldiers at Nowshera sector in the border district of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of Diwali. Since taking over as Prime Minister, Modi has made it a point to meet troops in a border region on Diwali, starting from a visit to Siachen in 2014. "I am not here as your PM, but as a family member. I have brought blessings of crores of Indians," PM Modi told the soldiers . "The moment I landed here, my heart was filled with thrill. This place's present is an example of your bravery. You have given a befitting reply to all the conspiracies here in Nowshera," he added. Official sources shared photographs of him at an Army post in Nowshera. The prime minister also lauded the role played by the brigade here in surgical strikes. India had conducted the surgical strike on September 29, 2016, across the Line of Control (LoC) as a response to a terrorist attack on an Army base in the Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir. Modi said many attempts were made to spread terrorism hereafter the surgical strike but they were given a befitting reply. India must enhance its military capabilities in line with the changing world and modes of war, the prime minister said. He said that connectivity in border areas has improved -- be it from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, Jaisalmer to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Borders and coastal areas lacking normal connectivity now have roads and optical fibres, which boosts deployment capabilities and facilities for soldiers, the prime minister said. Modi also said that earlier the country had to depend mostly on imports in the defence sector but with his government's attempts indigenous capabilities have gotten a boost. He hailed the courage of soldiers and said their capability and strength has ensured peace and security for the country. "I want to spend Diwali with family members, so I join you on this festival," he said. On Wednesday, Army chief General M Naravane carried out an aerial reconnaissance of forward areas, including Rajouri. He was briefed about the prevailing security situation along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Jammu region. An Army operation against terrorists has been going on through the forest belt in the Poonch-Rajouri area. This has been the longest such operation in the recent past and it entered the 26th day on Thursday. Meanwhile, when Modi left his residence in the morning, there were minimal security arrangements in place and no traffic route was deployed to minimise any inconvenience, official sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||India logs over 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 461 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 12,885 new COVID-19 cases, taking the country's infection tally to 3,43,21,025, while the count of active cases has declined to 1,48,579, the lowest in 253 days, according to Union Health Ministry data on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,59,652, with 461 more fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 27 straight days, and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 130 consecutive days now. The tally of active cases has declined to 1,48,579 which comprises 0.43 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.23 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decline of 2,630 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, as per the data. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for 31 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.17 per cent. This figure has been below two per cent for 41 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,37,12,794, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 107.63 crore. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestones of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 461 new fatalities include 362 from Kerala, and 39 from Maharashtra. In Kerala, of the 362 deaths, 51 were reported over the last few days, 72 were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to the lack of adequate documentation and 239 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the Supreme Court directions, the state government said on Wednesday. A total of 4,59,652 COVID-19 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,313 from Maharashtra, 38,091 from Karnataka, 36,176 from Tamil Nadu, 32,598 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,902 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,174 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||Diwali day in Delhi arrives with 'very poor' air quality||Delhi's Diwali started with "very poor" air quality which is predicted to take a turn for the worse irrespective of cracker bursting, according to authorities. At 8 am, the capital's air quality index (AQI) stood at 341, up from 314 at 4 pm on Wednesday. The 24-hour average AQI was 303 on Tuesday and 281 on Monday. AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. While SAFAR said the air quality may become 'severe' on November 5 and 6 if firecrackers are burnt, an official from the India Meteorological Department said model predictions do not indicate the AQI reaching the 'severe' category "even with higher emissions". The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency said 3,271 farm fires accounted for eight per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Wednesday. It is likely to increase to 20 per cent on Thursday (Diwali) and further to 35 to 40 per cent on Friday and Saturday with the wind direction changing to northwest, it said. Northwesterly winds carry smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana towards the national capital. Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai had Wednesday urged the Centre to issue an advisory to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to completely stop stubble burning during the Diwali period so that people could breathe easy after the festival. The contribution of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 concentration was 32 per cent on Diwali day last year as compared to 19 per cent in 2019. The contribution of farm fires in Delhi's air pollution has remained low this season so far due to the record-breaking rainfall in October and "unfavourable" wind direction for transport of smoke from stubble burning. SAFAR said "very calm" local Delhi wind conditions with little ventilation is expected for the next three days which will be unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. Under a zero firecracker emission scenario, Delhi's PM2.5 concentration is predicted to be in the upper end of the 'very poor' category from November 4 to November 6. "However, even if we consider 50 per cent of firecracker load of 2019, the AQI is predicted to degrade to the 'severe' category during the period," SAFAR said. The PM2.5 concentration in the national capital can surpass 500 micrograms per cubic metre on November 5. The safe limit is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. On October 27, the Delhi government had launched the 'Patakhe Nahi Diye Jalao' campaign to create awareness against the bursting of crackers. Action is being taken under relevant IPC provisions and the Explosives Act against anyone found burning crackers under the campaign. On September 28, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. According to the government, more than 13,000 kg of illegal firecrackers have been seized and 33 people arrested under the anti-cracker campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||Additional cuts in fuel prices announced in nine BJP-ruled states||In a relief to the commoners reeling under the impact of spiralling fuel prices, nine BJP-ruled states - Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Karnataka, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand - announced additional cuts in petrol and diesel prices hours after the Centre reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹ 5 and ₹ 10 on the eve of Diwali, according to a report from NDTV.com. The price cuts will come into effect from Thursday when the nation celebrates Diwali. Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Karnataka and Goa reduced the prices of both petrol and diesel by ₹ 7 per litre in addition to the Centre's relief. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday said that the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol would be reduced by ₹ 2 per litre in the state. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said his government would also reduce (VAT) on petrol and diesel. "Following Hon'ble PM Shri @narendramodi Ji led central govt's decision on reduction of excise duty on petrol & diesel. #Tripura govt has also decided to reduce petrol & diesel cost by ₹ 7 from tomorrow," Biplab Deb, the Chief Minister of Tripura, tweeted on Wednesday. States had long urged the Centre to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel. Fuel prices have been climbing over the last few months. Petrol prices in some states had touched ₹ 120 per litre while diesel has crossed the ₹ 100 per litre-mark in three metros. The Opposition has been attacking the ruling BJP over rising prices of fuel. On November 1, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that one should beware of "pickpockets" along with the hashtag "tax extortion". The price of petrol in Delhi stood at ₹ 110.04 per litre on Wednesday while diesel was being sold at ₹ 98.42 a litre. In Mumbai, petrol was at ₹ 115.85 per litre while diesel was at ₹ 106.62 per litre. In recent months, crude oil prices have witnessed a global upsurge. Consequently, domestic prices of petrol and diesel skyrocketed in recent weeks. "Today's decision is expected to further spur the overall economic cycle," the Centre said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||Many Indians recount their 'SRK stories' as Shah Rukh turns 56||Sometimes, stories retold will tell an untold story. Many Indians recounted their “SRK stories” on Tuesday when actor Shah Rukh Khan turned 56. It would have been a birthday unlike many the actor had celebrated after scripting one of the most astonishing takeovers of tinsel town by an “outsider”. His son Aryan had been in incarceration for nearly a month in a narcotics case — something that usually destroys reputations forever. However, at some point, the tide of public opinion appeared to change, probably aided by a perception that the son was being targeted to settle scores with the father who has always symbolised the best India can offer the world. Several of the “SRK stories” narrated by his admirers neither referred to the drugs case nor hinted at any vile conspiracy — perhaps that was what made the accounts poignant. And telling. Sometimes, stories retold will tell an untold story. Those who posted social media messages were all either official or well-identified handles, not needing the cover of anonymity that trolls spewing vitriol 24/7 often seek. A former student reporter of The Telegraph In Schools, Rudrani Dasgupta, tweeted this thread: “2001, I was in 6th grade, volunteering for a school newspaper called The Telegraph in Schools. SRK was in Kolkata for ‘Asoka’. Me and a fellow journalist wanted to interview him! “It was the longest of shots. We were two school kids with zero clout. There was a long queue of prominent journalists at The Park Hotel, waiting to meet him. Some people openly laughed in my face, an interview with the superstar..? Well, we had nothing to lose. “Introduced ourselves to his team who noted our request (along with a long line of others) and said it was highly improbable, best case scenario he would agree to meet for 15 minutes. We waited and then suddenly, our request was approved! ‘15 minutes only’, they warned. “We stumbled in. There he was, busily typing away on a communicator! He looked at us, smiled and said ‘first of all, you two must tell me your names’. Hah! He spoke to us at length about his life, treated us like peers, and apologised every time his phone rang. “SRK was humble, soft-spoken and funny throughout that interview. And we were ickle children with many journalists waiting outside. He spoke to us for 45 minutes!! His team was annoyed but we couldn’t care less. (Emoticon with tears of joy). Thank you for all of that, SRK. Happy Birthday.” Rudrani also shared a picture of the printed interview. The stories kept coming. Kasturi Gandhi, public policy researcher and granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson and activist Arun Manilal Gandhi, tweeted: “Every new car’s first drive was from the showroom — Natural’s — Mt Mary, Mannat, Bandstand, Carter Road — home. All visiting family (esp my nani) when asked where do you want to go would instantly answer ‘SRK nu ghar jova (I want to see SRK’s house)’. “I literally watched Swades before my Rural Policy paper to calm my nerves. Through the past weeks I was reminded how cherished he is and felt bad for having asked more of him politically. He deserves to be celebrated even in his apparent silence. Happy Birthday @iamsrk.” Yasmin Kidwai, a Congress municipal councillor, shared on Twitter a clip of Shah Rukh speaking in a documentary titled Filmistaan that she had made: “I am married to a Hindu…. Actually down the road here, I don’t even know whether all the people celebrating Id, if they are Muslims or not. And all the people who are celebrating Diwali are Hindu or not…. Ganpati, we all go down and do visarjan….. I don’t think by nature our country has any attempt, thought, belief that we should be divided.” Some hailed the dignity with which Shah Rukh had handled the difficult three weeks when his son was in jail and he was subjected to vicious attacks online and from sections of the media. Filmmaker Hansal Mehta, who admitted to only briefly meeting Shah Rukh once, had this to say: “I was seeking help for a child who was suffering from a tumour and needed urgent financial support for a life-saving surgery. I tweeted about this around midnight and then slept as I was shooting early mornings in Haryana. “I was on shoot and I had 3 missed calls from a number I did not recognise. I had a very polite SMS from the number asking me to call back. The message was from SRK…. He said whatever they needed will be taken care of. “In less than a few hours the hospital was contacted, funds were transferred. Somebody got a new life. Quietly, gently, without fuss a life was saved. This happened once again a few months later.” Mehta added: “A star is loved for his films, his persona, his charisma but for me a superstar is somebody who possesses that rare compassion and unlikely humility when helping somebody in need.” Some of the stories were short, deeply personal and cherished. Ghazala Jamil, who teaches at Jawaharlal Nehru University, tweeted: “Om Shanti Om was the first film my daughter saw in a theatre. Not yet 2, she was an instant fan and sombrely declared, ‘Amma, Sharooo Uncle merey Abba hain!’ I still can’t stop grinning!!” Netflix executive Pulkit Kochar tweeted: “My dad used to bring movie VCR cassettes on rent and one day he brought Baazigar. Me, being a 5 year old SRK fan, was overjoyed who had seen him in movies like DDLJ. But this time, SRK died in the climax. I was shattered. “I thought he died for real and I could not digest it. My dad returned the cassette but for the next 5 days I was so sad I won’t eat properly, my hero was not alive anymore. My dad noticed that and brought the cassette again and played the movie. “But this time, he stopped the movie at interval and said ‘Picture khatam ho gayi (the film has ended)’. I was overjoyed to know he’s alive. Plot, story, screenplay never mattered to a 5 year old me anyway, what mattered was SRK.” Among his colleagues who wished Shah Rukh were Salman Khan, Sanjay Dutt, Juhi Chawla, who stood surety during Aryan’s bail, Madhuri Dixit Nene, Kareena Kapoor Khan and Karan Johar. Eulogies on the birthdays of celebrities are not uncommon, and Shah Rukh’s birthday is an annual day of observances for his fans. But this time, it was different. During a Q&A session on Instagram on Wednesday, Kajol, Shah Rukh’s co-star in many blockbuster films, was asked why she didn’t wish him on his birthday. Kajol replied: “What more can I wish him? I think all his wishes came true when his son came back home.” In the end, it was Alia Bhatt, Shah Rukh’s co-star in Dear Zindagi, who summed up all that the actor had stood for all his life. “My favourite person. King of not just cinema. King of goodness, king of possibly-it-all! Happy happy birthday SR. You are and always will be synonymous with LOVE. Love is the greatest thing in this world. And so are you. I hope, wish and pray that you only have good, love-filled days in your life always and forever — because that’s all you give us,” the actress wrote on Instagram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||Modi govt slashes excise duties on petrol by Rs 5, and diesel by Rs 10||The Narendra Modi government has finally buckled under pressure from consumers, voters and the Opposition and slashed excise duties on petrol by Rs 5 a litre and on diesel by Rs 10 a litre. From Thursday in Calcutta, the price of petrol will fall by Rs 5.82 and cost Rs 104.67 a litre. Diesel will be cheaper by Rs 11.77 and priced at Rs 89.79 a litre in the city. The cut was announced a day after the declaration of by-election results in 29 Assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats, and ahead of the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and several other states early next year. The price spike was cited as one of the reasons for the setback the BJP suffered in some states in the by-elections. BJP leaders competed with one another to project the relief as a “Diwali gift” from Modi. Unsurprisingly, no credit was given to the Congress, which has been running a relentless campaign against the spurt in fuel prices. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had predicted on October 24 itself: “Tax dacoity on petrol prices is going on rising. If elections are held anywhere, there will be a little pause.” Social media rippled with derision at the latest move by the Modi government that allowed fuel prices across the country to rise above Rs 100 per litre. “By losing by-elections like this, we get a reduction of Rs 5 and Rs 10. Imagine what would happen if the BJP lost UP elections. I think petrol would be given free till the 2024 Lok Sabha elections,” tweeted A.K. Akash. Elizabeth Thapa said in a tweet: “So, according to you, increasing petrol prices by over Rs 40 and diesel by over Rs 45 and then reducing it by Rs 5 and Rs 10 respectively is good news.” Fuel prices had skyrocketed in the past few weeks after a global upsurge in crude oil rates. The prices will go down after the latest recalibration of excise duties. The Modi government, which has been battling criticism over reforms in farm laws, said the excise duty cut in diesel was twice that on petrol. “The Indian farmers have, through their hard work, kept the economic growth momentum going even during the lockdown phase and the massive reduction in excise on diesel will come as a boost to the farmers during the upcoming rabi season,” said a government notification on Wednesday night. The notification urged the states to reduce the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to provide relief to consumers. The duty cut is likely to have a revenue impact of about Rs 55,000 crore in the current financial year, according to some estimates. While BJP national president J.P. Nadda thanked Modi and made it a point to underscore that the cut had been effected “on the eve of Diwali”, Union minister Rajeev Chandresekhar called it “a Diwali gift” from the Prime Minister, “made possible by his leadership of our strongly surging economy”. Not enough: Cong The Opposition parties poured scorn on the Modi government’s move to slash duties on petrol and diesel after resisting pressure to do so for more than a year. The Congress described the cut in taxes as insufficient, contending that the Congress-led UPA had sold petrol, diesel and LPG at much cheaper rates when crude oil was selling costlier in the international markets. The people should be congratulated for showing the “mirror of truth” to the “tax-parasitic” Modi government, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “Do remember. In May 2014, the price of petrol was Rs 71.41 and that of diesel Rs 55.49 per litre when crude oil was $105.71 per barrel. Crude oil is $82 per barrel today. When will the prices equate year 2014?” he said. Surjewala said the Modi government had responded to public pressure only after the setback in the by-elections. “In 2021, the price of petrol was hiked by Rs 28 and diesel by Rs 26 per litre. After losing 14 Assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats, reducing petrol-diesel price by Rs 5 & Rs 10 is tom-tommed as ‘Diwali Gift’ of Modi Ji! Hey Ram…,” Surjewala said. The Congress had held several demonstrations against the price hike and planned a nationwide “Jan-Jagran (awareness)” programme between November 14 and November 29 on the real reasons for the price rise. Sources said the programme would not be cancelled as the size of the relief was inadequate. Crude oil prices fell on Wednesday as major crude consumers intensified pressure on the Opec+ to boost supplies when it met next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||WHO issues EUL for Covaxin to boost global acceptability||The World Health Organisation on Wednesday issued an “emergency use listing” for Covaxin that could boost the global acceptability of India’s home-grown Covid-19 vaccine and expand international travel opportunities for those inoculated with it. The WHO approval follows an assessment procedure by its technical advisory group (TAG), which scrutinised the vaccine’s quality, safety and efficacy on the basis of data furnished since early July by the manufacturer, Bharat Biotech. Covaxin is the eighth Covid-19 vaccine in the world to receive an emergency use listing (EUL) from the WHO after vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech, Oxford-AstraZeneca, Serum Institute of India, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and the Chinese companies Sinopharm and Sinovac. “This emergency use listing expands the availability of vaccines, the most effective medical tools we have to end the pandemic,” Mariangela Simao, WHO assistant director-general for access to medicines and health products, said in a statement on Wednesday. An emergency use listing from the WHO is a prerequisite for vaccine supply through Covax, an international facility that makes vaccines available to poor countries and allows nations to speed up their own regulatory approval to importing and administering Covid-19 vaccines. The EUL will also expand travel opportunities for Covaxin recipients into countries that recognise vaccines approved by the WHO. The US has, for instance, decided to allow entry to people inoculated with vaccines that include those that have approval from the US Food and Drug Administration or an EUL from the WHO. The TAG convened by the WHO and made up of regulatory experts from around the world has determined that Covaxin meets the WHO standards for protection against Covid-19, that its benefit far outweighs its risks, and that it can be used globally, the WHO said. The WHO’s strategic advisory group of experts on immunisation too had last month reviewed data on Covaxin and recommended its use in adults. Covaxin has 78 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 of any severity 14 or more days after the second dose. The WHO has, however, said the available data on the inoculation of pregnant women with Covaxin is “insufficient to assess vaccine safety or efficacy in pregnancy”. Studies in pregnant women are planned, including a pregnancy sub-study and a pregnancy registry. Experts familiar with the EUL procedure said the near four months taken to evaluate Covaxin should not be considered unusually long because any home-grown vaccine from India is likely to encounter tougher scrutiny than vaccines approved in the US or Europe. A WHO document outlining the assessment pathways for EUL indicates that vaccines already approved by stringent regulatory authorities — such as those in Canada, European Union, Britain or the US — may undergo an “abridged assessment” based on the reports from those authorities. Although India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had approved Covaxin in early January, the CDSCO is not classified as a stringent regulatory authority. “Under these circumstances, the assessment of any vaccine from India is likely to be more detailed than that for vaccines already approved in the US or Europe,” an expert said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||PM reiterates need for doorstep vaccination to a group of CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday told a group of chief ministers and district magistrates that Covid vaccines should now be taken door-to-door, a demand already made by many states. Modi held a virtual meeting focussed on 45 districts spread over 11 states and one Union Territory where less than 50 per cent of the population had received the first vaccine dose and also had unsatisfactory second-dose coverage. “Till now all of you have made arrangements to take people to vaccination centres. Now, vaccines should be taken to every door,” Modi told the meeting, pitching for “Har ghar teeka, ghar ghar teeka (vaccines for all households)”. He urged the district magistrates and other officials to work with the spirit of “har ghar dastak (knocking on every door)” to ensure full immunisation with both doses. “Now we are preparing to take the vaccination campaign to every household. With the mantra of ‘har ghar dastak’, every household lacking the security net of a double dose of vaccine will be approached,” the Prime Minister said. Maharashtra and several other states had in the past urged the Centre to allow door-to-door vaccination, pointing to vaccine hesitancy and the inability of elderly and ailing people to travel to jab centres. “The doors of every house whose members have not received the second dose should be knocked,” Modi told the chief ministers, calling for use of innovative ideas to ensure full inoculation. Several health experts have expressed concern over people not turning up for their second dose although they were overdue. The states that were represented at the meeting included Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. Recalling his meeting with Pope Francis when he was in Rome for the G20 summit, Modi called for taking the help of religious and community leaders and youth organisations like the National Cadet Corps when district magistrates pointed out that low vaccine coverage was due to hesitancy among people swayed by rumours. The DMs also cited challenges posed by weather and difficult terrain. Responding to this, Modi said: “You will have to remember that states that have covered 100 per cent of the eligible population with the first dose also faced challenges. If you have to prepare a different strategy for each village, do it.” The Centre had recently rung in the administration of 1 billion Covid vaccine doses with much fanfare. But the enormity of the task ahead appear to have dawned on the Modi government that aims to fully immunise the entire adult population by the end of this year. Around 740 million people, or roughly 80 per cent, of the eligible population, have received the first dose while 244 million are yet to get any. Around 338 million people, or around 35 per cent of the eligible population, have received the second dose. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently said that more than 10.34 crore people were yet to take the second dose although they had overshot the prescribed interval between the two doses. At the end of Wednesday’s virtual meeting, Modi thanked the chief ministers for their hard work in battling Covid and warned against any laxity. The Prime Minister told the DMs to revive for the vaccination campaign the dynamism and determination they had on the first day of their service after completing their training at Mussoorie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||UP: Adityanath revives Narendra Modi’s 'kabristan' campaign||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath claimed on Wednesday that while his predecessor had spent public money on kabristans (graveyards), his government was renovating and beautifying temples, walking a communal path shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The previous government used public money to build boundary walls of kabristans in Uttar Pradesh. The present government is renovating and beautifying temples in the state,” Adityanath, the BJP’s Hindutva mascot, said in Ayodhya on the eve of Diwali after welcoming some actors in the attires of Lord Ram, Sita and Lakshman. “This is the basic difference in the thinking of the two,” Adityanath added. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had run the previous government in Uttar Pradesh from 2012 to 2017. The Samajwadis’ core voters are believed to be Yadavs and Muslims. Akhilesh is being seen as the foremost challenger of the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year. Adityanath claimed that the central and Uttar Pradesh governments had decided to either beautify or renovate 500 Hindu shrines by 2027 and that work had been completed at 300 temples. The communal campaign invoked by Adityanath had paid the BJP rich dividends in the 2017 Assembly elections. Prime Minister Modi had told a campaign rally in Fatehpur on February 19 that year: “If a kabristan is built in a village, a smashan (cremation ground) should also be constructed there.” The BJP had claimed that Akhilesh as chief minister had worked for Muslims and against Hindus. However, the narrative acquired a ring of macabre irony when cremation grounds overflowed with the dead in Uttar Pradesh during the second wave of the pandemic earlier this year. As the queues lengthened outside the cremation grounds, bereaved relatives alleged mismanagement and demand for bribes from staff. Thousands of bodies were either dumped on the banks of the Ganga or immersed in the river water. On Wednesday, Adityanath said that nine lakh diyas had been lit in Ayodhya on the eve of Diwali. The chief minister announced that his government would continue the distribution of free food grains among the poor till Holi in March next year. This scheme was started during the pandemic last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
04-11-2021||India||Rahul accuses Modi government of being insensitive towards the poor||The Congress on Wednesday posted videos of citizens talking about the hardship caused by the skyrocketing prices of essentials in Diwali season, with Rahul Gandhi accusing the Narendra Modi government of insensitivity towards the poor. “It’s Diwali time. Prices are soaring. It is not a joke. Wish Modi government had a sensitive heart for the people,” Rahul tweeted. Fuel prices were cut a few hours after the Congress leader made the comments. Rahul has been castigating the government over the savage rise in the prices of petroleum products. His latest barb was a warning to people to beware “pickpockets” after the price of a commercial LPG cylinder was hiked by Rs 266 at one go. A 19kg commercial cylinder now costs Rs 2,000. Rahul has also put out a chart that suggests that more traders and businessmen committed suicide in 2020 than farmers. “Business people or farmers — all victims of Government of India’s bad policies. Repair economy. Save lives,” he tweeted. It’s rare for the principal Opposition party to choose Diwali as the time to attack the government. But the Congress has posted several videos to try and establish that the high prices have marred the festive mood. The videos show people complaining of their inability to buy even essentials like edible oil and vegetables, and shopkeepers ruing their falling profits. While potatoes are selling at Rs 40 a kg in the big cities, onion prices have crossed Rs 50 and tomato prices are hovering around Rs 80. The prices of common edible oils now range between Rs 220 and Rs 260. Priyanka Gandhi tweeted: “People are struggling because of high prices in festival time. The BJP government’s looter mentality has sent the prices of petrol, diesel, LPG cylinders, edible oils and vegetables out of reach.” She added: “The people will teach the government a lesson if it comes seeking votes after reducing prices just before the election.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
04-11-2021||India||Pakistan denies airspace to Shah inaugurated Srinagar-Sharjah flight ||Pakistan has denied its airspace to the Srinagar-Sharjah flight that Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurated last week, prompting accusations that the Centre had skipped the necessary groundwork in its hurry for feel-good publicity. Shah had flagged off the maiden flight from Srinagar to Sharjah on October 23 during his high-profile tour of Jammu and Kashmir, predicting it would transform the region’s tourism. Officials said Pakistan denied its airspace to the Go First flight on Tuesday, after green-lighting the first three of the thrice-a-week flights. This forced the flight to take a longer route via Gujarat, adding around 40 minutes to the normally three-hour flight time. It’s unclear why Pakistan initially allowed the flight only to refuse it later, but the development has given the Valley’s politicians fresh ammunition against the Centre. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Puzzling the Government of India didn’t even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. PR extravaganza without groundwork.” Her predecessor Omar Abdullah had raised fears of such an outcome on October 23 itself. He had claimed the flight would not be possible without a thaw in relations with Pakistan, taking an indirect dig at the Centre which does not want to be seen cosying up to Islamabad. “Regarding the Srinagar-Sharjah flight that has been announced today — has Pakistan had a change of heart & allowed flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace? If not then this flight will die the way the Srinagar-Dubai flight died during UPA2,” Omar had tweeted. “Because of Pakistan’s cussed refusal to allow flights originating from Srinagar (earlier) to use its airspace the SXR-DXB flight had to take a ‘technical halt’ in Delhi or had to fly south & go around Pakistan airspace. This made the flight completely unviable both in terms of cost & time.” On Wednesday, Omar said Pakistan’s decision was “very unfortunate”. “Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but alas that wasn’t to be,” he said. Air India Express had started the Srinagar-Dubai flight in February 2009 but Pakistan threw a spanner in the works a few months later. After another few months, the flight was discontinued with the Centre blaming “low demand”. But tour operators in Srinagar said the longer route had added to the flying time and raised the fare, making the flight unviable. “I think history is repeating itself and the new initiative too will meet the same fate. Such things are bound to happen if you use such events for propaganda without doing the groundwork,” a Srinagar-based travel operator said. Srinagar airport was made an international airport in 2005 but it handled overseas flights only during the Haj pilgrimage, except for the brief lifespan of the Dubai flight. Omar’s government had in 2011 suggested fresh international flights to and from Srinagar but the proposal never took off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
04-11-2021||India||Delhi HC tags JNU VC's appointed chairperson as 'unauthorised'||Delhi High Court has said Jawaharlal Nehru University vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar’s appointment of chairpersons of nine centres of learning was “prima facie without authority”, once again ruling against an administrative decision of the official. A two-judge bench of the court, however, has allowed the nine chairpersons to continue till a single-judge bench disposes of the challenge to the appointments. The two-judge bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh has restrained the chairpersons from taking any “major decisions” in the interim. VC Kumar had himself appointed these chairpersons and then sought the approval of the Executive Council. According to JNU rules, only the Executive Council can make such appointments. Statute 18(2)(c)(I) of JNU says: “Each centre/ department shall have a Chairperson who shall be appointed by the Executive Council from amongst the Professors/Senior Fellows for a period of two years.” The petitioner, Prof. Atul Sood, had said that Kumar had first made the appointments and then tried to get them ratified at an Executive Council meeting on September 2. When the single bench of the high court refused to issue a stay order on the appointments, Sood moved the higher bench. The two-judge bench has asked the single bench to expedite the hearing on the writ petition, saying it was “cognisant of the fact that the centres/special centres need chairpersons for effective functioning”. The two-judge bench said in its order dated October 26: “We are prima facie of the view that respondent No. 2 (the VC) is not vested with the power to appoint chairpersons of centres/ special centres. The statute confers the power of appointment on the Executive Council. Thus, clearly the appointment of chairpersons of centres/ special centres by respondent No. 2 is, as is evident at this stage, prima facie, without authority.” “Pending decision in the writ petition, the nine chairpersons, who have been appointed… will not take any major decisions, including functions relating to convening of selection committees and/ or carrying out selection(s) concerning the centres/ special centres,” it added. The court clarified that its views were only prima facie and the single judge would decide the writ petition on merits after hearing both sides. Lawyer Abhik Chimni, who appeared on behalf of Sood, had argued that the power of appointing chairperson of the centres and special centres had been conferred on the Executive Council only. Monika Arora, the JNU counsel, had said the VC had exercised his emergency powers under Statute 4(5) for the appointments. However, the VC-approved agenda of the September 2 Executive Council meeting had mentioned that the appointments had been made under the provisions of Statute 18(2)(c)(I). The JNU Teachers Association (JNUTA) on Wednesday criticised the Union education ministry for allowing Kumar to continue as VC despite several adverse court orders in recent months. Kumar, whose term ended in January, has been on extension since. In November 2020, Delhi High Court had set aside JNU’s decision to put on hold pension payment of a professor because he took part in a strike. Despite the court order, several retired faculty have been denied their retirement benefits because of the “malafide directions” issued by VC Kumar, the JNUTA said in a statement. The JNUTA has written to the education ministry seeking the removal of Kumar. “The silence maintained by the ministry of education with respect to the illegalities committed by him too needs to be questioned. By not taking action against this errant vice-chancellor, they have virtually allowed him to have a free reign at the cost of the university,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
04-11-2021||India||SC to examine consumer query on education as a service||The Supreme Court has agreed to examine whether education is a service within the Consumer Protection Act, in response to an appeal from a bereaved father who has held a school responsible for his son’s death. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna noted that a similar legal issue was pending adjudication in another case and tagged the matter along with it. “Having regard to the pendency of Civil Appeal No. 3504 of 2020 (Manu Solanki and Others vs Vinayaka Mission University), the issue as to whether education is a service within the Consumer Protection Act is pending before this court. Leave granted. Tag with civil appeal,” the bench said in its October 29 order. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by a Lucknow resident challenging an order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) that had said educational institutions did not fall within the ambit of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and education, which includes co-curricular activities such as swimming, was not a “service” within the meaning of the legislation. The man’s son was studying at a school that offered various summer camp activities in 2007, including swimming, and invited students to participate by paying Rs 1,000. On May 28, 2007, around 9.30am, the petitioner received an urgent call from the school requesting him to come immediately as his son was unwell. Upon reaching the school, the man was informed that his son had been taken to hospital as he had drowned in the swimming pool. He rushed to the hospital where he learnt that his son had died. He filed a complaint with the state consumer panel alleging negligence and deficiency in service on the part of the school and claimed Rs 20 lakh as compensation for the death of his son as well as Rs 2 lakh on account of the mental agony suffered by him and Rs 55,000 towards the cost of litigation. The state commission dismissed the complaint on the ground that the complainant was not a consumer. The order was challenged in the NCDRC, which held that education that included co-curricular activities such as swimming was not a “service” within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
04-11-2021||India||Bihar to get 17 ethanol plants which will produce 35.2 cr litres of the fuel||Bihar is going to get 17 ethanol production plants which will produce at least 35.2 crore litres of the fuel every year. These units will use sugarcane, molasses, maize and rice to manufacture ethanol and supply it to oil marketing companies for blending into petrol, and later in diesel. “This has been a bumper Diwali for Bihar as 17 ethanol manufacturing plants would be established in different districts. We have investment proposals worth Rs 30,000 crore in this field and the number of such production units are going to increase,” state industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain told reporters on Wednesday. Muzaffarpur, Bhojpur, Nalanda, Purnea, Buxar, Madhubani, Begusarai, Gopalganj, East Champaran and Bhagalpur are the districts across which these units will be spread. These are located in areas that are famous for sugarcane, maize and rice production. These agricultural products will be used as raw materials in ethanol production. Shahnawaz, a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Union minister asserted that increasing production of ethanol and it’s blending in fuel oil “will also help bring down petrol prices in the country”. The minister also added that Bihar expected the Centre to raise the limit of 35.2 crore litres ethanol requirement for the OMCs here in the coming months. It will lead to establishment of more manufacturing units. Bihar came up with an ‘ethanol production promotion policy’ earlier this year, promising various help and sops, including land to attract entrepreneurs to establish ethanol production units. Additional chief secretary Brajesh Mehrotra, currently looking after the industries department said that the policy has “attracted 151 investment proposals worth Rs 30,000 crore in the field of ethanol manufacturing”. “Our state has immense potential in ethanol production from sugarcane, maize and rice, especially broken rice. Ground water is also abundantly available here to help in it. Five to six litres of water is needed to produce one litre of ethanol,” Mehrotra said. The industries department additional chief secretary also pointed out that Bihar was a state that grew winter maize unlike other states where it was cultivated in summer. “This aspect gives an additional edge to our state in the field of ethanol,” he added. Several entrepreneurs who are going to set-up the manufacturing units were present with the minister. One among them was Rajesh Agarwal, co-founder of Micromax Informatics. “We are immediately starting the construction work of our ethanol manufacturing unit at Muzaffarpur. We are looking at a time frame of 12 to 18 months for production to start,” Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
04-11-2021||India||Pramod humbled by govt's decision to confer Khel Ratna on him||Pramod Bhagat, the winner of badminton gold medal at the recent Tokyo paralympics, is humbled by the Union sports ministry’s decision to confer the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna award on him. The young para shuttler from Odisha’s Bargarh will receive the highest sporting award of the country in New Delhi on November 13. “I am delighted and humbled at the same time. It also reminds me of the struggle of my parents in raising me and helping me fulfil my dreams. They are no more but I know their blessings will always be with me,” said Bhagat who was affected by polio at the age of five. The fact of developing a handicap because of polio at a young age, however, did not deter Bhagat from working hard to realise his dream of becoming a top badminton player. “I have never ever regretted the fact of being affected by polio. In a way it has been a blessing in disguise and has always propelled me to work hard to achieve my goals,” added Bhagat who is aiming to win another gold in the 2024 paralympics. Bhagat, who is getting married early next year, plans to put Rs 6 crore that he had received from the Odisha government for his gold at Tokyo to good use. “I intend to spend a part of it on the development of para-badminton in the state,” Bhagat said. Bhagat is now an inspiration for sportspersons of his generation in the state. Bhagat, who is the first para-badminton player from Odisha to achieve such dizzy heights, urged the state government to focus more on developing facilities for para-sports. “The government is planning to build 80 stadiums across the state. I will request the authorities to ensure that all these stadiums have facilities for the training of para-athletes and sportspersons. This is the best way of promoting para-sports,” said the champion who has made the country and the state proud with his achievements. Congratulating Bhagat, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted: “Glad to share that Odisha would be hosting the 4th National Para Badminton Championship in Bhubaneswar from 24-26 December 2021. This will further cement Odisha’s position as the Sports Capital of India and inspire para athletes to embrace sports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
