05-11-2021||India||Drugs case: Pune court sends Kiran Gosavi to police custody till Nov 8||The Pune court on Friday (November 5) sent Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness in the NCB cruise raid case and an accused in a cheating case registered with Faraskhana police station of Pune, to police custody till November 8. Earlier, Gosavi was sent to police custody till November 5. On October 28, Gosavi, a key witness in the Mumbai cruise drugs case in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan had been arrested, was held by Pune City Police in connection with a cheating case of Rs 18 lakh in the year 2018. He had duped one Chinmay Deshmukh, promising to give job in Malaysia and collected Rs 18 lakh. Deshmukh was sent on a tourist visa to Malaysia and according to the complainant (Deshmukh), Gosavi had assured him that the tourist visa would be converted once he lands in Malaysia. But he had to return to India before the expiry of the tourist visa. Deshmukh had filed a complaint against Gosavi in 2018 and a chargesheet was filed in the case. Since then, he was on the run. On October 31, the Pune Police lodged one more case against Kiran Gosavi, an NCB witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, at Wanowarie Police Station for threatening victim and conspiracy related sections. The Pune City Police informed that Gosavi has been booked under sections 420, 409, 506(2), 120(b) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arms act 3(b) for threatening victim and conspiracy related sections. This was the third case lodged against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||CBSE Term 1 Exam 2021: Notice on duration issued||Central Board of Secondary Education has released an important notice for candidates who will appear for CBSE Term 1 Exam 2021. According to the notice, the term 1 examination for Class 10, 12 will be conducted in November 2021. The Class 10 term 1 exam will be start from November 17 and Class 12 will commence from November 16 onwards. The exam will be objective type and the duration of the exam will be for 90 minutes. The exam will start from 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am keeping in view the winter session. Candidates will get 20 minutes reading time before the start of the exam instead of 15 minutes for all categories. Along with the exam duration, the board has also released important instructions for candidates who will appear for the exam. Check the instructions below. 1. Practical or internal assessment work will be completed as per the circular issued by the Board on July 5, 2021 and the marks will be uploaded on the official website of CBSE by December 23, 2021. 2. In case, the marks are not uploaded by the schools upto December 23, 2021, the Board can take action against the schools which includes ₹50000/- fine imposed for considering the marks submitted by the schools after last date. 3. The Board will conduct capacity building programmes like webinar for preparations of conduct of exam, webinar on evaluation, training programmes and videos. 4. The CBSE will supply customized OMRs online to the exam centres having the details of the students permitted to appear in the exam for all subjects. Schools will be allowed to download the OMRs for both Class 10, 12. 5. Students will get separate sheet for rough work at the exam centre. 6. Schools will have to strictly follow the COVID19 instructions issued by the Board to the CS for conduct of the exam. As per the official notice released by the Board, the roll numbers of the students and the detailed guidelines will be uploaded on or by November 9, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||Delhi's post-Diwali air quality worst in five years: Pollution body data||Delhi recorded its poorest post-Diwali air quality in five years on Friday with a deadly cocktail of noxious fumes from firecrackers and stubble burning pushing the 24-hour average AQI to 462, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) the day after Diwali was 435 last year, 368 in 2019; 390 in 2018; 403 in 2017 and 445 in 2016. The AQI was 382 on Diwali day this year, 414 in 2020; 337 in 2019; 281 in 2018; 319 in 2017 and 431 in 2016. A thick layer of acrid smog hung over Delhi-NCR on Friday after residents violated the ban on firecrackers to celebrate Diwali and emissions from farm fires in the region peaked at 36 per cent. Residents in many parts of Delhi-NCR complained of an itchy throat and watery eyes on Friday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (469), Greater Noida (464), Ghaziabad (470), Gurgaon (472) and Noida (475) also recorded ''severe'' air pollution levels. Ahead of the festive season, the Delhi government had announced a complete ban on firecrackers till January 1, 2022, and ran an aggressive campaign against their sale and use. The Haryana government had imposed a ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region. Green crackers were allowed on Diwali in Uttar Pradesh only for two hours in areas with moderate or better air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''. Delhi recorded its poorest post-Diwali air quality in five years on Friday with a deadly cocktail of noxious fumes from firecrackers and stubble burning pushing the 24-hour average AQI to 462, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) the day after Diwali was 435 last year, 368 in 2019; 390 in 2018; 403 in 2017 and 445 in 2016. The AQI was 382 on Diwali day this year, 414 in 2020; 337 in 2019; 281 in 2018; 319 in 2017 and 431 in 2016. A thick layer of acrid smog hung over Delhi-NCR on Friday after residents violated the ban on firecrackers to celebrate Diwali and emissions from farm fires in the region peaked at 36 per cent. Residents in many parts of Delhi-NCR complained of an itchy throat and watery eyes on Friday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (469), Greater Noida (464), Ghaziabad (470), Gurgaon (472) and Noida (475) also recorded ''severe'' air pollution levels. Ahead of the festive season, the Delhi government had announced a complete ban on firecrackers till January 1, 2022, and ran an aggressive campaign against their sale and use. The Haryana government had imposed a ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region. Green crackers were allowed on Diwali in Uttar Pradesh only for two hours in areas with moderate or better air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||Bihar hooch tragedy: Death toll reaches 33, CM calls for fresh campaign against liquor||The death toll in the latest hooch tragedy in Bihar climbed to 33 on Friday, while arrests were made and errant officials punished in connection with sale of illicit liquor, even as Chief Minister Nitish Kumar called for a fresh campaign to dissuade people from drinking alcohol in the dry state.  However, officials in West Champaran and Gopalganj districts claimed only 25 of the deaths could be confirmed as having been caused by consumption of spurious liquor. In West Champaran, alleged hooch trader Ram Prakash Ram (50), besides Dhani Lal Ram (40), Jhakkad Paswan (64) and Vikas Ram (25) died at a hospital. All of them were residents of Dakshin Telhua village under the Nautan Police Station limits where local people had consumed liquor on the night preceding Diwali, the festival of lights.  According to Champaran Range DIG Pranav Kumar Pravin, the four casualties have raised the death toll in West Champaran to 14, and seven people were undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Bettiah town.  The hospital's superintendent Pramod Tiwari said, Among those who have died, three were brought dead. Bodies are being handed over to bereaved family members after post mortem examinations."  Those undergoing treatment included a 70-year-old person who lost his eyesight on Friday morning- a common side-effect of consumption of illicit liquor. The DIG said, "Two officials - Manish Sharma, the in-charge of Nautan Police Station, and a village chowkidar- have been placed under suspension for their laxity. One of the alleged sellers has died, while another Munna Ram is absconding and a search has been launched to nab him."  However, according to sources in the local administration, two others, who had died after consuming liquor, were cremated by their family members before word spread about the hooch tragedy. In Gopalganj, District Magistrate Nawal Kishore Chaudhary confirmed 17 deaths in the Mohammedpur Police Station area but asserted that only 11 of these could be blamed on consumption of spurious liquor. Three persons residents of a village under the Mohammadpur Police Station limits had been cremated by family members before post mortem. "Family members of another three deceased refused post-mortem claiming that deaths were on account of natural causes," he said.  Superintendent of Police Anand Kumar said Ranjan Kumar, the in-charge of Mohammadpur Police Station, and a chowkidar have been suspended, and three alleged sellers Chhote Lal Sah, Jitendra Sah and Ram Pravesh Sah have been arrested. He also claimed that raids conducted at various places in the area has led to recovery of 100 litres of spurious liquor.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in Patna, vowed stern action against those found responsible for the tragic deaths but expressed dismay over people continuing to consume a galat cheez (wrong thing) during festivals. Replying to questions from reporters outside the assembly, where he went to attend swearing-in of two newly elected MLAs of his JD(U), the chief minister said, I will conduct an in-depth review of the enforcement of prohibition in the state. But, it appears that we need another extensive campaign to spread awareness about the ill-effects of drinking .  Sale and consumption of alcohol were completely banned in the state in April, 2016. Meanwhile, political sparring is carrying on over the matter. Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav came out with tweets, attacking Kumar over the hooch deaths and accusing those in his government, including a BJP minister, of being involved in sale of illicit liquor. BJP state spokesperson NiKhil Anand hit back, asserting that it was the opposition party which was working hand in glove with the illicit liquor traders but had the temerity to come out with baseless allegations against the ruling dispensation. The latest hooch tragedy comes less than a month after close to 10 people had died due to consumption spurious liquor in Muzaffarpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||UP: Enraged over children fighting, senior citizen throws acid on women||A 60-year-old man allegedly threw acid on two women and a teenage girl as he got enraged over children getting into a fight during a cricket match in the neighbourhood in Kailashpuri area here on Friday, police said. All three injured persons were admitted to hospital and are out of danger, Circle Officer (City) Rakesh Kumar Singh said. The accused, Ashutosh Tripathi alias Gulli, was annoyed at the children getting into disputes during the cricket match being played on the street outside his house, Singh said. Some of Tripathi's family members were playing in the match. As the fight escalated, Tripathi brought an acid bottle kept in his house and threw it on his neighbours sitting outside their home, the CO said. One of the woman's children was playing in the match. The victims were identified as Rani Singh (39) and her daughter Lakshmi Singh (17) along with Shoba Singh (70). Singh said a case has been registered in this connection and investigation has started. A search was on for the accused, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||BJP slams opposition parties for not reducing VAT on petrol, diesel in states ruled by them||Two days after the Centre slashed the excise duty on petrol and diesel, the BJP Friday hit out at opposition parties for not reducing the Value Added Tax and accused them of doing "petty politics" over high fuel prices. It said the Opposition attacks the Centre over high prices of diesel and petrol but not follows suit when the Union government slashes the excise duty. Addressing a press conference here, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the states ruled by the party have slashed VAT on the fuel to add to the relief provided to the common man by the Centre, but the states ruled by the opposition parties like the Congress, Trinamul Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party have not done so. "If the Centre and BJP-ruled states can give relief to people, then why not the Congress-ruled states," Bhatia asked, alleging they were "cruel and incompetent". Noting that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had dubbed the Central government "pickpocket" over the high fuel prices and used the "extortion" barb at it, the BJP leader said it appears that there is no bigger "pickpocket" than the Congress. The VAT on petrol in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan is Rs 32.19, and it is Rs 31 in the opposition alliance-ruled Maharashtra now compared Rs 21.86 and Rs 20.46 in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Bhatia said. The Modi government had slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel prices by Rs 5 and Rs 10 on the eve of Diwali. The central government, Bhatia added, has used taxes collected from people for nation-building and people's welfare. Direct benefit transfer of Rs 19 lakh crore has been done, he said, adding that the poor have been given free ration as well. "The decision to reduce fuel prices shows the BJP governments' sensitivity and consideration towards people," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||Aryan case: Sameer Wankhede ousted as probe officer||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has taken away the controversial cruise drugs case, in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested, and five others from the agency's Mumbai zonal unit headed by Sameer Wankhede and transferred their investigation to its operations unit based in Delhi, officials said on Friday. Senior officer Sanjay Singh will now be in charge in the drugs-on-cruise case, including the five others.  The action has been taken on "administrative grounds", and as these six have "wider and inter-state ramifications", they have been transferred to the operations unit in Delhi, NCB Deputy Director General (north-west region) Mutha Ashok Jain told PTI.  He said the order for the transfer of cases has been issued by NCB Director General (DG) S N Pradhan.  Wankhede, who is facing a number of personal and service-related allegations, will continue to be the zonal director of the agency.  The NCB had arrested Aryan Khan and at least 19 others in the drugs on cruise case on the intervening night of October 2-3 and Wankhede is facing a departmental vigilance probe after an independent witness in the case alleged extortion bid by those involved.  A team from the Delhi NCB operations will camp in Mumbai to take the probe in these cases forward, officials said.  The agency's Deputy DG, South-Western Region, Mutha Ashok Jain told reporters in Mumbai that this is an administrative decision and a team of Delhi NCB is arriving in Mumbai on Saturday to probe the six cases.  Wankhede refuted that he has been "removed" from the investigation in the Aryan Khan case and said the agency's move is about coordination between NCB teams of Mumbai and Delhi.  However, Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik, who had launched a tirade against Wankhede and levelled several allegations against him, said the NCB officer's removal from the case "is just the beginning".  ''Sameer Wankhede removed from 5 cases including the Aryan Khan case. There are 26 cases in all that need to be probed. This is just the beginning... a lot more has to be done to clean this system and we will do it," the NCP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
05-11-2021||India||Finance Ministry invites tax suggestions from industry and trade bodies for Budget 2022-23||The Finance Ministry has asked for suggestions on taxation from industries and trade bodies for Budget 2022-23, which is going to set the tone for growth of India's economy hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. In a communication to trade and industry associations, the ministry invited suggestions for changes in the duty structure, rates, and broadening of tax base on both direct and indirect taxes giving economic justification for the same. Suggestions may be sent to the ministry by November 15, 2021, it said. "Your suggestions and views may be supplemented and justified by relevant statistical information about production, prices, revenue implication of the changes suggested and any other information to support your proposal," the communication said. "The request for correction of inverted duty structure, if any for a commodity, should necessarily be supported by value addition at each stage of manufacturing of the commodity, it said. It would not be feasible to examine suggestions that are either not clearly explained or which are not supported by adequate justification or statistics," it added. "The Budget 2022-23 is expected to be presented in Parliament on February 1 next year. It will be the fourth budget of the Modi 2.0 government and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The budget for the next year is expected to address critical issues of demand generation, job creation and putting the economy on a sustained 8 per cent plus growth path. As can be seen that the government policy with reference to direct taxes in the medium term is to phase out tax incentives, deduction and exemptions while simultaneously rationalising the rates of tax," the letter said. Currently, more than 100 exemptions and deductions of different nature are provided in the Income-Tax Act. The ministry also asked for suggestions on reducing compliances, providing tax certainty and reducing litigations. However, it has clarified that goods and services (GST) matters are not examined as part of the budget, as they are to be decided by the GST Council. Recommendation related with the Central Excise and Custom Duty could be given, it said. PTI DP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Over 87 per cent 'One Nation One Ration Card' beneficiaries in Delhi from UP, Bihar: Data||Over 87 per cent One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) beneficiaries in Delhi in the last three months had ration cards of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, government data showed. According to the data provided by the Food and Civil Supplies Department, between August and October 25, nearly 1,78,850 people having ration cards of other states have collected food grains in Delhi under the ONORC. Of the 1,78,850 ONORC transactions, 1,55,715 or 87.06 per cent happened on ration cards issued in Bihar (78,195) and Uttar Pradesh (77,520), the data, accessed by the PTI, showed. The Delhi government implemented the ONORC scheme in the national capital in starting July this year.  Under the scheme, persons holding a ration card under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) can collect their monthly quota of food grain from any fair price shop across the country. The portability depends on ePoS machines, which use the Aadhaar-linked biometric authentication to verify the identity and entitlement of beneficiaries. A senior official of the Food and Civil Supplies department said the scheme is a boon for migrant workers and other such floating population living in the national capital as they can get ration from any of the fair price shops.  "Maximum number of migrant population in Delhi is from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh hence that number is reflecting in the ONORC transactions in the city. ONORC beneficiaries in Delhi from states other than UP and Bihar include Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan among others," the official told PTI.  Data showed that ration card-holders from Madhya Pradesh come at the third spot, followed by Haryana in terms of availing benefits of the ONORC scheme in Delhi. As many as 5,764 people having ration cards of Madhya Pradesh collected ration in Delhi under the ONORC scheme between August and October 25.  Similarly, nearly 2,313 people having ration cards made in Haryana collected food grains from fair price shops in Delhi during the period. It was followed by Rajasthan with 1,184 beneficiaries collecting ration in Delhi. Data also showed that between July and October 25, nearly 1,94,685 people, who have their ration cards made in other states, collected food grains in Delhi under ONORC scheme.  In July, there were 16,150 transactions under the ONORC scheme, while it was 40,797 in August. In September, the number rose to 86,430, while in October, till the 25th at least 51348 people, who have ration cards of other state, collected free ration at fair price shops in Delhi under ONORC. In comparison to September, the number of ONORC beneficiaries came down slightly in October, which officials say, is because of festival season.  A good chunk of floating population has gone to their hometowns during the start of the festival season in October. So the number of transactions under ONORC looks slightly low. We are hoping that more people will take benefit of the ONORC scheme in Delhi in coming months, the official said.  The Delhi government distributes free ration to beneficiaries under National Food Security Act (NFSA) 2013 and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) through electronic point of sale devices. Delhi has 17.78 lakh cardholders and has around 72.77 lakh beneficiaries. The city has over 2,000 fair price shops.  Shailendra Kumar, the president of Public Distribution Welfare Association said the ONORC was turning out to be good for the migrant population living in Delhi but holding ration cards of other states. "The figures show that the Delhi is one of the top performing states in ONORC scheme. With this scheme in place, people having ration cards of other states can get free food grains from any of the fair price shops in the city," Kumar said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Kalinga Literary Fest returns with a bang, to be held in Bhubaneswar||The Kalinga Literary Festival is back with its 8th edition to invigorate, educate, provoke and entertain. Around 300 celebrities from the worlds of literature, cinema, media and politics will assemble in the temple city of Odisha to deliberate on the theme of “India at 75: Commemorating the Republic of Letters” at the Kalinga Literature Festival in Bhubaneswar, from 10th -12th December 2021. The festival has emerged as one of the leading literary platforms in India, attracting both experienced and young litterateurs. Bigger than ever before, the eighth edition of the festival will bring nationally and internationally acclaimed names on one platform to discuss, debate and explore commonalities in the diverse voices in literature. The three-day festival will cover several dimensions of the interconnections between Literature,  freedom, Republican values, cultural diversity, social equity. The key sessions will be on topics such as democracy, cultural nationalism,  Generation Y, Indian Languages, publishing industry, mythology,  Media, Market, Children, Women, Transgender, Citizen Engagement, Cinema, Sports, Ethics, Discrimination, Revolutions, Peacebuilding, Conflict Resolution and Harmony. There will be several One on One sessions with leading experts on the subjects. There will be Storytelling sessions that promise to add new flavour to the literary spirit of the festival. Three special sessions will be held on textile and literature. Apart from this, more than 30 new books and monographs will be released during the three-day festival.  The delegates and speakers of KLF will have a unique opportunity to participate in Heritage Walk called Mystic Walk and participate in plantation and Mystic Mic. In order to expand the opportunity for the delegates, KLF team has partnered with local cycle clubs to provide cycles for speakers to roam around the smart city and experience the blend of ancient heritage and modern urban planning.  A dedicated platform, Kalinga Art Festival provides a unique platform for artists to showcase their talent and connect their art to the central theme of the festival. Among writers, poets, speakers and performers likely to join the festival are some distinguished names from various fields such as Jairam Ramesh and Divya Dutta. Four prestigious awards in literature will also be conferred in the event. Rashmi Ranjan Parida, the founder-director of KLF said, “Kalinga Literary Festival (KLF) 2021 returns with the promise of hope and optimism. Our return emphasises resilience and the spirit of Rise. We are delighted to bring back the joy of literary spirit to the temple city Bhubaneswar. We welcome our delegates & performers and look towards a great festival amidst all safety protocols.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu withdraws resignation as Punjab Congress chief||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said he has withdrawn his resignation as Punjab Congress chief, over a month after he took the decision to step down from the post. "I have taken back my resignation," he said. Making the announcement at a press conference here, Sidhu, however, added he would assume charge the day Punjab got a new Advocate General. He had earlier expressed his reservations over the appointment of senior advocate A P S Deol as the state's advocate general. Deol had represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police six years ago during the incidents of sacrilege and police firing on protesters. Sidhu asserted that offices of AG and DGP were crucial to take to logical conclusion the issues of Bargari sacrilege and drugs. He had on September 28 resigned as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, had, however, said he would continue to serve the party. He had taken over as the state party chief in July this year.  "The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner. I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," he wrote in the resignation letter. Congress general secretary and former in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat had recently said Sidhu would continue at the helm in the state unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||J&K BJP chief terms Pakistan as the biggest enemy of Kashmiri people ||Pakistan's denial of use of its airspace to Sharjah-bound flights from Srinagar has proved that the neighbouring country is the biggest enemy of the people of Kashmir and can never be their friend or sympathiser, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said on Friday. "It is unfortunate that Pakistan has closed its airspace and by doing so, it has proved that Pakistan is the biggest enemy of the people of Kashmir," Raina told reporters at the famous Shankarcharya temple here. The Jammu and Kashmir BJP president said thousands of Kashmiri youth visit the UAE and Saudi Arabia, and lakhs of people go for Haj every year and the direct flights were started by the BJP government for the convenience of the people. "But Pakistan's position of closing its airspace shows that it can never be a friend or a sympathiser of the people of J-K," he said. Raina said flights will still go from Srinagar to Sharjah not through the Pakistan airspace but a longer route. "Now, they will go from Srinagar to Delhi to Mumbai and then to Sharjah or to Saudi Arabia. The pilgrimage (Haj) will take place, but the world has seen Pakistan's deeds and intentions. This is a big deception. Pakistan has always bloodied Kashmir and brought destruction here. However, we will foil all its evil designs," he said. Asked whether the assembly elections will take place sooner in Jammu and Kashmir, Raina said the polls will be conducted after the process of delimitation is completed. "I am sure the way the BJP is moving forward in all directions here, the next government will be of the BJP and we will have a BJP chief minister," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Over 110 high court judges appointed this year||A little over 110 new judges have been appointed to various high courts so far this year, sources aware of the procedure of appointment to the higher judiciary have said. In 2016, a record 126 high court judges were appointed and that record is "likely" to be surpassed this year, they said. So far this calendar year, more than 110 new high court judges have been appointed based on recommendations made by the Supreme Court collegium. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts is 1098 and as on November 1, they were working with 692 judges -- a shortfall of 406. Between August 8 and September 1, the apex court collegium had processed over 100 names recommended by various high courts and had finally sent 68 names to the government for appointment as judges to 12 high courts. Later, some more names were recommended by the collegium. The sources also pointed out that besides high court judges, nine Supreme Court judges were recently appointed on a single day which is a record. The nine judges, including three women, were on August 26 appointed to the Supreme Court. With a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the top court now has only one vacancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Terrorists manage to flee after brief gunfight with security forces in Srinagar||A gunfight erupted between terrorists and security forces at a Srinagar hospital today as a result of which the hospital has been cordoned off, reports NDTV. According to cops, “The terrorists managed to escape. A large number of security forces have rushed to the spot." "There was a brief firefight between terrorists and security forces at SKIMS Hospital, Bemina. Terrorists managed to escape taking advantage of civilian presence," Srinagar police posted on Twitter.  One person was taken to the hospital with firearm injuries, sources told NDTV. Initially, the police informed it was an accidental fire. The medical college and its hostels have all been sealed. The hospital attack follows a spree of civilan civilian killings that mostly zeroed in on migrant workers and minorities. An extra 50 companies of security forces were sent to Srinagar to counter terrorist attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||IT dept detects Rs 200-cr black income after raids on dry fruits traders||The Income Tax Department has detected unaccounted income of over Rs 200 crore after it recently raided people engaged in dry fruits trade located in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Friday. The searches, it said in a statement, were carried out on October 28. The group has been "inflating" purchases of dry fruits exorbitantly over the years. "Seized evidence also supports the fact that unaccounted cash has been received back by the directors of the group against payment made for such purchases... one of the assessees was maintaining a parallel set of books of accounts and there was a huge difference between the sales and purchases recorded in both the sets of books of accounts," the statement said. One of the groups, the policy-making body for the tax department alleged in the statement, also indulged in unaccounted purchases and sales of dry fruits. "Excess stock to the tune of Rs 40 crore has been found. The analysis of seized material and evidence collected reveals that one of the groups is also running a benami proprietary concern," the statement claimed. In both the groups, the claim of deduction under section 80IB (deduction in respect of profits and gains from certain industrial undertakings) of the Income Tax Act has been found to be "not genuine" and is estimated to be around Rs 30 crore, it added. "The search action has resulted in the seizure of unaccounted cash of Rs 63 lakh and jewellery of Rs 2 crore and detection of unaccounted income exceeding Rs 200 crore," it said. Fourteen bank lockers were put "under restraint," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Bomb recovery: Amarinder Singh urges Punjab govt to take threat seriously||Two days after an explosive-filled tiffin box was found in the fields along the India-Pakistan border in Ferozepur district, former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday hoped the Punjab government will come out of "denial mode" and take this threat seriously. The Punjab Police had said it had recovered the bomb in Ali Ke village on Wednesday following interrogation of three people. In a tweet, Singh said, "Hope@PunjabGovt India, HM (Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa) Punjab in particular, will come out of denial mode and take this threat seriously. "With multiple consignments being sent regularly from across the border, extra vigil and a detailed action plan must be formed to combat the challenge," he added. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the Home department portfolio, in an apparent reference to Singh's earlier remarks about security threat to Punjab from Pakistan, had warned against alarmist narrative by certain people having vested interests about peace and security in Punjab. Randhawa had then said, It will create an unnecessary sense of fear and insecurity among the people. Tiffin bombs have also been recovered in Amritsar Rural, Kapurthala, Fazilka and Tarn Taran in the past few months. The Punjab Police had earlier foiled a major terror attack attempt ahead of Independence Day after recovering a tiffin box filled with improvised explosive device (IED) along the Indo-Pak border in Amritsar. Police had then said that the bomb could have been delivered on the Indian side through a drone from Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Aryan Khan appears before NCB to mark his weekly presence||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, on Friday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here to mark his weekly presence before the anti-drug agency in connection with the cruise ship drugs case, sources said. This was Aryan Khan's first appearance at the NCB office after his release from the Arthur Road prison on October 30 following the bail granted by the Bombay High Court. As per one of the bail conditions set by the high court, Aryan Khan reached the NCB office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai around 12.15 pm, they said. The 23-year-old son of the Bollywood superstar was arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The central agency had booked him under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. He was granted bail by the high court on October 28. However, he could not be released from the prison till October 30 as documents related to his release did not reach jail authorities in time. Last Friday, the high court had made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan and his co-accused in the case, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. In the five-page order, the high court said the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court and will have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
05-11-2021||India||Deven Bapna Shares 5 Golden Rules of Entrepreneurship||Everything in life has its own rules and some procedures. It really doesn’t matter whether a person is running a small or a large business, or they have venture capital or whether they are making use of their own savings. The fact is that rules are rules and they still apply. In this post, we will study about the same. Starting a business is the dream of every person but do you know what’s that thing new entrepreneurs recognize after the beginning of business? There’s no outline that guarantees business prosperity! Every entrepreneur has to toil hard to improve their brand in this competitive market nowadays. Having confidence, passion, and great thoughts is only the beginning. Another stage is to carry out SWOT analysis in order to determine probable threats that may affect the business and come with an approach to overcome such obstacles. Udaipur-based digital expert Deven Bapna started his own journey and founded Brand Gridly Pvt. Ltd., a 360-degree digital company. With having served more than 500 clients globally, the entrepreneur is going strong by setting a benchmark in the digital marketing world. Below-given are some golden rules of entrepreneurship shared by Deven Bapna that every entrepreneur must follow. Let’s have a look at these. The biggest mistake that the majority of new entrepreneurs make is neglecting their biggest competitors. Your company completely needs all focus in order to reach the heights of success. Not knowing about the competitors can affect your business productivity in the long run. So, before beginning concentrate on who your opponents are as well as evaluate their strengths as well as weaknesses. Use your competitor’s strengths as the learning reference since it’s a familiar trade secret that you can use to improve your business growth. This is not only applicable to entrepreneurship, being proactive, no doubt really makes a big difference. Rather than waiting for some chance to come at the doorstep, it’s better to create one yourself. In short, entrepreneurs employed in any field must follow a “can do” approach. Wondering why? Since it can resolve half of the issues that entrepreneurs experience while running the business! Also, when an entrepreneur becomes proactive in their approach, persons who actually come in interaction with them also react in the same manner which, as a result, make things smoother. In reality, on the off chance that you seem to be a laid back individual, at that point, even a person who actually works for you won’t show much curiosity in your work.  You might have heard this multiple times; however, effective communication no doubt is the major key skill that is also one of the golden rules of entrepreneurship. So, if a person is beginning his/her business venture as well as requires assistance on it then an ideal way is to contact an expert who possesses years of experience in the similar field and have knowledge regarding the same. This will resolve their qualms and questions and also help entrepreneurs in achieving a perspective that every entrepreneur must contemplate. It doesn’t matter whether you as an entrepreneur are manufacturing any item or offering any kind of service to customers, ensure your customers at all times are your main focus point. It's imperative to find out the answer to the question “what your customers are actually looking for”. This answer will help you in developing the idea; however, you can likewise alter it as per customer’s requirements. So, while doing anything, make sure to keep your customers in focus and work accordingly. In the technology field, which continuously changes, one important thing that entrepreneurs in such fields must remember is to change with changing times. Therefore while developing any idea, whether in the form of application or software, keep one thing in mind that software that you create can work on numerous platforms as well as be compatible with different platforms. Thus, forecasting change as well as preparing for it can be considered as the major golden rule that every entrepreneur should have. Final Insights Hope you have enjoyed reading this guide and it helped you in knowing more about the golden rules of entrepreneurship shared by him. Even though entrepreneurs face many challenges but by following the above-given rules they can easily accomplish the goals they always dreamt of. For more updates follow @devenbapna on Instagram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Fire breaks out in servants' quarter at Doordarshan director's house||A fire broke out in a servants' quarter at the residence of Doordarshan's director at Shahjahan Road here in the early hours of Friday, fire officials said. The call about the fire was received at 2 am. Six people were rescued from the house, they said. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Domestic articles kept in the servants' quarter on the ground floor of the house of Doordarshan director Mahender Singh had caught fire, a senior fire official said. Two people were rescued by locals before the firemen reached the spot. Four more people were rescued by the firemen and a woman was shifted to RML Hospital, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||India logs over 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 221 casualties in a day||India logged 12,729 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,43,33,754, while the active cases increased to 1,48,922, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,59,873 with 221 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 28 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 131 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.43 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.23 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A rise of 343 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.90 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 32 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 42 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,37,24,959, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 107.70 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 221 new fatalities include 136 from Kerala, and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,59,873 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,345 from Maharashtra, 38,095 from Karnataka, 36,191 from Tamil Nadu, 32,734 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,902 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,188 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Delhi residents wake up to a hazy morning after Diwali||Residents in many parts of Delhi-NCR woke up with an itchy throat and watery eyes as a thick layer of acrid smog engulfed the region on Friday following rampant cracker bursting on Diwali night. A likely increase in fumes from farm fires on Friday may worsen the situation, authorities said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the 24-hour average concentration of lung-damaging fine particles known as PM2.5 in Delhi-NCR shot up from 243 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm on Thursday (Diwali day) to 410 micrograms per cubic metre at 9 am on Friday, around seven times the safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre. The PM10 levels crossed the 500 micrograms per cubic metre mark around 5 am on Friday and stood at 511 micrograms per cubic metre at 9 am. According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered to be in the emergency category if PM2.5 and PM10 levels continue to be above 300 micrograms per cubic metre and 500 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively, for 48 hours or more. The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi shot up to 451 (severe) at 8 am as low temperature and fog in the morning allowed the accumulation of pollutants. Fog conditions intensified in Delhi-NCR on Friday morning lowering visibility at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the Safdarjung Airport to the range of 200 to 500 metres at 5:30 am. Visibility in parts of the city dropped to 200 metres, said R K Jenamani, senior scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD). Of the 39 air quality monitoring stations in Delhi, 33 reported their AQI in the severe category. The capital's air quality had entered the severe zone on Thursday night as people burst firecrackers on Diwali in a blatant disregard to the government's ban on it amid a sharp increase in smoke from farm fires. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (454), Greater Noida (410), Ghaziabad (438), Gurgaon (473) and Noida (456) recorded severe air quality on Friday morning. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. People from several parts of the capital and its suburbs complained of headache, itchy throat and watery eyes, as the thick layer of smog partially blotted out the sun in the morning. Concerned citizens and environment activists shared pictures and videos of fireworks on social media and called the ban on crackers a joke. Delhi should ideally shut down tomorrow morning, and the government's cracker ban turned out to be a bigger joke this year. No one cares, meanwhile majority of my family is either down with severe dry cough or headaches. #DelhiAQI is 700+ and the night hasn't even begun, a Twitter user posted on the microblogging site. People from a large number of areas in the capital had reported rampant cracker bursting on Thursday night, despite the blanket ban in the national capital till January 1, 2022. Cracker bursting continued till late night in NCR cities of Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram. The Haryana government had imposed a ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region. The Uttar Pradesh government had allowed the use of green crackers on Diwali only for two hours in areas with moderate or better air quality. Experts said the air quality turned severe owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions -- calm winds, low temperature and low mixing height -- and a poisonous cocktail of emissions from firecrackers, stubble burning and local sources. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR said the share of farm fires in Delhi's pollution rose to the season's highest at 25 per cent on Thursday and is expected to go up to 35 percent on Friday and 40 per cent on Saturday. Relief is expected only from the evening of November 7 but AQI will fluctuate within the very poor range, the air quality forecast agency said. Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1. The contribution of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 concentration was 32 per cent on Diwali day last year as compared to 19 per cent in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Modi offers prayers at Kedarnath temple, inaugurates rebuilt Shankaracharya samadhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday offered prayers at the Shiva temple in Kedarnath and unveiled a 12-foot statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya at the seer's reconstructed samadhi. The prime minister also inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of reconstruction projects worth over Rs 400 crore at the Himalayan temple. This decade belongs to Uttarakhand, there will be unprecedented boost to connectivity in the region in the coming years and migration of people from the hills will stop, he said after unveiling the statue. Work on the Shankaracharya statue, weighing around 35 tonnes, had begun in 2019. "No words can describe the experience of sitting before Adi Guru Shankaracharya's statue at his rebuilt samadhi," Modi said. He also credited Baba Kedar for the reconstruction work carried out in Kedarpuri in sub-zero temperatures after the devastating floods of 2013. Modi arrived at the Dehradun airport in the morning and was received by Uttarakhand Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd), Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and his cabinet colleagues Subodh Uniyal and Ganesh Joshi, besides Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal. Kedarpuri reconstruction is considered the prime minister's dream project whose progress is reviewed personally by him at regular intervals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Muslims split, namaz spots set to shrink in Gurgaon ||Friday prayers by Muslims at public spaces are likely to be restricted further to only 21 spots in Gurgaon after Muslim representatives failed to put up a united front at tripartite talks with the district administration and Hindutva groups as well as residents’ associations opposed to the practice. A meeting on Wednesday between representatives of the Muslim community and Hindu residents, chaired by deputy commissioner Yash Garg, ended without a resolution of the month-long protests by local people led by Hindutva groups at Jumma namaz sites in public spaces. The district administration, which has been providing police protection to namaz at sites where Hindu activists have faced off with Muslim worshippers, is said to have withdrawn consent for eight of the 37 such sites in the city. After Wednesday’s talks, Hindu groups under the banner of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti said in a statement: “In a joint meeting called to resolve the dispute, the Muslim community demanded that the mosques which are illegally occupied should be restored so that they can carry out their prayers. This demand was supported by the Hindu representatives by saying that it is not proper to occupy anyone’s property or land…. The number of places for the coming Friday will be decided after mutual consultation.” But a key Muslim representative accused the RSS-backed Muslim Rashtriya Manch of “sabotaging” the talks. Hindutva groups and residents’ welfare associations have held protests over the past month — particularly at grounds in Sectors 47 and 12A — during namaz on Friday. The Samiti is set to organise a Govardhan Puja at the site in Sector 12A on November 5, Friday, to which it has invited provocative Hindutva leaders Kapil Mishra of the Delhi BJP and Yati Narsinghanand of Ghaziabad’s Dasna Devi temple. Haji Shahzad Khan, who leads the Muslim Ekta Manch — one of the parties to the talks — told this newspaper on Thursday: “We have agreed with our Hindu brothers to offer the Jumma namaz at 21 public grounds from tomorrow, in addition to 26 Muslim institutions. We will not pray on the grounds in Sectors 47 and 12A.” He added: “We have requested the administration to free up 19 waqf properties where large gatherings have been curbed because some from our community had used loudspeakers beyond the sound limit and parked vehicles on thoroughfares. We have been assured that this will gradually be done after the festive season.” In 2018, disruptions of Friday namaz by Hindutva groups had led to a curtailment of the gatherings from 106 public places to 37 designated by the district administration. Three of these spots are mosque premises. The Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, which promotes inter-faith harmony, has underlined that the newer parts of Gurgaon — an industry hub with thousands of workers — has only two mosques. This compels the Muslim workers to use public spaces like unoccupied government and private land. After Wednesday’s meeting, community leader Altaf Ahmad who had participated in it said in a statement: “Today’s meeting at DC office was sabotaged by Right-wing group representatives & Muslim Rashtriya Manch (RSS wing) representative Khurshid Rajak who are driving their one-point agenda of suppressing Muslims. “The Muslim community is shocked to know that administration has cancelled 8 points from the 37 spots of Juma namaz agreed upon in 2018. The administration (is) certainly under pressure from threats issued publicly by the Right-wing groups.” DC Garg did not respond to calls or WhatsApp messages from this newspaper. After a meeting of Muslims led by Ahmad on Thursday, former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb told reporters that many of the representatives called by the administration represent neither Hindus nor Muslims. “We will try to go to court, meet the administration and political parties as it is a constitutional right to practise one’s faith…. Give us temporary permission until plots are allotted for mosques to be built,” Ahmad said. “No agreement is acceptable to the Muslim community of Gurgaon with the current representation (in the talks).” On Tuesday, the Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, which includes Ahmad, had said in a statement that it would start a campaign “online and offline to counter hatred with reason and to counter fake news and false allegations with facts”. It added: “Peace, harmony and safety are the three critical pillars on which industry and business survives and grows. The current attempt to break these pillars has serious implications for all Gurgaon residents and their future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Kerala: Jeans scowl? Lisa Pulparambil wraps it up in style||Malayalam teacher Lisa Pulparambil, 41, had long endured “disapproving glares” from her women colleagues at a Kerala girls’ school because she would come to work wearing jeans and long pants with tops or kurtas. But when a male colleague asked during a recent phone conversation what she would wear on November 1 — the day schools reopened after the Covid break — and cautioned her about discontent at her dressing style, she decided it was time to take a break from wearing jeans. So, on Monday, Lisa turned up at school in a mundu and a shirt — traditional male clothing in Kerala that is, unlike jeans and trousers, hardly fashionable even among progressive women. “I wanted to exert my rights and make a gender statement,” Lisa told The Telegraph on Wednesday. November 1 also happens to be Kerala Piravi day (formation day), when many Malayalis, including office-goers and college students, wear traditional clothes. The Government Moyan Model Girls’ Higher Secondary School in Palakkad, where Lisa teaches, has no dress code. That her attire on Monday still generated enough traction on social media — spawning both support and criticism — testifies to her grouse that gender-neutral dressing is still anathema to many in “progressive” Kerala. When the male teacher had warned her a day before the school reopening, “I told him my clothing was my choice and I was entitled to wear anything in school as long as it was decent,” Lisa, an author of two books on feminism, said. Still, on November 1, she faced “glares and smirks” from fellow teachers, mostly women. But when her pupils realised that a controversy had broken out, many of them sent her messages of support on WhatsApp after class, Lisa said. “I felt so happy.” “Shirts and mundus too suit women, not just silk saris and jasmine flowers,” a student wrote. “Saris and churidars are the usual attire of teachers. But these ideas, cast in concrete, must be demolished,” messaged another. Since Monday, Lisa has been coming to school in her usual jeans or trousers. A mother of two girls — first-year higher secondary student Amelia and four-year-old Thanmaya — Lisa is married to Pradeep Thaikkattil who works for a private company. She joined the Palakkad school in 2018 after teaching for several years at a government school in her native Kozhikode. “I have nothing against the sari but have always worn long kurtas and long pants or jeans to school because I’m more comfortable in them. I switched to short tops and jeans and long pants after I donated my hair for cancer patients about two months ago,” she said. A woman colleague once advised her to wear a shawl over her kurta, “but I refused since it’s my right to wear what I want”, Lisa said. She added: “I would like boys and girls to wear similar clothing as their school uniform. That’s my gender perspective, based entirely on equality.” Several men have commented on Lisa’s Facebook page. “There may be freedom to wear what one wants, (but) uniformity of everything is not possible in the name of equality. That is the law of nature,” wrote Krishna Kumar Kavassery VishwanathaIyer. Abdul Salam posted: “Men and women must have different attires.” Lisa said: “I feel ashamed that this kind of talk is happening even now. Please remember, this is happening in a city like Palakkad.” She cited how a male professor at a college in Ernakulam had three years ago told his students that women who wore jeans and shirts gave birth to transgender children. The professor had also claimed that parents who were not of “good character” gave birth to children suffering from autism or cerebral palsy. Several men have, however, backed Lisa. “The best possible role model for children. Big salute,” K.S. Ratheesh wrote on her Facebook page.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Twenty countries to stop public finance for fossil fuel sector ||Twenty countries, including the US, Britain and Canada, on Thursday announced they would stop public finance for the fossil fuel sector by the end of 2022 as part of efforts to hasten the world’s shift away from oil and gas. The joint statement means its signatories — 20 countries and five financial institutions — will by 2022-end no longer fund infrastructure or other resources for the exploration, extraction or supply of fossil fuels. The signatories have said they will prioritise a transition to clean energy, suggesting more funds will be available for the expansion of renewable energy sources. Climate policy analysts said this was the first political commitment to address public finance for oil and gas after a wave of commitments to stop global public finance for coal. The statement, if implemented, would shift more than $18 billion a year of government-backed support out of fossil fuels and into clean energy, Oil Change International, a non-government advocacy organisation campaigning for clean energy, said. “We believe this pledge is the first domino to fall — with more to follow in the coming years — to move the world faster away from oil and gas to eventually consign them to history,” Laurie van der Burg, global public finance campaigns manager at Oil Change International, told The Telegraph. India is not a signatory to the statement. Van der Burg said that India signing it would have been “very strong symbolically” as international climate finance involves both financing countries and recipient countries. Oil Change International and the US-based Friends of the Earth have estimated that international public finance institutions and multilateral development banks from the G20 countries backed $188 billion in fossil fuels abroad between 2018 and 2020. This was nearly 2.5 times the G20 or multilateral development bank support for renewable energy, which averaged about $26 billion a year. Climate analysts believe that shifting public finance away from fossil fuels and into clean energy is an urgent task. The International Energy Agency has estimated that to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C, there should be no new investments in coal, oil or gas beyond 2021. “International public finance invested in fossil fuels is twice as high as (that) for clean energy,” Richard Florizone, president of the International Institute of Sustainable Development, said in Glasgow on Thursday during the release of the statement. The signatories are Albania, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, The Gambia, Italy, Mali, New Zealand, Marshall Islands, Moldova, Portugal, Slovenia, South Sudan, Switzerland, the UK, the US and Zambia, and five financial institutions from Africa, Brazil, France and elsewhere in Europe. Energy analysts have cautioned that while the transition to clean energy needs to be accelerated, some countries signing the statement continue to subsidise the fossil fuel industry within their borders. “To be credible climate leaders, these nations must stop subsidising fossil fuels domestically and shift towards cleaner energy sources,” said Jennifer Layke, global energy director with the World Resources Institute, an environmental research think tank based in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||On master’s cue, BJP and NDA-ruled states start petrol dash||Several BJP and NDA-ruled states on Thursday rushed to announce the slashing of value-added tax on petrol and diesel as a follow-up to the Narendra Modi government cutting excise duty, in what appeared a coordinated bid to politicise the issue and turn the tables on the Opposition. Many saw in the back-to-back decisions an effort to mount pressure on Opposition-ruled states to follow suit and also tap into the reduction of fuel prices in the upcoming Assembly elections. The Modi government on Wednesday cut excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 a litre and that on diesel by Rs 10 a litre, buckling under pressure from political opponents and consumers over the record rise in fuel prices. Hours after the Centre’s announcement on Wednesday, the BJP governments of Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Goa, Tripura, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Manipur, and the NDA dispensation in Bihar announced reductions in VAT on fuel. Odisha was the only non-BJP state to cut VAT. Although the Centre’s move to bring down excise duty appeared in part guided by the by-election setbacks in some states, the ruling dispensation sought to take the high ground. Union home minister Amit Shah termed the decision “very sensitive” and said the “Diwali gift” from Prime Minister Modi would not only bring relief to the common man but also reduce inflation. “Under the leadership of Modiji, BJP-ruled states too have done the commendable job of giving more relief to the common man by further reducing the prices of petrol and diesel,” Shah tweeted in Hindi. The BJP’s information technology chief, Amit Malviya, tweeted: “After the Centre slashed excise on petrol and diesel, BJP- and NDA-ruled state governments have also reduced VAT across fuels. However Opposition-ruled Delhi, WB, Rajasthan, Telangana, Maharashtra, Punjab, TN among others haven’t. Don’t people living in these states deserve respite?” In the recent by-elections, the BJP lost three Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency to the Congress in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh. BJP-ruled Himachal is among the seven states due for polls in 2022. In the Mandi Lok Sabha seat in Himachal, the vanquished BJP’s vote share declined by 20 per cent from the 2019 figure. In the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat that it lost to the Shiv Sena, the BJP’s vote share fell by 7 per cent. BJP insiders said that most of the poll-bound states had been voicing concern at the constantly increasing fuel prices, fearing this would affect the electoral outcome. “The by-election results on top of this set off alarm bells,” a BJP leader said. Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa are scheduled for polls early next year while Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh are to vote towards the end of 2022. Retaining heartland Uttar Pradesh is crucial to the BJP’s scheme of things. The BJP sources said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had been getting restless, keen to go ahead and cut VAT on fuel, when the Centre had seemed in no mood to reduce excise duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Congress accuses Centre of giving token relief after raising fuel prices ||The Congress on Thursday said Indians would get relief from their problems only after they threw the BJP out of power, recalling how one setback in the by-elections had forced the Narendra Modi government to slash the prices of petrol and diesel. Running a social media campaign under the hashtag “BJP harao, mehngai hatao”, the party said: “The message from the recent by-elections is that ‘achchhe din’ will come for the ordinary citizens only when the BJP is thrown out of power. “To repeal farm laws — defeat BJP. To put an end to price rise — defeat BJP. To keep our daughters safe — defeat BJP. To protect our borders & bravehearts — defeat BJP. To stop the spread of hate & violence — defeat BJP. To uphold our democracy — defeat BJP.” Unperturbed by the BJP’s attempt to change the narrative on petroleum prices by asking its state governments cut taxes on petrol and diesel, the Congress accused the Centre of giving token relief after raising fuel prices sky high. A tweet in Hindi posted by the party said: “The BJP is indulging in the drama of giving back one slice of bread to the poor after snatching 10 from them. The people will now give the BJP a double dose of democratic treatment to take back what belongs to them.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra described the price reduction as a compulsion. “Ye dil se nahin, dar se nikla faisla hai. Wasooli sarkar ki loot ko aane waale chunav mein jawab dena hai (This is a decision taken out of fear and not from the heart. The extortionist government must be taught a lesson in the coming elections).” Priyanka will lead the Congress in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The results of the 30 Assembly and three Lok Sabha by-elections have produced a by-product. The Centre has cut excise duties on petrol and diesel! It is a confirmation of our charge that fuel prices are high mainly because of high taxes. And our charge that high fuel taxes is because of the greed of the central government.” Party spokesperson Pawan Khera underlined that the UPA had sold petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders much cheaper despite an average crude rate of $113 per barrel, while the international crude price was just $40-50 per barrel during the Modi government’s first term and barely $80 even now. Khera argued that the high prices were primarily a result of the high taxes levied by the Centre. “People will have to defeat the BJP to get relief from high prices; one slap in the bypolls and some relief came about,” he said. Another party spokesperson, Abhishek Singhvi, said: “First take the fuel price from Rs 70 to Rs 110. Then give a Rs 5 reduction after poor performance in the bypolls. BJP exists with, for & by the elections.” The Congress attacked the BJP and the Centre for constantly claiming that the high prices were caused by international factors, and then reducing the prices when the crude rates were rising. The BJP gave the game away by praising the Prime Minister for providing relief to consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
05-11-2021||India||Crackers worsen Delhi air quality||The sky over Delhi hung heavy with smoke and the capital’s air quality inched towards the “severe” category on Diwali night as people burst crackers in disregard of the government’s ban. People from several parts of the city and its suburbs complained of itchy throat and watery eyes as a layer of smog, the first episode this season, enveloped Delhi. Residents of Lajpat Nagar in South Delhi, Burari in North Delhi, Paschim Vihar in West Delhi and Shahdara in East Delhi reported incidents of firecracker bursting as early as 7pm despite the blanket ban in the national capital. Experts predicted that the air quality in Delhi may plunge to the “severe” category by midnight owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions — calm winds, low temperature and low mixing height — and a poisonous cocktail of emissions from firecrackers, stubble burning and local sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||Narendra Modi celebrates Diwali with soldiers in Pir Panchal ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi celebrated Diwali with soldiers in Pir Panchal where he recalled the 2016 surgical strike in adjoining Pakistan-occupied Kashmir but made no mention of the recent three-week-long operation against militants in this Jammu region that has claimed the lives of nine soldiers. Security forces are yet to neutralise any of the militants in the Pir Panjal region despite putting thousands of boots on the ground and searching a vast area. The forces are investigating reports that the militants might have fled to Kashmir’s Shopian district. The Prime Minister marked Diwali with soldiers in the Nowshera area of Rajouri, a two-hour ride from Surankote and Mendhar in Poonch where the encounter started on October 11 and soon spread to Thana Mandi in Rajouri. Poonch and Rajouri are together called Pir Panchal and both districts are on the Pakistan border. “The role played by this brigade in the surgical strike fills the hearts of every citizen with pride. I will always remember that day,” Modi told the soldiers, recalling how dearly he wanted all the troops involved in the cross-border operation to return before dawn. “I was constantly on the phone at the time of the surgical strike. I wanted to ensure that each soldier who was part of the strike should return safely. All the soldiers who carried out the strike made me feel proud by returning to their unit safely,” the Prime Minister added. A fidayeen attack in 2016 in the Valley’s Uri that killed 19 soldiers was the trigger behind the surgical strike during which the Indian Army crossed the border and claimed to have destroyed several militant “launch pads”. Modi said on Thursday that the attempts to disturb peace “continue to happen today”, adding that “terrorism” had received a “befitting reply” every time. October 2021 has been the bloodiest month in Jammu and Kashmir since the August 2019 scrapping of the state’s special status. The violence has taken place despite the Modi government’s repeated claims that the 2019 decisions will help restore peace. In all, 13 civilians, 12 soldiers and 20 militants have died this October. The dead include several members of minority communities in Jammu and Kashmir and the nine soldiers who lost their lives in the Poonch-Rajouri operation. The operation is believed to have ended but the army is yet to call it off formally. On October 31, the forces threw the national highway leading to Poonch open after 20 days. Modi, during his speech, chose to reflect on the past glories of the army, recollecting how Nowshera’s history celebrates the bravery of India and its present is the embodiment of the courage and determination of the soldiers. Modi paid rich tributes to Brigadier Mohammad Usman and Naik Jadunath Singh, who died defending the country in the 1947 Indo-Pak war. The Prime Minister told the soldiers that spending Diwali with the armed forces was for him like celebrating the festival with family. “Every Indian will light a diya to convey his or her wishes for the brave soldiers of the country,” he said. Modi said connectivity in border areas had improved — be it from Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Jaisalmer or the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. “Borders and coastal areas lacking normal connectivity now have roads and optical fibres, and this boosts deployment capabilities as well as facilities for soldiers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||Modern warfare is highly dependent on technology: Major ||As the “victory torch” commemorating 50 years of India’s triumph over Pakistan in the 1971 war reached the Bhubaneswar home of Major S.A. Simha, 90, on Wednesday, the army veteran reminisced: “Today even the smallest of operations makes news immediately but those were different days.” Memories came flooding back when Maj. Simha held the Swarnim Viyay Varsh-Vijay Mashaal with his wife beside him. “There was no social media those days and even the regular media was not active as it is today. Today even the smallest of operations makes news immediately but those were different days,” he said. “The roads were rough and technology was not that developed. We used to climb mountains and used maps to ensure precision strikes. Modern warfare is entirely different and highly dependent on technology,” Maj. Simha recalled. He was 39 years old and the father of two sons when he took part in the 1971 war. “I remember I had to leave all of them behind at the base camp and proceed to the battle front,” the veteran told The Telegraph. Maj. Simha is one of the oldest recipients of the flame that was lit at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on December 16, 2020, and reached Odisha on October 20. The celebration had been flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the National War Memorial on December 16, 2020. A 1953-batch IMA graduate and repository of information, Maj. Simha has vivid memories of the war. “In October 1971, our artillery regiment moved to Dyala Chak in Jammu and Kashmir, completely focussed on Operation Cactus Lilly. On November 25, the regiment, along with the 33 Infantry Brigade, moved to the Poonch sector and formed part of the HQ 25 Artillery Brigade. “The regiment fought gallantly during the operations that took place in December and earned a name for itself in the Poonch battle. It is all part of history now,” Maj. Simha said. Noting that war tactics have changed over the decades, Maj. Simha said: “It’s more of a psychological war now. China has emerged as a major threat to the Indian security system though earlier it preferred to act from behind Pakistan. However, over the years, we have been able to develop our own quick response system, which is quite resilient. Now we have GPS systems and also rocket technology.” He asserted that no army can match the Indian soldiers’ warfare techniques in the mountains. Simha, who hails from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, said: “Till I joined the Indian Army, I had no idea about north India. But after my joining, I was acclimatised with the weather of this region and spent my entire life on different frontiers of India, including Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal and other parts of the country.” Maj. Simha, who retired in 1976, said: “I have a feeling that because of the Indian system of administration, IAS officers enjoy more power and sometimes they even try to do things that impact the Indian Army and its value system. That’s wrong.” The veteran appeared unwilling to comment on the present structure of the Indian Army and whether it was under any kind of political pressure. “I retired from the job almost 40 years ago. I cannot comment on the issue. But we don’t let politics come into these things. The Indian Army should always be free from any kind of political pressure. The basic foundation of the Indian Army is discipline and obeying of commands. That is still there,” Maj. Simha said. Although he welcomed the one-rank-one-pension system of the army, he pointed out there were many other anomalies that ought to be corrected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||India seeks Pakistan nod for overflight clearance||India has “requested” Pakistan to grant overflight clearance for the newly introduced Srinagar-Sharjah service after Islamabad withdrew the permission on Sunday. Sources on Thursday said the issue had been taken up with Pakistan through diplomatic channels. “We have requested Pakistan to grant overflight clearance for this flight in the larger interest of the common people who have booked tickets on this route,” a source said. After the Srinagar-Sharjah flight was introduced on October 23, Pakistan had allowed the use of its airspace on October 23, 24, 26 and 28. It put the clearance on hold on October 31 for a month till November 30, forcing the flight into a detour via Rajasthan and Gujarat before entering the UAE using Omani airspace. This added around 45 minutes to the journey. Pakistan has not explained its withdrawal of permission after initially allowing the flight to use its airspace. An earlier Srinagar-Dubai flight introduced in 2009 during the UPA years had met with a similar fate. Pakistan imposed restrictions on the use of its airspace after a while, and the Air India Express flight was stopped a few months later. The reason cited was poor demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||Kerala: Harassment charge on IUML student leader||One of the two Indian Union Muslim League student leaders accused by women colleagues of harassment and misogyny has been named in the chargesheet. Kerala police have not explained why they have only named the state president of the IUML-affiliated Muslim Students’ Federation, P.K. Navas, but excluded the MSF’s Malappuram district president, V. Abdul Vahab. Ten members of the then state committee of Haritha, the MSF women’s wing, had in a complaint to the state women's commission accused the duo of using sexually explicit remarks and humiliating them. The commission directed the police to start a case. Following this, the IUML dissolved the Haritha state committee and later reconstituted it with a new set of members. But Navas and Vahab continued in their posts. After much dilly-dallying, the police arrested Navas in September and released him on bail. The FIR named Vahab too but he was not arrested. Police sources said the chargesheet, filed before a Kozhikode court on Thursday, invokes penal code sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 509 (insulting the modesty of a woman) against Navas. Najma Thabsheera, then Haritha state general secretary, had alleged that Haritha members had faced “verbal rape after rape” from some MSF leaders for defending gender rights. Vahab is accused of sending abusive messages to a Haritha leader. Fathima Thahliya, who was national vice-president of the MSF when the controversy broke out and was removed for standing up for her women colleagues, expressed dissatisfaction at the investigation. “The case dragged on as if no one was interested in investigating. The MSF didn’t even submit the minutes of the meeting to the police,” she told The Telegraph on Thursday. But she said Haritha’s stand against misogyny had caused a visible change in attitude among some women. “Even women who have nothing to do with politics come and hug us and say we have given them a voice. While we want the guilty to be punished, the larger goal is empowering women,” she said. The IUML is a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||Bihar: 17 people die after consuming hooch in two districts||At least 17 people died after allegedly consuming hooch in two districts of dry Bihar on Diwali while around 20 more are said to be critical. The toll pushed the deaths due to suspected consumption of spurious liquor in the state close to 70 this year, casting a question mark on the total prohibition enforced by chief minister Nitish Kumar in April 2016. The hooch tragedy in West Champaran district unfolded on Thursday at Telua village under Nautan police station, around 180km northwest of state capital Patna. West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar and Bettiah superintendent of police Upendra Nath Verma did not take phone calls, but other officials said eight people had died while 12 others were battling for their lives after consuming hooch. “So far we have come to know of eight deaths due to the suspected consumption of spurious liquor. Altogether 12 people have been hospitalised. The toll could increase,” Champaran range DIG Pranav Kumar Praveen told The Telegraph. “There is determination at the top level of the government with regard to prohibition, but our enforcement machinery is a cause of concern. We need to ponder over it,” Praveen added. The people of Telhua village accused the local police of patronising those who brewed and distributed liquor in the area. They pegged the toll and the number of people taken ill at 10 and 18, respectively. The sick were rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Bettiah. “Ten people were brought to the hospital, of which two were already dead while two others died during treatment. Two more are in critical condition. They all are suffering from drowsiness, shortness of breath and blurred vision. These are suspected cases of hooch consumption. We are conducting a post-mortem of the dead to ascertain the cause of death,” GMCH superintendent Pramod Kumar Tiwari told this newspaper. Nine people died after allegedly consuming hooch at Muhammadpur village in Gopalganj district. Some of them passed away on Wednesday while a couple of them died on Thursday. Several others have been hospitalised after they complained of uneasiness. “Nine persons have died in the hooch tragedy so far. We have been conducting raids in the area since yesterday because our aim is to save the lives of people. So far three persons have been taken into custody and are being interrogated,” Gopalganj district magistrate Nawal Kishor Choudhary said. He added that police and excise teams had raided three houses and seized illicit liquor from two of them. An FIR has been registered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||Gandhi gains currency in UK||UK Chancellor Rishi Sunak unveiled a new £5 commemorative coin celebrating the life and legacy of Mahatma Gandhi on Diwali. Available in a range of standards, including gold and silver, the special collectors’ coin is designed by Heena Glover and features an image of a lotus, India’s national flower, alongside one of Gandhi’s most famous quotes — “My life is my message.” “This coin is a fitting tribute to an influential leader who inspired millions of people around the world,” said Sunak, in his role as the Master of the Mint in the UK. “As a practising Hindu, I am proud to unveil this coin during Diwali. Mahatma Gandhi was instrumental in the movement for Indian independence and it is fantastic to have a UK coin commemorating his remarkable life for the first time,” said the Indian-origin finance minister. The commemorative Gandhi coin is said to build on the “enduring relationship and cultural connections” between the UK and India as India celebrates its 75th year of Independence. The product range, which went on sale on the UK Royal Mint’s website from Thursday, includes the commemorative £5 collectors’ coin — priced at £13 (Rs 1,311) and wrapped in a mini-booklet with information on “Gandhi — Icon of Peace and Liberty”. The range also has a limited edition “Silver Proof” coin being sold for £95 (Rs 9,582) and a “Gold Proof” version available to order for £2,440 (Rs 2.5 lakh). Both the silver and gold versions are offered in a specially packaged box. “The Mahatma Gandhi 2021 UK Coin is the perfect keepsake to commemorate an icon who changed the world and whose vision of hope, peace and tolerance still resonates more than seven decades after his death,” the Royal Mint noted. “During his lifetime, his followers called him ‘Mahatma’, which is Sanskrit for ‘great soul’, and he is still widely recognised by that name today. The Royal Mint is proud to honour one of the greatest figures of the twentieth century with a brand-new design,” it added. The new range is part of the Royal Mint’s wider Diwali collection, which includes 1g and 5g gold bars in henna-style packaging, and the UK’s first gold bar depicting Goddess Lakshmi. The 20g gold Lakshmi bar was designed in partnership with the Hindu community in South Wales, where the Royal Mint is based. The Mint officials will also join Diwali celebrations at the Shree Swaminarayan Temple in Cardiff, where worshippers will offer prayers to Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Ganesha for the coming year. “As we approach Diwali celebrations, we are delighted to unveil the first official UK coin commemorating the life and legacy of Mahatma Gandhi. The beautiful design builds on the enduring relationship and cultural connections between the UK and India,” said Nicola Howell, chief customer officer for the Royal Mint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||Trekkers find going tough as incessant rains wreak havoc||Towards late October, several trekkers, including at least 10 people from Bengal, lost their lives and many required rescue after adverse weather dumped rain and snow in Uttarakhand. The bulk of the dead were found at the Lamkhaga Pass (17,330 feet) connecting Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. By October 23, the casualty count in a snowstorm there had touched at least 12. A thorough understanding of what happened at Lamkhaga will take time. “What is important is that we learn from this incident. Right now, we must be compassionate, for people have died,” Vaibhav Kala, who runs Aquaterra Adventures, among India’s biggest adventure travel companies, said. The other place where trekkers got stuck was on the relatively easy route to the Pindari and Kafni glaciers in Bageshwar district. A media report said that on October 21, over 65 tourists were trapped in the higher reaches. They included 20 in Kafni, 34 in Dwali (the trail junction from where separate paths lead to Pindari and Kafni glaciers) and 10 in Sundardhunga. It is an area, once the stuff of a modestly long trek, now rendered shorter and more frequented because a road reaches deep. By October 27, eight persons were confirmed dead in Sundardhunga. Like many places in the Himalaya, Pindari-Kafni-Sundardhunga in Kumaon has a history of being pounded by rain. In September 2009, the downpour was torrential, damaging the trail. In September 2010, extensive damage was reported because of rain, turbulent rivers and landslips in Uttarakhand. Kumaon bore its share. September seemed quite rainy. Three years later, it was June. In June 2013 (the same time as the Kedarnath tragedy caused by cloudburst), major bridges on the Pindari trail were swept away, leaving people stranded in Dwali. Landslides first blocked the stream coming from Kafni and when the barrier broke, the suddenly released water reshaped Dwali. October normally marks the resumption of trekking after the monsoon. Yet in 2021, Lamkhaga Pass and the Pindari and Sundardhunga valleys showed a different face. “Climate change is a reality and those venturing into the outdoors must stay aware of it,” Wing Commander Amit Choudhury, a member of the executive board of the UIAA and a former vice-president of the Indian Mountaineering Foundation, said. The UIAA is the apex body for mountaineering worldwide. Unless something terribly unfortunate happens, a well-prepared group of trekkers/climbers that has factored in the unpredictable should be able to take care of itself, he added. “You must take the required precautions, you must have the required skill sets and you must be well supported,” Choudhury said. Punit Mehta, a Delhi-based seasoned trekker and outdoor educator, pointed out that on treks to any given place nowadays, he stays prepared (in terms of clothing and gear) for weather conditions associated with two months this side or that of the window he is in. If he is guiding others, the attention to detail is more. “The old templates don’t work,” he said. On the other hand, there are those among the general public who feel that given climate change is already causing natural calamities, trekkers should keep off the hills during the rainy season, allowing relief and rescue to focus on residents. They have a point, for trekkers are fundamentally visitors. Guests don’t inconvenience hosts, do they? Some explanation is required here. First, people don’t deliberately court disasters. These are unexpected developments. Second, in mainstream news reporting, a wide range of people gets bunched under the category of trekkers and climbers. Trained mountaineers and trekkers typically know what they are getting into, including when the mountains are best avoided, which part of the Himalaya to go and when. Mistakes happen; but they learn and improve. Not everyone has this mindset. In places where roads have made access easier, although people are following a trail, many of them could be more tourist than trekker. These distinctions matter because it has a bearing on how warning signs are processed, decisions are made and calamity is avoided or faced. Third, isn’t adversity (nature as it is) part of the reason trekking and mountaineering fascinate? For instance, away from adventure tourism, in the related field of outdoor education and teaching outdoor skills, adversity of manageable proportions is classroom. At the Uttarkashi-based Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM), the first half of the annual training calendar starts with skiing in January (depending on availability of adequate snow in the training area). Mountaineering courses start in March and end in early July (what used to be peak monsoon hosts no programmes). It then picks up again in September and goes on into October. “Our courses are very dependent on the weather. So, we watch it closely,” Colonel Amit Bisht, principal, NIM, said. In the NIM’s backyard, peak cold has shifted; from December-January to the period straddling late January-mid February. As has rainfall. “Over the past two to three years, the nature of rainfall has definitely changed in our region,” Dr Vishal Ranjan, registrar, NIM, said. The supply chain for the institute’s post monsoon (September-October) courses in the field sometimes gets hampered because of the powerful rains. Aside from the skiing course now beginning in late January, courses overall haven’t undergone drastic rescheduling citing altered weather patterns. “We tell our students that rough weather is part of the challenge we equip them to face,” Ranjan said. In its more than five decades of training students in mountaineering, the NIM hasn’t had a single fatality. This emphasises the significance of the earlier mentioned trio — precautions, skill sets and good support — as key to navigating the unpredictability of the outdoors. So, what prevents us from being prudent? While it’s too early to say anything, one of the observations heard in the aftermath of the Lamkhaga mishap was the need for quick communication. There was little time between the warning of bad weather issued in October and incidents in the field. Even if reaction is possible, you need devices like satellite phones to contact trekking teams. They are expensive and not all teams carry them. Tour operators who invested in satellite phones have found them useful to communicate weather updates and keep their teams safe. Shelter is another aspect. Previously, expensive four-season tents, capable of tackling strong winds and heavy snow, were used in mountaineering. The combination of climate change and high passes now demand such tents in trekking too. The more you secure a team’s safety, the costlier the expedition. Add to this, general inflation. Not everyone can afford the bill. The upshot: teams that may be poorly fitted out for demanding objectives and adversities. Then, there are the avoidable complications. When the lockdown eased, there was a rush to taste freedom. In Kerala, Maharashtra and the Himalayan states, governments warned against crowding in the hills for fear that it may cause the spread of Covid-19. Even without Covid-19, crowding has been an Indian paradigm complicating mishap in the mountains. During the 2013 Uttarakhand floods, worry was high because ongoing pilgrimages had stuffed thousands into the hills. The general reading is that Uttarakhand was slower to open up as the lockdown eased than Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. It is possible that the Puja holidays may have enhanced tourist inflows to Uttarakhand. A person hailing from the Pindari valley said he heard that officials were taken aback by the numbers in Pindari-Kafni but overall, it didn’t appear terribly out of sync with the regular traffic of September-October. It was the weather that delivered the unkind cut, he felt. So, do we listen to the weather enough? Climate is a complex phenomenon. Starting from 2018, a series of unusual weather events, ranging from devastating floods in the relatively placid Kerala to a string of cyclones and a possible delaying trend in the withdrawal of the monsoon had been reported in the media. If you are an outdoors person, you should be interested in these patterns. Are you? As recently as in May 2021, a leading Indian travel magazine recommended the best months to visit the Pindari valley as “April, May, June, September and October”. Had it cast a passing glance at the weather conditions of the past decade and noted the delays in the monsoon’s withdrawal, September — and potentially the early part of October — would have been on the “be careful” list. Better still, it would have at least said: don’t forget climate change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
05-11-2021||India||US: China continues 'tactical actions' to press territorial claims with India||China has been taking “incremental and tactical actions” to press its claims at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India and has unsuccessfully sought to prevent New Delhi from deepening its relationship with the US during and subsequent to the standoff, the Pentagon has said in a report on China’s military modernisation. The Pentagon report comes amid heightened tensions between the US and China over Taiwan and was published hours after the most senior US general, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley, issued a stark warning about China’s military progress. The Pentagon has repeatedly referred to China as the “pacing challenge” for the US. “The PRC (People’s Republic of China) seeks to prevent border tensions from causing India to partner more closely with the United States. PRC officials have warned US officials to not interfere with the PRC’s relationship with India,” the department of defence told the US Congress on Wednesday. The Pentagon regularly reports to the US Congress on the India-Chinese military standoff in eastern Ladakh. The department of defence has categorically said China is indulging in aggressive and coercive behaviour with its neighbours, India in particular. Chinese officials, through official statements and state media, had also sought unsuccessfully to prevent India from deepening its relationship with the US during and subsequent to the standoff, while accusing India of being a mere “instrument” of US policy in the region, the Pentagon said. Beginning in May 2020, the Chinese army launched incursions into customarily India-controlled territory across the border and has concentrated troops at several standoff locations along the LAC, the Pentagon said. The Pentagon said that despite the ongoing diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce border tensions, China has continued “taking incremental and tactical actions” to press its claims at the LAC. As of June 2021, China and India continue to maintain large-scale deployments along the LAC and make preparations to sustain these forces while disengagement negotiations have made limited progress, it said. In addition, a substantial reserve force from the Tibet and Xinjiang military districts were deployed to the interior of western China to provide rapid response, the Pentagon report said. “These tensions likely provided the PLA (the Chinese People’s Liberation Army) with valuable real-world operational and tactical experience,” the Pentagon said. According to the report, at the height of the border standoff between China and India in 2020, the Chinese army installed a fibre optic network in remote areas of the western Himalayas to provide faster communications and increased protection from foreign interception. The PLA field commanders view near-real-time intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance and situational data as well as redundant and reliable communications as essential to streamlining the decision-making processes and shortening response timelines, it said. The June 2020 skirmish at the Galwan Valley that led to the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers marked the first loss of life on the LAC since 1975. In February 2021, China’s Central Military Commission (CMC) announced posthumous awards for four PLA soldiers, though the total number of Chinese casualties remains unknown, the Pentagon said. In 2020, China built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between the Chinese Tibet Autonomous Region and Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern sector of the LAC. “These and other infrastructure development efforts along India-China have been a source of consternation in the Indian government and media,” the Pentagon said. In contrast, China has attempted to blame India for provoking the standoff through India’s increased infrastructure development near the LAC, the report said. Asserting that its deployments at the LAC were in response to Indian provocation, Beijing has refused to withdraw forces till Indian soldiers have withdrawn behind the Chinese version of the LAC and ceased infrastructure improvements in the area, the Pentagon said. As the standoff continues, China has expressed its aim to prevent it from worsening into a wider military conflict, the report said, adding that Beijing has voiced its intent to return bilateral relations with New Delhi to a state of economic and diplomatic cooperation it had perceived to be improving since the 2017 Doklam standoff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
