06-11-2021||India||J&K: Omar, Mehbooba object to community halls being used as security barracks||NC vice president Omar Abdullah on Saturday said the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir had regressed to such an extent that community halls built during his tenure as chief minister of the erstwhile state were being used as barracks for security forces. “My Government built community/marriage halls & demolished bunkers in Srinagar. It's disappointing to see the security situation in the city has now regressed so far that new bunkers are being constructed & the marriage halls are being used as barracks for security forces,” he wrote on Twitter. His remarks came after reports of a few community halls or marriage halls being taken over by the CRPF here. The security forces' presence has been strengthened in Srinagar following a recent spike in militant attacks. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also lashed out at the government over the move, and said every day more draconian laws are brought in with the sole purpose of suffocating people into silence. After placing security bunkers at every nook & corner of Srinagar, CRPF personnel have been pushed into marriage halls which is the only private space left for people here. Every day more draconian laws are brought in with the sole purpose of suffocating people into silence, she tweeted. Meanwhile, Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu raised the issue with the divisional administration for exploring alternative options for housing the security personnel. He said the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) was not consulted on the issue. Have spoken to Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pole Sb regarding the issue of SMC Community Halls being made available to the CRPF SMC wasn't consulted on this decision, he tweeted. Mattu noted that community halls are integral to social and community functions, and are constructed in areas where people do not have huge houses and lawns. “They, hence, are a community necessity. A lot of money has been spent on their construction, upkeep and maintenance,” he said. The mayor said that the Kashmir divisional commissioner has assured him that alternative options will be explored . “I have strongly urged for this. It is very important that community facilitation services are not hampered. It would be a huge inconvenience to people and also stigmatise law and order measures,” he said. Mattu maintained that CRPF personnel deployed in Srinagar should have decent and appropriate housing facilities, but community halls should be left for community services. “This is not a political issue - and should not be distorted as such,” he added. Public Relation Officer (PRO), CRPF, Abhiram Pankaj said additional troops from within Kashmir Valley were deployed in the city in view of the requirement. Rationalisation has happened. These troops have come from north and south Kashmir, he said. Asked why the troopers were housed in community halls, the official said the places for accommodating the forces were chosen by the civil administration. The CRPF is getting deployed at the behest of the civil administration. They put us into a place of their choosing, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||NCB team probing extortion allegations against officials will return to Mumbai next week||A Special Enquiry Team (SET) formed to look into allegations of extortion attempt against NCB officials in connection with the drugs-on-cruise ship case will return to Mumbai on Monday, said an official. The five-member SET, headed by NCB Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh, was formed to conduct inquiry into allegations made by independent witness Prabhakar Sail and others. It had left Mumbai before Diwali after failing to record Sail's statement. Sail has leveled allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau officials including its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, claiming that there was an attempt to extort money for letting off Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, in the case.Aryan (23) got bail recently after being arrested during the NCB's alleged drug bust on a cruise ship on October 2. The SET will return to Mumbai on Monday and will resume the inquiry, said the official.It will record statements of everyone who is named in an affidavit filed by Sail, he said. "First we want to record Sail's statement because he is a crucial witness," the official added. When asked if Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani's statement will be recorded, the official said whoever was connected to the case will be questioned. Dadlani had been allegedly contacted by some persons involved in the attempt to extort money after Aryan was apprehended. The SET had stayed in the city from October 27 to 30 and recorded statements of eight persons including Wankhede, but could not contact Sail.It had also asked for help from Mumbai police who are conducting separate probe in the extortion allegation and who had recorded Sail's statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||India and France to strengthen defence and security partnership||In a significant move, India and France agreed to strengthen defence and security partnership by enhancing intelligence and information sharing, bolstering mutual capabilities, expanding military drills and pursuing new initiatives in maritime, space and cyber domains.  The two countries resolved to expand the defence ties at a meeting of India-France strategic dialogue in Paris on Friday that was co-chaired by NSA Ajit Doval and Emmanuel Bonne, the Diplomatic Advisor to French President Emmanuel Macron.  The Indian embassy in Paris said France reiterated its commitment to fully support Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and defence industrialisation, joint research and technology development in India across a wide range of advanced capabilities.  France's resolve to expand strategic cooperation with India came nearly two months after the unveiling of a new security alliance (AUKUS) by Australia, the UK and the US that had infuriated the French government.  The Indian delegation at the dialogue was led by Doval while the French side was headed by Bonne.  The French delegation included Admiral Jean-Philippe Rolland, the Chief Military Advisor to the French President.  Doval also met Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Florence Parly, Minister of Armed Forces, the embassy said in a statement.  It said the two sides discussed the global security environment, including current developments and long term challenges in the Indo-Pacific, the situation in Afghanistan, Africa, Southeast Asia and West Asia, the continuing challenge of terrorism and emerging threats in maritime, cyber and space domains.  The embassy said it was agreed that the emerging trends in global affairs reinforce the need for closer partnership between India and France, including in the UN Security Council and other UN forums.  It said the two sides will pursue these objectives through enhanced bilateral cooperation, deepening engagement in regional institutions and forums and jointly working with and assisting other countries in the Indo Pacific region.  "They agreed to strengthen bilateral defence and security partnership through enhanced intelligence and information sharing, operational cooperation, bolstering mutual capabilities, expanding bilateral exercises and pursuing new initiatives in maritime, space and cyber domains," the embassy said.  "France reiterated its commitment to fully support Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat and defence industrialisation, joint research and technology development in India across a wide range of advanced capabilities, based on long-standing cooperation and mutual trust," it said.  In the Strategic Dialogue and other meetings, France stressed its continuing commitment to the Indo-Pacific region as a "resident power", and partnership with India as a "major pillar" of its strategy for the region.  "Doval reiterated that France is one of India's premier global and Indo-Pacific partners," the embassy said.  It said the two sides reaffirmed the vision articulated by Modi and Macron, most recently during their meeting on the margins of the G20 Summit in Rome, that their strategic partnership has a vital role to play in advancing peace, stability and security in the Indo-Pacific region based on democratic values and a common belief in strategic autonomy and rule of law.  "India welcomed EU's Indo Pacific strategy and looked forward to French presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2022 as an opportunity to give further shape to EU's engagement in the Indo Pacific region, including in security, connectivity, sustainability and economic development," the embassy said.  Building on the successful India-France initiative on International Solar Alliance, the two sides stressed the need to accelerate cooperation in clean energy, including civil nuclear energy and green hydrogen, it said.  The assertion by France to deepen cooperation with India in the Indo-Pacific came nearly two months after the AUKUS deal.  Under the deal, Australia will get technology from the US and UK to build nuclear-powered submarines.  The alliance is seen as an effort to counter China's growing assertiveness in the South China Sea.  France reacted angrily to the formation of the new alliance as it resulted in Paris effectively losing a multi-billion dollar deal to build 12 conventional submarines for Australia. France was also upset over its exclusion from the alliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||I may be poor but not weak: Channi's retort to Sidhu||A day after Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu targeted his government over the issues of sacrilege and drug trafficking, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday retorted that "I may be poor but not weak" and asserted the matters will be resolved. Sidhu in a press conference on Friday had questioned the Channi-led state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in the cases of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and drug trafficking. Addressing a gathering here on Saturday, Channi said action would be taken against all those responsible for the 2015 sacrilege incidents as investigations into them by a Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) are on the fast and right track. "I may be poor, I may belong to a poor family but I am not weak.... All issues will be resolved," said Channi, who replaced Amarinder Singh as the Punjab chief minister. "The issue of 'beadbi' (sacrilege) is on the right track, he said, adding that the SIT would go to jail to question the 'Baba', referring to Dera Sacha Sauda sect chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, pertaining to the sacrilege incident. Ram Rahim is currently lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since his conviction in 2017 for raping two disciples. The Dera Sacha Sauda chief had been named as an accused in the theft of a 'bir' (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib. "It (sacrilege) is an issue of my Guru and an issue of Punjab's soul, said Channi. On the drugs issue, Channi said that all those guilty of pushing the state's youth into drugs would not be spared at any cost. He said that after the release of a report on the drug mafia, all the big sharks involved in it would be exposed. The chief minister earlier laid the foundation of Bela-Paniyali road and bridge over the river Sutlej at a function here. He reiterated his government's firm commitment to stamp out corruption from the public life and added that every decision was taken for the overall development and prosperity of the state. Lashing out at the Akalis, Channi said the previous Shiromani Akali Dal government had always blatantly ignored the interests of the state and gave priority only to its vested interests. Taking a dig at the Aam Aadmi Party, Channi said that several self-styled "aam aadmi" (common people) who are not even remotely concerned about basic problems and needs of the people have surfaced nowadays just for politicking. He said such persons are exploiting the emotions of the people by promising the moon to them with the sole motive of fulfilling their political ambitions. Speaking at the event, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said Channi has become the most popular among the people due to his simplicity and visionary approach. Badal said Channi could feel the pulse of the poor because he himself had passed through the pangs of penury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||Will gouge their eyes: BJP MP issues threat to Congress||BJP Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma from Rohtak, on Saturday, stoked a row by issuing ‘a vile threat to the Congress - that he would "gouge out the eyes and cut off the arms" of anyone who opposed party colleague Manish Grover, according to NDTV. Grover was on Friday, gheraoed by angry farmers inside a temple in Kiloi village in the Rohtak district. Resorting to abject theatrics at a public event, Sharma’s condemnable statement was applauded by the audience. He added the Congress would "run in circles for 25 years" while the BJP - in power after stitching together an alliance with Dushyant Chautala's JJP following the 2019 election - ruled. The farmers were outraged by Grover's comments that they were "jobless alcoholics" and "bad elements" bent on prolonging the protests against the contentitious farm laws. Grover and others were kept as hostages inside the temple for nearly eight hours, after which he was seen outside with folded hands. It was only after this that those held hostage were allowed to leave. Grover refused to apologise and claimed he had been asked to "wave at everyone". "We have not apologised... I will come whenever I want to this temple," he said. Others stuck inside the temple were minister Ravindra Raju, Rohtak MP Manmohan Goyal and BJP leader Satish Nandal. The farmers had urged the crowd to surround the temple from all sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||MP farmer hangs self; kin claim loan distress, cops deny claim||A 65-year-old farmer allegedly committed suicide on Saturday by hanging himself from a tree in his field at Jamunia village in Madhya Pradesh's Raisen district, police said.  Khalan Singh, a kin of the deceased Gore Lal Lodhi, told reporters his uncle ended his life as he was distressed on being unable to pay bank loans totaling Rs 10 lakh.  However, this claim was denied by the police, with Additional Superintendent of Police Amrit Meena stating that Lodhi's family, in their initial statements, had not mentioned that the farmer had taken loans.  The body has been sent for postmortem and further probe into the case was underway, another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||Fire in Ahmednagar hospital kills 11 coronavirus patients||At least 11 coronavirus patients were killed after a major fire broke out in the ICU of the district civil hospital in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar on Saturday, officials said. Springing into action, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Energy Minister Nitin Raut have ordered a detailed inquiry and also warned of strict action against those found guilty. As per preliminary reports, the authorities suspect short-circuit as the cause of the fire. Rajendra Bhosale, the district collector of Ahmednagar, located around 120 km from here, confirmed that 11 patients died in the blaze that erupted around 11 am in the intensive care unit (ICU), where 20 COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment. As many as 15 patients were on ventilator or oxygen in the ICU. "Saving them was the priority. But due to their critical condition, to remove the oxygen support and bring them out was a tough decision," said a fire brigade official. "After discussions, we decided to bring them out anyhow and later put them back on oxygen or other support systems," he added. Most of those who died were aged between 65 and 83, according to hospital officials. This is not the first time this year that such fatalities have occurred. In April, 15 COVID-19 patients had died in a blaze at the ICU of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra. Another fire in March at Dreams Mall in Mumbai's Bhandup, which housed a Covid-designated hospital, had claimed the lives of nine patients. After repeated incidents of fire at hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, fire audits had been ordered across the state. As per Bhosale, such an audit had been carried out at this hospital too. But according to Shankar Misal, chief fire officer of the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation, after the audit, the work of installing necessary safety systems was incomplete due to "want of funds". "I have ordered a detailed inquiry into this incident. Meanwhile, the electricity inspection department has reached the incident spot. The inspection team will start its inquiry after the police panchnama is completed," Raut said. Misal said that after the fire broke out, police and fire brigade personnel rushed to the facility and began rescue and fire fighting operations. "The fire was doused around 1.30 pm and the cooling operation is on," Misal said, adding that the short circuit is suspected to be the cause behind it. A police official said that after the fire, the injured patients were rushed to a nearby hospital, where 10 of them were declared brought dead. Bhosale added, "The bodies of all 10 victims were then sent for post-mortem and the reason behind their death - whether it was caused due to suffocation or due to disruption in medical oxygen supply is being investigated."   Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi have expressed grief over the incident. "Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a hospital in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi said in a tweet. Rahul said, "My condolences to the kin of those who lost their lives. I appeal to congress workers to assist in the relief work." BJP leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis described the incident as "very shocking and disturbing" and demanded an in-depth inquiry. "My deepest condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in Nagar Civil Hospital ICU Fire incident. Praying for speedy recovery of the injured," he said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath warns people against parties which equate Sardar Patel with Jinnah||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday warned people against political parties which equate Sardar Vallabhai Patel with Muhammad Ali Jinnah, an apparent reference to a recent remark by Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.  Speaking at the foundation stone laying of a government medical college here and inaugurating other projects, Adityanath, without naming Yadav, said, "A leader of a party had a few days back in a speech attempted to equate Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, the man who symbolised the unity of India, with Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who divided the country. The entire state should reject such shameful and condemnable remarks."  "Sardar Patel, who symbolised India's integrity, united over 563 kingdoms with India (at the time of Independence). We have to understand the mindset of the elements, who are trying to equate Sardar Patel with Jinnah. Sardar Patel united the country, while Jinnah divided the country, both cannot be contemporaries ('samkaksh'). Sardar Patel was a 'rashtranayak' (national hero), but Jinnah was the one to break the unity of India. We have to remain alert of people who are trying to equate them," he said.  The Samajwadi Party chief had on Sunday spoke of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah in the same breath as leaders who fought for India's independence.  Yadav had lavished praise on Patel on his 146th birth anniversary but raised eyebrows at one point when he appeared to equate the four leaders, including Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan.  Speaking on the law and order front, Adityanath said that the image of the state is changing. "Earlier, professional criminals and mafia had made the lives of the poor, traders and women miserable. Earlier, there was a race to embrace the mafia elements, and derive political mileage. But, today everybody knows that bulldozers are running over the mafia, and it can also run over those who give refuge to the mafia," he said.  The Uttar Pradesh chief minister added that every person knows that there is zero tolerance towards criminals. "Earlier, there were riots during festivals, and there were attacks on faith during festivals, and a loot of earnings of the traders. This was an attack on the faith of the common man, and false cases were registered against citizens and (party) workers, and they were sent to jail.  "But, in the past four-and-half years, not a single riot has taken place, and those attempting to riot have been told that their coming seven generations will get tired (of paying fine), but will not be able to complete it. Hence, you should stop indulging in riots, stop playing with the faith, and if you do so, then it (fine) will be recovered with interest," Adityanath said.  He also said that a "sensitive" government works without any discrimination. "There is no discrimination in the development schemes, and everybody is availing benefits in an equal manner. But, does not indulge in appeasement," the chief minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||Ahmednagar hospital fire: Energy minister orders probe, warns of strict action against guilty||Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut on Saturday ordered a detailed inquiry into the Ahmednagar civil hospital fire, in which at least 11 coronavirus patients were killed, and warned of strict action against those found guilty. He said the electricity department's inspection team has reached the hospital and it will start its probe after the police panchnama. Taking to Twitter, Raut said the Ahmednagar civil hospital fire incident was "very unfortunate." "I have ordered a detailed inquiry into this incident. Meanwhile, electricity inspection department has reached the incident spot. The inspection team will start its inquiry after the police panchnama is completed," he said. Strict action will be taken as per rules against those who are found guilty after the inquiry, he added. The fire broke out in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the civil hospital in Ahmednagar city around 11 am on Saturday, when around 20 coronavirus patients were undergoing treatment there. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the district collector to carry out an in-depth inquiry into the tragedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh gets 14-day judicial custody in money laundering case||A special holiday court here on Saturday remanded former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in 14-day judicial custody in connection with an alleged money laundering case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the case, sought his remand for nine more days, but the court refused the probe agency's plea and sent him to judicial custody.  Deshmukh was arrested by the ED late Monday night after 12 hours of questioning. A court had on Tuesday remanded him in the agency's custody till November 6. He was produced before the special at the end of his ED custody.  The money laundering case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Besides, the ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed its FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 on charges of corruption and misuse of official position.  The ED's case is that Deshmukh, while serving as home minister, misused his official position and through dismissed cop Sachin Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Besides Deshmukh, the ED has arrested his two aides - Kundan Shinde and Sanjeev Palande - in connection with the case. The duo are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
06-11-2021||India||Delhi govt on alert regarding Zika cases in UP: Deputy CM Sisodia||Amid several cases of Zika virus being reported in the last two weeks in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city government was alert and watchful of the developments. Delhi shares a border with Uttar Pradesh too, and many people commute back and forth from the two states, for work or other purposes. Thirty more people have tested positive for Zika virus in Kanpur, taking the total number of those infected in Kanpur district to 66, including nine IAF personnel, a senior official had said on Friday. Of those infected, 45 are men and 21 women, according to officials. The first case in Kanpur was reported on October 23 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer had tested positive for Zika virus. On Saturday, at a press conference here, Sisodia was asked about the situation in Delhi, given the frequent movement of people between Delhi and UP, via Ghaziabad and Noida by road, or train and other means of transportation. The deputy chief minister said the Delhi government is alert and watchful of the Zika virus cases reported in UP. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus and hence, getting rid of mosquitoes is the safe way out. To check the spread of the disease, health teams in Kanpur are undertaking sanitisation programmes, including anti-larvae spraying and identifying fever patients, screening seriously ill people and pregnant women. Health officials have been asked to step up surveillance and ensure door-to-door sampling and testing for Zika virus in the industrial city. The spurt in Zika virus cases in Kanpur comes amid relatively low number of COVID-19 cases reported, including in Delhi. Delhi on Friday recorded zero death due to COVID-19 and 32 fresh cases, even as the positivity rate climbed to 0.14 per cent after fluctuating in the range of 0.05-0.10 per cent for the past several weeks, according to data shared by the city health department. However, cases of dengue have been rising rapidly in the national capital in the past few weeks. Over 1,530 cases of dengue have been reported in Delhi this year till date, out of which nearly 1,200 were logged in October alone, the highest count for the month in the last four years, according to official data. Six deaths due to dengue have been recorded this year in the national capital till date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||UP minister keeps up his relentless attack on Akhilesh Yadav ||UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Saturday said that Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav should get a narcotic test done for glorifying Muhammad Ali Jinnah. During a public meeting in Hardoi on October 31, Yadav put together names of Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters with Jinnah's. "SP chief Akhilesh Yadav making a statement on Muhammad Ali Jinnah is not a common incident Jinnah is responsible for the division of the country. Jinnah is a villain, who no Indian would like to see or listen to. Akhilesh Yadav must clarify as to under which pressure, greed, is he glorifying Jinnah?" Shukla told reporters on Saturday. "I want that Akhilesh Yadav to himself come forward, and get his narco test done," Shukla said. He further said that those heaping praises on Jinnah, should go to Pakistan. "Those raising 'zindabad' slogans in praise of Jinnah, having thoughts and feelings of Jinnah in their mind, have no place in India. They themselves should go to Pakistan," Shukla, a BJP leader, said on Saturday. His statement in response to Yadav's remarks on October 31. "Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," Yadav had said. The SP chief also mentioned the ban imposed on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh by Patel, the then home minister, following the assassination of Gandhi in 1948. Earlier in the day on Saturday, the Samajwadi Party demanded sacking of Shukla for accusing Yadav of getting economic support from ISI. "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has become a challenge for the Islamic world. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is getting all support from them. Akhilesh is getting 'sanrakshan aur sujhav' (patronage and advice) from the ISI. It is possible that he might also be getting economic support from it," Shukla had said on Tuesday. "To appease Muslims, Yadav had performed 'namaz' and observed 'roza' (fast). He can also go for 'matantaran' (religious conversion) and 'khatna' to get their votes," he said, adding that the former chief minister was doing so at the behest of Pakistan. "On the directions of the ISI, Yadav is glorifying Jinnah. He is issuing such statements that Pakistan and the Taliban want, he added. On Friday, SP workers staged a protest at the District Collectorate building to demand the registration of a case against the minister. SP district unit chief Raj Mangal Yadav said there will be intense protests, and the minister will not be allowed to enter Ballia if the administration doesn't take action against him. The SP also demanded that a case be registered against Shukla for making insulting remarks against the party chief, and spreading animosity in the society. The BJP has not reacted over the statement made by the UP minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||Maharashtra: Hospital blaze kills 11 Covid patients||At least 11 coronavirus patients were killed after a major fire broke out in the ICU of the district civil hospital in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar city on Saturday, officials said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered an in-depth inquiry into the incident. The blaze erupted around 11 am in the intensive care unit (ICU), where 20 COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment, they said. Rajendra Bhosale, the district collector of Ahmednagar, located around 120 kms from here, confirmed that 11 patients died in the blaze. Shankar Misal, chief fire officer of the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation, said that after the fire broke out, police and fire brigade personnel rushed to the facility and began the rescue and fire fighting operation. "The fire was doused around 1.30 pm and the cooling operation is on," Misal said, adding that short circuit is suspected to be the cause behind it. A police official said that after the fire, the injured patients were rushed to a nearby hospital, where 10 of them were declared brought dead. Bhosale said, "The bodies of all 10 victims were then sent for post-mortem and the reason behind their death - whether it was caused due to suffocation or due to disruption in medical oxygen supply- is being investigated." Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the incident. "Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a hospital in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi said in a tweet. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "My condolences to the kin of those who lost their lives. I appeal to congress workers to assist in the relief work." BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis described the incident as "very shocking and disturbing". "My deepest condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in Nagar Civil Hospital ICU Fire incident. Praying for speedy recovery of the injured," he said in a tweet. He demanded an "in-depth inquiry" into the incident and called for a strict action against those responsible for it. In April this year, 15 COVID-19 patients had died in a blaze at the ICU of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra. Another fire in March at Dreams Mall in Mumbai's Bhandup, which housed a Covid-designated hospital, had claimed the lives of nine such patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||First chartered flight of tourist season to arrive in Goa on December 13||After a nearly a year, the first chartered flight of the season will arrive in Goa from the UK on December 13, ending a lull in the international tourism sector since the COVID-19 outbreak, a senior official said on Saturday. Four chartered flights will fly to Goa every week from the UK starting December, two each from Gatwick and Manchester Airports, said Nilesh Shah, the president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG). "The operations of chartered flights were shut down last year following the viral outbreak, and the season of 2019-20 was also washed out due to the pandemic," Shah said. "The tourism industry was expecting good response from the Russian market, but due to the COVID-19 wave in their country, the arrivals may be delayed," he added. Before the pandemic, Goa used to receive around 1,000 chartered flights during the tourist season, which begins in October and ends in April, the official said. The tourism industry will bounce back, if at least 50 per cent of the chartered flights arrive in the coastal state this tourist season, Shah said, adding that the current ban on scheduled flights from abroad is also affecting the industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||NCB's special probe team formed to investigate Aryan Khan and 5 other cases reaches Mumbai||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) reached Mumbai on Saturday, a day after the agency transferred investigation in six cases, including the controversial cruise drugs case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The team, which flew in from Delhi later left for the NCB zonal office in south Mumbai, an official said. It is headed by senior IPS officer Sanjay Kumar Singh, DDG Operations at NCB headquarters. The team will investigate the six cases, which have national and international ramifications in order to conduct deeper investigation to find out forward and backward linkages, the NCB said on Friday. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said he was not an investigating officer of these cases, adding he was a supervisory officer as a zonal director and his role will continue to be the same. Meanwhile, NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday tweeted, "Skeletons will tumble out in the probe. I had demanded an S.I.T probe to investigate Sameer Dawood Wankhede for the kidnapping of & ransom demand from Aryan Khan. Now 2 SITs are constituted (state & centre), let us see who brings out the skeletons from the closet of Wankhede and exposes him and his nefarious private army."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||Samajwadi Party demands sacking of UP minister for 'insulting' Akhilesh Yadav||The Samajwadi Party has demanded the sacking of UP Minister Anand Swaroop Shukla for making controversial remarks against SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. The SP also demanded that a case be registered against Shukla for "insulting" Yadav and for "spreading animosity" in the society. Uttar Pradesh minister of state for Parliamentary Affairs Shukla had accused Yadav of getting economic support from the ISI the Pakistan spy agency. On Friday, SP workers staged a protest at the District Collectorate building to demand the registration of a case against the minister. SP district unit chief Raj Mangal Yadav said there will be intense protests, and the minister will not be allowed to enter Ballia if the administration doesn't take action against him. On Tuesday, Shukla alleged that the SP chief enjoyed the patronage of Pakistan spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and said he may even go for religious conversion to appease Muslims. "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has become a challenge for the Islamic world. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is getting all support from them. Akhilesh is getting 'sanrakshan aur sujhav' (patronage and advice) from the ISI. It is possible that he might also be getting economic support from it," Shukla had said. "To appease Muslims, Yadav had performed 'namaz' and observed 'roza' (fast). He can also go for 'matantaran' (religious conversion) and 'khatna' to get their votes," he said, adding that the former chief minister was doing so at the behest of Pakistan. "On the directions of the ISI, Yadav is glorifying Jinnah. He is issuing such statements that Pakistan and the Taliban want.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||Delhi deploys 114 water sprinkling tankers to tackle air pollution ||The Delhi government on Saturday deployed 114 water tankers to sprinkle water on roads to settle dust, one of major contributors to air pollution, after the national capital's air quality deteriorated following the Diwali festival. Environment Minister Gopal Rai flagged off the water tankers, terming it an "emergency measure" to help people. "Last month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched an action plan that is being implemented across the city. Along with the people of Delhi, we are running the campaign to check the local source of air pollution in the city -- be it dust, vehicle or biomass pollution," Rai told reporters. He added that on Diwali, instances of crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana along with bursting of firecrackers in the city added to air pollution. "Even today, incidents of stubble burning are increasing. Yesterday, about 3,500 incidents were recorded and today, it is more than 4,000. All this is impacting Delhi's air. As an emergency measure and to help people, we are sprinkling water from the tankers. We have even installed smog guns," the Aam Aadmi Party leader said. Rai on Friday blamed the BJP for defying of the firecracker ban by people, alleging that the saffron party made them burst crackers on purpose, as the city's air quality index (AQI) entered the 'severe' category on Diwali night and continued its upward trend to reach 462 at noon on Friday. The 24-hour average air AQI the day after Diwali was 435 last year, 368 in 2019; 390 in 2018; 403 in 2017 and 445 in 2016. The AQI was 382 on Diwali day this year, 414 in 2020; 337 in 2019; 281 in 2018; 319 in 2017 and 431 in 2016. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee also shut down 92 construction and demolition projects across the city on Friday for flouting dust control norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||Kedarnath temple closes for winter||The portals of the Kedarnath temple were on Saturday closed for the winter season, when the shrine remains snowbound. The temple gates were closed at 8 am after rituals were performed by priest Bagesh Ling, the Chardham Devasthanam Board's media cell said. After the closure of the temple gates, the five-faced idol of Baba Kedar (Lord Shiva) was carried in a palanquin decorated with flowers to the Omkareshwar temple at Ukhimath where he is worshipped during the winter months. Over 2.40 lakh pilgrims visited the Kedarnath temple since the Chardham Yatra began in September this year. The portals of the Gangotri shrine were closed on Friday. The gates of the Yamunotri temple will be closed later on Saturday and those of the Badrinath temple will be closed on November 20, marking the end of the Chardham Yatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||Delhi government to extend free ration supply till May next year, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has decided to extend its free ration scheme by six months till May 2022, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. "Inflation is at its peak. The common man is struggling to manage even two square meals a day. Many have lost their jobs due to COVID-19. Prime minister sir, please extend the scheme of supplying free ration to the poor by six months. The Delhi government is extending its free ration scheme for the next six months," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Kejriwal's remarks came a day after Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the Centre had no proposal to extend distribution of free ration through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) beyond November 30. The Delhi government distributes free ration to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013 and PMGKAY. The city has over 2,000 fair price shops, 17.77 lakh ration card holders and around 72.78 lakh beneficiaries. The free ration is given over and above subsidised grains distributed to them through ration shops. The PMGKAY was launched in March last year to ameliorate distress caused by COVID-19. Initially, the scheme was launched for April-June last year, but was later extended to November 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||One killed, many injured in bus accident in UP||A man was killed and at least a dozen others were injured after their bus rammed into a tree on National Highway-2 here in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, police said. The bus was going from Ajmer Sharif to Kolkata, and the accident took place under the Saini police station's area, according to police. The injured passengers, all pilgrims, have been admitted to the district hospital, while the bus driver fled from the spot after the accident, they said. Superintendent of Police Radheyshyam Vishwakarma said, "There were 68 people on the bus, including the driver. On Saturday, around 3 am, the driver of the bus lost control over the vehicle, and it hit a road divider and then rammed into a tree." He added that Hasan Ali (65), the owner of the bus, succumbed to injuries at the district hospital. Vishwakarma said that the police are making arrangements to send the rest of the pilgrims to their respective destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
06-11-2021||India||IT department freezes deposits worth over Rs 53 crore of Maharashtra cooperative bank ||The Income Tax Department has frozen deposits worth over Rs 53 crore of an urban credit cooperative bank in Maharashtra after it found "glaring irregularities" in the opening of accounts in a recent raid, the CBDT said on Saturday. The department raided the headquarters of the bank and the residence of its chairman and a director on October 27, it said. While the official statement did not name the searched entity, sources identified it as Buldana Urban Cooperative Credit bank. "The analysis of bank data on core banking solutions (CBS) and the statements of key persons recorded during the search action have revealed glaring irregularities in opening the bank accounts. "More than 1,200 new bank accounts were opened in the said branch without PAN (permanent account number)," the Central Board of Direct Taxes, which frames policy for the tax department," said in a statement. "The investigations," it said, "found that these bank accounts were opened "without following KYC (know your customer) norms and all account opening forms are filled in by the bank staff and they have put their signature/thumb impressions." The department alleged that multiple cash deposits of "exact" denomination of Rs 1.9 lakh each were made and they totalled Rs 53.72 crore. "Out of these, more than 700 bank accounts have been identified which were opened in a series where cash deposits of more than Rs 34.10 crore were made immediately within seven days of the opening of bank accounts, mainly during the period August 2020-May 2021," it said. "These deposits have been structured to avoid the mandatory PAN requirement for cash deposits over Rs 2 lakh," it added. The money was subsequently converted into fixed deposits in the same branch," the statement claimed. The CBDT said enquiries in a few cases of such account holders showed that they were "not aware of cash deposits in the bank and categorically denied any knowledge of such bank accounts or even the fixed deposits." The chairman, CMD and the manager of the branch, could not explain the source of cash deposits and accepted that these were done at the behest of one of the directors of the bank, who is a prominent local businessman engaged in trading of grains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams Centre over LPG price hike||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Centre over the rise in the price of LPG, saying that far away from the government's development rhetoric, lakhs of families have been forced to use 'chulhas'. The development vehicle of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in the "reverse gear", he said. "Miles away from the rhetoric of development, lakhs of families are forced to use 'chulhas'. "Modi ji's development vehicle is in the reverse gear and its brakes have also failed," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, using the hashtag "PriceHike". The Congress leader also shared a screenshot of a news report which said that according to a survey, 42 per cent of people in rural areas have stopped using LPG cylinders for cooking food because they can't afford them anymore and are back to using firewood. Gandhi and his Congress party have been critical of the government over the issue of inflation and have been attacking the BJP-led dispensation over it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Man booked for derogatory post on Prophet Mohammad||A case has been registered against a man accused of making a blasphemous Facebook post on Prophet Mohammad. Jagadish Kaivathadka has been accused of using a derogatory word against the Prophet in his post. Police sources said the case was registered at Bellare police station in Dakshina Kannada district on the basis of a complaint from SDPI local leader Naufal. SDPI and Sunni Students Federation (SSF) have urged the district police to initiate action against the man for having hurt the sentiments of crores of people by speaking irreverently of the Prophet (PBUH).  "Strong legal action should be taken against miscreants trying to disturb peace in the society," they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Sidhu prays at gurdwara, seeks punishment for those behind 2015 sacrilege incident||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday visited a gurdwara in Faridkot and prayed that those involved in the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 be given exemplary punishment that will be "a deterrent for generations to come". This came a day after Sidhu withdrew his resignation as Punjab Congress chief and targeted his party-led state government over the sacrilege case. Sidhu offered prayers at the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara in Faridkot from where a copy of the Guru Granth Sahib was stolen in 2015. "Ardas at Gurudwaara saheb Burj Jawahar Singh wala, Bargari .... Praying for exemplary punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth saheb ji ... should be a deterrent for generations to come!" Sidhu said in a tweet. He also interacted with some locals at the gurdwara over the issue. During a press conference on Friday, Sidhu had questioned the Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in sacrilege cases and making public a special task force report in drug cases in the past 50 days. Sidhu also said that he would assume charge as Punjab Congress chief the day the new advocate general and a panel for the appointment of the new director general of police is appointed. The Amritsar East legislator has opposed the appointment of state Advocate General A P S Deol and Director General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, considered as Channi's choices. While Sahota was the head of the special investigation team (SIT) formed by the previous SAD-BJP government to probe the sacrilege incidents, Deol had represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police six years ago, in cases related to sacrilege incidents and police firing on protesters. The previous SAD-BJP government had handed over the three cases -- theft of a 'bir' (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara, putting up of handwritten sacrilegious posters in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, and torn pages of the holy book being found at Bargari -- to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Congress government, however, had handed over the probe to an SIT of the Punjab Police in September 2018 after the state assembly passed a resolution withdrawing consent to the CBI to investigate these cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Search operation for terrorists in J&K extended to Khabla forest area||The main road connecting Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri to Thanamandi was briefly closed for traffic on Saturday as security forces extended the ongoing search for a group of terrorists to the Khabla forest following information about their suspected movement in the area, officials said. The counter-insurgency operation in Surankote and Mendhar forest in Poonch district and Thanamandi in Rajouri district entered the 27th day on Saturday. While the operation to track down the terrorists in the forest belt of Poonch-Rajouri was underway, the security forces received information about the suspected movement of terrorists in the vast forest area of Khabla along the Mughal Road in the early hours of Saturday, the officials said. An operation was jointly launched by the Army and the police in the forest area of Khabla but there was no contact with the suspected terrorists, they said. In view of the operation, the traffic on the Rajouri-Thanamandi road was suspended as a precautionary measure for the safety of commuters, the officials said. Nine soldiers, including two Junior Commissioned Officers (JCOs), were killed in two separate encounters with the terrorists on the first day of the search operation in Surankote forest on October 11 and in Mendhar forest on October 14. A Pakistani terrorist, Zia Mustafa, who was shifted from Kot Bhalwal Central Jail, Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the operation, was killed when the security personnel accompanying him to identify a hideout in the Bhatti Durrian forest in Mendhar came under fire from the hiding terrorists on October 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||India logs over 10,000 fresh Covid cases, 392 casualties in a day||India on Saturday recorded 10,929 fresh coronavirus cases that took its infection tally to 3,43,44,683, while 392 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,60,265, according to Union health ministry data. The number of active cases came down to 1,46,950 from 1,48,922 on Friday, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in COVID-19 cases has been below 20,000 for 29 straight days. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 132 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.43 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national recovery rate stands at 98.23 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. It has remained below 2 per cent for the last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.27 per cent. It has remained below 2 per cent for the last 43 days, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from COVID-19 surged to 3,37,37,468, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 107.92 crore, it stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. Of the total 4,60,265 deaths, 1,40,362 were from Maharashtra, 38,102 from Karnataka, 36,204 from Tamil Nadu, 33,048 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,903 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,201 from West Bengal. Kerala has reconciled 268 deaths from the previous period, officials said, adding that the state reported 46 deaths the previous day. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Third Goa Maritime Conclave to begin on Sunday, to host heads of 12 Navies from Indian Ocean Region||The third edition of the Goa Maritime Conclave, the Indian Navy's outreach initiative, will be held between November 7 and 9, where the non-traditional threats in the Indian Ocean Region and other issues will be discussed, a navy spokesperson said. Chiefs of navies or heads of maritime forces from 12 Indian Ocean littorals - Bangladesh, Comoros, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Thailand - will participate in the event, he said. "The third Edition of Goa Maritime Conclave (GMC) 2021 is being held from November 7 to 9 under the aegis of Naval War College, Goa. The GMC is the Indian Navy's outreach initiative providing a multinational platform to harness the collective wisdom of practitioners of maritime security and the academia towards garnering outcome oriented maritime thought," the Indian navy said in a media statement. The conclave would build upon the working level deliberations of the Goa Maritime Symposium-21 held in May this year, as the Sherpa event for the Conclave," the spokesperson said. "The theme for this year's edition of GMC is Maritime Security and Emerging Non-Traditional Threats: A Case for Proactive Role for IOR (Indian Ocean Region) Navies, which has been derived keeping in mind the necessity of winning everyday peace in the maritime domain," he added. Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh would host the chiefs of navies/heads of maritime forces from 12 Indian Ocean littorals, the navy official said. The Defence Secretary and Foreign Secretary would deliver the conclave address and the keynote address at the GMC-21. "With the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) becoming the focus of the 21st century strategic landscape, the GMC aims to bring together the regional stakeholders and deliberate on the collaborative implementation strategies in dealing with contemporary maritime security challenges," he said. "The conclave participants would benefit from the interactions with eminent speakers and subject-matter experts over three sessions focusing on - Leveraging Collective Maritime Competencies to Counter Emerging Non-Traditional Threats, Strengthening Regional Cooperation for Maritime Law Enforcement and Imperatives for Mitigating Emerging Non Traditional Threats in areas beyond National Jurisdiction in the IOR," he added. According to the navy spokesman, extensive deliberations in the domains of hydrography and maritime information sharing would also be held. "The participating chiefs of navies/heads of maritime agencies would also dwell upon the significance of interoperability to effectively deal with emerging and future maritime security challenges in the IOR," he said. As a part of the conclave, visitors would also be afforded an opportunity to witness India's indigenous ship-building industry at the Make in India Exhibition and the capabilities of Deep Submergence Rescue Vessel (DSRV) for Submarines at the Mormugao Port Trust, Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Higher wind speed flushes out pollution in Delhi||The air quality in the national capital improved slightly on Saturday due to higher wind speed, which is expected to flush out pollutants further over the next two days, weather experts said. According to Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) Sameer app, the city's air quality index (AQI) stood at 449 in the severe category at 8 am on Saturday. It was 462 on Friday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Due to rampant bursting of crackers on Diwali on Thursday despite restrictions in place, the air quality in Delhi was the poorest in five years post the festival with rise in incidents of stubble burning in neighbouring states. The city's AQI slipped to the 'severe' category on Thursday night and continued its upward trend to reach 462 at noon on Friday. The weather office has predicted strong surface winds that will help clear out pollutants in the city's air on Saturday. Experts said the air quality degraded to severe in Delhi-NCR due to unfavourable weather conditions calm winds, low temperature and low mixing height and a poisonous cocktail of emissions from firecrackers, stubble burning and local sources. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency, SAFAR, stated that stubble burning accounted for 36 percent of Delhi's PM2.5 on Friday, the highest in this season so far. Delhi witnessed a cold morning on Saturday as the minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 14.7 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the season. The city will witness a partly cloudy sky with shallow to moderate fog in the morning and strong surface winds during the day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 28 degrees Celsius, it said. Humidity at 8.30 am was 78 per cent, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Modi hails only one religion for protecting faith 'during slavery'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged Indians to visit “sacred places”, naming shrines and spiritual leaders from only one religion and saying they had “kept our faith together” and protected it “during the period of slavery”. “I request my countrymen that besides going to see the historic sites related to the freedom struggle, go also to the sacred places in large numbers,” Modi said during a visit to the famed Kedarnath temple in poll-bound Uttarakhand. “Friends, there’s a tradition in our country to worship the Jyotirlingas (major Shiva temples), Shakti Peeths, (Siddhi) Asht-Vinayak (Ganesh). It’s considered a part of our life…. This pilgrimage is not a mere visit… it’s a lively tradition of uniting Bharat.” He added: “Take the new generation along and introduce them to these places. You must see Ma Bharati (Mother India), feel the great tradition of the awakening of thousands of years.” The Prime Minister prayed at the temple, unveiled a 12ft statue to eighth-century philosopher Adi Shankaracharya, and meditated for about 10 minutes in front of the statue. During his 52-minute speech, he said that during the countrywide pilgrimage he was advocating, people should “invoke Shankara in every nook and cranny, every element of Hindustan — it’s the time to go out”. Modi saluted those who had protected “religion” and held up Swami Vivekananda as one of them. “It’s no mean service that they kept our faith together and didn’t allow anybody to hurt it during the period of slavery. Isn’t it the duty of every Hindustani citizen to worship those who were doing great sadhana during the period of slavery?” he said. Modi said: “This is why I’m saying that as citizens, we should visit these sacred places to pay homage. We should know the glory of these sacred places.” He lauded Uttarakhand, where Assembly polls are due by March, as a “sacred land” and promised development. “The people of Uttarakhand must note down my words and hold on to them. I’m saying this from the sacred land,” Modi said. “The way infrastructure is developing here, more work will be done in 10 years than in the last 100 years. This decade of the 21st century belongs to Uttarakhand.” Modi said similar development was going on in the religious towns of Uttar Pradesh and named only Hindu sites: Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency, Ayodhya, where a Ram temple is coming up, and Mathura, considered the birthplace of Krishna. Sanctum TV While the usual publicity blitz accompanied Modi’s visit, this was the first time TV crews entered the sanctum sanctorum to film him. This prompted former Congress chief minister Harish Rawat to accuse the Prime Minister of conducting “a political tour to broadcast his election campaign in the name of Baba Kedarnath”. “Much against tradition, there were camerapersons recording his event in the sanctum sanctorum. Modi did his marketing; he doesn’t know that Lord Shiva doesn’t accept any arrogance,” Rawat said. Modi told the gathering that a large number of religious leaders and monks from key shrines across India, including the 12 Jyotirlingas, were watching the event virtually. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath too watched the programme from his Gorakhnath temple. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was in Kedarnath with Modi and dubbed him “the most popular leader of the world”. The Congress organised jalabhishek at several shrines in protest against the state’s BJP government forming a Devasthanam Board to manage all the major temples in Uttarakhand. Priests from many temples are opposed to the idea too. Modi inaugurated a rest house for priests, a hospital, a road, a bridge and a few other development projects. He claimed he had been working for the country’s development to set deadlines but some people still doubted him. “Whatever Modi dedicated to the nation today was started by my government,” said Rawat, who headed the state government between 2014 and 2017, his tenure punctuated by spells of central rule. The great philosopher, whose home state Kerala specialises in denying  electoral nirvana to the BJP, and the Prime Minister,  who professes devotion to asceticism and sports carefully chosen accessories, share an uncommon bond made  possible by an unlikely creature: the crocodile. Legend  has it that little Shankara was drawn to sanyasa but  his mother demurred. One day, while the child was  bathing in a river, a crocodile caught hold of him by a  leg and started dragging him away. Shankara cried out  to his mother that if she permitted him to become a  sanyasi, he would be saved. She relents and the  crocodile frees him. Kalady, the Advaita Vedanta  exponent’s birthplace in Kerala, has a Crocodile Ghat  that is a pilgrim and tourist attraction. Comic-strip legend has it that Bal Narendra (the little Modi) once jumped into a crocodile-infested lake to retrieve a  ball. He collected a baby crocodile, too, and took it home  but, on his mother’s advice, the hapless hatchling was  taken back to the lake and freed. The lad also used to swim to the middle of the lake (rippling with 29 crocodiles, says a book that attributes the information to villagers) to touch the flag of a temple standing in the water. One day, a crocodile's lashing tail caught Bal Narendra's left  foot, wounding him badly. The injury marks are still  visible, according to the book. Unlike that of the baby  reptile, the fate of the ill-mannered crocodile is not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||LAC: Veterans worry over govt’s continued silence on 'buffer zones'||Military veterans have expressed apprehension at the government’s continued silence on the “buffer zones” created in eastern Ladakh, saying these seemed to represent a “new status quo” on the frontier in the face of Beijing’s reluctance to restore the pre-April 2020 status. India and China have agreed to step back by equal distances at multiple friction points across the Line of Actual Control, with the upshot that Chinese troops still remain within India-claimed lines while India appears to have given up control of more of its territory. “These buffer zones were said to be temporary and were created as part of the disengagement plan between the two armies. But the Chinese are now reluctant to restore the April 2020 status quo ante,” a retired lieutenant general told The Telegraph. “It’s clear that Beijing wants India to accept the new frontier created by its transgressions into eastern Ladakh. It’s shocking that India’s government has remained silent on when these buffer zones within India-claimed lines will be accessible to the Indian Army.” A defence ministry official said the buffer zones were temporary, with both sides ceding patrolling rights till the standoff was resolved. “Under the agreements, the suspension of patrolling is not permanent. Nor has India given up its right to patrol those areas,” he said. He declined comment why there had been no official statement from the government. Sources in the security establishment say these demilitarised “buffer zone” have been created in the Galwan Valley (3km wide), Pangong Lake (10km) and Gogra (3.5km). The standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue, with the Chinese said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Veterans had earlier too expressed fears at the creation of these buffer zones, saying they amounted to “ceding further Indian territory” to the Chinese. “Patrolling by India’s army remains suspended at these buffer zones. The very acceptance of these demilitarised zones undermines India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” a retired colonel said. “And now there’s no clarity from the Indian government how long these ‘no-patrolling zones’ will continue.” He said there was always a threat of the Chinese occupying the positions vacated by the Indian Army at these demilitarised zones. A former brigadier accused the Indian government of being “very economical with the truth” on the Ladakh situation since the Chinese intrusion in April-May last year. “First, the Indian government’s official line was that no intrusion had taken place. Later, it shockingly agreed to retreat from its positions to create buffer zones within Indian territory,” he said. Four days after the June 15, 2020, clash at the Galwan Valley killed 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory. This allowed Beijing to dismiss the allegations of border transgressions and claim ownership of all the positions it held. “The government’s silence on when the Indian Army will regain access to these buffer zones, which it has been patrolling since 1962, has serious implications,” the ex-brigadier said. The former colonel too asked why the government had not issued a statement with specific details of the disengagement by the Chinese troops, backed by satellite images. “Everything is shrouded in secrecy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
06-11-2021||India||Mumbai cruise ship drug case: Probe shifted to NCB, Delhi||Probes into six cases, including the alleged drugs haul in which Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is an accused, have been transferred from the Mumbai zone of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to the agency’s headquarters in Delhi. The move came amid allegations of extortion against the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director, Sameer Wankhede, who was supervising the drugs case probe. The NCB reports to the Union home ministry. Officials cited “wider and inter-state ramifications” as the reason for the shift. But another section said the objective was to deflect attention from the charges against Wankhede, which were affecting the probe’s credibility. Wankhede denied he had been “removed” from the investigation in the Aryan case, PTI reported. At least 26 cases have come under a cloud following a disclosure in a purported letter from an unnamed NCB officer to Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Pfizer Covid treatment reduces risk of hospitalisation and death by 89%||The US pharmaceutical company Pfizer announced on Friday that its novel antiviral treatment reduced the risk of hospitalisation and death in Covid-19 patients by 89 per cent when started soon after the onset of symptoms in a global clinical trial with sites in Calcutta and other parts of India. The trial observed no deaths in patients who received the treatment but 10 deaths in patients who received a placebo, the company said. An independent expert panel monitoring the trial, noting the overwhelming efficacy, recommended the trial be stopped to speed up the drug’s journey into the clinic. “(This) is a real game-changer in the global efforts to halt the devastation of this pandemic,” Pfizer’s chief executive officer Albert Bourla said in a statement. “These data suggest that our oral antiviral candidate, if approved by regulatory authorities, has the potential to save patients’ lives, reduce the severity of Covid-19 infections, and eliminate up to nine out of 10 hospitalisations.” The treatment involves a novel antiviral drug named Paxlovid, specially designed to block a key enzyme that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, needs to replicate. Paxlovid has to be co-administered with a low dose of another antiviral, called ritonavir. This is the second oral antiviral treatment to show promise after the US company Merck reported earlier this year that a drug named molnupiravir reduces the risk of hospitalisation or death among Covid-19 patients by 50 per cent. The UK on Thursday became the world’s first country to authorise the use of molnupiravir in the treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adults who have at least one risk factor for developing severe illness. The results announced by Pfizer place the efficacy at a higher level — 89 per cent — than that reported for molnupiravir. When the Paxlovid treatment was started within five days of the onset of symptoms, the trial observed that six of 607 patients (1 per cent) were hospitalised, compared to 41 of 612 patients (6.7 per cent) who received the placebo. In the overall study population, there were no deaths in the treatment group, and 10 in the group that received the placebo. Pfizer said if the treatment was approved by regulatory authorities, it could be prescribed as an at-home treatment to be started early after symptoms to help reduce illness severity, hospitalisation and deaths. The company said it would offer the treatment through a tiered pricing strategy based on the income level of each country. “High and upper middle income countries will pay more than lower income countries,” the company said in a statement. Pfizer said it had entered into advance purchase agreements with multiple countries and was in negotiations with several others. The interim data analysis was based on 1,219 adults enrolled in the trial by September 29, 2021, from clinical trial sites across North and South America, Europe, Africa and Asia. According to the clinical trial documents, hospitals in Calcutta, Ajmer, Bangalore, Kochi, Mumbai, Pune and Raipur were enrolling patients for the trial. A query to Pfizer sent by this newspaper asking for the count of patients enrolled from India has remained unanswered. The safety data review included a larger group of 1,881 patients. Adverse events were comparable between Paxlovid (19 per cent) and placebo (21 per cent), most of which were mild. The trial randomised each patient to receive either Paxlovid or placebo every 12 hours for five days. Pfizer said it was currently expecting to produce more than 180,000 packs by the end of 2021 and at least 50 million packs by the end of 2022, of which 21 million would be produced in the first half, Reuters reported. Pfizer is also studying whether its pill could be used by people without risk factors for serious Covid-19 as well as to prevent coronavirus infection in people exposed to the virus, the Reuters report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||China keeps India waiting on Regional Security Dialogue||China is yet to indicate to India whether it will accept New Delhi’s invitation for the Regional Security Dialogue being convened by national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval on Afghanistan next week. While Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf told the media in Islamabad earlier this week that he would not be attending the meeting, this is yet to be formally communicated to India, sources in New Delhi said on Friday. The meeting in New Delhi on November 10 is one in a series of sessions that have been convened by different countries under various formats to discuss not just the security situation in Afghanistan but also its spillover effect on the region. Two earlier meetings in this format have been held in Iran in September 2018 and December 2019 in anticipation of the US drawdown from Afghanistan. Several central Asian countries besides Russia and Iran have confirmed participation in the New Delhi meeting. The sources said all central Asian countries had been invited to the meeting, not just Afghanistan’s immediate neighbours in that region — Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. Referring to Pakistan’s reported decision to skip the meeting, the sources said it was “unfortunate but not surprising”. They added that it reflected Islamabad’s mindset of viewing Afghanistan as its “protectorate”. Pakistan has always stayed away from this meeting format. While announcing that he will not be attending the meeting, Yusuf had also said: “A spoiler cannot try to become a peace-maker.” About these remarks, the sources maintained that it was “an unsuccessful attempt (by Pakistan) to deflect attention from its pernicious role in Afghanistan”. Earlier, a Pakistan foreign ministry spokesman had dubbed the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue an attempt by India to find “some relevance in Afghanistan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Diwali-time hooch death toll in Bihar rise to 33||The Diwali-time hooch death toll in Bihar’s West Champaran and Gopalganj districts is said to have risen to 33 on Friday with at least 16 more people succumbing to spurious liquor, prompting the Opposition to deride the Nitish Kumar government for failing to enforce prohibition. The number of the dead at Muhammadpur and neighbouring villages in Gopalganj shot up to 17 on Friday, administrative sources said. The toll at Telhua village in West Champaran increased to 16, the sources said. Several others are battling for their lives in hospitals. However, state government officials pegged the toll at 26, attributing other deaths to natural causes. “Eleven people have died so far in the Muhammadpur hooch consumption incident. The other six deaths occurred in other villages in the area and our enquiries have revealed that they were due to natural causes like old age,” Gopalganj district magistrate Nawal Kishor Choudhary told The Telegraph. Choudhary said he had asked all the police stations in the district to prepare a list of habitual drinkers and liquor traders. They will be asked to sign a bond of Rs 5 lakh, pledging that they will not indulge in such activities in future. “Continuous raids are going on in the district. A large quantity of illicit liquor has been seized. We are also bolstering local intelligence gathering to ensure that such hooch incidents do not recur,” the Gopalganj DM said. Locals at Telhua village in West Champaran blamed the police and the administration. “We kept complaining to the Nautan station house officer (SHO) that liquor was being openly sold and consumed in our area, but he did not pay any heed,” Nirmala Devi of Telhua told reporters. The station house officers of Muhammadpur and Nautan police station and the chowkidars of the villages where the hooch deaths took place have been suspended. Asked by journalists about the hooch deaths, chief minister Nitish said: “I always say that if people consume bad things, this will happen. I will extensively review the issue after the festivals are over.” Leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the RJD, said: “Prohibition, due to the whim of somebody, is just on paper. Otherwise, there is full freedom (to drink).” RJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha said: “Prohibition has failed and liquor syndicates are being run from police stations while top government officers are involved in it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Delhi air quality degrades from 'very poor' to ‘severe’ after Diwali||Firecracker emissions degraded air quality over the National Capital Region early on Friday from the “very poor” to the “severe” category with residents waking to a citywide haze that persisted through the day. Delhi’s concentration of tiny particulate matter sized 2.5 microns (PM2.5) that can penetrate deep into the lungs spiked to 383 micrograms per cubic metre, more than six times the permissible level, a government air quality tracking agency said. “The PM2.5 level is higher than in 2020 but much less than in 2018,” the Union earth sciences ministry’s System for Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) agency said in a post-Diwali air quality bulletin released on Friday. But the agency said local winds had picked up since morning and were expected to disperse the pollutants by late night. Some relief may be expected by Sunday, it said, although air quality is expected to range in the “very poor” category. The agency has forecast that the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi will fall to 230 on Saturday and continue to improve — although remaining in the very poor category — to 184 by Tuesday in the absence of more firecracker emissions. Firecracker emissions emerged from across parts of the National Capital Region on Thursday evening and night despite an appeal by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to the public not to burst fireworks. “Don’t burst firecrackers no matter what — if we burst firecrackers, we’d be playing with the lives of our children,” Kejriwal had said, urging residents to celebrate Diwali but without fireworks. Weather scientists say firecracker emissions in early November add to other sources of pollution such as traffic emissions and soot particles that result from crop stubble burning across farms in neighbouring states. The SAFAR analysis has shown that stubble burning contributed to 36 per cent of the pollution on Friday. The pollutants from stubble burning are likely to persist on Saturday although air quality is expected to range in the very poor category. Scientists say besides pollution sources, weather and wind patterns also significantly influence air quality levels with low wind speeds tending to cause spikes in pollutant levels because of delayed dispersal of pollutants. The Centre has over the years urged states to help curb stubble burning by providing farmers alternative strategies to manage crop residues. The Union environment ministry’s Commission for Air Quality Management had in mid-October reported that stubble burning events had reduced by 70 per cent in Punjab, 18 per cent in Haryana and 48 per cent in eight NCR Uttar Pradesh districts since mid-September compared with last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Sidhu withdraws resignation as Punjab Congress president||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday formally announced the withdrawal of his resignation as Punjab Congress president but continued to attack the party-run state government for not showing substantial progress in cases related to sacrilege and drugs, two issues that led to the exit of Amarinder Singh as chief minister. While Sidhu asserted that he had no differences with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the signs of strain were barely concealed as the former cricketer not only asked what steps had been taken in the sacrilege and drugs cases by the new government but also declared that he would go to the party headquarters to resume charge only after a new advocate-general was appointed. Sidhu had resigned as state Congress president over the appointments of the Punjab police chief and advocate-general. While advocate-general A.P.S. Deol had submitted his resignation last Monday, signalling a truce between Channi and Sidhu, something went wrong all of a sudden and the chief minister rejected the offer to quit. Sidhu is opposed to Deol for representing the accused in the sacrilege case. By continuing to harp on the case, Sidhu has demonstrated that there is no change in his stance. “I never compromise; I don’t fight personal battles. I fight for issues,” he declared at the media conference on Friday while announcing the withdrawal of his resignation. That Sidhu was traversing an independent path without even trying to create an impression of synergy with the Channi government was obvious in his comments. “If the government doesn’t have the guts to make public the report of the special task force on drugs, give it to the party. I have the courage to release it,” Sidhu said. Portraying himself as a “moral force”, he said: “Promises were not fulfilled in five years. Was the change meant to provide protection to the Badals? What will we tell the villagers? Why is there no proper investigation in the drugs and sacrilege cases? Are you dilly-dallying or you have a political motive?” Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal is a former Punjab chief minister while his son Sukhbir Singh Badal had been a deputy chief minister. Sidhu went on: “There are two ways — form the government by making 500 false promises, giving lollipops to the people. Or, by giving an agenda for the welfare of the people of Punjab.” He, however, clarified that his lollipop remark was aimed at AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal, not Channi. The Delhi chief minister’s party is vying for power in Punjab in the Assembly elections next year. There is clearly an absence of cohesive messaging from the Congress; both Sidhu and Channi are moving separately instead of working as a team, many feel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Friday namaz takes place at fewer sites amid fear in Gurgaon||Friday namaz took place at fewer locations in Gurgaon with worshippers avoiding spots where pujas were held, at a time Hindutva and residents’ groups have opposed Friday prayers in open spaces. After a tripartite meeting between deputy commissioner Yash Garg with Muslim and Hindu representatives earlier this week, the administration had withdrawn consent to eight of the 37 sites where Friday prayers were offered in places where mosques are not available. The 37 sites, which include three Muslim institutions, had been earmarked by the administration in 2018 after protests by Hindutva groups. Prior to this, Friday and Id prayers were offered at 106 open spaces in Gurgaon in addition to mosques, almost all of which are in the city’s older parts. On Friday, Hindutva groups organised Govardhan Puja at three grounds where Jumma namaz takes place. Muslims withdrew from there. At the largest such puja in Sector 12A, Vishwa Hindu Parishad joint general secretary Surendra Jain said: “The administration has asked us for a few weeks and said that it (namaz in open spaces) would be gradually decreased. But we don’t believe the assurance. If they do so, then it is good or we will take to the streets.” Haryana, where Gurgaon is located, is ruled by the BJP. Union home minister Amit Shah launched his party’s Assembly poll campaign in Uttarakhand last week by attacking the Congress for allegedly allowing Friday prayers on a highway. Gurgaon police have been providing protection to open-air Jumma namaz following disruptions by Hindutva groups and residents’ welfare associations since September 17. These groups had used loudspeakers and played Hindu devotional songs while the namaz took place. A leader of the protests, Dinesh Bharti, was taken into preventive detention. However, the administration this week asked Muslim representatives at the meeting to keep off eight sites. One Muslim representative, Altaf Ahmad, told The Telegraph on Friday: “There are three sites where Jumma namaz did not happen, Sector 12, Sector 47 and Sector 18. Rest, namaz happened peacefully although there was a lot of fear. Caution was exercised by the Muslims to not have any sort of confrontation with the vigilante groups.” “At the three sites, Govardhan Puja was happening; hence we voluntarily stepped back, as advised by the police  on the ground,” he added. A police spokesman said: “Personnel were deployed at more than two dozen namaz sites and no law-and-order problem has been reported.” Another representative at the talks, Haji Shahzad Khan of the Muslim Ekta Manch, said: “No namaz was conducted at the eight sites on the request of the administration, as well as Sectors 47 and 12A where protests take place. Namaz was peacefully conducted at the remaining sites. “It is sad that despite us requesting our Hindu brothers not to conduct puja at Sector 12A today, it was done. However, we told them we are with you and I went at 3pm to contribute Rs 5,100 at the bhandara (community kitchen). But they refused it. “By refusing our contribution, they have shown they don’t want brotherhood.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||J&K: Gunfight between militants and security forces in hospital||A brief gunfight between militants and security forces inside a premier hospital in Srinagar left a civilian injured and triggered panic among patients. Officials said the militants opened fire at the security forces but managed to escape taking cover of civilian movements. “There was a brief firefight between terrorists and security forces at SKIMS (Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences) Bemina. Terrorists managed to escape taking advantage of civilian presence,” Srinagar police tweeted. An official said the gunfight took place on the road leading to the hospital, adjoining lawns and inside the main gate. One person — Masood Ahmad, 19, of Doda — suffered an arm injury but it could not be immediately confirmed whether he had been hit by a bullet. The gunshots created panic and forced people to run for cover. Scores of security personnel rushed to the spot but the militants appeared to have fled by then. Some reports claimed the security forces had launched an operation to arrest a group of militants at the hospital. The militants, however, became suspicious and opened fire. An SKIMS hostel was in the spotlight after a video purportedly showed students cheering for the Pakistan team during the T20 World Cup match against India. The hospital denied this. The police have booked unnamed students under the anti-terror law UAPA for cheering the Pakistan team but no arrests have been made so far. This is the first militant firing in Srinagar since the civilian killings earlier this month targeting people from minority communities and migrant workers. The security forces are rushing 5,000 additional troops to the Valley, belying claims of normality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Kerala: Man delivered passport along with a passport cover||A man in Kerala’s Wayanad district has claimed that he was delivered a valid passport by an e-commerce company along with a passport cover he had ordered. Midhun Babu, from Kaniyambetta in Wayanad, said he ordered the passport cover on October 30. When it was delivered on November 1, the packet contained the passport cover with a passport inside it belonging to a teenager from Thrissur. Babu said he reported the incident to Amazon. “I spent about 40 minutes speaking with three customer care executives. But none told me what to do. Later, on the advice of a friend, I approached the police and surrendered the passport,” he said on Friday. There was no immediate response from Amazon. Babu said he also informed the family of the passport holder. The teenager’s father had ordered a passport cover in mid-October but had later returned it. “We forgot to pull out the passport while returning the pouch,” Asmabi, mother of the 17-year old boy whose passport was delivered to Midhun Babu, told PTI. Police have not reacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||Indian designer creates fashion wear out of fabric waste||An Indian designer is using discarded pieces of cloth to piece together fashion wear for men and women as a sustainable alternative to high-end garments. New Delhi-based Kriti Tula’s fashion label Doodlage collects fabric waste from factories discarded for minor defects and pieces them together to create flowing dresses and sarees, selling them for about $100 (Rs 7,400) a piece. Tula said the label, which includes a men’s line featuring patchwork shirts with denim strips, emerged out of her concern for global warming and the fashion industry’s impact on the environment. Having worked at major textile export houses, the designer said she had seen the environmental cost of high fashion first-hand: waste of cloth and water, and toxins emitted in the production process. “Everything that we wear eventually impacts everything that we eat and consume and we breathe,” Tula told Reuters at her workshop in the capital. The roughly $2.4-trillion global fashion industry accounts for 8-10 per cent of the world’s carbon emissions — more than all international flights and maritime shipping combined, the United Nations Environment Programme said in 2019. The industry is also the second-biggest consumer of water, generating about 20 per cent of the world’s wastewater, it added. Tula said sourcing the scraps initially proved complex and the product prices had to be higher than what many buyers might have felt was worth paying for recycled wear. Gradually though, her business has found like-minded vendors and partners, she said. Besides clothes, her label also makes soft toys, bags, purses and paper out of leftover fabric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
06-11-2021||India||SC rules no insurance payment if facts are suppressed||The Supreme Court has ruled that an insured person or nominee is not entitled to compensation if they had suppressed facts, quashing the accident death benefits against a lapsed policy that had been revived after the accident without disclosure about the mishap. The bench of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and Bela Trivedi passed the ruling on an appeal from the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), which had challenged a National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) order granting a claim from Sunita, wife of Pradeep Kumar who had died in a road accident. “It is not disputed that the husband of the complainant had taken the life insurance policy on 14.04.2011, that the next premium had fallen due on 14.10.2011 but was not paid by him, that the husband of the complainant met with an accident on 06.03.2012, that thereafter the premium was paid on 09.03.2012 and that he expired on 21.03.2012,” the judgment, authored by Justice Trivedi, said. “It is also not disputed that at the time of making payment of premium on 09.03.2012, it was not disclosed by the complainant or her husband to the appellant-Corporation about the accident which had taken placed on 06.03.2012. “The said conduct on the part of the complainant and her husband in not disclosing about the accident to the corporation not only amounted to suppression of material fact and lacked bona fides but smacked of their mala fide intention, and therefore, the accident benefit claim of the complainant was liable to be rejected on the said ground alone.” The judgment added: “It is (a) well settled legal position that in a contract of insurance there is a requirement of Uberrima fides i.e. good faith on the part of the assured.” The apex court said the terms of an insurance policy had to be strictly construed, and that it was not permissible to rewrite the contract while interpreting the terms of the policy. “In the instant case, condition No. 11 of the policy clearly stipulated that the policy has to be in force when the accident takes place. In the instant case, the policy had lapsed on 14.10.2011 and was not in force on the date of accident i.e. on 06.03.2012. It was sought to be revived on 09.03.2012 after the accident in question, and that too without disclosing the fact of accident which had taken place on 06.03.2012,” the judgment said. “Thus, apart from the fact that the respondent complainant had not come with clean hands to claim the add-on/extra accident benefit of the policy, the policy in question being not in force on the date of accident as per the condition No. 11 of the policy, the claim for extra accident benefit was rightly rejected by the appellant-Corporation.” After Kumar’s death, Sunita had filed a claim before the LIC, which paid her the assured sum of Rs 375,000 but not the additional sum of Rs 375,000 towards accident claim benefit. She approached the district consumer forum, which ruled in her favour. The state commission set this ruling aside but on an appeal from Sunita, the NCDRC restored the district forum’s ruling. The LIC then appealed before the apex court on April 24, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
06-11-2021||India||A step away from one final exam ||The new education policy, prepared after 34 years, is waiting to be implemented. It seeks to establish a more holistic relationship between the society and its members and proposes an examination-free system geared to flexibility. Eminent scientist, Professor Bikash Sinha, evaluates the new policy. After 34 long years, a novel education policy has been tabled by an expert committee, headed by the renowned scientist Krishnaswamy Kasturirangan, former director of Isro and erstwhile members of the Planning Commission. When will the policy gain approval and when will it be implemented? You can well realise the situation. This new education policy has been framed and drafted after 34 years and it has fuelled animated discussions and debates in all relevant spheres. The primary objective of this policy is to lay much less stress on the theory and practice of classical education, which envisages a questionable progress, smooth though often fruitless, from the school level to the attainment of PhD. This policy needs to be attuned to the demands and requirements of the present society. It does not want to produce mechanical doctors of philosophy. In other words, it does not want to equate education with an abstract theory of progress that has almost nothing to do with the practical requirements of the contemporary society. One must realise that in 34 years India has evolved substantially, it is almost unrecognisable from the old system. Consequently, a wholesome change in its educational policy is essential. The old has to be replaced by the ‘new’. I think the policy, following a series of discussions, will be tabled in Parliament within the next six months and after a few hectic sessions of parliamentary debates it will reach the stage of implementation. But, even at this preparatory stage, one can emphasise the sea change that it wants to introduce. It does not want to encourage ‘copycat robots’. On the contrary, it prompts and provokes the recipients of education to think ‘out of the box’. We have seen the draft. It does not want to stress the need and importance of the final examination, rather it… Yes, I have discussed this aspect with Dr Kasturirangan who emphatically states that the determining, so-called final examination should be done away with. In its place — and this is important — there should be a continuous assessment. The new education policy wants to get rid of, once and for all, the psychological terror of examination that gives students as well as their parents sleepless nights. In fact, those who have framed the policy vis-à-vis examination are convinced that a continuous and regular assessment is much more fruitful and revealing than the one do-or-die, final examination at the end of the day. Indeed, this attitude towards examination is really noteworthy and valuable. Along with this attitude towards examination, is there any other special and novel aspect that has drawn your attention? Yes, another significant aspect of this new policy is its stress on flexibility, flexibility in choice of subject. There is no harm in combining science with humanities. That makes a student more robust intellectually and confident to face the new world. While giving this stress, the policymakers have removed the walls separating humanities and science and have proposed that would-be nuclear scientists have all the right to pursue music and philosophy as attendant subjects. If this coalescing attitude is nurtured, an expert in mathematical science could well-nigh be immersed in poetry as well. Moreover, if this principle is applied and accepted, nothing short of a mini-revolution would take place in the academic world. Instead of producing quarantined scholars who are tied to their own limited disciplines, we shall have composite, even encyclopaedic, humans who can quote Hamlet’s soliloquies and excel in mathematical calculation in one indivisible breath. In order to curb the avalanche of students joining colleges after school — primarily because they have nothing better to do — what has been proposed in the policy? Yes, this almost blind and irreversible policy leading to a plethora of MAs, MPhils and PhDs has to be discarded. Research should be done by scholars who are primarily motivated, and precisely because research is a passion, not pastime. As for the rest, they should choose vocational courses after the school-leaving stage. You see, this aimless loitering in the corridors of colleges by school-leavers has to be controlled, if not negated. They should not be allowed to ‘drift’ in this crucial, formative phase of their lives. At this critical stage, it is the overall duty of the society to offer fruitful, vocational courses. Moreover, we need the guidance and cooperation of an advisory committee as they function in the West and of the industrial-commercial and institutional world, to remove this blockade. In point of fact, after following the proposals and recommendations of this new education policy, we need to create entrepreneurs of two distinctive kinds. One kind of entrepreneurship would involve itself in the measured and well-regulated production of dedicated scholars and the other would involve the promotion of start-ups by those who can smoothly handle machines and applied science, as well as management prerogatives. We need to realise — as it has been stressed in the policy — that education is not passing information without knowledge and not passing down facts without wisdom. This immediately implies that the big industry should offer possibility to open up opportunities for achieving excellence in research and development. Fundamental research will flourish and so the industry. The CERN laboratory is the best example of my thesis. California Institute of Technology, USA, is another glorious example. Finally, we need a more holistic relationship between the society and its members, the former offering a multitude of choices and the latter responding to this offer by selecting professions that cater to the variegated needs of the society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
06-11-2021||India||Opposition BJP stepts up heat on Odisha minister ||The Opposition BJP on Thursday called a 12-hour bandh in Odisha’s Gajapati district on November 6 to protest against the BJD government's alleged inaction against   minister of state for home D.S. Mishra, who has been charged with patronising the prime accused in the kidnap and murder of a teacher last month. The youth wing of the saffron camp also decided to stage demonstrations with black flags at places where Mishra will visit, a leader said. During the day, a group of BJP leaders led by party's national vice-president Baijayant Panda, spokesperson Sambit Patra and MLA Jayant Sarangi attended a programme to light earthen lamps near Shree Jagannath Temple at Puri in memory of the woman teacher. The Congress also demanded verification of call details of two associates of Mishra to ascertain the truth behind the case. Addressing a media conference, BJP Yuva Morcha state president Irasish Acharya said: “Our activists will welcome Mishra with black flags and such protest will continue till he resigned or is sacked. The party has given a 12-hour bandh call in Gajapati on November 6.” Senior Congress leader and former MP Bhakta Charan Das and party MLA S. Saluja demanded that “records of phone calls of Mishra’s two associates be verified to find out his involvement in the case”. “A telephone conversation among the prime accused and the family members of the teacher indicated that the main suspect had a close relationship with the minister. In an audio clip that went viral, he was heard of assuring her family members that he would request the minister of state for home to expedite the search for the woman who went missing on October 8,” a Congress leader claimed. The Congress had on Wednesday alleged that several officers at the Odisha chief minister’s office (CMO) are shielding Mishra. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik would have sacked Mishra had he not been shielded by some influential people at the CMO, Das had said. The Opposition parties are mounting pressure on Patnaik to sack Mishra from the council of ministers alleging that he is close to the prime accused. The body of the 24-year-old teacher was on October 19 exhumed from the playground of the school where she worked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
