07-11-2021||India||10 more people test positive for Zika virus in Kanpur,  tally  89||Ten more people, including three Indian Air Force personnel, tested positive for Zika virus in Kanpur on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 89, District Magistrate Vishak G Ayyar said.  On Saturday, 13 people had tested positive for Zika virus.  "Out of the 89 infected people, 55 are men and 34 are women. Among these, 23 are those having age below 21 years. Of the total infected persons, 12 are Indian Air Force personnel. This includes 11 men and one woman," the district magistrate said.  Health teams had collected blood samples of 525 people on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and were sent to the virology lab of the King George's Medical University in Lucknow and the National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing.  "Of this, 23 samples tested positive for Zika virus," the district magistrate added.  Ayyar also said that health teams have collected samples of 525 people who were in close contact with the infected persons and living in the radius of 3 km of Indian Air Force station hangars for testing.  The first case of the virus was reported in the city on October 23 when a warrant officer of the IAF tested positive for the infection.  So far, a total of 3,283 samples were collected from the city and sent to the virology lab of KGMU in Lucknow and NIV in Pune for testing.  Zika is a mosquito-borne virus and hence, getting rid of mosquitoes is the safe way out, the district magistrate said.  To check the spread of the disease, health teams are undertaking sanitisation programmes, including anti-larvae spraying and identifying fever patients, screening seriously ill people and pregnant women.  Health officials have been asked to step up surveillance and ensure door-to-door sampling and testing for Zika virus.  "We advise the local people not to panic regarding the sudden spurt in Zika virus cases," Ayyar said.  A high alert has been sounded in the periphery of hangars of the IAF station, another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
07-11-2021||India||Srinagar: Constable  shot dead by militants at Batamaloo ||A policeman was shot dead by terrorists in the Batamaloo area of the city on Sunday, officials said. He was identified as Constable Tausif Ahmad, they said.  "At about 8 pm, terrorists fired upon JKP Constable Tausif Ahmad near his residence at SD Colony, Batamaloo," the officials added. They said the cop was critically injured and was taken to the SMHS hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The area has been cordoned off, and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, the officials added. Meanwhile, the National Conference (NC) condemned the attack.  "Unequivocally condemn the cowardly & dastardly attack on 29-year-old policeman in Batmaloo, Srinagar in which he lost his life. No words of condemnation would be enough! May Allah grant him a place in Jannat. Our hearts go out to his family and friends at this time of grief," the party tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Aryan Khan skips NCB SIT's summons citing fever||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was summoned by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday in connection with the cruise drugs case, but he failed to appear before it citing fever, an official said.  The anti-drug agency's SIT on Sunday asked Aryan to appear before it the same day, the NCB official said. "But he did not appear before the SIT officials citing fever," he added.  The SIT, headed by the NCB's senior officer Sanjay Kumar Singh, reached Mumbai on Saturday, a day after the agency transferred to it the investigation in six cases, including the controversial cruise drugs case. The NCB had arrested Aryan and at least 19 others in the cruise drugs case last month and the agency's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede has been facing a departmental vigilance probe after an independent witness in this case alleged an extortion bid by those involved in the investigation. Aryan Khan was released on bail on October 30.  On Friday, he had visited the NCB office here to mark his weekly presence as per the bail conditions set by the Bombay High Court. It was Aryan Khan's first appearance at the NCB office after his release from the Arthur Road prison.  In its order, the high court had said that Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, his co-accused who were also released on bail, will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. Besides, they have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Sunil Patil denies allegation of being mastermind of cruise drugs bust episode||A day after Mohit Bharatiya, former president of Mumbai BJP's youth wing, alleged that Dhule-based Sunil Patil was the mastermind of the cruise drug bust episode, the latter on Sunday denied the allegation. Patil claimed that the tip-off about the cruise drugs party was given to Manish Bhanushali, an NCB witness in the case, by Bhopal-based Neeraj Yadav, who is a BJP worker in Madhya Pradesh. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had on October 2 conducted a raid, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast, from which drugs were allegedly seized. Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested in the case along with 19 others, and was later granted bail by the Bombay High Court. Patil claimed that Manish Bhanushali, NCB's witness in the cruise drugs case, had sent him a list of persons who were going to board the cruise ship, but the names of Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant were not there in the list, although it contained the name of Munmun Dhamecha. Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested with Aryan Khan and were later released on bail. In an interview to a news channel, Patil said, "I neither gave any tip-off about the cruise drugs party, nor I am the mastermind. The tip-off was given to Manish Bhanushali by Bhopal-based man Neeraj Yadav, a BJP worker in MP." Patil said that on October 1, a day before the NCB raid, he, Bhanushali and K P Gosavi, another witness in the case who has been arrested in a cheating case now, were staying in a hotel in Ahmedabad. "That day, Dhawal Bhanushali, a close friend of Manish Bhanushali, rang me and said that one big drug party would be held on a cruise in Mumbai and asked me whether I would like part of the raid on it, but I refused. But I knew one Sam D'Souza, who had good relations with the agency, and got him connected to them," he said. "Days after the raid, when I was in Ahmedabad, Manish Bhanushali and others asked me to come to Delhi to video-record my statement regarding the case as per their directions. I went to Delhi, but when I refused to video-record any statement, they beat me up," he alleged. On Saturday, Bharatiya had alleged that Patil, whose name surfaced during an investigation into corruption allegations against NCB officials, is closely associated with several NCP leaders, including former home minister Anil Deshmukh. He had also said that Patil was the mastermind of the whole conspiracy of the cruise drugs case and is among the founder members of the NCP besides being closely associated with several NCP leaders for the past 20 years. Patil said that although he was associated with the NCP from 1999 to 2016, later he distanced himself from the party. He also said that he has never met NCP minister Nawab Malik, who has levelled several allegations against Wankhede.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Mental health of person cannot be compressed into one size fits all approach: SC||The mental health of a person cannot be compressed into a ''one size fits all' approach, the Supreme Court has said while setting aside an order of the Karnataka High Court which quashed criminal proceedings against a government official in a case of abetment of suicide. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said the observation of the high court that there is no material to corroborate the allegations made in the suicide note is erroneous. "The Single Judge, other than deciding on the merits of the case while exercising the power under Section 482 of the CrPC, has also made observations diminishing the importance of mental health. The mental health of a person cannot be compressed into a one size fits all approach," the bench said. The apex court said it is not a consideration for the high court while exercising its power under Section 482 of the CrPC, particularly in view of the fact that the trial has not begun. The top court said the Single Judge of the high court has termed a person who decided to commit suicide a 'weakling' and has also made observations on how the behavior of the deceased before he committed suicide was not that of a person who is depressed and suffering from mental health issues. "Behavioural scientists have initiated the discourse on the heterogeneity of every individual and have challenged the traditional notion of 'all humans behave alike'. Individual personality differences manifest as a variation in the behavior of people. Therefore, how an individual copes up with a threat- both physical and emotional, expressing (or refraining to express) love, loss, sorrow and happiness, varies greatly in view of the multi-faceted nature of the human mind and emotions. Thus, the observations describing the manner in which a depressed person ought to have behaved deeply diminishes the gravity of mental health issues," the bench in its recent judgement said. The top court's judgement came on an appeal filed by Karnataka against the high court decision to quash a case of abetment of suicide against a government officer. The government officer's driver died by suicide and left a note in which referred to the illegal activities of the accused in amassing wealth in excess of Rs. 100 crores, converting black money into white and transferring funds from the bank account of the deceased through his mobile to the accounts of the relatives of the accused. The bench said that the high court by its order has prevented the completion of the investigation in the complaint pending on the file of the IInd Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division) and JMFC Court, Maddur, Mandya District. "The alleged suicide is of a person who was working as a driver of a Special Land Acquisition Officer, who is a public servant and against whom serious and grave allegations of amassing wealth disproportionate to the known sources of income were made by the deceased. "The suicide note contains a detailed account of the role of the accused in the events which led to the deceased committing suicide. These are matters of investigation and possibly trial," the apex court said. The top court said the high court stalled the investigation by granting an interim order of stay. If the investigation had been allowed to proceed, there would have been a revelation of material facts which would aid in the trial against the accused, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Tripura police warns people not to like unverified social media posts over recent violence||In the wake of a brouhaha over Tripura Police's action of booking 102 people, including Supreme Court lawyers, rights activists and journalists, the state police on Sunday asked people to not believe unverified posts on social media and warned them to not like or re-tweet them as it amounts to rumour mongering. Tripura police also said through its official twitter post that it is investigating cases of recent communal incidents in a complete(ly) impartial and lawful manner . The state police which has been facing flak from opposition parties, rights organisations and the Editors Guild for its action, said cases have been registered against some posts, persons for committing various offences. Earlier in the day, opposition Congress demanded withdrawal of cases against those who have been booked for allegedly trying to "spread communal disharmony". Tripura Pradesh Congress chief Birajit Sinha told PTI, “The mosque at Panisagar was attacked by activists of VHP and houses of minority communities were vandalised by them... they should be arrested first. I do not think the lawyers, who visited the state, came with any bad intentions and did not spread any communal hatred. Government should immediately withdraw charges against them.” The Editors Guild of India (EGI) too condemned the Tripura Police's action under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and said the government cannot use such stringent laws to suppress reporting on communal violence incidents. The Guild, in a statement, said it was deeply shocked at the police's action against journalists and said it was an attempt by the Tripura government to deflect attention away from its own failure to control majoritarian violence. Tripura Police on Saturday booked 102 social media account holders under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), criminal conspiracy and forgery charges and served notices to the authorities of Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and inform all particulars of those persons to it. This action came after Tripura Police registered a case against four Supreme Court lawyers under the stringent act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly promoting communal disharmony with their social media posts on the recent violence in the state targeting Muslims. The EGI said, “The Editors Guild of India is deeply shocked by the Tripura Police's action of booking 102 people, including journalists, under the coercive Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for reporting and writing on the recent communal violence in the state.” The Guild said one of the journalists, Shyam Meera Singh, has alleged that he has been booked under the UAPA for merely tweeting ‘Tripura is burning’. Tripura's Inspector General of Police (IG), Law and Order, Arindam Nath however said, altogether complaints were lodged, the police would like to clarify that filing FIR does not mean "they are guilty." “If those people have not said anything false or had no intention of spreading communal hatred or hatching any conspiracy, they should appear before police and clarify their position,” Nath said. He at the same time added that it had to come to the police force's notice that many netizens even used fake identities and tried to spread communal hatred and police had rightly taken initiative to identify and book them under law. We have served notices to Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and inform us of all particulars of those persons to it , Nath said. Notices were served on Estesham Hashmi, Supreme Court lawyer, advocate Amit Srivastav, coodinator of Lawyers for Democracy, NCHRO national secretary Ansar Indori and PUCL member Mukesh Kumar who had visited Tripura as part of a fact finding team. In the notice to the lawyers, the police had asked them to delete the social media posts and appear before investigators by November 10. A mosque was vandalised and two shops were set ablaze at Chamtilla during the October 26 Vishva Hindu Parishad rally, which was called to protest against the communal violence in neighbouring Bangladesh. Three houses and a few shops, reportedly owned by Muslims, were also ransacked in nearby Rowa Bazar, the police said. The state government had on October 29 alleged that a group from outside with vested interests had hatched a conspiracy against the administration to create unrest in Tripura and malign its image by uploading fake photographs of a burning mosque on social media after the October 26 incident. Tripura Minister for Information and Culture, Sushanta Chowdhury on Saturday said, A group from outside with vested interests had hatched a conspiracy against the administration to create unrest in Tripura and malign its image by uploading fake photographs of a burning mosque on social media. BJP spokesperson, Nabendu Bhattacharya added, “In the aftermath of attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga puja, a vested interest group was active to create communal disturbances in Tripura and in such a situation police cannot remain idle and so they started investigation. I am sure right to freedom of speech and expression was not infringed anyway.” The Tripura Human Rights Organisation (THRO) however criticized the state government for serving notices to the Supreme Court advocates and stated that it was a move to silence the voice of democratic rights. “The state government's action is highly condemnable. Those who perpetrated the violence are roaming freely, while the lawyers, who are also members of rights bodies who were trying to restore normalcy by bringing facts to light, were booked under stringent acts. It is not acceptable,” THRO said. The opposition CPI(M) in a statement said, “After the attack on minorities in Bangladesh a group of people tried to foment communal tensions in different parts of the state.” “When some lawyers visited the state as fact finders, cases were registered against them, this is an act of intolerance. If they had done any illegal activity then normal law was enough to take actions against them, but applying such stringent acts (as the UAPA) against them is an instance of intolerance,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Chennai rains: Stalin directs authorities to expedite relief work||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday directed officials to expedite rescue and relief work in the wake of heavy rainfall in Chennai and several parts of the state during the last 24 hours. According to an official release, as many as 36 districts received heavy rainfall, of which the state capital recorded the highest amount of 134.29 mm, while Ariyalur saw the least with 0.20 mm in the last 24 hours.  Taking stock of the situation, Stalin monitored relief operations in places inundated during the rain, reminiscing the 2015 deluge. He visited Kolathur, Perambur, Purasaiwalkam, Kosappet, Otteri and distributed food and relief materials to affected people accommodated in a school nearby.  Directing authorities to 'swiftly' engage in relief work, Stalin asked the officials of local administration, revenue and public welfare departments to take steps to ensure that there was no water logging and evacuate people living in low lying areas. Instructions were also given to adhere to Covid-19 norms strictly in relief camps.  Following the incessant rainfall, the government declared holidays for schools and colleges in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet districts on November 8 and 9. The chief minister also appealed to people, who had travelled to their native place from Chennai to celebrate Deepavali, to postpone their travel to the state capital by three days in view of the incessant rains.  A 24-hr toll free number 1070, has been set up to receive rain related complaints in the city. With the onset of North East monsoon, Stalin said the rain received in the state was 334.64 mm between October 1 and November 7, which was 44 per cent more than the normal rainfall received during the season.  Districts like Coimbatore, Tirunelveli, Tiruvarur, Villupuram, Erode, Karur, Cuddalore, Pudukottai, Perambalur received more than 60 per cent of normal rainfall, and 5,106 relief camps have been set up in the districts, he noted. The Greater Chennai Corporation has set up 160 relief camps in the city and senior officials have been nominated to oversee rain relief work.  Four teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been despatched to Madurai, Chengalpet, Tiruvallur to assist in rescue work while SDRF teams have been sent to Thanjavur and Cuddalore districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Maha fisherman killed allegedly in firing by Pak maritime security off Gujarat coast: Police||A fisherman from Maharashtra was killed and a crew member of his boat injured in firing by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) personnel near international maritime boundary line in the Arabian sea off Gujarat coast, a police official said on Sunday.  The incident occurred around 4 pm on Saturday, he said.  "A fisherman from Maharashtra, who was on a fishing boat 'Jalpari,' was killed after the PMSA personnel opened fire on him and other crew members on Saturday evening," Devbhumi Dwarka Superintendent of Police Sunil Joshi said.  There were a total of seven crew members on the boat, he said, adding that one of them alo sustained a minor injury in the firing incident.  The body of the deceased fisherman, Sridhar Ramesh Chamre (32), was brought to Okha port on Sunday and an FIR was being registered by the Porbandar district's Navi Bandar police, which has jurisdiction across Gujarat over any incident that occurs beyond 12 nautical miles in the Arabian sea, he added.  "Chamre was on the fishing boat 'Jalpari', which had sailed from Okha on October 25 with seven crew members, five of whom from Gujarat and two from Maharashtra," Joshi said.  The fishing boat was registered at Veraval in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat, he said.  Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on Chamre's native Vadrai village in Palghar district of Maharashtra, after the local residents learnt about his death.  Chamre was in the cabin of the boat when he was hit by bullets, said Jayantibhai Rathod, the owner of the fishing boat.  "Three bullets hit him on the chest, following which he died. The captain of the boat was also injured in the indiscriminate firing by the Pakistani personnel," Rathod told some media persons after being contacted.  The deceased had been working on the fishing boat since the last three months at Diu Daman, he added.  Chamre's body is likely to reach Vadrai village in a couple of days, he said.  Meanwhile, the residents of Vadrai said that if at all the boat had entered the Pakistan waters, the crew members could have been held captive by the neighbouring country instead of being fired upon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||BJP isn't run by a family but by a culture of public welfare: Narendra Modi takes swipes at Congress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, taking a jibe at the Congress, said that the BJP is not a family-based party, it isn't run by a family but by a culture of public welfare. Addressing party workers at the valedictory session of the BJP's national executive meeting here, he also urged party members to become a bridge of faith between the party and the common man and expressed confidence that the BJP will win the trust of people in the upcoming assembly polls.  Modi also stressed that the BJP runs on the values of "Sewa, Sanklap aur Samparan (service, resolution and commitment)" and "does not revolve around a family," party national general secretary and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said quoting the Prime Minister.  Chief ministers and BJP presidents of four poll-bound states - Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur - gave a presentation on upcoming assembly elections at the meeting, Yadav told reporters. A similar presentation was given by BJP's Punjab unit president, he said. "In his address, Prime Minister Modi gave a mantra to the party workers that they should become a bridge of faith between the common man and the party, while referring to the party's history as it has always been associated with the issues close to the common man of the country," Yadav said.  Referring to the welfare work done by BJP workers during the COVID-19 pandemic, Modi said the ruling party focused on serving the people. Talking about the presentations on poll-bound states, Modi expressed confidence that the party will win the people's trust as it has been moving forward by taking up issues close to the people. Modi also spoke about a new initiative of Kamal Pushap launched on the Namo App for paying tributes to all party workers who devoted their entire life to the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal endorses soft Hindutva at Panaji||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he visits temples because he is a Hindu and no one should have objections on it. The Aam Aadmi Party national convener, who arrived here on a two-day visit, was replying to a query on whether he was indulging in "soft Hindutva" by visiting temples. “Do you go to the temple? I also go to the temple. There is nothing wrong in going to the temple. You feel peaceful when you visit it. What is their (those alleging soft Hindutva) objection? Why there should be any objection?. I am going to a temple because I am a Hindu. My wife visits the Gaurishankar temple,” Kejriwal said. Queried about Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's statement that the AAP was copying the coastal state's schemes like sponsoring pilgrimages, Kejriwal claimed the former was actually copying his party. “I want to say Pramod Sawant is copying us. When I said we will give electricity free, he gave water free. When I said we will provide employment allowance, he announced about 10,000 jobs, and when I spoke about pilgrimages, he announced his scheme, Kejriwal said. The Delhi chief minister, during his visit, met members of the Bhandari community, and also inducted labour unionist and mining stir leader Puti Gaonkar into the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||SC to hear Lakhimpur Kheri violence matter on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the matter related to the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violence during a farmers' protest.  A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli would hear the matter in which the apex court had on October 26 directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018.  The top court had also asked the Uttar Pradesh government to record the statements of other witnesses before the judicial magistrate under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and expedite the examination of digital evidence by experts.  Statements under section 164 of the CrPC are recorded before a judicial magistrate and they have evidentiary value.  The bench had sought a status report from the state government on the alleged lynching of a journalist and one Shyam Sundar by the mob, after a vehicle mowed down four protesting farmers. The top court is hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri matter after two lawyers had written to the CJI seeking a high-level judicial inquiry, also involving the CBI, into the incident.  The counsel appearing for the state government had told the apex court on October 26 that out of 68 witnesses, the statements of 30 witnesses have been recorded under section 164 of the CrPC and some more testimonies will be recorded.  "Of these 30 witnesses, 23 claim to be eye-witnesses. A lot of witnesses are formal witnesses of recovery and all," the state's counsel had told the bench, adding that 16 accused have been identified so far. The police have so far arrested several accused, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, in connection with the case.  Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence.  Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November.  The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab but later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
07-11-2021||India||Faizabad Jn now Ayodhya Cantt: Mixed reactions from historians, locals on renaming||Old signboards at platforms painted over, trilingual signages on top of the station's facade summarily removed and a banner bearing its new nomenclature 'Ayodhya Cantt' casually hung on its porch front - Faizabad Junction is in a state of transition.  The recent move of authorities to rename the 19th century station, three years after Faizabad district was rechristened to Ayodhya, however, has drawn a mixed response from historians and local residents, many of whom feel it will "erase the identity of this historic city" and "create confusion." Another section, though, welcomed the Uttar Pradesh government's decision, with some saying the name 'Ayodhya' should be used everywhere in public places as "it is Bhagwan Ram ki nagari (city of Lord Ram)".  Sadhu Ram, 55, a rickshaw-puller, who usually parks his vehicle in front of the iconic station building, said, "The change of name was not necessary. There is already an Ayodhya station. Passengers will face confusion now." Ram, who moved to Faizabad from Jalalabad in Shahjahanpur district when he was 12, said he was now in two minds - whether to call it "Faizabad" or "Ayodhya Cantt" while ferrying his passengers.  Rajesh Kumar, 30, who has been working as a coolie at the Faizabad Junction since 2008, is equally perplexed after the renaming of the station that is said to have been opened in 1874. He showed the engraving on his brass badge: 'Licenced Porter N.R. 77 Faizabad' and then pointed towards the temporary banner at the station's porch which carries the new name 'Ayodhya Cantt' in bold black fonts and in four languages - Hindi, Sanskrit, English and Urdu.  "It will create a lot of confusion as there is Ayodhya City station already, about 10 km from here. Passengers coming to Faizabad or Ayodhya for the first time may end up getting down at the wrong destination," he said. Faizabad city is located about seven km from its twin town Ayodhya in Ayodhya district (earlier Faizabad district) and the Faizabad station is a major railway junction, which comes under the Northern Railway zone and falls in the Lucknow-Varanasi section. Ayodhya town is located about 120 km from state capital Lucknow.  The trilingual signages - English, Hindi and Urdu which earlier stood on top of the station building's facade were removed recently after railway authorities issued an order on its renaming. On the day of Diwali, old station signboards were also painted over, replacing 'Faizabad Junction' (station code FD) with 'Ayodhya Cantt' (station code AYC). Posters have been put up by authorities on walls of the station premises, including at the enquiry counter, with a message in Hindi: 'The public is hereby informed that from today, 02-11-2021 onwards, the name of Faizabad Jn station has been changed to Ayodhya Cantt'.  A semi-circular poster fitted over the exit arch at platform 1 of the station carries an image of Lord Ram and a model of the proposed Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. However, railway time tables on display and train coaches' labels still carry the 'Faizabad' name, contrasting with its new moniker 'Ayodhya Cantt' on station signboards. Also, a signage by Uttar Pradesh tourism outside station premises still carries the old name of the station, so does the welcome gate of the junction on the street outside.  Ankit Pandey, 25, a tourist guide based in Ayodhya town, who takes pilgrims to Ramjanmabhoomi site, Hanuman Garhi and Kanak Bhawan in the temple town, said, "Renaming was necessary. Faizabad name cannot remain as the entire district is Ayodhya now, and Ayodhya is Prabhu Shri Ram ki Nagari." While the opposition has dubbed the move as an attempt to play with Hindu sentiments for political benefits, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has justified the renaming, saying it is part of the efforts to "restore the rich historical and cultural identity" of the place.  Manzar Mehdi, historian and editor of a Faizabad-based bilingual publication Aap ki Taqat, which promotes communal harmony with the slogan 'Hindu-Muslim do bhai, Hindi-Urdu do behen', feels dejected over the renaming. He alleged it was all "driven by dirty politics" and an "attempt to erase the very identity of Faizabad".  Mehdi, however, points out that many shops, government offices and other establishments in Chowk continue to use the old name 'Faizabad' on their boards or 'Faizabad, Ayodhya' referring to both the old city name and the new district name. "Faizabad was the first capital of the Nawabs of Awadh, saw a period of glory and has a rich architectural and literary heritage. I revere Ayodhya as a holy place, but my Faizabad has its own identity. Faizabad will neither be erased or replaced from my office board as long as I am alive," he said. The BJP government had also renamed Allahabad as Prayagraj and Mughalsarai Railway Junction to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction in 2018. Mehdi fears that more cities with Islamic names in Uttar Pradesh might get renamed.  Delhi-based historian and author Rana Safvi said Ayodhya and Faizabad have always been known as twin towns and are a symbol of India's "Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb (syncretic culture)". "It's not that Ayodhya was the old name of Faizabad. These are two different cities with different cultures and have co-existed for centuries. Now, they don't want that co-existence. They can change names of a place or a station but I feel Faizabad has been etched in the hearts of the people," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||India at COP26 says its solar energy capacity increased 17 times in seven years; now at 45 GW||India on Sunday told the UN climate summit here that its solar energy capacity stands at about 45 gigawatts after it increased 17 times in the last seven years, asserting that although the country represents 17 per cent of the global population, its historical cumulative emissions are only 4 per cent. India said this while giving a presentation on its third Biennial Update Report (BUR) during the 11th Facilitative Sharing of Views (FSV) at the ongoing COP26 climate summit here. The BUR was submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in February.  The key highlight of the discussion on India's third BUR was the achievement of 24 per cent reduction in emission intensity of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over the period of 2005-2014, and the significant increase of its solar programme.  Making a statement on behalf of India, J R Bhatt, Adviser/Scientist in the Ministry of Environment, highlighted that India represents 17 per cent of the global population but its historical cumulative emissions are only 4 per cent, while current annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are only about 5 per cent.  This is complemented by the fact that India is particularly vulnerable to climate change. However, India is nevertheless taking several mitigation actions, spanning across the entire economy and society and has progressively continued decoupling of its economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions, said Bhatt.  In the last seven years, India's installed solar energy capacity has increased 17 times, he said, adding that the solar energy capacity now stands at about 45 gigawatts.  All the Parties commended India's efforts on the BUR and its climate actions, including recent announcements of new measures.  There were questions about India's multilateral efforts to combat climate change, including the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI).  India responded by saying that disaster risk is increasing in developing countries, and this is a step to enhance international cooperation which is much needed in the current times.  On the question of an increase in forest cover, India responded that people's participation has played an important role in enhancing its forest cover, and that its forests provide all the four ecosystem services.  India highlighted that it speaks on climate change from a position of strength and responsibility.  India's 15 per cent of total carbon dioxide emission in 2016 was removed from the atmosphere by the LULUCF (Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry).  Between 2015 and 2019, the forest and tree cover increased by 13,031 square kilometer and mangrove cover increased by 235 square kilometer. Populations of Asiatic lion, elephant, rhino increased manifold in the last 5 to 6 years, according to India's statement. We emphasise that India is particularly vulnerable to climate change, a point which many friends overlook in their eagerness to understand our mitigation efforts.  To follow a sustainable path to development, India has taken several mitigation actions. There is no sector that has been left untouched while planning and implementing climate mitigation actions. They span across the entire economy and society, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||Russia not allowing family to bring home Indian national's dead body, alleges Congress leader||The Russian authorities are not allowing a Rajasthan family to bring home the body of a 45-year-old Indian man who died in that country in July, a Congress leader alleged on Sunday. According to Charmesh Sharma from Bundi, Hitendra Garassia, a resident of Godwa village in Udaipur, had gone to Russia in April this year through a travel agent for employment. On September 17, the passport office in Jaipur on an input from the Indian embassy in Russia informed Garassia's family that he had died in that country and the police there recovered his body on July 17, he said. Sharma claimed the authorities in Russia said once the investigation into the death is completed, the body could be handed over to them but they can perform a burial in Russia itself. He claimed the authorities refused to grant permission to cremate the body or take it out of Russia. He said he had also sent an online complaint to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar over the matter. There was no immediate comment from the Ministry of External Affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||Has Union government privatised prisons, central probe agencies, asks Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday took a swipe at the BJP, wondering if the Union government has privatised prisons and central probe agencies.  Speaking to reporters here, Raut said every day BJP leaders, who recently joined the party and had "no connection with the party ideology", were threatening to put political rivals in jail. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is privatising all public and government assets. Have prisons and central probe agencies been privatised? Are prisons your private property?" the Rajya Sabha member sought to know.  Notably, former Maharashtra home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in the state, was earlier this month arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case.  Maharashtra Transport Minister and Shiv Sena MLA Anil Parab had earlier appeared before the ED in connection with a money laundering case registered against Deshmukh and others. The Income Tax department last month raided some businesses linked to family members of state Deputy Chief Minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar.  The ED recently summoned Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali in another money laundering case. The agency had arrested her aide Saeed Khan in this criminal case filed under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||ITBP deploys own engineering wing to construct roads, foot tracks along Indo-China border||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has taken a first-time decision to deploy its specialised engineering wing for constructing certain roads and foot tracks along the Line of Actual Control to speed up connectivity projects with its posts in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh.  The move, which was approved by the Union home ministry, comes amid a military standoff with China in the eastern Ladakh area.  Official sources told PTI that the border force, ITBP, has taken up the "challenge" to construct four out of the 32 roads under phase-II of the Indo-China Border Roads project and two out of the total 18 foot tracks sanctioned to it by the government.  They said the roads of varying lengths of about one to two kilometres, connecting ITBP border posts in the Himalayan ranges, are in the Ladakh region's 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China while the foot tracks, which are used by troops during patrols, are in the Arunachal Pradesh area.  The engineers and supervisors of the ITBP wing will "plan and monitor" the entire work, and a ground force comprising labourers and masons will be hired according to government norms, sources said.  Traditionally, road construction projects along these areas are carried out by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and other such agencies.  Officials said the engineering wing of the force, an essential component of the ITBP since its raising in 1962, has been roped in for the task in order to speed up the border posts connectivity work.  In these high-altitude and remote areas, getting contractors and construction workers is not that easy and hence, the work of border road construction remains slow, an officer explained.  The government has stressed on the need to ensure connectivity through roads so that rations, transportation of troops and other logistics along the LAC can be easily moved. Therefore, this maiden attempt of engaging the ITBP engineering wing has been made, he said.  The ITBP engineering wing, restructured over the years, is tasked to "take care of the construction of operational structures, including border outposts, residential and office buildings, solar lightings, power units and water heating systems, improvised micro-hydel power projects and green houses in snow-clad border areas apart from devising strategic defences around a border post."  Currently, the government has initiated the phase-II of the Indo-China Border Roads (ICBR) project that covers several roads, foot tracks and border posts.  The first phase of ICBR was launched in 2005 under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and work on a number of roads, helipads and troop bases of this period is underway.  According to official data, 538.50 kilometres of road have been laid along the China border till November last year. Union Minister of State for Home affairs Nityanand Rai had recently said during the 60th ITBP raising day on October 24 that the process to sanction new border battalions for the ITBP is in the "last stages".  He was referring to the last year central government sanction of 47 new border posts and a dozen staging camps (operational bases for troops undertaking border patrol) to the mountain-warfare trained paramilitary force.  The about 90,000 personnel-strong ITBP was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not: Navjot Singh Sidhu hits back at Advocate General||A day after Punjab Advocate General A P S Deol accused Navjot Singh Sidhu of spreading misinformation and obstructing him, the state Congress chief on Sunday hit back, alleging that the AG's "earnest inaction" was subverting justice in the sacrilege and drug cases.  The advocate general had on Saturday accused Sidhu of obstructing the functioning of the state government and his office, and "spreading misinformation to gain political advantage".  In a series of tweets on Sunday, Sidhu lambasted Deol, saying "justice is blind but the people of Punjab are not".  "Mr. AG-PUNJAB, Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came in power with a promise to give justice in Sacrilege Cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our Govt," he said.  "Today, you are representing the same Government of same political party in power and accusing me of spreading misinformation, whereas, I am fighting for justice in Sacrilege cases and you were procuring blanket bails for the accused persons," Sidhu said in another tweet.  The Punjab Congress chief has been opposing Deol's appointment as the state advocate general. Deol had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 post-sacrilege police firing incidents.  "A person of character does the right thing for right reason with right motive. Your earnest inaction is clearly subverting justice rather than ensuring it," Sidhu alleged.  In another tweet, Sidhu alleged that Deol had prayed for transferring the investigation to the CBI as "you were afraid of their false implication in sacrilege cases on accounts of malafide, malice and ulterior motives on the part of political party in power in the state of Punjab".  "May I know which interest (vested or otherwise) were you acting for when you appeared for the main conspirators and procured blanket bail for them and which interest, you are acting now," he asked.  A month after announcing his resignation as the state Congress chief, Sidhu withdrew it on Friday. However, he said he would re-assume charge only after the state government replaced the advocate general.  "Are you acting at the behest of those who appointed you in this constitutional office and fulfilling their political gains," Sidhu said on Sunday, targeting Deol, who is considered Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's choice for the post of the AG.  "Did you advise the government to challenge the blanket bail order procured by you or any other adverse order in sacrilege cases in Supreme Court," he asked.  "You appeared for the accused, now representing the State and very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case. Being the highest law officer, your focus is on politics and political gains, Sidhu hit out at Deol.  He further asked Deol to leave politics to the politicians and focus on your personal conscience, integrity and professional ethics, which your job requires .  Pointing at the STF report in the drug cases, Sidhu said, "In the hearing of Drugs case in High Court on 05.10.2021, upon being asked that what is stopping Govt. for taking action on the basis of STF Report filed in High Court, you replied that 'It would be ethically wrong to proceed in the matter without the Court's Nod'."  On Friday, Sidhu had questioned the Channi-led state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in the cases of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and drug trafficking.  "May I know what is unethical in proceeding against the accused persons on the basis of STF Report who are responsible for narcotics-terrorism in Punjab and has put India's most prosperous state in danger of losing an entire generation to drug abuse," he asked.  "Did Hon'ble High Court stop you? Hon'ble High Court itself gave a copy of the STF report to our Government for consideration and you are shielding the inaction of the Government under the guise of your own unknown Ethics," Sidhu said.  "I believe that Ethics is about the way things ought to be, not about the way things are. Ethical people often do more than law requires and less than it allows. When it comes to ethics, motive is very important," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||Punjab government reduces petrol and diesel prices by Rs 10 and Rs 5||Days after the Centre reduced excise duty on fuel, the Congress-led government in Punjab on Sunday lowered the VAT on petrol and diesel making them cheaper by Rs 10 per litre and Rs 5 per litre in the state.  The new rates will be effective from midnight.  Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi made the announcement while addressing the media after the cabinet meeting.  "We are reducing petrol rate by Rs 10 per litre and diesel rate by Rs 5 per litre from midnight," said Channi.  Currently, the petrol and diesel rates in Punjab are Rs 106.20 and Rs 89.83 per litre respectively.  The Shiromani Akali Dal, Bharatiya Janata Party and the Aam Aadmi Party had been demanding the state government to reduce tax on fuel to provide relief to consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||Repeal farm laws, relieve farmers: Mayawati tells Centre||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday sought to know why the people should believe in BJP's slogan of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas' when the government has failed to win the faith of the protesting farmers. "The BJP says 'sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas'. But, how can people believe this 'jumlaa' (rhetoric) when the country's farmers have been so fiercely protesting against the three farm laws for such a long time and are agitated," she tweeted in Hindi.  In another tweet, the BSP supremo said she expects the government to repeal the three contentious farm laws and relieve the farmers as a Diwali gift akin to how it reduced the excise duty on petrol and diesel after three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||30 policemen injured after inmates resort to arson in UP jail||Around 30 policemen and six prisoners were injured on Sunday when they hurled stones at the security personnel and started a fire at the district jail here over the death of an inmate, officials said. According to jail officials, the inmates started pelting stones at the policemen as news of the death of a prisoner due to dengue in Saifai Medical College surfaced.  The prisoners also resorted to arson following which a fire brigade was called. Heavy police force was also deployed to control the situation, they said. Superintendent of Police Ashok Kumar Meena said 30 policemen were injured in the stone pelting incident, but the situation is now under control.  He said deputy jailor was also among those injured. Meanwhile, District Magistrate Sanjay Kumar Singh said the guilty will be punished after the incident is probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||BJP's best yet to come; very few parallels to party's growth in Bengal: Nadda in executive meeting ||Setting the tone for upcoming assembly elections in five states, BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday set targets to further strengthen the party's organisation and asserted that its best is yet to come. Addressing the party's national executive, on BJP's growth in West Bengal, Nadda said if one looks at its growth in the state from the political science perspective, then there will be very few parallels of it in Indian political history. According to Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Nadda said that if one looks at the BJP's vote share in the 2014 assembly elections and the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal, and compares them with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2021 assembly polls, it shows substantial growth of the BJP in the state. Nadda also reached out to Sikhs, who are in majority in poll-bound Punjab, by listing a number of measures the Modi government has taken for the community, including expediting action against 1984 riots accused, facilitating foreign grants to gurudwaras and keeping langars outside the review of the Goods and Services Tax.  Briefing reporters about the meeting, Pradhan said the executive hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's effective leadership during the Covid pandemic, 100 crore vaccinations and providing free food grains to 80 crore poor people. He said that Nadda noted that this is the largest food programme in human history.  Setting new organisation targets for the BJP's expansion, Nadda said the party will constitute booth level committees at all 10.40 lakh polling stations by December 25 this year and have "panna committees", in reference to each page of voters' list by April 6.  Citing the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, Pradhan said the executive lauded Modi for his foresight of enacting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which aims at providing citizenship to minorities in some neighbouring countries, including Pakistan and Afghanistan.  Following Nadda's speech, the chief minister of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, tabled the BJP's resolution, touching various landmark initiatives taken by the Modi government. Sharing the details of the resolution, Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the resolution specifically mentions that "we shall ensure the party's victory in upcoming assembly elections".  There is positive, energetic and unconditional support from the national executive to ensure the party's victory in upcoming assembly elections, she said.  The resolution condemned the opposition's "opportunistic" politics and its attempts to create fear during the pandemic. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh read out the condolence resolution.  Prime Minister Modi will address the valedictory session of the meet. The BJP's national executive meeting, which should be normally held once in three months according to the party's constitution, is being held for the first time since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year.  The party's national office-bearers, its national executive members from the national capital and Union ministers will be physically present in the meeting, while the chief ministers of states where the party is in power and national executive members from these states will virtually attend the meeting.  At the NDMC Convention Centre, the meeting venue, musicians from across the country played traditional instruments to greet those attending the meet. Prime Minister Modi while entering the venue met women, who in their traditional Chhath attire and singing songs praising the Sun god, performed puja and rituals.  Chhath will be performed in many parts of the country, especially in eastern parts of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand on November 10 .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
07-11-2021||India||Bombay HC sends Anil Deshmukh in ED custody till November 12||The Bombay High Court on Sunday set aside a special court order remanding former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to judicial custody, and sent him in the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) custody till November 12 in a money laundering case.  The ED in its application said the special court, by remanding Deshmukh to judicial custody, had denied the agency sufficient and adequate opportunity to investigate a case that has "wide and serious ramifications" .  The agency said it could interrogate Deshmukh only for five days, of which two were holidays (Diwali).  The HC, while remanding Deshmukh in the agency's custody, observed that prime facie there was substance in the ED's application about the legality of special court's order.  A vacation bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing an application filed by the ED, challenging the special court's order of November 6 remanding Deshmukh to 14-day judicial custody on the ground that it was bad in law and against the principles of natural justice.  Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, told the court that based on the probe conducted so far, custodial interrogation was the need of the hour considering the allegation of collection of around Rs 100 crore has been made in the case.  The entire money trail is required to be established and the involvement of foreign angle cannot be ruled out at this stage, the agency said in its application.  Deshmukh's counsel Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam told the court that while they were opposing the plea on merits and maintainability, the NCP leader has consented and volunteered to be interrogated by the ED.  The ED in its application sought Deshmukh's custody for nine days, but his counsel Chaudhri told the court that they were agreeable only for four-day custody.  The HC observed that prime facie there was substance in the ED's application about the legality of special court's order.  Justice Jamdar said since Deshmukh's advocates have agreed to the ED's custody, it was not going in detail on the aspect of legality of the special court's order.  The HC then remanded Deshmukh to the ED's custody till November 12.  The ED in its application said the special court, by remanding Deshmukh to judicial custody, had denied the agency sufficient and adequate opportunity to investigate a case that has "wide and serious ramifications" and more so, when the probe is at a crucial stage.  The sessions judge (special court) ought to have appreciated that the investigation in cases of colossal frauds and money laundering, like the present one, cannot be expected to be completed within a short span of time, the application said.  A sufficient opportunity needs to be given to the investigating agency to probe the entire gamut of the case, so that it can collect sufficient quality evidence which will help to go to the root of the matter, it added.  The ED said it wants to now confront Deshmukh with dismissed cop Sachin Waze and others, including the NCP leader's family members like his sons Hrishikesh Deshmukh and Salil Deshmukh and his chartered accountant.  Deshmukh was arrested by the ED on November 1 after 12 hours of questioning in connection with the multi-crore money laundering case. He was produced before a special holiday court on November 2 which remanded him in the ED's custody till November 6.  When he was produced before the special court on Saturday, the ED had sought further custody, but the court refused and sent him to judicial custody.  The ED had earlier told the special court that Deshmukh was the "prime beneficiary" of proceeds of crime and directly involved in the offence of money laundering.  The central agency, in its remand note submitted to the special court, had said the NCP leader emerged as an "important cog in the wheels" in the case, in which there has been an allegation of collection of Rs 100 crore, and maintained the involvement of foreign angle cannot be ruled out.  It had also told the court that Deshmukh's custodial interrogation was the need of the hour in the interest of the ongoing investigation, and that the entire money trail requires to be established in order to bring the guilty to book.  The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed its FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position.  The case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.  Deshmukh had refuted these allegations earlier and said the agency's whole case was based on malicious statements made by a tainted cop (Waze).  The ED had earlier arrested two persons in the case Sanjeev Palande (additional collector rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant).  The agency earlier submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Centre places purchase order for one crore doses of Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid vaccine||Zydus Cadila's three-dose Covid vaccine ZyCoV-D is set to be included in the national anti-coronavirus inoculation programme this month with the Centre placing a purchase order with the Ahmedabad-based firm for one crore doses, official sources said on Sunday.  The Union Health Ministry is learnt to have given the go ahead to initiate the preparatory work for the introduction of the indigenously developed world's first DNA-based Covid jab, which in all probability will be given to adults initially under the country's vaccination drive, sources in the know of developments said.  ZyCoV-D is the first vaccine cleared by India's drug regulator for inoculation of those aged 12 years and above.  "The Centre has already placed a purchase order with Zydus Cadila for supply of one crore doses of ZyCoV-D, each costing around Rs 358 excluding taxes, at the earliest. This price includes the cost of a disposable painless jet applicator which has to be used for administering each dose," an official source said.  "The vaccine in all probability will be given to adults initially because of limited production capacity," the source said.  Zydus Cadila is in a position to provide one crore doses of ZyCoV-D per month, company officials are learnt to have conveyed to the ministry.  For administering to adults, frontline workers and vaccinators will be provided a brief training for using the needle-free pharma jet application in actual field settings.  The three doses of ZyCoV-D are to be administered 28 days apart, with each dose comprising a shot in both arms.  ZyCoV-D received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20.  Meanwhile, a comprehensive programme for paediatric immunisation including developing a priority list of comorbidities is being worked out by the NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) for the launch of ZyCoV-D and Covaxin.  As for the emergency use approval for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in the 2 to 18 years age group by the Drugs Controller General of India, it is under expert opinion and evaluation, official sources said.  The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on COVID-19 of the Central Drug Authority on October 12 had recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Covaxin for children and adolescents in the 2 to 18 years age group with certain conditions.  At present, every citizen who is 18 years or above is eligible for the vaccination drive. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Poll strategy in five states early next year high on agenda of BJP's national executive meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda are attending the party's national executive meeting, which is being held for the first time since the pandemic, reports NDTV. The main agenda is likely to be the election strategy in the five poll-bound states early next year. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. “PM Modi is expected to deliver a key address at the meeting, which is being attended by 124 national executive members. Several Chief Ministers and members from different states joined virtually," NDTV added. The party will also highlight its efforts to come to people's rescue during the pandemic. "In view of the ongoing COVID-19 protocols, all state presidents, state general secretaries (organisation) and national executive members of that respective state will attend the meeting virtually from their respective state party offices," the BJP said in a communication to all its state units. In his speech at the meeting, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan Minister, underlined the government's measures during the pandemic. "Along with a pandemic comes economic devastation and starvation, but strong decisions were taken by the Prime Minister at the right time," he said. He also emphasised that the economy was being revived because of apt decisions by Modi. On the pandemic, he said that 30 per cent of Indians are fully vaccinated and the country has touched 100 crore vaccines. " We had the largest food programme in the history of mankind," he added. The bypoll results in three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly seats in 13 states and a UT would definitey be a prerogative. The Congress victory in one Lok Sabha and three assembly seats in Himachal Pradesh ruled by the saffron party, has rattled the BJP. However, it was a winner in the northeast, bagging all nine seats and Madhya Pradesh. The party is also holding exhibitions about the government's Aatmanirbhar Bharat programmes and other pro-poor measures such as providing free grains to the poor and the Covid vaccination exercise, added PTI. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Permission to prosecute Hurriyat leader and eight others over sale of Pak medical seats in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir Police has moved the home department for granting sanction for prosecution against nine people, including a leader of a Hurriyat constituent and an advocate from South Kashmir, in a case related to "selling" of MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism, officials said on Sunday.  The case was registered by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK), a branch of the police's CID, in July last year after receiving information through reliable sources that several unscrupulous persons, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with some educational consultancies and were "selling" Pakistan-based MBBS seats and seats in other professional courses in many colleges and universities.  At least four people were arrested by the CIK in August and it also named two of their accomplices who are at present in Pakistan and its occupied Kashmir areas.  The CIK, after a thorough investigation, moved the Jammu and Kashmir home department and sought sanction for prosecution against the nine people under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), mandated according to the act.  According to the officials, more evidence has surfaced during the probe in which it was also found that the money gathered from admissions had been passed on to some terror groups as well as secessionist groups for promoting enmity and waging war against the country.  Significantly, the case could come in handy in carrying out with the provisions of banning hardline Hurriyat Conference as the chief of one of its constituents -- Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Bhat of the Salvation Front -- is among the nine against whom the sanction has been sought under the stringent UAPA.  Some of the witnesses examined have indicated that many families approached Hurriyat leaders to avail the "programme", a brainchild of Pakistan's external snooping agency ISI, aimed at incentivising terrorism by compensating the family of killed terrorists by way of providing free of cost MBBS and engineering seats, the officials said.  However, there have been instances where such families were disappointed as monetary consideration was given precedence over the intended objective of the "programme" run by the ISI, they said.  The officials said that cost of seats ranged between Rs 10 to Rs 12 lakhs and in "some cases, the price was brought down on 'sifarish' (recommendation) of senior Hurriyat leaders, and depending upon the political heft of these secessionist leader, who intervened, concessions were extended to the aspiring student and his family".  CIK sleuths cracked the whip in August and arrested Bhat and three others for "selling" MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism.  During the probe, it surfaced that MBBS and other professional degree related seats in many cases were preferentially given to those students who were close to family members or relatives of killed terrorists.  There were also cases where the quota allotted to individual Hurriyat leaders were sold to anxious parents who wished their children to have MBBS and other professional degrees in one way or the other.  More than 80 cases were studied in which either the students or their parents were examined for academic years between 2014-18.  Searches were undertaken in about a dozen premises in the Kashmir Valley.  The officials said that Bhat's brother Altaf Ahmad Bhat and another arrested person's brother Manzoor Ahmad Shah, were coordinating from across the border and facilitating the admissions.  The two, who have been named accused in the case, had exfiltrated to Pakistan during the early 1990s for arms and ammunition training and have settled down on the other side.  They played a key role on behalf of the ISI in facilitating matters pertaining to admissions under this category for this set of Hurriyat-linked persons in India as part of a nefarious design of pumping money into militancy and other terrorist related activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Four Maoist militia members surrender in Telangana||Four militia members, including two women, of the banned CPI (Maoist) surrendered before the police in Bhadradri Kothagudem district, cops said. The surrendering process went on smoothly without any trouble.   The four belonging to Cherla mandal, who were working as militia members for banned CPI (Maoist) Party for over one year, surrendered before police on Saturday, an official release said.  According to police, they were supplying essential commodities from the villagers and informing police movements to the Maoists party, and now surrendered to live peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Maha: Two killed after container truck hits tempo in Thane||The driver and cleaner of a tempo were killed after a container truck collided with their vehicle in Maharashtra's Thane district on Sunday morning, a civic official said. The accident took place around 5.40 am near Kharigaon on Mumbai-Nashik highway, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said.  The container truck coming from the opposite direction collided with the tempo, which was transporting chickens from Nashik to Mumbai. The tempo driver's cabin was completely damaged due to the impact of the collision and firemen had to use cutters to clear the wreckage and pull out the bodies, the official said.  The deceased were identified as tempo driver Salman Khan (34) and cleaner Phiroj Khan (32), he said. The bodies were sent to a government hospital for postmortem, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Three held for sexual assault on minor girl in Bantwal||Three youths have been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a minor girl in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district.  The youth, arrested by Bantwal rural police in two separate cases, have been identified as Rizwan, an autorickshaw driver, Mohammed Kasim and Ajmal Hussain, Dakshina Kannada superintendent of police Rishikesh Bhagawan Sonawane said.  The victim's mother on November 4 had complained to police accusing the auto driver of sexually assaulting the minor girl.  The police booked cases under various sections of the POCSO Act and arrested Rizwan, who was later remanded to judicial custody.  On November 5, the victim visited the police and alleged that two other youths who befriended her five months ago had sexually harassed her and later issued life threats. In a swift action, police arrested the two accused.  They have been charged under IPC sections 376 (d), 506, 34 and other sections of the POCSO Act, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||NCB's Sameer Wankhede was part of plot to 'kidnap' Aryan Khan, claims Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday alleged that NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede was part of a plot to "kidnap" actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan for ransom. Speaking to reporters here, Malik claimed BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya was the "mastermind" of the plot.  Aryan Khan was last month arrested following a raid led by Wankhede on a cruise ship from which drugs were allegedly seized. He was later granted bail by the Bombay High Court. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs raid as "fake" and levelled a series allegations against Wankhede. The minister on Sunday claimed Wankhede had met Bharatiya at a 'kabarastan' (graveyard) in suburban Oshiwara.  "But, because of his (Wankhede's) good luck, we couldn't get the footage since police's CCTV was not functioning. Hence, out of fear, Wankhede had lodged a false complaint that he was being stalked," Malik said. "The alleged cruise rave party was a plot to kidnap Aryan Khan for ransom, of which Mohit Bharatiya was the mastermind," the NCP leader alleged.  Accusing Wankhede of being involved in the plot, he claimed Bharatiya was a member of Wankhede's "private army". Malik appealed to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan to come forward and support his fight against injustice.  He accused Wankhede of creating fear among drug consumers while protecting peddlers and traffickers. He claimed the trap to kidnap Aryan Khan was laid through Rishabh Sachdeva, the brother-in-law of Bharatiya.  "Rs 25 crore were sought, and the deal was finalised at Rs 18 crore...Rs 50 lakh were given. The deal got spoilt because the selfie of K P Gosavi (NCB's witness in the cruise drugs case) with Aryan, after his arrest, became viral," he claimed.  The minister further said there have been attempts to frighten Shah Rukh Khan that since he "gave an amount of Rs 50 lakh", he too becomes an accused. "I appeal to him not to get scared. If your child is kidnapped and ransom is sought and the parent pays it, he is the victim and not the accused," Malik said.  Aryan Khan was taken to the cruise party by Pratik Gabba and Aamir Furniturewala, he claimed, adding that Sachdeva, Gabba and Furniturewala were let off by the NCB.  "Kashif Khan, an organiser of the cruise party, had tried hard to invite state minister Aslam Shaikh and children of our top ministers to come to the party," he claimed.  "Besides cases of Aryan Khan and Sameer Khan (Malik's son-in-law), all 26 cases (being probed by the NCB) should be given to the SIT for probe. If there is an attempt to scare me by putting my son-in-law's case for re-examination, let me be clear that I am not scared," the minister said.  Malik's son-in-law was arrested in January this year by the NCB in an alleged drugs case, and was granted bail in September.  The minister further said the real name of Sam D'Souza, whose whose name had cropped up in connection with the pay-off allegations in the cruise drugs case, was Samville, and he was called for interrogation by NCB official V V Singh in June this year.  "Why hasn't he been arrested yet?" Malik asked, without revealing the case details.  The NCB served him a notice in June. Singh also warned him against changing his phone handset, Malik said, referring to a telephonic conversation which he shared on his Twitter handle on Sunday.  Bharatiya a former general secretary of Mumbai BJP, on Saturday alleged that one Sunil Patil from Dhule, "who is closely associated with NCP leaders including former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh", is the mastermind of the cruise drug bust episode. However, Malik on Sunday claimed Sunil Patil did not belong to the NCP and he had never met him.  He also said the NCB had challenged the Gujarat government's forensic lab report which gave a clean chit to his son-in-law before an NDPS court in the alleged drugs case. Malik appealed to the NCB and the BJP not to "shield" tainted persons.  "My fight is not against the NCB or the BJP. It is against those indulging in wrongdoings. Please support me. I am also supporting eradication of the drugs menace," he said.  Malik also demanded that action be taken against NCB's "quartet" - Wankhede, V V Singh, Ashish Ranjan and Wankhede's driver Mane - claiming they were involved in "wrongdoings" in the NCB's zonal office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||India's longest drone flight conducted in Haryana for HPCL, claims robotics firm||A robotics and drone company has claimed that it has conducted the longest drone flight of 51 km in India to survey the pipeline of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) in Haryana.  Omnipresent Robot Technologies Founder and CEO Aakash Sinha told PTI that the 51 km-long flight of Omni-Hansa V5 took place on November 3.  "I believe the previous longest drone flight in India was of 42 km," he said. The entire flight -- from take off to landing -- was fully autonomous, which means it was on auto-pilot," he said.  "We had a tracker mechanism on the drone. We could track it over our 4G network with our tracker," he noted. "HPCL wants Omnipresent to extend the range of Omni Hansa V5 to 100-200 km," he said.  "Omni Hansa V5 can take off and land like a helicopter so it does not need a runway. However, once it is in air, it flies like a plane," Sinha stated.  "This drone is called hybrid fixed-wing VTOL (vertical take off and landing) drone," he explained.  "We successfully completed India's longest drone flight. We flew the drone for 51 km for one of our pipeline clients HPCL. It was a BVLOS (beyond visual line of sight) flight. This is a record in India," he claimed. He said the flight took place to survey the pipeline of HPCL that runs between Delhi and Haryana.  "It (pipeline) starts from Bahadurgarh (in Haryana)," he added. Officials of HPCL were also present during the flight demonstration," Sinha stated. The flight went up to the height of maximum 400 feet, as permitted by the rules of aviation regulator DGCA.  Sinha said Omnipresent has registered 100 per cent growth in last one year and it is expected to grow three to five times in the next 3-4 years. "The company aims to reach the target of Rs 1,000 crore revenue in the next four years," he added.  Currently, the company is also working with Indian e-commerce giants that want to deploy drones for delivering items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Ahmednagar hospital fire: Some Covid patients died of burns while some died due to smoke, say police||A day after a major fire at the ICU of a civil hospital in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district killed 11 people, it has emerged that some of the victims died due to smoke which engulfed the ward following the blaze, according to a police official.  The blaze erupted around 11 am on Saturday in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) ward where 17 COVID-19 patients, many of them senior citizens and some on ventilator or oxygen, were undergoing treatment at the hospital in Ahmednagar, located 120 km from Pune and 253 km from Mumbai.  The ward had been added to the hospital after the pandemic began, officials earlier said.  "Some patients died of burns, while some died due to the smoke. We are waiting for a detailed postmortem report. Further investigation in the case is on," Topkhana police station's assistant police inspector Juber Mujawar said on Sunday.  One of the deceased is yet to be identified, he said.  Late Saturday evening, a case was registered against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code Section 304 (A) (causing death by negligence), Ahmednagar district Superintendent of Police Manoj Patil.  A short circuit was suspected to be the cause of the blaze, though it was yet to be confirmed, chief fire officer of the city civic body Shankar Misal said.  According to the patients' relatives who normally waited in the corridor outside the ICU, they had been asked to step out as cleaning was going on. Many of them rushed back when they saw thick black smoke billowing from the ward and tried to rescue the patients.  As per district Collector Rajendra Bhosale, a fire audit had been carried out at the hospital. But according to Misal, after the audit, the work of installing necessary safety systems was incomplete due to "want of funds".  Most of those who died were aged between 65 and 83, according to hospital officials.  A probe committee headed by Misal will look into what led to the tragedy, the collector earlier said.  Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said an in-depth probe will be conducted by the district collector, according to a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office.  Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut ordered a detailed inquiry into the fire. The electricity department's inspection team had reached the hospital and will conduct a probe, he said.  In April this year, 15 COVID-19 patients had died in a blaze at the ICU of a private hospital in the state's Palghar district.  Another fire in March at Dreams Mall in Mumbai's Bhandup area, which housed a Covid-designated hospital, had claimed the lives of nine such patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
07-11-2021||India||Assam CM directs police to clear pending cases by March next year||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday directed police officers to clear all unsettled cases pending since March 2020 by March-end next year.  Reviewing the law and order situation with officials of Jorhat, Sivasagar and Charaideo districts in two meetings, the chief minister took strong note of unauthorised persons writing FIRs at police stations and said immediate steps be taken to make the police stations free from such middlemen or professional FIR writers.  Sarma also called for better coordination among Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, and Joint Director of Health Services of the districts to ensure that post mortem reports are filed within 72 hours of an incident.  He further directed officials to apply appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in each FIR.  The chief minister asked the officials to organise a conference to review crimes in the districts every month and intensify ongoing operations against drugs.  He also called for timely disposal of passport verification reports, besides ensuring that no poor people are harassed by the police.  The chief minister emphasised the need for regular police patrolling in sensitive areas of the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||Covid-19: India reports 10,853 new cases and 526 fatalities||India saw a single-day rise of 10,853 COVID-19 infections, which took the country's total tally of cases to 3,43,55,536, while active cases have declined to 1,44,845, the lowest in 260 days, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll has climbed to 4,60,791 with 526 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 30 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 133 consecutive days now, the ministry said.  The active cases have declined to 1,44,845, comprising 0.42 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 98.24 per cent, the highest since March last year, it said.  The data stated that a decrease of 2,105 cases has been recorded in active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours.  The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 34 days.  The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.28 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 44 days, according to the health ministry.  The number of people, who have recuperated from the disease, has increased to 3,37,49,900, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.34 per cent, the data stated.  The cumulative doses administered so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 108.21 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.  It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year.  India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.  The 526 new fatalities include 467 from Kerala, 14 from West Bengal and 10 each from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the ministry said.  Kerala has been reconciling data on COVID-19 deaths since the past few days, hence the death tally of the state is high.  It said 4,60,791 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,372 from Maharashtra, 38,107 from Karnataka, 36,214 from Tamil Nadu, 33,515 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,903 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,215 from West Bengal.  The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||Heavy rains lash Chennai, two reservoirs to be opened||Heavy rains lashed Chennai and its suburban areas overnight leading to all round water-logging and authorities on Sunday sounded a preliminary flood alert to people as three city reservoirs were opened in a phased manner to release surplus water.  Chief Minister M K Stalin inspected several inundated areas here along with top officials including Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu and directed authorities to take swift action to drain flood water.  Stalin, along with Cabinet colleagues distributed flood assistance, including rice, milk and blankets to people in affected areas, housed in a temporary shelter here.  Health Minister Ma Subramanian said Chennai experienced 20 cm rain in about 12 hours since last night. According to IMD data, the rainfall ranged between 10 CM and 23 CM in Chennai and its suburbs.  The Kamarajar Salai point (DGP Office on the Marina beachfront) near the Tamil Nadu Secretariat recorded the highest of 23 CM and suburban Ennore in north Chennai 10 cm.  Some of the suburban locations, including areas covered in nearby Tiruvallur district received between 3 CM (Poondi and RK Pet) and 9 CM (Cholavaram). The IMD has given a 'red' category warning, indicating heavy rains in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Puducherry on Sunday.  In view of increase in showers in catchment areas, surplus water was released from Poondi reservoir, which was raised in a phased manner up to 3,376 cusecs of water, the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority said in a tweet.  Similarly, Chembarambakkam and Puzhal reservoirs, two other important sources of drinking water to the Chennai city were opened to let out surplus rain water, water resources authorities here said adding the initial release -from both the facilities- was to the tune of about 500 cusecs.  Four teams of National Disaster Response Force have been deployed to assist in rescue operations in case of emergency. One team each in Chengalpet and Tiruvallur and two teams at Madurai are stationed for rescue operations, the TNSDMA said.  While most parts of the city and suburbs witnessed waterlogging, parts of several neighbourhoods in Saidapet, Velachery, Adambakkam, Madipakkam and West Mambalam experienced inundation up to about two to three feet. Several subways were filled with rainwater up to to several feet.  Rain water also entered several houses in such areas prompting residents to move out to safer locations. Electricity supply was disconnected to such areas as a precautionary measure.  Stalin, also the DMK president directed party office-bearers MPs, and MLAs to work in tandem with authorities to address the grievances of people in affected areas.  Sounding a preliminary flood alert, the state water resources authorities earlier advised district collectors of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur to evacuate people living in low-lying areas and house them in safe locations.  Inspecting inundated localities here, Subramanian said, "the present scenario is not like what was witnessed in 2015 in Chennai. CM Stalin has directed officials to monitor water level in reservoirs and take necessary steps according to the situation. Civic personnel are on the job to tackle the situation."  From Saturday morning, Chennai and several suburbs in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts witnessed intermittent rains and showers became non-stop since night that led to waterlogging in many areas inconveniencing people.  Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan and Principal Secretary / Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi were among the top officials who inspected several localities and also monitored draining water out from roads and residential areas.  In 2015, Chennai experienced a nightmarish flooding followed by heavy rainfall and also release of surplus water into the Adyar River from Chembarambakkam reservoir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||China clean chit tied to protect PM’s fake macho image: Congress ||The Congress on Saturday accused the Narendra Modi government of ignoring brazen border transgressions to give China a “clean chit” merely to protect the Prime Minister’s “fake macho image”. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera referred to a Pentagon report that suggests the Chinese have built a village inside Arunachal Pradesh. “The Prime Minister himself gave a clean chit to China. His words — nobody has intruded, none of our posts has been captured — spoken 17 months ago (relating to the eastern Ladakh frontier) were used by China to prove their innocence,” Khera said. “This has been done to protect the fake macho image of the Prime Minister, built since 2013.” Modi had made the assertion four days after the June 15, 2020, Galwan Valley clash. The Galwan clash had killed 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops. “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else,” the Prime Minister had said. This had allowed Beijing to dismiss the allegations of border transgressions and claim ownership of all the positions it held. “Now the first thing the Prime Minister should do is withdraw his clean chit after confirmation by Pentagon that China was encroaching upon our land,” Khera said. “Concrete structures have been made inside our territory. BJP MP Tapir Gao raised this issue but the Modi government issued a denial. Not just in Arunachal, the Chinese have transgressed in Ladakh and even Uttarakhand. The Prime Minister should apologise to the nation and say when status quo ante will be restored.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Compromise on nation’s sovereignty won’t be tolerated. Where is that 56 inch? Where is that red eye? Where are the pseudo-nationalists who do politics in the name of the nation? When will the Prime Minister give a befitting reply to the aggressor against our nation? Don’t be afraid, take decisive action.” The Congress has steadfastly raised the issue of the Chinese intrusion, with Rahul Gandhi repeatedly accusing Modi of cowardice. The party has been referring to Modi’s vaunted “56-inch” chest and his pre-2014 promise to show “red eyes” to China. Modi has refused to even name China since the intrusion, which began in April-May 2020, while periodically referring to the “surgical strikes” against Pakistan. He hasn’t withdrawn his “no intrusion” remark despite his government’s sustained engagement with Beijing to get Chinese troops to pull back from India-claimed territory. The Pentagon report — the annual US defence department report on military developments — cites the creation of a 100-home Chinese village in Arunachal. Some security analysts and Indian media reports had made such a claim earlier. “These and other infrastructure development efforts along the India-China border have been a source of consternation in the Indian government and media,” the Pentagon report has been quoted as saying. “Despite the ongoing diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce border tensions, China has continued taking incremental and tactical actions to press its claims at the LAC.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||Ayodhya: The poor collect mustard oil from diyas for cooking at homes||On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had praised the way the Uttar Pradesh government had marked Diwali in Ayodhya by lighting hundreds of thousands of diyas, saying “Ayodhya is getting back its glory”. On Saturday, a widely circulating video showed children collecting mustard oil from some of these diyas — presumably for cooking at their homes at a time mustard oil has gone beyond the poor’s reach — prompting several citizens to call it a “shame”. A retired Uttar Pradesh bureaucrat, who tweeted the video, said the Yogi Adityanath government had “mocked” the poor by lighting “12 lakh diyas” in Ayodhya during Diwali. “The government used 36,000 litres of mustard oil to light 12 lakh diyas. Thirty per cent people of this state don’t get roti every day. The government has mocked the state’s poor,” Surya Pratap Singh, who retired in 2015 as principal secretary, state education department, told reporters on Saturday. The video showed children picking up lamps at Har Ki Paudi on the Saryu’s banks in Ayodhya and pouring the oil into cans and pots that they had brought along. A strong wind had blown out most of the lamps; the children threw away the burning wicks of the rest with their bare hands. The price of mustard oil, used widely as cooking oil in Uttar Pradesh, has skyrocketed to between Rs 200 and Rs 265 a litre from Rs 70 a litre in 2017 when Adityanath became chief minister. Singh warned people against recklessly consuming the oil collected from the diyas, saying it may be adulterated given the levels of corruption in government. “This oil may be adulterated. I request (people) to consume it only after checking it. Who knows what level of corruption is involved in it (purchase of the oil)?” he said in a tweet. On the government extravagance behind the diyas in Ayodhya, he tweeted: “Half the (state’s) children don’t get milk and 30 per cent people don’t get roti twice a day.” The state government had organised a Diwali-eve celebration in Ayodhya on November 3 and lit 9 lakh diyas, with Adityanath inaugurating the programme. The government lit an unspecified number of diyas the next day. In Kedarnath on Friday, Modi had said: “The entire world saw the dipotsav (festival of lamps) in Ayodhya. We can imagine how our ancient culture would have been…. A magnificent Ram temple is under construction there and Ayodhya is getting back its glory.” A Twitter user, Sunil Kumar Bhartiya, called it a “shame” for the “Modi-Yogi government” that “poor children are collecting mustard oil till late night from diyas along the Saryu”. “When will you wake up, my countrymen, and remove the government?” he wrote. Sandeep Viz tweeted: “Had Yogiji given half a litre of oil to each poor family in Ayodhya, they would have been cooking nice food at home on Diwali and blessing you (Adityanath). Otherwise, too, the government has broken the poor by selling mustard oil at Rs 265 a litre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||Tripura shows how to stand up against bigotry||A joint fact-finding team of four Muslim organisations on Saturday said Hindus and Muslims in Tripura provided an example of how to stand up to bigotry by neither getting swayed by the narrative of the VHP and the Bajrang Dal nor being provoked into retaliation over the recent targeted attacks on mosques. The team had visited the violence-affected areas of Tripura earlier this week. Briefing journalists here after returning from Tripura, the office-bearers of the four organisations were all praise for the residents of the affected areas for maintaining peace and amity in the face of repeated efforts by the VHP to spread hate and provoke Muslims into retaliation. The delegation conceded that the VHP and the Bajrang Dal would not have been able to identify the Muslim-run establishments without local help. But the group maintained that by and large, the Hindus of the affected areas refused to be swayed by the hate campaign. The president of the All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat (AIMMM), Navaid Hamid, said: “The Tripura people have shown that ordinary citizens will have to stand up to bigotry when institutions responsible for upholding constitutional values fail to step up.’’ Commenting on suggestions that the attacks on the minority community were a retaliation to the violence against Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga Puja, Hamid said: “If the VHP were sincere about protesting the attacks on Durga Puja pandals in Bangladesh, it would have organised a protest outside the Bangladesh consulate in Agartala instead of attacking Muslims in the state.” The delegation felt that the communal violence had been engineered with a view to building a polarising narrative for the upcoming Assembly elections in states like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. All the delegation members accused police of not just dereliction of duty but also, at times, of conniving with the assailants. “The police are claiming they cannot identify those who instigated the violence as the assailants snatched their cameras and phones,” said Shams Tabrez Qasmi, a representative of the All India Milli Council (AIMC). The delegation was in Tripura from October 31 to November 2 and visited several of the affected areas across four of the eight districts of Tripura, including Panisagar which saw the maximum violence. According to the delegation, the attacks on mosques began on October 19 and continued till October 26. One of the 16 mosques damaged in the violence had been built by the CRPF when it had a camp in the area, the vice-president of the Jamat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), Mohammad Saleem, said. In most cases, the mosques were targeted in the dead of night by people who moved around in small groups, the delegation said. Apart from visiting the damaged mosques and meeting the affected people, the delegation also tried to meet chief minister and BJP leader Biplab Kumar Deb but was not given an appointment. The delegation subsequently sent a letter to him, underlining the law-and-order machinery’s failure to anticipate and stop the violence, and also the way it was now intimidating journalists and fact-finding teams by threatening to invoke the UAPA against them. Besides the AIMMM, AIMC and the JIH, the Markzai Jamiat Ahle Hadees Hind was part of the delegation. Tripura govt stand Asked about the  delegation’s statement on the inability to meet Deb, Tripura minister and government spokesperson Sushanta Chowdhury told The Telegraph he was not in a position to comment on the claim made by the Muslim organisations. “Yes, there was a communal build-up following the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during the Puja festivities but under the initiative of our chief minister and the police department, we managed to control the situation. The reports that were spread across the country about violence in Tripura were an exaggeration and far from the truth. That is what we have told the high court, too,” he said. “I invite people from the national media, leading citizens and organisations to visit Tripura and see the law-and-order situation for themselves. There is complete peace and tranquillity.” Additional reporting by Umanand Jaiswal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||CBSE issues instructions on how to write first-term boards||The CBSE on Saturday issued instructions on how Class X and XII students should write their first-term board exams, to be held in the multiple-choice question format in a first for the national board. The first-term exams for Class X are scheduled from November 17 and those for Class XII from November 16. Some 36 lakh students are to take these. ⚫ In a circular, the Central Board of Secondary Education has said an examinee will be given a question paper and a separate answer sheet, called an optical mark recognition (OMR) sheet. ⚫ On the question paper, each question will have a number and will be accompanied by four answer options, marked A, B, C and D. ⚫ The OMR sheet will have four empty circles marked A, B, C and D against each question number. Beside these will be a single rectangular box and another — slightly larger — circle. ⚫ If the student thinks the correct answer is B, say, she must darken the empty circle marked B with a blue or black ball-point pen, and not a pencil. After that, the student must write the number of the correct option — B in this instance — in the rectangular box. ⚫ If the student realises she has darkened the wrong circle, she needs to darken the right circle too and write the correct number in the box. ⚫ However, darkening the correct circle while leaving the box empty will be taken to mean the question has not been attempted. But writing the correct number in the box while leaving all the circles empty will be accepted. ⚫ The larger circle will carry the question number. Darkening this circle will mean the question has not been attempted. ⚫ The schools are to download the OMR sheets, which will have the details of the candidates pre-printed. The student must write “I confirm that the particulars given above are correct” and sign on the sheet. ⚫ Each paper will have extra questions. For example, the Class X English paper will carry 60 questions, of which the student should answer 50. In mathematics, the student has to answer 40 of 50 questions. Never before had the CBSE split any board exam into two editions or held MCQ tests. The innovations have been forced by the pandemic — an MCQ test is shorter (90 minutes) than a subjective test (180 minutes), and the first-term exam is insurance in case Covid prevents any (second-term) exam next year. The CBSE has said whether the second-term exam, expected in March-April, is MCQ-based will depend on the Covid situation. In the first-term exam, the students will be assessed on about 50 per cent of the syllabus, with the rest left for the second-term exam. Each subject will set aside certain marks for internal assessment or practical assignments. Odisha too has decided to hold its Class X board exams in the MCQ format, but at one go next year. Educationist Anita Rampal, former dean of the faculty of education, Delhi University, opposed MCQ-based school board exams saying they were “a damaging shortcut”. “This doesn’t help the students develop a deeper understanding of the subjects. They don’t acquire the abilities of expression, observation, analysis or writing, because the teachers focus on teaching to the test requirements,” Rampal said. She said MCQ tests should ideally be used as a first level of screening for large-scale competitive exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||Aryan Khan was framed up in drugs case, claims witness||A witness in the NCB's alleged drug bust on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on Saturday claimed that Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan had been ''framed up'' in the case. Aryan (23), who got bail from the high court after spending three weeks in prison following his arrest on October 3, was implicated by some people to make money, witness Vijay Pagare told Marathi news channels. It was a pre-planned raid, he alleged. Earlier, Prabhakar Sail, another independent witness used by the NCB, had alleged that some officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau had tried to extort money for letting off Aryan. The NCB has already launched an inquiry into the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||BSF and army soldiers die after consuming hooch in Samastipur ||At least four persons, including a Border Security Force sub-inspector and an army jawan, died after consuming hooch in Bihar’s Samastipur district on Saturday, after 33 deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor elsewhere in the state. The incident occurred at Rupauli panchayat following a  party allegedly thrown by the army jawan on Friday evening. “Four persons are confirmed to have died while two others are under treatment. They all seem to have consumed liquor that the army jawan had brought,” Samastipur SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon told journalists. He added that the police were in the process of questioning the family members of the jawan, Mohan Kumar, on how and from where he had procured alcohol. “We have recovered a bottle of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). Our forensic team is arriving to conduct a chemical examination. We are trying to trace the other affected people. We have sent teams to the village and neighbouring areas to appeal to people not to hide those who may have fallen ill. Our priority is to get them treated,” Dhillon said. Many families in Bihar secretly perform the last rights of those who die after consuming hooch for fear of being implicated by government agencies in the prohibition law. In the hooch incident in West Champaran district on Diwali, 16 people died while four persons lost their eyesight. Seven others left the Government Medical College and Hospital in Bettiah against medical advice and despite the deployment of the police there. Their whereabouts are not known yet. Chief minister Nitish got laws enacted by the state legislature to impose a total ban on liquor trade, production and consumption in April 2016. However, the availability of liquor never stopped with the mafia taking deep roots across Bihar in alleged collusion with enforcement agencies. Asked whether the back-to-back hooch incidents indicated that prohibition had failed, JDU national president and Lok Sabha member Rajiv Ranjan Singh pointed to murders being committed despite laws and punishment. “When murders happen, those involved in it are given life sentences or capital punishment. There are laws but still murders take place. I don’t know what has happened in these cases. It is a matter of investigation, but the culprits will be punished,” Singh told The Telegraph. Asked again if the liquor ban had not been implemented properly, Singh retorted: “Don’t put words in my mouth.” Nitish convened a high-level meeting on Friday evening to review prohibition and expressed anger over the recent hooch deaths. He asked officials to “identify and take strict action against government officers and employees involved in compromising the ban on liquor”. The chief minister will chair another review meeting on prohibition on November 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
07-11-2021||India||India's treatment of Muslims erodes its moral high ground||The mob rampaged for days, burning homes, breaking into temples and clashing with police, leaving several dead. The victims were minority Hindus living in Bangladesh, a nation grappling with increasing extremism, and the violence drew an outcry from politicians in neighbouring India. As the region’s traditional centre of gravity, India has a history of promoting tolerance. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also positioned himself as the champion of Hindus against a history of victimhood. But the erosion of human rights in India has weakened its moral high ground in a region where ethnic and sectarian tensions are worsening. Sheikh Hasina — Bangladesh’s Prime Minister and a close ally, who had just sent Modi red roses on his 71st birthday — had pointed words for India, even as she promised to hunt the culprits. “We expect that nothing happens there,” Hasina said, “which could influence any situation in Bangladesh affecting our Hindu community here”. India is losing leverage in South Asia as its government tries to reshape the country into a Hindu state. In marginalising and maligning its minority Muslims at home, Modi’s government has weakened India’s traditional leadership role of encouraging harmony in a region of many fault lines. The shift could also open opportunities for China, which has used the promise of investment and access to its hard-charging economy to cultivate stronger relations with its rival’s neighbours. “The openly partisan approach to communal issues has created a very peculiar situation for us as far as that moral high ground in neighbourhood policy is concerned,” said Yashwant Sinha, who was India’s foreign minister when the BJP was last in power in the early 2000s. “We can’t say ‘you stop it, this should not happen,’ because we ourselves are guilty of it.” Leaders of the ruling party declined to comment. In public statements, officials have pointed to Modi’s “neighbourhood first” focus in foreign policy, something he announced soon after taking office in 2014. They say the leader is deeply invested in improving regional connections “that bear prosperity to the neighbourhood”. In Sri Lanka, a Buddhist-majority country, the government has been taking a tougher stance towards the Tamil, a largely Hindu minority whose grievances led to a three-decade civil war, and towards its small Muslim population. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa recently appointed a hard-line Buddhist monk to lead an overhaul of the legal system, though he has been accused of stirring hatred against Muslims and jailed for intimidating the wife of a journalist who had disappeared. The panel overseeing the overhaul effort includes Muslim scholars but has no Tamil representation. In majority-Muslim Pakistan, where the ethnic Pashtuns and Baloch have long been marginalised, increasing Islamist extremism has resulted in vigilante action against the Hindu minority, who make up just 2 per cent of the population. They have faced repeated episodes of violence, vandalism of their temples, occupation of their land and an increase in forced conversion of minority girls, according to Pakistan’s human rights commission. Prime Minister Imran Khan has spoken out against the abuses, but to little effect. Communal violence in one country often becomes fodder for the narrow nationalism of the other. Khan has blamed Modi for “unleashing a reign of fear and violence against India’s 200 million-strong Muslim community”. Modi’s supporters frequently splash videos of the anti-Hindu violence in Pakistan and elsewhere in the region as justification for policies seen as discriminating against Muslims. But such violence and the abuse of minorities is nothing new in South Asia, a region of deep ethnic and religious fault lines that is home to a quarter of the world’s population. The traumatic partition of India and Pakistan in 1947, and the later war-driven split of Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971, left sizable ethnic and religious minorities in each country. The domestic policies of one nation inevitably affect the population of another. Traditionally, how India — the largest and the most diverse of the nations — tried to manage its affairs set the tone for the rest. Even when sectarian violence flared within its own borders, India was the big brother with larger-than-life leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and its legacy of ending centuries of colonial rule through non-violence. The policies of Modi’s BJP have chipped away at that position, not unlike the erosion of the US’s global standing on human rights during the Trump administration. The BJP has pursued a Hindu-first agenda that has often put India’s Muslims at a disadvantage. The party has also refused to rein in hard-line elements within its ranks, sometimes leading to violence. Hasina, Bangladesh’s Prime Minister, and others have suggested that the hardening attitudes toward Muslims in India have contributed to violence against Hindus in Bangladesh. “The situation that happened in Bangladesh is empowering the Hindutva politics, and they are trying to exploit it,” said Mohammad Tanzimuddin Khan, a professor of international relations at Dhaka University, referring to the BJP’s Hindu nationalist ideology. “And at the same time, the Hindutva politics of India is empowering the BJP-type politics in Bangladesh.” The violence in Bangladesh during Durga Puja claimed seven lives, the police said. That violence has further deepened sectarian tension in India. In recent weeks, a Right-wing Hindu group has been organising large protests in Tripura, just over the border from Bangladesh, against the anti-Hindu violence there. The police have had to deploy heavy security to protect mosques, after members of the group vandalised at least one mosque and burned shops. A group of lawyers and activists who went to Tripura to document the damage found themselves charged with violating a draconian anti-terror law. While some BJP officials criticised the violence, Modi himself has been largely silent. In contrast to Pakistan, where tensions with India sometimes break out into open conflict, Modi has cultivated good relations with Bangladesh, and harsh words could sour diplomatic ties between New Delhi and Dhaka. India’s neighbours can find friends elsewhere. China, flush with development projects and loans, has actively placed itself as a potentially lucrative alternative. In addition to strengthening economic ties with Pakistan, it has also used Covid-19 vaccines and other aid to improve relations with Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. But the BJP’s Hindu nationalist ideology has made India more inward-looking, said Aparna Pande, director of the India initiative at the Hudson Institute. Previously, its pluralistic example of governance had avoided stoking tensions, and it took at times a paternalistic view toward its neighbours. Now, she said, Modi’s “neighbourhood first” policy appears at odds with the backlashes caused by the Hindu nationalist vision at home. “If you are pushing a nationalist narrative, it is difficult to then ask your neighbours to not do the same,” Pande said. “You will then see every country in South Asia becoming more nationalist and, forget about anything else, that creates a strategic challenge for India.” Today, said Sinha, the former foreign minister, Modi’s silence “creates the impression as if we have lost control of the situation or that the State is actively encouraging violence against minorities”. Sinha, who quit the BJP and recently joined the Trinamul Congress, was foreign minister immediately after some of the deadliest communal violence in India in 2002 in Gujarat, where Modi was the chief minister. Sinha said such violence did not affect India’s standing because the country’s Prime Minister at the time, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, made clear that the episodes were both unacceptable and isolated. These days, Sinha said: “The interlocutor can turn back and say ‘Why don’t you practise at home what you preach to us?’” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
