08-11-2021||India||Submitting Naxal attack probe report to Governor against norm: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday said the submission of a judicial commission's report on the May 2013 attack by Naxals in the state's Jhiram valley, wherein several Congress leaders were killed, to Governor Anusuiya Uikey was against established practice as such findings are handed over to the state government.  Talking to reporters at the helipad here, the CM said he came to know from the media that the judicial commission's report has been submitted to the governor (last week) though he was yet to hear from the Raj Bhavan on the issue.  He wondered why the report was submitted suddenly , pointing out that in September this year, the commission had sought extension of its term from the state government to complete its investigation.  The judicial commission to probe the Jhiram valley Naxal attack was constituted on May 28, 2013, and it was to submit its findings in a period of three months. Since then, the time limit to submit the report had been extended 20 times till now. In June this year, an extension was given for the last time, but in September, the commission's secretary again sought extension citing the investigation was yet to be concluded, (though) permission (for term extension) was yet to be accorded, he said.  Baghel said the judge heading the commission was transferred after which he sought the state law department's opinion on the matter.  Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh High Court Judge Justice Prashant Mishra, who was heading the commission, was transferred as Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Subsequently, I sought the opinion of the state's law department on options we have when the investigation is incomplete and the judge concerned has been transferred , he said.  "Suddenly, we came to know from the media that the report has been submitted to the governor. We haven't got any information regarding this from the Raj Bhavan (governor house)," the CM claimed.  So far, the Chhattisgarh government has constituted 7 to 8 judicial commissions and as per established practice, their findings were submitted to the state government, he said.  As per rule, an action taken report, along with a commission's findings, is tabled in the legislative assembly, Baghel said.  It indicates the commission's probe into the Jhiram incident is incomplete as on one hand they had sought extension for submission of the report and on the other they hurriedly handed it over to the governor. The two things seem contradictory , he added.  Maoists attacked a convoy of Congress leaders during the party's `Parivartan Rally' in the Jhiram valley in Bastar district of Chhattisgarh on May 25, 2013, killing 29 people, including then state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, former leader of opposition Mahendra Karma and ex-Union minister V C Shukla.  The commission, headed by former Chhattisgarh High Court judge Prashant Kumar Mishra, was constituted on May 28, 2013, by the then BJP government to inquire into the deadly attack.  The Jhiram Ghati Inquiry Commission's secretary and registrar (judicial) of the Chhattisgarh HC, Santosh Kumar Tiwari, handed over the report to the governor on November 6.  Hitting out at the BJP-led Central government, Baghel accused it of not returning a case diary related to the Jhiram valley attack which was given to the NIA (National Investigation Agency) by the state government.  The NIA (which took over the probe into the Jhiram attack in 2013 during the UPA government) has already submitted its final report.  After being elected to power (in 2018 assembly election), the Congress government had constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to get the incident investigated. Despite repeated requests, the Centre has not handed over a file (case diary) to the state government, Baghel said.  Whom does the central government want to save? Which facts do they want to hide? The Congress had raised questions over the NIA probe as the statements of those who were at the spot at the time of the attack were not recorded. Why did the agency not probe the conspiracy angle in the attack? he asked.  Baghel said the Chhattisgarh Krishi Upaj Mandi (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was passed in the state assembly in October last year, was still pending with the governor for assent.  The bill is still pending with the governor. We called on her many times seeking assent to the bill. The governor has the right to hold a bill as long as he/she wants. But this bill was passed by calling a special session of assembly, he said.  Asked if there was a lack of coordination between governor Uikey and the state government, he replied in the negative.  "Assent has been given to several bills. There is no disagreement (with governor). But the 'mandi' bill and another one related to a journalism university (in Raipur) are still awaiting her assent," the CM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
08-11-2021||India||States blocking CBI probe a matter of concern, says Supreme Court||The states' veto to the Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) power to file cases is a matter of concern and "not a desirable position", a two-judge bench of the Supreme Court said on Monday, referring the issue to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana.  The agency had filed an affidavit, pointing out that eight states - West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Mizoram -- have withdrawn the general consent to cases against its residents. Specific consent on case-to-case basis is required now, which is time consuming and detrimental to timely and prompt investigation, the agency had said. Over the last few years, many non-BJP states have withdrawn general consent, alleging that the BJP-ruled Central government was misusing the agency to settle grudges against political opponents. The bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh was hearing the agency's plea against an order by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court in a case against two lawyers accused of threatening witnesses and fabricating false evidence. When the case was heard in September, the Supreme Court had asked the CBI to file an affidavit with details of the steps taken to strengthen its prosecution unit and to identify the bottlenecks it faced. In response, the agency filed an affidavit, saying the eight states had withdrawn the general consent previously granted to CBI under Section 6 of the DSPE Act. The Act, under which the CBI has been constituted, says the CBI cannot exercise its powers and jurisdiction in a state without the consent of the state government. Consent of the state is required also to investigate offences listed under Section 3 of the Act in areas specified by the Centre. "It is noteworthy to mention that CBI has sent over 150 requests to the Governments of Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Kerala and Mizoram during the period 2018 to June, 2021 for grant of specific consent for investigation of cases in the territory of these States. The aforesaid requests were made for investigating Trap cases, Disproportionate Assets cases, cases relating to allegation of cheating, forgery, misappropriation and loss of foreign exchange and also Bank Fraud cases. Requests were granted in less than 18% cases, which were related mainly in cases of Trap of corrupt central public servants," the affidavit read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Nitish Kumar calls meet to tighten Bihar's liquor ban policy||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has called a meeting with his ministerial colleagues to figure out how to tighten the state's liquor ban policy. The move comes after over 40 people died due to drinking moonshine, an incident some experts say is a result of people forcing themselves to consume illegal liquor due to the ban. The meeting is, however, not to be seen as an indication that he would rethink the policy, but it is rather a meeting to discuss what steps can be taken to avoid such tragedies and what parts of the policy need to be improved for better enforcement, sources have said. The Janata Dal (United) supremo banned liquor in Bihar in 2015 after becoming Chief Minister for a fifth time, following a spectacular victory. The ban came into effect from April 2016. Nitish also took a swipe at rival Tejaswi Yadav, whose Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress had raised in the assembly this February whether liquor ban in the state is helping at all, especially when revenue losses are also factored in. "I keep reading in newspapers that people are writing letters to me, but I'd like to remind them that you were also one of those who took vows to make it (liquor ban) successful. So if you have any information about breaches in implementation, then please share it with law enforcing agencies," Mr Kumar said, without naming anyone. Nitish did not spare a leader of ally, BJP, for questioning the move to ban liquor. Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jayaswal has been a longtime critic of the Chief Minister over the policy. The BJP leader had recently sought a rethink on the policy. The Chief Minister, without naming anyone again, said, "Some of those in opposition in 2016 are now in the government with me. No one should forget they also were party to this decision (liquor ban)." Over 40 people died in Muzzafarpur, Gopalganj and Bettiah last week after consuming illegal liquor in Bihar. Tejaswi Yadav had termed the liquor ban law a "complete failure".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Channi, Sidhu meet amid wrangle over key appointments||AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary on Monday held a meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, amid unease between the two leaders over some government appointments. The meeting was held just a few hours after Sidhu called a press conference and questioned his party's government in the state over the status of investigation into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident.  Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, was also present at the meeting, sources said. During the meeting, Sidhu is learnt to have raised the issue of appointment of A P S Deol and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the state's advocate general and officiating director general of police (DGP), respectively.  Last week, Sidhu had said he had withdrawn his resignation as the Punjab Congress chief but also put a precondition that he would resume the charge the day a new advocate general is appointed in place of Deol and a panel for the appointment of a new DGP comes from the UPSC. Talking to reporters on Monday, cabinet minister Raj Kumar Verka said Channi and Sidhu held a meeting here and "whatever misunderstandings will soon be removed."  Asked how differences between both leaders will end, Verka said Chaudhary had discussed issues with Channi and Sidhu separately and jointly. "There were some issues and they have been sorted to a large extent today and whatever remaining issues will be resolved soon," he said.  To a question on replacing the AG and DGP, he said, "You will get answers on all these things very soon." On November 2, Sidhu, Channi and Chaudhary had gone to Uttarakhand to offer prayers at the Himalaya shrine of Kedarnath. The same day, they along with other senior leaders had held a meeting to discuss strategy for the upcoming Assembly elections.  At that time, Sidhu had said that "all is well".  The former cricketer has been opposing the appointment of Deol and Sahota. Both Sahota and Deol were considered as the choice of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Earlier, Sidhu had questioned the state government over the steps taken for ensuring delivery of justice in sacrilege incidents and making a special task force (STF) report in drug cases public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Kerala HC issues notice to GST council over non-inclusion of petrol, diesel prices||The Kerala High Court on Monday issued notice to the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on a plea seeking to include petrol and diesel prices under the purview of GST. A division bench headed by Chief Justice S Manikumar asked the council to respond within 10 days.  The court asked the council to inform it why petrol and diesel prices were not included in the purview of the GST. The court's order came on hearing a Public Interest Litigation. The GST council had on September 17 decided to continue keeping petrol and diesel out of the GST purview, saying that subsuming the current excise duty and Value Added Tax into one national rate would impact revenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Security beefed up at Ambani's residence after cabbie dials police||Minutes after Mumbai police received a call from a taxi driver, stating that two people were inquiring about industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia, security has been strengthened around his home. According to NDTV, the CCTV footage of the building is being closely monitored by the cops. “We received a call from a taxi driver that two people had approached him, asking for the location of Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia,” NDTV quoted the police. According to Mumbai police, two men, carrying a large bag, were asking for the address of Mukesh Ambani, following which the cabbie immediately called the police. The driver's statement has been recorded by the cops and a senior officer has been deputed to monitor the investigation. Significantly, high security was provided to the country's richest man after a Scorpio laden with explosives was found a little away from his home in February, earlier this year. Investigations revealed that the car, a stolen one, belonged to a man who had been murdered. The probe, which revealed the involvement of a police officer, is still on; while the accused officer Sachin Waze has been sacked and arrested for his alleged role in the murder of the car owner, Mansukh Hiren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||GDP likely to grow at 10-10.5% in FY2022: Report||Domestic rating agency Brickwork Ratings on Monday revised its growth estimate for the country's gross domestic product (GDP) to 10-10.5 per cent in the current financial year from an earlier expectation of a 9 per cent growth. Many economic growth indicators are suggesting a faster-than-expected revival in economic activities, it said.  "We revise our GDP estimates for FY22 to 10-10.5 per cent from 9 per cent estimated earlier," the credit rating agency said in a report released on Monday. It expects the GDP growth for Q2 FY22 to be at 8.3 per cent (year-on-year), on the back of a 7.4 per cent contraction in Q2FY21. The country's GDP grew at 20.1 per cent in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  The agency believes that the subsequent quarters too will see recovery if there is no resurgence of the virus in the form of a third wave. "Amid the waning possibility of a third wave, we expect the economy to register better growth in the remaining part of the year," it added.  The downside risks of a possible third wave to growth too are limited due to the progress achieved in vaccination, it said. However, downside risks emanating from rising crude oil prices, mineral products, increasing costs of raw materials and freight rates, disruptions in semiconductor supply and coal supply shortages are likely to downplay the growth momentum, the agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Several private schools reopen in Delhi for all classes, many to reopen in coming weeks||Several private schools in the national capital reopened from Monday for all classes while many others are still in the process of working out modalities and will be resuming in-person classes in the coming weeks.  The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had last month announced that schools would reopen for all classes from November 1, even though teaching and learning would continue in a blended mode. While government schools in Delhi reopened from November 1, majority of private schools decided to defer reopening for junior classes in view of Diwali and other festivals. Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh reopened on Monday for nursery and kindergarten classes.  "The school has been reopened for nursery and KG, whereas the offline school for classes 1 to 5 will start from November 11. We are planning to start offline school for senior classes after a while. Since the students of classes 9, 10 and 11 are having their offline exams, along with students of classes 6 to 8 having their online unit test examination going on.  "Keeping in mind the COVID-19 protocols and giving our student's health topmost priority, we will call the students on an odd-even roll number basis to assure only 50 per cent students can come to school each day," said school principal Alka Kapur. While Mount Abu Public School in Rohini has plans to reopen from Thursday, MRG School in the same area has decided to reopen classes from November 15.  "We plan to reopen for all classes from November 15," said Anshu Mittal, Principal, MRG School. Bharat Arora, general secretary of the Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, said that some of the schools were still in the process of taking consent from parents.  "Some of the schools are in the process of taking consent from parents while transportation arrangements are also being worked out," he said. Last Monday, some government schools welcomed students with dance and music, while others decided to screen films like "Taare Zameen Par" for students. Many other activities were also organised to help children connect with their schools, before resuming physical education.  The DDMA has directed that schools would have to ensure that there is not more than 50 per cent attendance in a class at one point of time and no student is forced to attend physical classes. Following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the city, the Delhi government had announced the reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions from September 1. However, this is the first time after March 2020 that schools in Delhi are reopening for classes up to 8.  Allowing only 50 per cent students per classroom, mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement and avoiding routine guest visits are among the guidelines announced by the DDMA for the reopening of schools.  The DDMA has said students, teachers and non-teaching staff living in Covid containment zones will not be allowed to come to schools and colleges. It has also said the area being used for activities like ration distribution and vaccination should be separated from the area that will be used for academic activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Police beating reminds Delhi HC of George Floyd's 'I can't breathe' moment||Let no one have to repeat the tragic words like George Perry Floyd, Jr: 'I can't breathe,' the Delhi High Court has said, holding that the law does not permit people to be beaten up in police custody or during interrogation as the punishment for a criminal act is to be determined by a court of law.  The court was hearing a plea by two men who were allegedly illegally detained and mercilessly beaten up by Delhi Police officials and are seeking a fresh preliminary inquiry in a fair and impartial manner by a senior police officer into the incident.  The death of George Floyd, an African-American man, had drawn widespread protests in the US last year after a video showed a police officer pushing him down and pressing his knee on the neck of the hand-cuffed victim who was heard saying "I can't breathe".  Justice Najmi Waziri, who perused the photographs of the incident, said the assault by the police on the petitioners is questionable as the law does not permit people to be beaten up in police custody even during interrogation.  One can never be too vigilant about the rights of citizens being violated or any callousness or over-reaction by law-enforcers which may lead to an unfortunate incident or tragedy. Let no one have to repeat the tragic last words like George Perry Floyd, Jr.: I can't breathe', the high court said.  Punishment for an assault or a criminal act is to be determined by a court of law. The police cannot be a judge in its own cause. The law does not permit people to be beaten up in police custody or during interrogation, it said.  The court directed an inquiry by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Vigilance) and the petition be treated the petitioners' representation to the police.  The petitioners shall be heard, through counsel as well, within four weeks from receipt of this order and the decision or report or action taken be communicated to the petitioners within two weeks thereafter, it said.  The petition by two men claimed that they along with two others were mercilessly beaten, illegally detained, tortured by the police personnel of Police Post Turkman Gate, Police Station Chandni Mahal, Central District, Delhi, at the behest of certain private individuals at the aforesaid Police Post .  Advocate M Sufian Siddiqui, representing the petitioners, argued that any form of torture, cruel or inhuman or degrading treatment would fall within Article 21 of the Constitution whether it occurs during investigation, interrogation or otherwise, and tantamount to a brazen attack on the very edifice of rule of law.  The Delhi government counsel submitted that there was an immediately preceding occurrence which led to the strict action against the petitioners and showed a video recording on a fracas outside the police station between private parties who had moments earlier left the premises.  The counsel said the police had rushed there to break up the melee which could lead to a law and order situation, especially on the eve of the Republic Day function.  The court noted that an initial inquiry was conducted by the Inspector (Vigilance) and the matter has been closed, as if nothing noteworthy or actionable happened.  The petitioner was aggrieved that he was neither called for any inquiry nor were the injuries, sustained by him as a result of the assault, examined or considered and even he was never heard.  The high court said that in order to inspire confidence, an inquiry, fairness of the procedure adopted and examination of the substantive issues, must be apparent and this fundamental principle has not been observed in the so-called inquiry report .  It said that a fresh inquiry is warranted because ex-facie the photographs and the video show the two men (the petitioner and his well wisher) being assaulted repeatedly by a posse of policemen who are in uniform and in civilian attire.  The violent pushing, punching and elbow-strikes start the moment they enter into the precincts of the police station. The two civilians were not violent when they walked into the said precincts. They possibly could not because they were surrounded and held by policemen.  "No unruliness or assault is seen on any policeman by the petitioner or his well-wisher. For the physical assault and beating given to the private individuals, there appears no immediate provocation, perhaps it was because of some pique of the policemen, it said.  Siddiqui said the four men sustained injuries which fall within the definition of grievous hurt' and the incident was also captured in the fully functional CCTV cameras installed in and around the police post.  He said that on the evening of January 25, the four men were mercilessly beaten, illegally detained and tortured by the police personnel even though there was neither any written complaint against them nor any call was made to the Police Control Room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Will not hesitate from resigning again over farm laws: Abhay Chautala||Shortly after driving to the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on a tractor to take oath as an MLA, INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said he will not hesitate from resigning again if farm unions say they want him to take the step. The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary had won the Ellenabad Assembly seat in the bypolls necessitated by own resignation over the Centre's farm laws.  Reacting to his statement, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala described him as a "non-serious politician." The INLD leader termed his win in the Ellenabad bypolls as a victory of farmers and said he won't hesitate from resigning again over the laws. Replying to a question, the MLA said he will be going to Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur borders to meet the protesting farmers.  "I will meet farmers. If farm unions tell me that such a step is needed for the repeal of black farm laws, then I will not hesitate from resigning again," he said. Chautala, who is the son of the INLD president and former chief minister O P Chautala, drove a green-coloured tractor to the Vidhan Sabha building from his Sector 9 residence here. The MLA was accompanied by some of his family members, INLD state unit president Nafe Singh Rathi and former Haryana DGP M S Malik.  Chautala alleged that the state government blatantly misused official machinery in the bypolls and the powers that be lured the voters with money. "We made 15 complaints to the Election Commission regarding the violation of the model code of conduct and also gave proof, including videos, in this regard but we did not get any response," he alleged.  "We demand an inquiry by a sitting judge into blatant misuse of official machinery," the MLA said. He said in a peaceful constituency, heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces defied logic. "They made it look like this bypoll was being held in Kashmir Valley. BJP candidate and those campaigning in his favour used to be accompanied by 20 vehicles of police and paramilitary forces," said Chautala.  Replying to a question on his victory margin narrowing this time as against the 2019 Assembly polls when he had won by nearly 12,000 votes, Chautala said last time only 57,000 votes were polled in his favour in comparison to nearly 65,000 this time. "This is despite the fact that the BJP, JJP and the Haryana Lokhit Party were fighting the polls together against me and even the Congress had joined hands with them to see that I lose, but their hopes were dashed," said Chautala.  Chautala said JJP chief Ajay Singh Chautala, who is his elder brother, the latter's MLA wife Naina Chautala and their sons Dushyant Chautala and Digvijay Chautala tried their best to see that he loses the bypolls. "Ajay Singh, his both sons, bhabhi (sister-in-law Naina) used to campaign door-to-door until late in the night. More than Gobind, it was they who were fighting polls, he said.  Chautala said the Congress candidate had got 35,000 votes in the 2019 Assembly polls from the constituency but he lost security deposits this time. He said the poor show by the Congress resulted in some votes being transferred to the BJP candidate.  Meanwhile, Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said Chautala was a "non-serious politician." Dushyant said BJP-JJP candidate Gobind Kanda secured nearly 60,000 votes and gave a tough fight to Abhay, which in itself was a victory for BJP-JJP workers. Making a reference to Abhay, Dushyant said those who used to claim that they will win with a margin of over 30,000 votes have been shown the mirror by people of Ellenabad.  When asked that Abhay has said if farmers again ask him to resign he will not hesitate, Dushyant said, "He has made resignation thing a joke. Does an elected representative have no responsibility towards those who chose him. This is why I often say he is a non-serious politician."  The INLD leader had defeated his nearest rival JJP-backed BJP candidate Gobind Kanda by a margin of 6,739 votes. Pawan Beniwal of the Congress came a distant third. Gobind Kanda, the brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and MLA Gopal Kanda, joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last month.  Beniwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous Assembly polls against Chautala, recently switched over from the BJP to the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||President Kovind confers Padma awards in Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind presented Padma awards to 73 individuals, some posthumously, at a ceremony held in the Rashtrapati Bhavan here on Monday. Of these, four were Padma Vibhushan, eight Padma Bhushan and 61 Padma Shri awards for the year 2020, according to a statement issued by the President's office. The Padma awards are given in three categories -- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri and announced annually on the eve of Republic Day. The Padma Vibhushan is awarded for exceptional and distinguished service, Padma Bhushan for distinguished service of high order and Padma Shri for distinguished service in any field. Those awarded Padma Vibhushan were former Union ministers George Fernandes, Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj (all posthumous), and Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, Hindustani classical and semi-classical vocalist. President Kovind presented Padma Vibhushan to Jaitley (posthumous), the former finance minister, for public affairs. "An outstanding parliamentarian and a distinguished lawyer, he made significant contributions in judicial reforms, electoral reforms and progressive social & economic legislations, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a tweet. The award was received by Jaitley's wife. Kovind also presented the Padma Vibhushan to Swaraj (posthumous), the former external affairs minister, for public affairs. "A visionary leader, deeply rooted in Indian traditions, Smt Swaraj embodied the empowerment of women and was a woman of many firsts," another tweet from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. The award was received by Swaraj's daughter. President Kovind presented Padma Bhushan awards to badminton player P V Sindhu, Dr Anil Prakash Joshi for social work, Dr S C Jamir for public affairs and Mumtaz Ali for spiritualism. He awarded Padma Shri awards to renowned litterateur of Santali language Damayanti Beshra, television and film actress Sarita Joshi, music composer Adnan Sami Khan and actress and filmmaker Kangana Ranaut. The president also presented Padma Shri to captain of the Indian hockey team Rani and to Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head of the division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, the Indian Council of Medical Research in New Delhi, among others. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were among the dignitaries present on the occasion, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
08-11-2021||India||Gujarat: Man rapes three minor girls in ten days, kills one; held||Gandhinagar district police in Gujarat on Monday arrested a 26-year-old labourer for allegedly raping three minor girls, aged between 3 and 7 years, and killing one of them within ten days, officials said.  Shockingly, the accused, Vijay Thakor, sexually assaulted his latest victim, a three-year-old girl, after killing her. He then dumped her body into a culvert, said Inspector General of Police (Gandhinagar range) Abhay Chudasama.  "The accused is married with a daughter. He has a perverted mentality, maybe due to his habit of watching porn. Till now, he has confessed to having raped three minor girls aged 3, 5, and 7 years and killing one of them. He has been remanded in police custody till November 11 for further investigation," the IGP told reporters in Gandhinagar.  Santej police in the Gandhinagar district had received a complaint from a woman labourer living near Rancharda village alleging that an unidentified man abducted her five-year-old daughter on November 4 and left her at a secluded place on the same day.  The girl's medical check-up confirmed that she was raped, Chudasama said, adding that the Santej industrial area has several settlements of non-Gujarati industrial workers.  Two days later, Santej police received another complaint stating that a 3-year-old girl had been abducted on the night of November 5 from a makeshift shanty near Khatraj crossroads.  After scanning CCTV footages and collecting information from locals, police zeroed in on Thakor, a casual labourer from Vansjada village in Kalol taluka, said Chudasama.  "He confessed to having raped the five-year-old girl and also the three-year-old girl," the IGP said.  He said Thakor killed the three-year-old girl because she was shouting too much and then raped her before dumping her body in a culvert. The body has been recovered by the police, he added.  Chudasama said the accused had lured the five-year-old victim by offering her to buy new clothes. In the second case, Thakor entered the hut of the three-year-old girl when everyone was asleep in the night and took her away, he said.  "During interrogation, Thakor confessed to having raped a 7-year-old girl around ten days back in the same area. He had first snatched the girl's mobile phone forcing her to follow him. He then abducted her and raped her. A detailed investigation about Thakor's criminal past is on," said Chudasama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||What is the 'secret deal' between Modi government and Finmeccanica, asks Congress||The Congress on Monday demanded answers from the government over reports of the lifting of a ban on procurement from Finmeccanica company which had been dubbed as corrupt by ruling BJP leaders over the Agusta choppers deal.  The opposition party claimed that a "fake bogey of corruption" was raised by the BJP over the buying of VVIP helicopters during UPA-II rule and asked if it was being given a quiet burial.  India had scrapped the contract with Finmeccanica's British subsidiary AgustaWestland in 2014 for supplying 12 AW-101 VVIP choppers to the Indian Air Force over alleged breach of contractual obligations and charges of kickbacks paid by the firm for securing the deal.  The BJP had at that time attacked the Congress, asking if its leaders had received the alleged Rs 450 crore bribe money for the deal signed during the UPA-II government.  Seeking to turn the tables, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Monday asked, "What is the 'secret deal' entered into between Modi Government and Agusta/Finmeccanica? "Is it now ok to deal with a company that Modi ji and his government called 'corrupt- bribe giver-bogus'?"  "Does it mean that fake bogey of corruption is being given a quiet burial? The nation awaits answers," he said in a series of tweets. He cited media reports that the Modi government was lifting the ban on procurement from Finmeccanica.  "The PM called the company 'corrupt'. HM called the company 'bogus'. Ex Defence Minister accused it of 'bribes and corruption' in Parliament. Then, Modi Government - withdrew blacklisting of Agusta/Finmeccanica on 22nd July 2014. Now, lifted procurement ban," he alleged in another tweet while citing the media report.  Surjewala also alleged that the "friends of the media" spent thousands of hours of air time showing leaked documents by the Modi Government and building a "false narrative" against the UPA-Congress in the run up to 2014 parliamentary elections.  "Will they now dare to question the Modi Government on the 'secret deal' with Augusta," he asked. In 2016, Italian group Finmeccanica changed its name to Leonardo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Legislators in Bengal Assembly fondly remember late minister Subrata Mukherjee||Legislators of the West Bengal Assembly on Monday paid rich and moving tributes to state minister Subrata Mukherjee, who died last week following a massive heart attack, and hailed him as a tall leader who was loved by one and all, irrespective of their political affiliation. In a special resolution tabled in the Assembly, Speaker Biman Banerjee said that Mukherjee was a multi-faceted personality, who contributed to the trade union movement, both at the national and international levels. He noted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was still grief-stricken and could not bear to attend the session.  Mukherjee is a bright star in the history of parliamentary democracy, the speaker added. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee said Mukherjee's demise is a great loss for him, both personally and politically. "There is no word to describe his political and administrative acumen. It is sad that he will never be sitting next to me in the Assembly again," he lamented.  Leader of the Opposition and BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari fondly remembered the deceased leader as a "family friend", whose name will be etched in history of Bengal politics. TMC legislators Sobhandev Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim also paid glorious tributes to the leader, and described him as a witty and sociable person, who was adored by people.  Others who spoke on the occasion were BJP MLA Manoj Tigga, TMC legislators Chandrima Bhattacharya and Manas Bhuniya. All members observed silence for two minutes as a mark of respect.  The speaker later adjourned the House for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||Rains continue to lash Tamil Nadu||Rains continued to lash Chennai and other regions, including northern districts of Tamil Nadu on Monday while authorities disconnected power supply here in vulnerable neighbourhoods as a precautionary measure. In Chennai and other northern districts, including Chengelpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore, rains were in most regions mild to moderate and intermittent since early Monday. The Meteorological department in a bulletin said the cyclonic circulation over south east Bay of Bengal and adjoining South Andaman sea, extending up to 5.8 kilometers above the mean sea level, persists. Under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours. It is likely to move west northwestwards, concentrate into a depression and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by November 11, early morning and bring widespread rainfall in several regions of the state, the bulletin said. The rainfall (from 8.30 AM, 7 Nov to 8.30 AM, 8 Nov) recorded here and suburban areas ranged between 4 CM and 14 CM. Other regions, including Tiruvannamalai, Kancheepuram and Cuddalore, recorded between 3 CM and 1 CM showers. For the second consecutive day, Chief Minister M K Stalin inspected affected areas and gave away flood relief assistance to affected people at Royapuram here. In Chennai, most roads and bylanes and a section of subways remained waterlogged and continued to be closed. Traffic diversion too continued and road-users had a tough time. A flooded city police station (Adambakkam) had to be shifted to another temporary premise. To clear water-logging, inundation of subways and rain related tasks, Greater Chennai Corporation deployed 23,000 personnel who slogged amid showers to restore normalcy. So far, 2,02,350 people in affected areas have been provided food since Sunday afternoon, authorities said. On Monday morning, about 1,29,00 breakfast packs of 'Pongal' and 'Ravakitchadi' prepared in community kitchens were served to people in affected areas. Over two lakh packets of lunch, comprising variety rice like sambar, lemon, brinji, and tamarind were provided to people, a civic agency release said. In total, 3,36,000 food packets were distributed. "As on November 8 morning, 889 residents of water-stagnant low lying areas were safely evacuated and housed in relief centres. They are being provided food three times a day." Chief Minister M K Stalin has appointed 15 IAS officials to monitor relief work in 15 corporation zones. Also, 200 special monsoon medical camps were held, in which 3,776 people received medical assistance. A total of 152 fever cases, 165 cases related to skin infections and over 2,600 other cases were treated, the corporation said. Civic workers continued their job without respite clearing garbage and clogged drains. Electricity Minister V Senthil Balaji said that out of about 44,50,000 power connections in the Chennai distribution circle, only 12,297 connections were disconnected, considering safety. "Power supply will be restored expeditiously with receding of flood waters and rains," the Minister tweeted. While transport services, including suburban train services, were affected on Sunday, Southern Railway said "all suburban services are running and will run normally." In a tweet, the Divisional Railway Manager said, "This marginal delay will be on North bound long distance trains towards Howrah, Delhi and Hyderabad and other stations north of Chennai. While we have tried our best to put out all the updated information, we regret the inconvenience caused due to factors beyond our control." Though state-run bus services here and in other neighbouring regions continued to ply, there was disruption in services on several routes. A Metrorail official said Monday services "will be run on Sunday and government public holiday timetable with extended service hours from 5.30 AM to 11 PM with 10 minutes headway throughout the day." The schedule of services as per holiday timetable is confined to Monday. In view of rains, the prices of vegetables shot up sharply with a kilo of tomato, which was available for about Rs 30-40, a couple of days ago now being sold at Rs 90-Rs 100. Similarly prices of other veggies also saw an increase. Considering the showers, the Arignar Anna Zoo here said a 'monsoon monitoring team' has been constituted, comprising the Deputy Director and forest range officers, to ensure the safety and security of animals and to undertake remedial measures, if warranted. Vellore District authorities said about 4,609 cusecs of water was being discharged from Ponnai Anaicut and considering safety, an alert was sounded to people and police personnel deployed at Melpadi and Ponnai causeways. District Collector P Kumaravel Pandian inspected repair work of damaged roads. Updating on the Northeast monsoon, officials in Vellore said so far nine tenements have been damaged fully and 66 partially and three people and an equal number of cows died in rain-related incidents till November 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||BJP should ask LK Advani why he had gone to offer 'chadar' at Jinnah's tomb in Pakistan: SP leader||Amid BJP's sharp attack on Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav over his Jinnah remark, senior SP leader Narad Rai said the saffron party should ask its founding member L K Advani why he had gone to offer 'chadar' at Jinnah's tomb in Pakistan. Talking to reporters on Sunday, Rai asked Uttar Pradesh Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anand Swaroop Shukla, who had made serious allegations against Yadav over the issue, that he should first read the history of his party. "Remembering Muhammad Ali Jinnah's contribution to the freedom movement, BJP leader L K Advani had offered 'chadar' at his tomb and paid tribute to him," Rai said, adding that the SP chief had similarly remembered this contribution. He was apparently referring to Advani's trip to Pakistan in 2005 during which the BJP leader praised the neighbouring country's founder, triggering criticism from within his own party. Yadav had kicked up a row recently when he equated Jinnah with Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru and said they helped India get freedom, even as Shukla suggested a narco test for him for "glorifying" the Pakistani leader. "Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," he had said on October 31. The UP minister had also accused the Samajwadi Party president of enjoying the patronage of Pakistan spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and said he may even go for religious conversion to appease Muslims. The SP leader recalled that a complaint had been filed with the police over Shukla's remarks against Yadav. "Shukla made indecent remarks against Akhilesh Yadav and a case of sedition should be registered against the minister," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||Rafale: CBI refused to probe kickbacks to mediator||French plane-maker Dassault paid at least 7.5 million euros (nearly Rs 650 million) in bribes "to a middleman to help secure the sale of 36 Rafale fighter jets to India and Indian agencies failed to investigate it despite the presence of documents, French portal Mediapart has alleged in a new report, according to NDTV. The journal has been probing graft allegations in the Rs 59,000 crore deal. According to NDTV, “Mediapart has published alleged false invoices that it says enabled Dassault to pay secret commissions to alleged middleman Sushen Gupta. "Despite the existence of these documents, the Indian federal police has decided not to pursue the affair and has not begun an investigation," the portal says. According to its report, the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate have had proof since October 2018 that Dassault paid kickbacks to Sushen Gupta to secure the sale of Rafale jets. The proof is sealed in confidential documents emerging in another corruption case being investigated by the two agencies - scam on the supply of VVIP choppers by AgustaWestland. The report adds the majoerioty of the alleged payments was made before 2013. NDTV cannot independently verify the authenticity of these documents and is trying to get CBI comments. Mediapart's investigation led to a judicial investigation in France in July. Sushen Gupta has allegedly received bribes from AgustaWestland through a shell company in Mauritius, Intersteller Technologies. The Mauritian authorities agreed to send documents related to the company to the CBI and Enforcement Directorate, to facilitate investigations. The documents were sent to the CBI on October 11, 2018, just a week after the agency received an official complaint alleging corruption in the Rafale deal. "However, the CBI decided not to open an investigation, even though just seven days after that corruption complaint was filed it received information proving that secret commissions had indeed been paid," Mediapart said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||Lashkar terrorist arrested in J&Ks Anantnag||Security forces on Monday arrested a Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terrorist from Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. A team of police and Army apprehended the active terrorist from Wahadan village of Ashmuqam area in Anantnag during a search operation, the officials said. They said the arrested terrorist was identified as Hafiz Abdullah Malik, who was affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow outfit of LeT. A pistol and seven rounds were recovered from Malik's possession at the time of his arrest while on his disclosure, the security forces recovered one AK rifle, two magazines and 40 rounds from Katsu forests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||UPHAAR case: Seven-year jail terms for Sushil and Gopal Ansal||A Delhi court Monday awarded 7-year jail terms to real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal for tampering with evidence in the 1997 case of Uphaar cinema fire which had claimed 59 lives. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma also imposed a fine of Rs 2.25 crore each on the Ansals.  Besides, the court awarded 7-year-jail term each to former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma and two others -- P P Batra and Anoop Singh -- in the case and imposed a fine of Rs 3 lakh each on the them. After thinking over nights and nights, I have come to the conclusion that they deserve punishment, the judge said.  He said the circumstances during which the instant crime was committed showed the deep disrespect which the convicts had for the law and the judicial process and for the victims.  The foundation of judiciary is premised on the trust and confidence of the people and any action which is aimed to thwart the said foundation cannot be permitted and is required to be dealt with utmost strictness, it said.  It said the sentencing in the case must respond to the cry of the society.  While imposing fine on the convicts, the court noted that the DSLSA (Delhi State Legal Services Authority) had suggested in the Victim Impact Report (VIR) that victims had suffered "incalculable harm" and the quantum of compensation also proposed was "incalculable".  The fine was imposed after analysing the income proofs submitted by the convicts.  The court held that the Ansals were better placed in terms of financial capacity than others to provide compensation to the victims.  The court said that the amount of fine imposed on each convict will be paid as compensation to the victim AVUT, after disbursing the cost incurred by the prosecution. Since no amount of compensation can alleviate the agony, trauma and the pain suffered by the family members of the victims, however, compensation in the form of money can provide some succour to them, the judge said.  Rejecting convicts' plea seeking mercy, the court said that misplaced sympathy or unwarranted leniency will sent a wrong signal to the public giving room to suspect the institutional integrity and would affect its creditability. Inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system and would undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of the law as society could not long endure such assaults on the justice system, it said.  The court said that too lenient sentence would be akin to closing the eyes to the agony and anguish of the victims and the public at large.  Collective cry of the society must be responded by way of appropriate punishment to prevent re-occurrence of such crimes, it said. The convicts, out on bail, were taken into the custody after the order was pronounced. The case is related to tampering with the evidence in the main fire tragedy case in which the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to 2-year jail term by the Supreme Court.  The apex court however released them taking into account the prison time they had done on the condition that they pay Rs 30 crore fine each, to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital.The fire had broken out at the Uphaar cinema during the screening of the Hindi film 'Border' on June 13, 1997, claiming 59 lives.  According to the charge sheet, the documents tampered with included a police memo giving details of recoveries immediately after the incident, Delhi Fire Service records pertaining to repair of transformer installed inside Uphaar, minutes of Managing Director's meetings, and four cheques. Out of the six sets of documents, a cheque of Rs 50 lakh, issued by Sushil Ansal to self, and minutes of the MD's meetings, proved beyond doubt that the two brothers were handling the day-to-day affairs of the theatre at the relevant time, the charge sheet had said.  It said the Ansals had taken the defence in the main case that they had no involvement in the day-to-day functioning. The tampering was detected for the first time on July 20, 2002, and a departmental enquiry was initiated against Dinesh Chand Sharma. He was suspended and terminated from services on June 25, 2004.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||Developing indigenous technologies to confront security challenges imperative: Army Chief||Only indigenously developed technologies will be available to the Indian Army for full exploitation during conflicts and it is imperative to reduce dependence on foreign technologies, Army Chief General M M Naravane said on Monday. The Indian Army is undergoing rapid modernisation and it is increasingly looking for indigenous solutions for its operational needs, he said in his speech at an event of industry body FICCI.  "I truly believe that during conflicts, in war-like situations, only indigenously developed technologies will be available to us for full exploitation across diverse domains," he stated. Developing indigenous and local capabilities to confront emerging security challenges and reduce dependence on foreign technologies is, therefore, an imperative, Naravane mentioned.  "The Army in particular is more suited to lead this initiative. India has an expanding industrial base and we are confident that most of core requirements of defence equipment can be realised in-house," he noted. The average cost of acquisition is lower in the Indian Army that allows wide participation of MSMEs and start-ups, he said.  The government's initiative of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) during an economic downturn as given much needed fillip to the domestic industry, he said. Lt Gen Shantanu Dayal, Deputy Army Chief (Capability Development and Sustenance), stated in his speech at the event that the two most important issues for the Indian Army during procurement of equipment and technologies are quality and costs.  We are going to deploy these equipment in very challenging conditions so they have to be robust and of good quality, he mentioned. Dayal said the Indian Army is going to increase the share of the indigenous content during the procurement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||Bombay HC seeks Nawab Malik's response on defamation suit filed by Sameer Wankhede's kin||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik to submit an affidavit in response to a defamation suit filed by Dhyandev Wankhede, the father of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. A vacation bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar asked Malik to file his affidavit by Tuesday and posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. "You (Malik) file your reply by tomorrow. If you can reply on Twitter, you can reply here too, the justice said, without passing any order restraining Malik from making any further statements against the plaintiff (Dhyandev Wankhede). Advocate Arshad Shaikh, appearing for Dhyandev Wankhede, told the court that every day some false and defamatory statement is being made by the defendant (Malik) which then leads to further comments on social media that are further defamatory. "Just this morning, the defendant has posted a tweet about Sameer Wankhede's sister-in-law," Shaikh argued, adding that at least till the matter is heard, the court should either direct Malik or he should himself restrain from making any further statements. Malik's advocate Atul Damle, while seeking time to file an affidavit to the suit, told the court that the plaintiff cannot speak on behalf of his adult children and also cannot attribute to Malik what other persons have commented on social media. Dhyandev Wankhede, in his suit, has sought damages to the tune of Rs 1.25 crore from Malik for allegedly making defamatory comments against his son Sameer Wankhede and family through press conferences and via social media. The suit has sought an order declaring Malik's statements as defamatory in nature and a permanent injunction restraining the NCP leader from publishing or making statements before the media, including his social media accounts. The suit stated that the statements by Malik that Wankhede is a Muslim amounted to questioning the religious beliefs of the family by disputing that they are not Hindus. It claimed that Malik's statements caused an irreparable loss, damage, harm, prejudice to the name, character, reputation and societal image of Wankhede and his family. The suit also sought directions to Malik to take back all defamatory statements made by him so far and also to delete all his tweets posted against the plaintiff and his family members. Sameer Wankhede had last month led a raid on a cruise ship and the NCB claimed to have seized drugs onboard. Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and 19 others were later arrested in connection with the cruise drugs case. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against the NCB officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
08-11-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: NCB vigilance team reaches Mumbai; visits Lower Parel, cruise terminal||The Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Delhi vigilance team, probing the pay-off allegations in the Cordelia cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an accused, arrived here on Monday.  The team visited a spot outside the Indiana Hotel in Lower Parel area where Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani and NCB's witness K P Gosavi had allegedly met.  The team members also visited the Mumbai cruise terminal where the Cordelia cruise ship, on which the party was organised on October 2, is docked.  The four-five member team, led by NCB's Deputy Director General (northern region) Gyaneshwar Singh, is also likely to visit a few other places and will also record the statement of Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the case.  The NCB on Sunday issued summons to Sail, who claims to be the bodyguard of Gosavi.  Sail had last month claimed in an affidavit that he had heard Gosavi discussing a Rs 25 crore pay-off deal after Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB. He claimed that Gosavi had said Rs 8 crore of the deal money was to be given to NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede.  Sail's allegations had prompted the NCB to order a vigilance inquiry against NCB officials and others.  Wankhede had denied the allegations against him.  Another person, named Sam D'Souza, whose name had cropped up in connection with the allegations of pay-off in the case, in his pre-arrest bail plea filed before the Bombay High Court last week claimed that Gosavi had taken Rs 50 lakh from Pooja Dadlani to get Aryan Khan released.  The amount was returned after the NCB arrested Aryan Khan in the case on October 3, D'Souza had said.  There were allegations of corruption and extortion against an NCB official and others including himself, and a deal of Rs 18 crore was struck for the release of "a prominent accused" (Aryan Khan), he had said in his plea.  D'Souza had also said he contacted Dadlani through a mutual friend and met her in Lower Parel area along with Gosavi.  This is the second visit of the NCB's Delhi vigilance team to Mumbai.  Last month, the vigilance team, headed by Gyaneshwar Singh, had come to Mumbai to probe the allegations of extortion, but failed to record Sail's statement. Singh is also the chief vigilance officer (CVO) of the federal anti-narcotics agency.  Before leaving for Delhi, the team had recorded statements of eight persons, including Wankhede, and collected some important documents and recordings related to the cruise drugs case, an official had said.  On Sunday, the NCB's Delhi SIT questioned Arbaaz Merchant and Achit Kumar in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case for over nine hours, an official earlier said.  The duo was summoned by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), headed by senior officer Sanjay Kumar Singh, which was entrusted with the investigation of six cases, including the cruise drugs case involving Aryan Khan.  According to an official, Aryan Khan failed to appear before the SIT on Sunday, citing fever.  It is a routine procedure to summon the accused after a new investigation team takes charge, the official had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Continuance of courts virtually will be a problem, says SC||Continuance of courts virtually will be a problem, the Supreme Court said on Monday while refusing to grant urgent hearing on a plea seeking that virtual court hearings be declared a fundamental right for litigants. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai said there are many problems in virtual hearings. It will hear the matter in December. "Continuance of courts virtually would be a problem. We were doing 60-65 cases on a miscellaneous day earlier compared to 30-35 cases now despite the experience of over one year. There are many problems with virtual hearing. "We had senior advocates appearing in person in the Jarnail Singh (reservation in promotion) case where the lawyers said it feels so good to come here and argue physically.We are also opening up now. Let us open fully and then we will hear," the bench said. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra mentioned the matter and sought urgent hearing of the matter saying access to justice was being hampered. "Today the litigant sitting anywhere can see what is going on in the matter and how we are performing," he said. The apex court said for 70 years there was access to justice without any complaint and now there is a problem with physical hearing. It had earlier said that hybrid mode of hearing cases is not working and normalcy has to return and courts have to function physically as virtual hearing of cases can't become a norm. The top court had said it wants the courts to open for the public and justice accessible for all the citizens. "We have tried hybrid mode, but it's not working. People are not coming to the courts. Normalcy has to return and the courts have to function physically," it had said. The top court, which had issued notice in the matter, was hearing a plea filed by NGO National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice and eminent citizens like Julio Ribeiro, Shailesh R Gandhi, seeking to declare virtual court hearing as a fundamental right for the litigants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||SC notice to Centre on PIL seeking infrastructure facilities for women facing domestic violence||The Supreme Court on Monday sought response from the Centre on a plea seeking adequate infrastructure across the country for providing effective legal aid to women abused in matrimonial homes and creating shelter homes for them.  A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Justice S Ravindra Bhat issued notices to the Union of India, Ministry of Women & Child Development and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and sought their response by December 6. "As of now we will issue notice to respondents 1 to 3. We are not issuing notice to states else it will become a jamboree. We will then put the case in the basket of Central government for monitoring," the court said.  The top court was hearing a PIL filed by an unregistered organisation, "We The Women of India" seeking adequate infrastructure under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act across the country for providing effective legal aid to women abused in matrimonial homes and creating shelter homes for them post lodging of complaints against husbands and in laws. The plea said domestic violence continues to be the most common crime against women in India despite the Domestic Violence Act, 2005 coming into force more than 15 years back.  "As per the National Crime Records Bureau report for the year 2019, out of 4.05 lakh reported cases categorised under 'crimes against women', over 30 per cent were domestic violence cases," the plea said. Referring to findings of the National Family Health Survey, the plea said about 86 per cent of the women victims of domestic violence never seek help.  The PIL has made Centre, all states and Union Territories as parties in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Bandh in Maha village of fisherman killed in firing by Pakistan maritime security personnel||Residents of Vadrai village in Maharashtra's Palghar district observed a bandh on Monday to protest the killing of a native fisherman by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) off the Gujarat coast. All shops and other establishments remained closed and public buses and auto-rickshaws stayed off roads in the village, following the bandh call given by local panchayat which condemned the killing of fisherman Sridhar Ramesh Chamre (32) in the firing on Saturday. Chamre is survived by wife, two daughters aged 6 and 8, and parents. "The situation in the village is currently peaceful," Satpati police station's assistant police inspector Sudhir Daherkar said. Chamre's body will be brought to the village for the last rites after postmortem and completion of due formalities, sources said. The firing incident took place around 4 PM on Saturday near the international maritime boundary line, officials had said. India has taken serious note of the PMSA resorting to unprovoked firing on the Indian fishing boat and is going to take up this issue diplomatically with the Pakistan side, official sources in Delhi earlier said. Residents of the village were in a state of shock since Sunday after getting the news of Chamre's death in the firing. They said if at all the boat had entered the Pakistan waters, the crew members could have been held captive by the neighbouring country instead of being fired upon. Chamre's father claimed the boat carrying the seven fishermen had not crossed the border. On Monday, roads and streets in the village wore a deserted look as the residents stayed indoors in support of the bandh called to protest Chamre's killing. Meanwhile, Gujarat Police have registered an FIR on charges of murder and attempt to murder against 10 personnel of the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) after they fired at the Indian fishing boat 'Jalpari' in the Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast, killing a crew member and injuring another on Saturday. The injured fisherman, named Dilip Solanki (34), hailing from Diu, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Okha coastal town of Devbhumi Dwarka district in Gujarat. There were seven crew members on the fishing boat. Chamre was in the cabin of the boat when he was hit by bullets, the fishing boat's owner, Jayantibhai Rathod, earlier said. "Three bullets hit him on the chest, following which he died. The captain of the boat was also injured in the indiscriminate firing by the Pakistani personnel," Rathod had told reporters. The deceased had been working on the fishing boat since the last three months at Diu-Daman, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Hope outgoing Air India authorities ensure staff arrear payment before Tata handover: IPG||Indian Pilots Guild (IPG), one of the pilot unions of Air India, has expressed hope that the outgoing management will ensure that the process of settling employees arrears is righteously carried out prior to the airline going to the new owner Tata Sons.  In a letter to Air India CMD late Sunday evening, the guild said that it is optimistic about making a fresh start with the airline's new owners, at the same time, urged the current dispensation not to exploit the employees as it could potentially lead to mass protest and industrial unrest just as the company changes hands.  According to the IPG, the 2006 Wage Agreement allocated a monthly Layover Subsistence Allowance (LSA) for captains and for co-pilots. Over the years, 25 per cent of these amounts were held back and are still due. Besides, overtime payments arising out of this wage pact are long overdue as well, it said, adding that in 2012, a wrongful and unilateral 25 per cent pay cut had been implemented on all employees.  Late last month, the central government signed a share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for the sale of Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier.  As we are all aware, the government is committed to settling all outstanding dues with employees pre-hand-over. In this regard, certain points must not be missed whilst implementing the said process, the IPG said in the letter. Stating that LSA was an allowance provided to sustain one's self on international layovers where the cost of living is exponentially higher, the guild said pilots would spend from their own pockets on international layovers because these sums of money were not rightfully paid on time.  The reimbursement of these foreign currency expenses that have been incurred for so many years is long overdue, it said. The arrears arising out of the 25 per cent cut on LSA are due to its members. So naturally, when these arrears are settled there should be no question of any tax burden on the pilots, the guild said in the letter.  Further, it said: This is a reimbursement of our expenses at foreign stations which have already been incurred. Under no circumstances should these arrears be considered a form of income. It is most necessary that the books of accounts reflect the same and a suitable method of disbursement be devised so as to avoid any query from the Indian regulatory authorities, the letter stated.  The company has long been aware of the liability due to employees as well as the government's commitment to settling these dues. There is a need for transparency concerning the said matter, it said. The IPG, in the letter, demanded a detailed statement with a working calculation of dues pending for each of its members.  Noting that whilst the management has acknowledged in writing that the money which was held back for several years should be rightfully returned to the employees, the guild said it would be a mockery to not properly compensate the employees with an appropriate rate of interest on the funds withheld.  It has been over nine years since the first deduction and it would be highly unjust if the company were to have enjoyed interest-free finance at the expense of the employees, the letter said. Stating that the points raised in the letter should not be taken as the guild's demands but rather as a reminder of the company's obligation to justly settle the already promised dues, the letter said at this critical juncture where the international skies have opened up and the domestic demand is steadily rising due to the festive season, the pilots are once again being stretched beyond capacity to cover additional flights.  We trust that you will ensure that the process of settling arrears is righteously carried out so as to not leave the employees feeling cheated. We are truly optimistic about making a fresh start with our new owners. We urge you not to exploit us employees whilst settling our arrears as that would probably lead to mass protest and industrial unrest just as the company changes hands, the IPG said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Let former high court judge monitor the ongoing probe by UP police: SC on Lakhimpur violence ||The Supreme Court Monday suggested that a former high court judge monitor the ongoing probe by the Uttar Pradesh police into the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violence during a farmers' protest, saying the investigation was not going the way it expected. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana sought the response of the Uttar Pradesh government, represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Garima Prasad, by Friday. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, suggested the names of former judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justices Rakesh Kumar Jain or Ranjit Singh, for overseeing the probe till filing of the charge sheets in the cases. The bench said the investigation was "not going the way we expected". It also took note of the delay in procuring the forensic reports regarding the video evidence. Earlier, the bench had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018 and to record the statements of other witnesses before the judicial magistrate under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and expedite the examination of digital evidence by experts. The police have so far arrested 13 accused, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, in connection with the case. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||CRPF jawan shoots dead 4 colleagues with AK-47 rifle in Chhattisgarh||Four CRPF personnel were killed and three others injured after their colleague opened fire at them in a camp of the paramilitary force in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district on Monday, a police official said. The incident took place at around 3.15 am in the camp of the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) 50th battalion in Linganpalli village under Maraiguda police station of the area of the district, located nearly 400 km from the state capital Raipur, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said. As per preliminary information, constable Reetesh Ranjan fired at his colleagues with his service weapon, an AK-47 rifle, the official said. The accused, constable Reetesh Ranjan, was "overpowered" by fellow troopers at Lingalapalli camp in Sukma district of south Bastar region soon after the shootout. As per preliminary information, Ranjan fired at his colleagues with his service weapon, an AK-47 rifle. The official said that the seven injured personnel were immediately shifted to a hospital in the nearby Bhadrachalam area of neighbouring Telangana, where doctors declared four of them dead on arrival. He said that those killed were identified as constables Rajmani Kumar Yadav, Rajib Mondal, Dhanji and Dharmendra Kumar, adding that three other injured personnel were being treated at the hospital. "Prima facie, it seems that due to some emotional stress leading to sudden psychological disbalance, constable Reetesh Ranjan lost his control and in a fit of rage opened fire on his colleagues," a CRPF spokesperson said. Constable Ranjan was immediately held and his interrogation is underway, the official said. In a similar incident of fratricide in January this year, a CRPF jawan was killed and another one injured after their colleague opened fire at them in their camp in the state's Bastar district, police earlier said. The offender had then tried to commit suicide by shooting himself, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi slams demonetisation as a 'disaster'||On the fifth anniversary of demonetisation, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday termed it a "disaster" and asked if the step has been successful, why hasn't corruption ended and black money returned to the country. On November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on national television his government's decision to ban all currency notes of higher denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 from midnight on the same day. "If 'notebandi (demonetisation) was successful, why hasn't corruption ended? Why hasn't black money come back? Why hasn't the economy gone cashless? Why hasn't terrorism been hit? Why hasn't price rise been reined in?" Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag 'DemonetisationDisaster'. The Congress has been alleging that demonetisation was not in the interest of people and had adverse effects on the economy, a charge the Modi government has dismissed repeatedly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Watch: Modi calls on LK Advani on his 94th birthday, takes part in cake cutting ceremony||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday drove to former deputy Prime Minister L K Advani's residence to personally greet him on his 94th birthday. The PM was seen arriving with a bouquet at Mr Advani's residence and later taking part in a cake-cutting ceremony at the veteran leader's residence, in a short video shared by the BJP. The PM also extended his best wishes to the veteran leader on Twitter. "Birthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect," Modi tweeted. BJP's longest-serving president L K Advani received a host of wishes from all quarters, with Defence Minister and many other leaders greeting him and lauding his contributions to the country and the party. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh hailed Advani as an inspiration and guide and said he is counted among those most respected leaders whose scholarship, foresight and intellect are acknowledged by everyone. BJP president J P Nadda praised the veteran leader for taking the party to the masses and playing a key role in the country's development. Wishing him a long and healthy life, he said the nonagenarian leader was an inspiration to crores of party workers. The principal architect of the BJP's rise as a major national political party as he tied its fortunes with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the late 80s, Advani crafted and shaped the Hindutva politics, and spearheaded the party and its forerunner Jana Sangh for decades along with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Born in Karachi in undivided India, he joined the RSS and then the Jana Sangh since the latter's foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 262 days||India logged 11,451 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,43,66,987, while the active cases declined to 1,42,826, the lowest in 262 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,61,057 with 266 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 134 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.42 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.24 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,019 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 108.47 crore. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.32 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 35 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.26 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 45 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,37,63,104, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 108.47 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 266 new fatalities include 201 from Kerala, and 16 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,61,057 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,388 from Maharashtra, 38,112 from Karnataka, 36,220 from Tamil Nadu, 33,716 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,903 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,226 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
08-11-2021||India||Maha: Fire in plastic goods factory doused after 6 hours||A major fire that broke out in a plastic products factory here in Maharashtra was brought under control after about six hours on Monday, officials said. The blaze erupted around 9 pm on Sunday in the unit manufacturing plastic chairs and other such products in Murbad industrial area of Thane district, and quickly spread to the entire premises.  Five fire engines were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control by about 3 am on Monday, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. No one was injured in the incident, he said.  Cooling operations was underway, he said, adding that the cause of the fire was still not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||Modi cautions BJP against slackness ahead of crucial state elections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked BJP leaders and workers to come up with “innovative ways” to become a “bridge of faith” for the common man, appearing to caution against slackness ahead of crucial state elections. His exhortations, coming at the end of the party’s daylong national executive committee meeting in Delhi, followed recent by-election setbacks in strongholds that have darkened the BJP’s mood. “In his inspiring speech, Modiji asked BJP workers to become the bridge of faith for the common man,” Union minister Bhupendra Yadav said. He added that this was the key message in Modi’s 50-minute speech at the closed-door meeting. Yadav said Modi also lauded the BJP cadres’ role in tackling the pandemic. Party leaders said the six-hour meeting, which passed just one resolution, concentrated on praising Modi’s leadership. Modi himself sought to underline the importance of maintaining the party’s bond with the people. “Modiji said that party workers’ hard work and dedication had established the BJP at the centre and in the states. He went on to tell us that in power, the challenge was to maintain the same connect with the masses and for that we needed to find innovative ways,” a national executive member said. “He (Modi) seemed to be cautioning against any slackness, as though he could see signs of the bond with the masses weakening.” Modi’s focus on the party cadres was reflected also in his invocation of a new initiative, “kamal pushp (lotus flower)”, on the NaMo App that is aimed at paying tribute to party workers. It invites people to “detail their (BJP workers’) stories through website or video links, old newspaper cuttings, old photographs, by penning their contribution in text format or by uploading your own video too which describes their contribution”. “Modiji seemed focused on highlighting the contribution of the party workers to inspire them to keep working harder,” a BJP leader said. The BJP’s poor showing in the recent by-elections to 3 Lok Sabha and 30 Assembly seats seemed to hang heavy over the meeting, which came ahead of elections in five states, including the key state of Uttar Pradesh. Modi sat through the entire meeting, listening attentively to the chief ministers and party unit presidents from the poll-bound states. The BJP has lost two Lok Sabha seats, one to the Congress in poll-bound Himachal Pradesh and the other to the Shiv Sena in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. It has also lost the three Assembly by-elections held in Himachal. The crushing defeat in the Bengal Assembly elections in early summer too seemed to haunt the meeting. Party chief J.P. Nadda attacked the Trinamul Congress, alleging State-sponsored violence against BJP workers after the Bengal polls. “I want to make it clear through the party’s national executive that we are not going to sit quietly. We will fight a decisive democratic battle for our party workers and ensure the lotus blooms,” Nadda was quoted as saying. He asserted the party would not rest till it had wrested power in Bengal and other states that have so far eluded the BJP. Nadda also sought to celebrate the BJP’s rise to principal opposition in Bengal. His comments on the eastern state found mention also in the political resolution passed at the meeting. Addressing the meeting virtually from his home state, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant too broached the alleged violence against BJP workers in Bengal, betraying jitters at Trinamul’s foray into the upcoming Goa polls. The importance of the Uttar Pradesh elections was reflected in the special invite to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to attend the meeting physically in Delhi to present the political resolution. All the other chief ministers joined the meeting virtually. The meeting accused the Opposition of “tarnishing the country’s image”. “While India is being praised across the world for the vaccination programme, we also remember the scepticism spread by the Opposition over the vaccination from the very beginning,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. Big cut-outs of Modi had been placed outside the venue projecting him as a “vishwa priya neta” (globally loved leader). Cut-outs of Nadda were there too, but no images of home minister Amit Shah were visible. Party leaders said Shah attended the entire meeting but did not speak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||Congress flags spike in suicides by people from multiple backgrounds||The Congress on Sunday flagged the spike in suicides by people from multiple backgrounds and blamed it on Narendra Modi’s policies, trying to counter the accolades showered on the Prime Minister at the BJP national executive meeting. “A government that rode to power touting ‘achchhe din’ has done nothing but forced people into suicidal hopelessness,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “The latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau is frightening. The suicide figures underline an unprecedented tragedy that is ruining India. Hapless citizens, (crushed) by extreme apathy and insensitivity of the government, are losing hope and taking their own lives.” Surjewala said suicides had increased significantly among farmers, day labourers, jobless youths, housewives and students and blamed the trend on what he said was Modi’s misgovernance. Some 958,275 Indians committed suicide between 2014 and 2020, Surjewala said, with a 55 per cent rise in suicides among students, 58 per cent among jobless youths and over 130 per cent among farmers, labourers and day labourers. Some 193,795 day labourers had committed suicide — “a horrendous 139.37 per cent increase” since 2014, he said. “An Oxfam report reveals that while the hundred richest Indians had increased their wealth by Rs 13 lakh crore, over 12 crore Indians lost their jobs,” Surjewala said. “Not only this, the RBI in its report underlines that policies like demonetisation and a flawed GST implementation severely affected the small and medium enterprises in the unorganised sector.” Surjewala alleged the central government was unaffected by the people’s misery, saying this was reflected in its apathy towards the spiralling unemployment and rise in fuel prices. Fuel price war A political battle is unfolding on the petro price front, with Punjab’s Congress government cutting VAT on petrol by Rs 10 and that on diesel by Rs 5 to steal the thunder from the BJP-ruled states that have reduced fuel taxes by Rs 2 or less. The competition among the states was triggered by the Centre’s reduction of excise duties on petrol and diesel by Rs 10 and Rs 5. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said his government’s was the biggest ever reduction of petrol and diesel taxes by any state. The Congress high command has nudged the Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh governments to cut fuel taxes too. Former minister Jairam Ramesh, however, tweeted: “In this Centre vs states debate on petroleum taxes, a key fact has been missed. In 2014/15, the Centre’s collection from such taxes was only 0.79 times that of all the states combined. In 2020/21, this became 1.93 times! This means the Centre has greater room to cut such taxes than (the) states.” China punch To the BJP’s praise of Modi at the national executive meeting, the Congress had just one response: “Come clean on China.” “The pseudo-nationalists must open their mouth and speak the truth on the Chinese aggression. Clarify on the clean chit given by the Prime Minister,” party spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “Government of India remained silent and trade with China increased. No concern over India’s sovereignty. China is making moves in the neighbourhood against our strategic interests but the government is silent.” Four days after the June 15, 2020, clash at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh killed 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops, Modi had asserted that no one had intruded into Indian territory, allowing Beijing to dismiss the allegations of border transgressions. Khera also referred to a Pentagon report that suggests the Chinese have built a village inside Arunachal Pradesh. “In the last 18 months, we have seen several transgressions by China, from Ladakh to Uttarakhand. The Pentagon report on the village inside Arunachal is known to all,” he said. “The GoC, Eastern Command, now says China is building infrastructure in the Chumbi valley which directly affects the Siliguri corridor, bringing the Northeast into peril. The country has paid a massive price for the biggest blunder of the Prime Minister (the no-intrusion statement). The only answer the nation wants from the BJP national executive is on the Prime Minister’s blunder.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||Left trains demonetisation gun on Modi government||A day before the fifth anniversary of demonetisation, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the decision announced on November 8, 2016 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sent the country downhill. “Economy into a tailspin, the poorest hurt. Informal sector decimated. No black money recovered, but rich got richer. Cash in the economy is the highest ever now! This govt must bear responsibility for pushing India downhill, just for one man’s whim,” Yechury said in a tweet. Taking to Twitter, CPI MP Binoy Viswam said: “Currency in circulation: 2016 Nov. 17.97 lakh cr. 2021 Oct. 28.30 lakh cr. 57% increase in 5 years! Black money in the country: 300 lakh cr.  Demonetisation was a total disaster.”  Yechury also sought a withdrawal of excise duties on petroleum products. “Looting the people! Imposing intolerable miseries on people already suffering under the double whammy attacks of Covid & economic recession. Withdraw central excise duties on petroleum products,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||Bihar: Ruling allies  spar over liquor ban in the state||Bihar’s ruling allies are sparring over the liquor ban in the state, the BJP suggesting the recent hooch deaths have necessitated a review of the prohibition law and the Janata Dal United ruling out any changes. At least 37 people died after drinking spurious liquor in Gopalganj, West Champaran and Samastipur districts last week, five lost their eyesight and many others are seriously ill. The hooch death toll in Bihar this year is about 90. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal asked why liquor continued to be available in Bihar despite prohibition — a brainchild of JDU chief minister Nitish Kumar — and suggested police were in cahoots with the liquor mafia. He implied that not enough effort was being made to catch the kingpins. “This (prohibition) law was brought in with good intention but the time has come to review its implementation and current status in the state,” he told reporters on Saturday. “We need to find out why more hooch tragedies are happening in districts where the police are strict. On the other hand, liquor is easily available at places where the police are slothful. The situation is worrisome.” Jaiswal, Lok Sabha member from West Champaran constituency, added: “It’s imperative to catch the big people — the liquor mafia and suppliers. The small fish are easily caught but the big ones escape. The government should also pay attention to the places where the role of the administration is dubious.” The JDU was quick to hit back, its national president Rajiv Ranjan “Lalan” Singh ruling out a revocation of prohibition. “Bihar has prohibition and will always have it. There’s no question of doing away with it,” he said. Construing the BJP suggestion as a veiled attack on Nitish, the JDU went on the offensive on Sunday. “Prohibition is an initiative of Nitish Kumar but has been implemented with the concurrence of all parties. They cannot now deviate from it,” JDU lawmaker and spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||IISER study reveals love, not treats, made dog man’s best friend||Human fondness for dogs displayed through acts such as petting may have played a much bigger role in the domestication of dogs than the lure of food, research by canine behaviour biologists in India has suggested. A six-month study by the scientists at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Calcutta, has found that stray dogs show signs of attachment and trust even after short periods of petting by an unfamiliar human. Their findings provide fresh insights into the domestication of canines through a process spanning thousands of years that started 15,000 to 30,000 years ago when wolves began scavenging around human settlements for leftover food. “They came for food, but stayed on for love,” said Anindita Bhadra, an associate professor at the IISER department of biological sciences who led the study that involved observing stray dogs in three towns in Bengal and one in Karnataka. Through the domestication process, dogs have acquired the capacity to understand human actions, emotions, and gestures, from an early age, including pointing gestures to locate hidden food rewards. In an earlier study, Bhadra, research scholar Debottam Bhattacharjee, and colleagues observed that 80 per cent of a sample of stray dogs responded to pointing gestures to specific locations without prior training. They observed that dogs responded, surprisingly, even to momentary pointing, a finding that suggested that they have an innate ability to understand certain human gestures that transcends training. In their latest study, the researchers exposed 80 stray dogs across neighbourhoods in Kalyani, Mohanpur, Raiganj and Bangalore to brief petting and exposed them to two sets of pointing gestures —one informative gesture leading to food rewards at the locations being pointed out, the second deceptive gesture with no food reward. They observed that dogs that received petting followed pointing gestures irrespective of whether they led to food rewards or were deceptive. But dogs that did not receive petting discriminated between reward-linked and deceptive gestures. “Dogs given petting continued to trust even when bluffed,” Bhadra said. “This was with three days of petting once a day. “This suggests that petting plays a big role in generating trust.” Food had little impact on trust. “This makes adaptive sense — people may lure dogs with food and harm them, but those who show love never do that,” Bhadra said. Dogs have thus adapted to use petting as a cue for trust. The new findings, published on Sunday in the research journal Animal Cognition, provide fresh insights into the possible role of positive human interactions during the dog domestication process. Independent scientists have earlier argued that while wolves may have initiated the domestication process by hanging around human settlements, humans too could have played some role in domestication. “We find it hard to believe it was a one-sided process with all agency ranging on the dog’s side,” Judith Benz-Schwarzburg, a researcher who is studying human-animal relationships at the University of Vienna, Austria, and her colleagues had said last December in a review in the journal Frontiers of Psychology. The IISER study points to one possible human input — social petting. Earlier studies have suggested that dogs were domesticated between 15,000 and 30,000 years ago. A study by archaeologist Angela Perri at Durham University in the UK and her colleagues published in January this year had suggested that dogs were likely domesticated from Eurasian wolves by around 23,000 years ago, possibly in Siberia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||US prod to tag India 'country of particular concern' for religious freedom violations||The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom on Friday pushed for the state department to designate India alongside Russia, Syria and Vietnam as a “country of particular concern” for religious freedom violations. This iteration of the USCIRF recommendation, made on the basis of its 2020 assessment, has been timed in anticipation of the state department’s announcement of the CPC and Special Watch List (SWL) designations in about a month’s time. The USCIRF released a factsheet discussing the types of violations specified under the International Religious Freedom Act that, if perpetrated or tolerated by a foreign government, should cause the state department to designate the country as a CPC or place it on the SWL. India had been recommended for CPC designation in 2020 but the state department did not concur. According to the state department website, “In those cases where the secretary of state designates a CPC, Congress is notified, and where non-economic policy options designed to bring about cessation of the particularly severe violations of religious freedom have reasonably been exhausted, an economic measure generally must be imposed.” The USCIRF factsheet on India says that in 2020 and early 2021, the Indian government continued to implement policies that impacted the religious freedom of members of India’s Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Dalit and Adivasi communities. It mentions the “discriminatory” Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the anti-conversion laws, intermarriage restrictions and anti-cow slaughter laws in various states, saying these have contributed to a “climate of hate, intolerance and fear”; the use of social media to spread hate; and the use of laws like the UAPA to “silence or restrict individuals and NGOs from reporting on and combating religious persecution, and to restrict support for religious organisations and activities”. Many of these issues were flagged in the state department’s own report on “international religious freedom” last year. But it did not designate India a CPC given the other aspects of the bilateral relationship, particularly geo-strategic considerations and the role Washington envisages for New Delhi in its China-centric policy. New Delhi usually dismisses USCIRF recommendations and criticism, questioning its locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. Successive governments, including that of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, have denied visas to the USCIRF to visit India. The USCIRF is an independent, bipartisan federal government entity established by the US Congress to monitor, analyse and report on religious freedom abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||Kerala: Dalit PhD scholar alleges caste harassment at university||A nearly 10-day-old hunger strike by a Dalit science PhD scholar who has alleged caste harassment at the Mahatma Gandhi University here and refused to become “another Rohith Vemula” has prompted the Kerala government to intervene and forced the varsity to buckle. But Deepa P. Mohanan, 36, an anaemia patient with a congenital heart defect who has been surviving on water since October 29, is determined to continue her fast till she sees action on the ground. Deepa, wife of a taxi driver and mother of an 11-year-old girl, had enrolled for PhD at the university’s International and Inter-University Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology in 2014, after doing her MPhil from the same institute. She says she is yet to complete her PhD because of obstacles put up by institute director Nandakumar Kalarikkal. Deepa, who did her MSc in microbiology, is working on developing wound-healing scaffolds using nanoparticles – a key area of research in critical care medicine that will particularly help accident victims. She told The Telegraph on November 1 that Kalarikkal had cut her access to the lab and to polymers and other chemicals she needed, then denied her seating facilities at the workplace and attempted to block her stipend. She said he had once locked her alone inside the lab on a minor provocation. Kalarikkal has denied all her allegations in a message to this newspaper. “As a Dalit and a woman, I have been discriminated against, humiliated and abused by the director. He has been rude and abusive. I started this hunger strike as a last resort,” Deepa said. By Sunday, she was bedridden under a shamiana put up outside the university’s main gate and could no longer speak, but was refusing to end her fast or shift to hospital. On November 3, the university authorities had called Deepa to a meeting. They agreed to all her demands – including a change of guide (who Deepa says backed the director’s actions) and access to whatever research facilities and material she needed --- except for the removal of Kalarikkal from the institute. “Whatever facilities the university allows, if Kalar­ikk­al stays on I shall not be able to finish my research,” Deepa later told this newspaper. “If anything happens to me, both Kalarikkal and vice-chancellor Sabu Thomas would be responsible. I don’t want to be another Rohith Vemula.” Vemula, a Dalit PhD scholar, had hanged himself at the Central University of Hyderabad in January 2016 alleging caste discrimination. His death had started campus agitations across the country and pushed the Narendra Modi government on the back foot. On November 6, Kerala higher education minister R. Bindu promised Deepa through representatives that all measures to remove Kalarikkal from the institute would be taken. Bindu said that if the university delayed the procedure, the government would intervene directly to remove the director. She added she was Covid-positive and was therefore not meeting Deepa personally. Following this, the university issued a media release saying it would remove Kalarikkal. But Deepa plans to continue her fast until Kalarikkal is actually removed and the varsity approaches her directly. Kalarikkal, who is abroad, told this newspaper in a WhatsApp message: “Her (Deepa’s) allegations are absolutely baseless which I have challenged in court.” He did not say which court he had moved, when or on what grounds. “As the Director, which is an honorary position I tried instruct her to follow the rules and regulations. Every research lab will have certain regulations,” he wrote. “Here, Ms Deepa is talking about her rights as a Dalit. What are the rights of a teacher? Can she/he correct a student if mistakes are made, if the rules and regulations of the lab/centre are not followed?” Kalarikkal added: “Ms Deepa has to come to the lab and do work...we are all in support of that.” He added that he was himself from a backward community, Kalari Panikker. Deepa had told this newspaper that she had completed the synthesis for her nanomedicine project. “I have developed a scaffold and optimised it. Despite this, I cannot complete my PhD because of the indifference and humiliating attitude of Kalarikkal,” she said. Deepa had in 2015 filed a complaint with the university accusing Kalarikkal of victimising her for her caste origins. A two-member probe committee set up by the university had accepted the allegations --- according to a copy of the commission’s findings that Deepa has circulated among the academic community. The committee had recommended that the university ensure she received all the facilities she needed for her research. But Deepa says the harassment continued. She also complained to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, which recommended action against Kalarikkal. But none was taken. In 2016, Deepa filed a police complaint against Kalarikkal under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. She says nothing changed even after that. When she tried to meet the governor to complain against the director, she was detained at a police station for two days, she says. “He (Kalarikkal) took revenge on me after I filed the SC/ST Act case. He wrote to the university authorities many times seeking my expulsion from the institute,” she had told this newspaper. “He is powerful and close to top CPM leaders.” She had added: “I have to take tablets for anaemia, and have a congenital VSD (ventricular septal defect). But I can’t step back --- this struggle is not just for me but for all those denied justice in the name of caste.” So far, only Dalit student unions and social justice organisations, including Bhim Kerala, the Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students’ Association and the Ambedkar Student Association, have supported Deepa. Dalit activists have been sitting in protest with her, taking turns to hold daylong fasts, conducting a social media campaign and raising funds for her and her family. Additional reporting by Basant Kumar Mohanty from New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
08-11-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik, Jagan meet on border and water disputes ||The chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh will meet here on Tuesday to find a solution to the border and water disputes between the two states. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will arrive here on a one-day visit on November 9 for talks with his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik. Odisha’s focus will be on finding a solution to the dispute over the Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district. Andhra Pradesh will insist on resolving the row over various ongoing dam projects, including Vamsadhara (phase II) located in Srikakulam district. Andhra Pradesh requires 106 acres of land in Odisha for the completion of the project. “The meeting is scheduled to take place at 5pm,” said a senior official of the chief minister’s office. Both the states had moved the Supreme Court to find a solution to the border dispute issue. “We are hopeful of finding a solution. The Andhra Pradesh government will be more interested in finding a solution to the disputes regarding the dam project. But we will raise the issue of Kotia panchayat as well,” said an official. The meeting comes at a time repeated intrusions by Andhra Pradesh government officials into the bordering villages of Odisha have worsened the situation. “We have deployed hundreds of policemen in the bordering areas of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh,” an official said. Despite Odisha’s opposition, Andhra Pradesh was able to hold pachayat elections in seven villages of the Kotia gram panchayat. After the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh into Andhra and Telangana, Andhra continued its expansion policy. Former Koraput MP Jairam Pangi said: “ A systematic plan has been adopted by the Andhra government to take away the villages of Odisha. It had earlier been successful and now is making a renewed attempt to grab more and more land from Odisha. They have succeeded because Odisha has neglected its border areas for a long time.” “As a part of its strategy, Andhra is putting extra emphasis on building infrastructure, roads and provide work to the people of the Kutia panchayat. But the Odisha government has failed here. People have little chance to know that development has also not taken place over the years in the interior parts of Andhra Pradesh,” Pangi added. The former MP said though the Odisha government created infrastructure, it failed to create sustainable livelihood opportunities for the people of the bordering areas. “While people sitting at the capital managed to win tenders and contracts for various projects, local people failed to earn a livelihood.” The former MP, who is currently in the BJP, said: “Both the states have engaged in a fierce battle over these areas. Now I have launched an agitation to form Dandakaranya Vikas Parishad, an area that would be formed taking four districts of Odisha and parts of Andhra Pradesh. It should be given the status of a Union territory. We need a separate identity.” Earlier, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan had written a letter urging the Andhra Pradesh government to try and find a solution the border disputes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
