09-11-2021||India||DU releases academic calendar for first year UG, PG courses||The Delhi University (DU) on Tuesday released the academic calendar for first year postgraduate and undergraduate courses for the academic year 2021-2022. The classes for first semester UG courses will begin on November 22 and the classes for first semester PG courses will begin on December 1. First-year even semester classes of UG courses will commence on April 7, and for PG courses it will commence on April 16. For first-semester UG students, theexamination will be held from March 21 to April 4 and the semester break will start immediately after the exam is over. For even semester students of UG classes the exam will be held from August 5 to August 22. The next academic session for even-semester first year students will begin on August 26. PG first semester exams will be held from March 30 to April 12. PG first year even semester exam will be held from August 12 to 25. On reopening of campus, as reported by PTI, a senior Delhi University official on Tuesday said it cannot be reopened till the time the DDMA allows 100 per cent seating capacity. “How can we reopen until and unless the DDMA allows 100 per cent seating capacity. Sixty per cent of students of the university are from outside Delhi. We can’t ask them to come here, stay in a hostel and take online classes since only 50 per cent seating capacity is allowed,” Delhi University Registrar Vikas Gupta told PTI. Students and teachers have been demanding the reopening of campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
09-11-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha announces daily tractor march to Parliament during Winter Session||To observe one year of the movement against the Centre's three agri laws, 500 farmers will participate in a peaceful tractor march to Parliament every day during the Winter Session starting November 29, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Tuesday.  Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the laws, which were stayed by the Supreme Court in January, at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year.  The SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions leading the stir, announced the tractor march after it held a meeting here.  Farmer leaders, who were present in the meeting, said that those participating in the tractor march will sit wherever the police will stop them.  In a statement, the amalgam said that it will observe one year of the movement on and after November 26 in a massive way all over India.  The SKM decided that from November 29 until the end of this Parliament session, 500 selected farmer volunteers will move every day to Parliament in tractor trollies peacefully and with full discipline, to assert their rights to protest in the national capital, the statement said.  This will be done to "'increase the pressure" on the central government "to force it to concede the demands for which farmers across the country have launched a historic struggle", it said.  Earlier in March too, farmers had taken out a foot march to Parliament to oppose the contentious three farm laws.  On January 26, a tractor rally had turned violent with protesters breaking barricades, attacking security personnel and storming the Red Fort, where they hoisted a religious flag.  Farmer leader and a representative of the Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sabha Abhimanyu Kohar said that farmers will sit in protest wherever the Delhi Police stops them on their way to Parliament.  He said that any decision about the route finalisation and the police permission for the tractor march will be taken later.  In today's meeting, only the tractor march was decided. Modalities about the route and permission will be decided in a few days. On our way to Parliament, if the police stop us we will sit wherever we will be stopped, Kohar told PTI.  He said that the tractor march will be peaceful and taken out in a disciplined manner.  We believe in peace and non-violence. There will be no connection, Kohar said.  The SKM statement also said that on November 26, there will be huge mobilisations from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan at all the Delhi borders  "All farm unions in the SKM will mobilise farmers in strength for this occasion. Huge public meetings will be held there (at borders) that day. Homage will be paid to more than 650 martyrs in this struggle so far," it said.  The SKM has also called for massive mahapanchayats in state capitals on November 26.  The Winter session of Parliament will begin on November 29 and go on till December 23rd.  The three laws - The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - were passed by Parliament in September last year.  During the 10th round of talks held on January 20 this year, the Centre had proposed to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their homes from Delhi's borders, but the offer was rejected by the farmer unions.  Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporations. They are demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price.  The government has rejected their apprehensions as misplaced and has projected the laws as major reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
09-11-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic affected implementation of NEP: UGC chief||University Grants Commission (UGC) chairman Prof Dhirendra Pal Singh on Tuesday said the Covid-19 pandemic had affected the implementation of the New Education Policy 2020 (NEP), and if the situation in the country had been normal, it would have been implemented at a faster pace. The Centre had announced the new NEP on July 29, 2020, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters here, Singh said due to the lockdown, academicians got a lot of time to discuss the new policy. The timing of the new NEP's announcement was good. However, the pandemic has affected its implementation. If the situation had been normal, then it would have been implemented at a faster pace, Singh said. The Centre has been interacting with the state governments and vice-chancellors of universities, and efforts are on to constitute regulatory mechanisms at different levels in this regard, the UGC chairman said. Some of the activities related to the NEP have already commenced from the current academic year, Singh said, adding that arrangements are being made to ensure that the policy gets implemented in the entire country from the July 2022 academic session. Earlier, Singh has delivered a lecture on the topic Changing face of education in Independent India in context with the new education policy, organised jointly by the English daily Free Press and Devi Ahilya Vishwa Vidayalaya (DAVV). The NEP will not only connect students with their cultural roots, but will also inspire them to become the world's best citizens, Singh said. The NEP is a unique amalgamation of the ancient cultural values and the modern knowledge and science, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
09-11-2021||India||Low age of victims in rape-and-murder cases not sufficient for imposing death penalty: SC||Low age of victims in rape-and-murder cases has not been considered as the "only or sufficient factor by this court" for imposing the death penalty, the Supreme Court has said referring to its verdict that had analysed 67 similar cases dealt by it in the last 40 years. The apex court's crucial observation came on an appeal of Irappa Siddappa who was convicted and given the death penalty by a trial court. The Karnataka High Court confirmed the trial court's decision on March 6, 2017. He was convicted for kidnapping, rape and murder of a five-year old-girl in the village of Khanapur in Karnataka in 2010 and post the incident, he had put the body of the victim in a bag and thrown it into a stream, named Bennihalla. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai confirmed the conviction of Siddappa for offences including rape, murder and destruction of evidence, but set aside the award of death penalty, which was handed down by courts below on grounds including the minor age of the victim, and commuted it to life imprisonment for a period of 30 years. "We find sufficient mitigating factors to commute the sentence of death imposed by the Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court into imprisonment for life, with the direction that the appellant shall not be entitled to premature release/remission for the offence under Section 302 (murder) of the Code until he has undergone actual imprisonment for at least thirty years, said the verdict penned by Justice Khanna for the bench. It also directed that the sentences shall run concurrently and not consecutively. The top court extensively dealt with arguments based on minor age of the victims in rape-and-murder cases and referred to the apex court's judgement in the Shatrughna Baban Meshram case in which 67 judgments of the Supreme Court in the previous 40 years were surveyed. In these judgements, death sentence had been imposed by the trial court or the High Court for the alleged offences under Sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) of the IPC, and where the age of victims was below 16 years, the apex court said. "Out of these 67 cases, this Court affirmed the award of death sentence to the accused in 15 cases. In three, ... out of said 15 cases, the death sentence was commuted to life sentence by this Court in review petitions. Out of the remaining 12 cases, in two cases..., the death sentence was confirmed by this Court and the review petitions were dismissed. Thus, as on date, the death sentence stands confirmed in 12 out of 67 cases where the principal offences allegedly committed were under Sections 376 and 302 IPC and where the victims were aged about 16 years or below, it said. Out of these 67 cases, at least in 51, the victims were aged below 12 years, it said, adding that in three cases, the death penalty was commuted to life sentence in review. It appears from the above data that the low age of the victim has not been considered as the only or sufficient factor by this Court for imposing a death sentence. If it were the case, then all, or almost all, 67 cases would have culminated in imposition of sentence of death on the accused, the top court said. It referred to various verdicts and said that though such an offence was heinous and required condemnation, it was not rarest of the rare, so as to require the elimination of the appellant from the society. The state government has not shown anything to prove the likelihood that the convict would commit acts of violence as a continuing threat to society, and his conduct in the prison has been described as satisfactory, it said. "There is no doubt that the appellant has committed an abhorrent crime, and for this we believe that incarceration for life will serve as sufficient punishment and penitence for his actions, in the absence of any material to believe that if allowed to live he poses a grave and serious threat to the society, and the imprisonment for life in our opinion would also ward off any such threat. We believe that there is hope for reformation, rehabilitation, and thus the option of imprisonment for life is certainly not foreclosed and therefore acceptable, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
09-11-2021||India||Legal profession not about profit maximisation but service to society: N V Ramana||Chief Justice N V Ramana on Tuesday said the legal profession is not about profit maximisation but for service to the society. Speaking at a function organised by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) to observe the "Legal Services Day", Ramana said students, educated in law, are empowered to be the voices of vulnerable and marginalised sections of the society. "Your decision to join the legal aid movement will pave the path for a great career. This will help you inculcate empathy, understanding and a sense of selflessness. Remember, unlike other professions, the legal profession is not about profit maximization, but about service to the society," the CJI said. Ramana said he was very happy to see Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju's personal inclination towards the progress of legal services authorities. Rijiju had addressed the function and expressed concern over unpalatable remarks being made on social meida against judges. The CJI further said, "I hope that under his leadership, the existing roadblocks in the growth of legal services authorities including the infrastructural issues will be taken care of with prompt intervention. I am glad that he fully understands the hard work put in by Judges." He expressed pleasure at seeing young law students who have shown enthusiasm in participating in the moot court competitions organized by the legal services authorities. "I honestly feel that you all are doubly privileged. Firstly, you are privileged to be educated in the premier institutes of the country, where information and knowledge is available at your fingertips. Secondly, being educated in law, you are empowered to be the voices of those who have none," he said. "It is your duty to remain alert about the social realities around you and be mindful about your role in responding to the same. I find it immensely beneficial for the law students that through the legal services authorities, they are coming face to face with the grass-root realities of our country. What I find more beneficial is that these students are becoming major players in the legal aid movement. They are essential for expanding the outreach of legal services to every corner of the country," the CJI added. Quoting Swami Vivekananda and Martin Luther King Jr, the CJI said the actual legal aid movement started much before the country's Independence, during the freedom struggle. "Several legal stalwarts used to offer their pro-bono legal services to our freedom fighters and fought against the might of colonial powers," he said. Ramana said the growth of the legal aid movement is reflected in our Constitution, wherein the expression 'Justice: Social, Economic and Political' finds special place in the Preamble. "It reflects the seriousness of the Members of the Constituent Assembly about the notion of Justice and its ambit. Earlier, the idea of legal aid was confined to court rooms. Notions of access to justice were understood from traditional viewpoints. But, over the course of 26 years, the legal services authorities have broken the traditional notions of legal aid and have given an expanded meaning to access to justice. Today, the role of legal services authorities is not constrained merely to the provision of court based legal representation..," he said. The CJI added the continuous upward trend of reaching an amicable solution through alternate dispute resolution mechanisms would proportionally reduce the burden on courts. He also launched the iOS version of the Legal Services application and also informed that NALSA's online portal opened its services in more languages. "This is a commendable achievement in removing the language barrier, leading the path towards accessibility. One more initiative, which I would like to commend is the launching of this short film festival on legal awareness. I have been informed that through this competition, the authorities are aiming to tap the potential of young and energetic school going students. I believe that this initiative would provide an opportunity to connect with society to the young generation. This competition would open a window for these students to bridge the existing inequities within our society," Ramana concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||18 CRPF men killed in fratricide incidents since 2018, say officials||The recent fratricide killing in Chhattisgarh has prompted the world's largest paramilitary force, CRPF, to again ask its formations to check mental and emotional stress among the troops, officials said on Tuesday. The fresh advisory comes a day after a jawan killed four of his colleagues by spraying bullets on them at a camp in Chhattisgarh's Naxal violence affected Sukma district, taking the number of deaths to 18 in 13 fratricide incidents since 2018. The guidelines and measures to ensure and check mental and emotional stress among the troops have been "reiterated", they said. "Six of these fatalities have taken place this year in five incidents in the force, which has about 95 percent of its total strength on operational duties at any given point of time," they added. CRPF director general (DG) and other senior officers are travelling to Chhattisgarh to take stock of the situation in the wake of the Sukma incident on Monday. After the incident, a CRPF spokesperson had said that "prima facie, it seems that due to some emotional stress leading to sudden psychological disbalance, constable Reetesh Ranjan lost his control and in a fit of rage opened fire on his colleagues." The paramilitary force, which has about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks and is the mainstay for internal security in the country, has recently issued a communication to all its formations to identify personnel who are either under depression or are stressed, and undertake appropriate counselling for them to curb suicide and fratricide like incidents. According to official data, a total of 193 suicides have been reported in the force since 2018, with 52 incidents being registered this year alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||Haryana: Farmers stage dharna in Hansi for second consecutive day||Farmers' indefinite dharna outside the mini-secretariat in Haryana's Hansi to press for their demand of withdrawal of an FIR against some farmers entered its second day on Tuesday. Three farmers have been booked in connection with a protest against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Ram Chander Jangra in Narnaund last week during which his car's windscreen was allegedly broken by the protesters. The farmers, however, have alleged that Jangra's associates had attacked them resulting in serious injuries to one of them. Farm union leaders said in Hansi on Tuesday that the administration is not ready to withdraw the FIR against farmers and file a case against the MP, which they are demanding. Farmers on Monday had announced to set up a pakka morcha (permanent dharna) in front of the mini-secretariat in Hansi in Hisar district. The mini-secretariat houses government offices including the office of Superintendent of Police, Hansi. Farmer leader Vikas Sisar had earlier said farmers held a meeting with the administration on Monday over their demands, though the outcome was not fruitful. Protesting farmers had earlier laid siege at Narnaund Police Station in Haryana's Hisar district for their demands. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had said that a farmer, Kuldeep Singh Rana, got seriously injured in the incident and is fighting for his life at Jindal Hospital. The 40-year-old owns a very small tract of land, the SKM said. "Farmers are demanding that the case against the farmers be taken back, and another case be filed for the injury suffered by Kuldeep Singh Rana, the SKM had earlier said. SKM, the umbrella body of farmer unions, had earlier said that if the matter was not resolved by Sunday, they would gherao the Hansi SP office on Monday. On Friday, the windshield of the Rajya Sabha MP's car was smashed after some miscreants allegedly threw lathis on the vehicle during a protest over his visit to Narnaund. A group of protesters carrying black flags blocked Jangra's route in Narnaund, according to police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi ranked second most influential on Twitter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is placed second in the list of the 50 most influential people on Twitter this year, according to an annual research carried out by consumer intelligence company Brandwatch. American singer Taylor Swift holds the number 1 spot Former Indian cricket captain and batting stalwart Sachin Tendulkar is ranked at number 35, The legendary right-hander is placed above the likes of American actors Dwayne Johnson and Leonardo Di Caprio, and former first lady of the United States Michelle Obama among others. The research cited Tendulkar's "appreciable real work for the less fortunate, lending his voice and presence for the right causes, his inspired fans following his work and his partner brands' relevant impactful campaigns" for his inclusion in the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||CBSE to use advanced data analytics to check adoption of unfair means in its exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will use advanced data analytics to ensure fairness in the examinations it conducts by identifying centres where there is a high probability of recourse to unfair means. Examinations have to be conducted in a standardised and fair manner. All efforts are made to prevent the adoption of unfair means through monitoring by appointing external observers and flying squads, and use of CCTV, said Antriksh Johri, Director (IT), CBSE.  "We have decided further to improve upon it by using advance data analytics to detect cases and centres where there is a high probability of recourse to unfair means during examinations," he said. A pilot analysis has been done on January 2021 Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) examination data in collaboration with the Central Square Foundation and Playpower Labs to develop algorithms to identify suspicious data patterns at the centre and the individual test-taker level.  "Based on the analysis results and the algorithms developed, CBSE has decided that such analysis will be extended to other administered examinations. The board will use advanced data analytics to detect, respond and therefore, in the long run, prevent any irregularities in academic testing across all major CBSE administered exams in the country," Johri said.  He said based on such analysis, CBSE aims to identify examination centres where the data indicates the existence of malpractices during the conduct of examinations. "Post this, appropriate measures can be taken by CBSE to strengthen the reliability of the examinations and to deter any such malpractices in the future. This will be used to strengthen the reliability of National Achievement Survey, Central Teachers Eligibility Test and board examinations conducted by CBSE," Johri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||Tripura on edge, politics of polarisation at play once again ||Tripura, an erstwhile Communist bastion, which had seen decades of bloodbath due to an upsurge of tribal separatism for decades, is on the boil again. This time, a reported attack on the North Tripura Mosque and assault on minorities, described as a reaction to violence against Hindus in neighbouring Bangladesh, has become the flashpoint of dispute in the the former princely state with a demonstrated history of armed conflict fought on ethno-religious identities. Discussions on the October 23 attack have been been dominating social media trends, assuming political overtones ahead of the high-octane assembly elections due in 2023. The Trinamul Congress, looking to make political forays in the tribal state, has accused the ruling BJP government of failing to control communal flare-ups in the state. Said TMC convener Subal Bhowmik, "The BJP has failed to maintain law and order. There were attacks on people. The government wants to muzzle the voice of people. It’s very much in their nature." His allegation was, however, refuted by the BJP with party spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee, alleging that "outsider" TMC was trying to disturb the peace of Tripura. “TMC has no right to speak on this. What did they do in West Bengal where Hindus were targeted after the assembly poll results were out? The BJP does not need TMC’s advice on how to maintain law and order in the state,” he said. Bhattacharya went on to allege that radical elements with links to Bangladesh were trying to rake up communal tension in the state, even alleging that the those linked to narcotics trade in Bangladesh were working in tandem to tarnish the image of the state because of the BJP government's crackdown on the drug mafia. Bangla violence spillover The attack on a Durga Puja pandal in neighbouring Bangladesh’s Comilla district which borders Tripura became the cause of anger among right-wing groups in the eastern state. Spiralling attacks on Hindus in nearly 100 Durga Puja pandals, media reports on alleged murders of Ramakrishna Mission and ISKCON devotees became the rallying points of such outifts in Tripura that saw a series of protest rallies and meetings to condemn the attacks in the neighbouring country. Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the Hindu Jagran Manch (HJM) took out rallies at Udaipur in Gomati district on October 21 and clashed with police as the latter denied them permission to enter localities with a mixed population. Social media trends Over the past fortnight, an alleged attack on a mosque in the Panisagar area was highlighted in social media with a number of photographs, which police termed as "fake". State information and cultural affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury told TheTelegraphOnline that "fake online propaganda" was being unleashed on social medai to defame the Tripura government. “Nowadays, you have social media where anything can be uploaded at will. People with vested interests can socially influence people and give anything and everything a communal colour. I don’t deny the reports of minor scuffles btween demonstrators and police,  but I certainly deny serious reports like the attack on the mosque and minorities,” Chowdhury said. Soon after the minister promised action on people who, according to him, indulged in rumour-mongering, Tripura police have booked 102 people under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for protesting, or even merely mentioning, the recent communal violence in the state’s northern districts on different social media platforms. On November 6, cases were filed against 68 Twitter account holders, 32 people on Facebook, and two on YouTube. The cases, first filed by the West Agartala police station, have now been transferred to the state’s crime branch. Two New Delhi-based lawyers – Ansar Indori and Mukesh –were booked under UAPA for participating in an independent fact-finding enquiry into the communal violence in which properties owned by Muslims and mosques were specifically attacked allegedly by far-right Hindutva groups. Assistant inspector-general (Law and Order) Subrata Chakraborty said, “The UAPA has been invoked considering the sensitive nature of the issue. We have taken serious note of the social media posts and cases.” Fear of the past Tripura is not new to insurgency based on communal and ethnic lines. Decades of insurgency has left a substantial toll on peoples’ lives. The evolution of insurgency in Tripura can be traced to the formation of the Tripura Upajati Juba Samiti (TUJS) in 1971, followed by the Tripura National Volunteers (TNV) in 1981. The National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) was formed on March 2, 1989 and its armed wing, the National Holy Army and All Tripura Tiger Force (ATTF), in July 1990. Between 1990 and 1995, the insurgency remained low-key. It grew in extent and magnitude between 1996 and 2004. Later, it started melting. According to political observers, the present communal tension and the possibility of a flare-up before the assembly polls in the BJP-ruled state could become a topic of communal polarisation in the state. “Going by the trends noticed earlier, there is a high possibility of communal flare-up with politics of identity gaining ground. The situation should not be allowed to turn volatile,” said academician and political observer Rupam Bhattacharya. Religious organisations trade charges Organisations such as Tablighi Jamaat, Jamat-e-Islami Hind and Popular Front of India (PFI) have upped the ante. "We fear communal polarisation,” said president of the Jamat-e-Islami Hind for Assam, Tripura and Mizoram, Nurul Islam Mazarbhuiya. Prominent minority organisations of the state, Tripura State Jamiat Ulama (Hind) and Tripura State Imams’ Committee, alleged that a “microscopic group of miscreants” was trying to create communal unrest. Representatives of these organisations even submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Biplab Deb's office (CMO) last month. An RSS functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, feared that the proliferation of organisations such as Jamiat Ulama (Hind), PFI and Tablighi Jamaat, could disturb communal harmony in the state. “Tripura has a significant 25 per cent Muslim population in some areas like Sipahijala, Sonamura and Bishalgarh. Radical groups like Jamiat Ulama (Hind), PFI and Tablighi Jamaat are trying to fish in troubled waters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||An Initiative Towards Rationality and Animal Safety: “Sarpmitra Akash Jadhav”||A job that was taken up as passion turned out to be one of the biggest initiatives to rescue snakes and other wild animals as well as bring awareness about animal safety, rescue, first aid and most important myths that can be life threatening. Akash Jadhav in 2017 started his own YouTube channel, named, “Sarpmitra Akash Jadhav” to facilitate his vision of raising awareness against the  long  persistent myths about snake bites and rendering knowledge about varieties of snakes, their bites and the necessary first aid. His journey towards this, 4.46 million subscriber’s family on YouTube started at an early age when he had to drop out of school in class 7th due to financial scarcity of his family. However, in 2007 he moved to  Satara district and with his relative Sunil Bambal who was already a professional snake rescuer engrossed himself in the study of snakes and their rescue techniques. By 2008, Akash had become proficient in the work and moved back to Ahmednagar to start his own work. Having knowledge about the different types of snakes, their bites, its after effects and majorly the required first aid, Akash was able to get 5 to 10 rescue calls on daily basis, and soon he opened a 27*7 rescue center for all. However, with the increasing pressure of work and his promptness to spread his knowledge with the younger generations, more members were added to the rescue team with proper guidance in the field. The members showed signs of robustness and was like an influential team with both male and female members depicting equality and equity in all terms. Atul Pakhare, Nawaz Shaikh, Rishikesh Jadhav, Shiraj Sayyed, Siddhant Waghchaure, Rishikesh Paredeshi and Aniket Pakhare were the first to join the team and then followed Megha Bhalerav, Neeta Gajare, Rajeshri Alhat and Sheetal Kashar. Even after such success something was missing for Akash. His aim was still far from him as he was confined to his own region and his urge to spread the education about snakes and against myths was being restricted. Therefore, to proceed further he joined hands with different schools in his region to initiate campaigns and programs for spreading this knowledge. However, he was still not fully satisfied by what he had achieved and wanted to spread his word amongst the masses of the nation to remove the strong myths that had overpowered man’s rationality and lead to harming both men and animals. Finally, in 2017 he launched his YouTube channel “Sarpmitra Akash Jadhav” and the channel fetched the month viewership of 21.28 million and daily viewership of about 709 thousand. It was not just this engagement that made Akash believe in his efforts but even the monetary benefits that he earned which was a net worth of the $5.11 million, from his YouTube channel. By believing in his efforts and ideas about snake rescue, first aid and knowledge which was above every superstition, Akash Jadhav was able to fulfill his dreams and chase his goals like no other could. With the support that he gathered from all the people he and his team have rescued more than 12000 species of wild animals, they run a 24*7 rescue center for animals and also perform the pious task of imparting knowledge for the growth and protection of all. https://instagram.com/sarpmitra.akashjadhav25?utm_medium=copy_link||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||Renowned Fitness Blogger Harman Sidhu On Being An Inspiration To Others||In the fitness industry, there are many different types of influencers. On the other hand, Harman Sidhu is unique among them all because she is a successful postpartum fitness and lifestyle blogger. Harman committed adequate time and attention to her body after her daughter was born, allowing her to be the greatest mother she could be to her child. Harman Sidhu is a well-known and well-respected fitness and lifestyle blogger in India. She is a loving mother and a gifted blogger who has risen to the top of the influencer world on her own. Her post-pregnancy physical transformation and commitment to excellent health inspire many women around her. Harman has inspired many mothers with her astounding physical and healthy transformation. Harman encourages women to embrace themselves, build confidence, and prioritise their needs and health in addition to the physical makeover. Harman's journey and postpartum fitness routines receive only positive feedback from women who admire her. The influencer uses her Instagram account to offer updates about her excellent work and to inspire thousands of others. Many women approached Harman and expressed their gratitude for how she helped them feel more secure and in love with their bodies. Harman Sidhu, a fitness and lifestyle blogger, says he has been an inspiration to hundreds of women "When mothers message me and appreciate me, I feel elated. There is a lot of power in positivity and kind words. Women share how they also want to embrace fitness and a healthy lifestyle. They understand how it's crucial for themselves and their family. I believe only when I am happy and healthy will my daughter be happy and healthy. It makes me incredibly happy if others are inspired by my journey. I hope I keep going on and give my best in everything." Check out Harman's Instagram page here - https://www.instagram.com/harman_fitness_mommy/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||ANMOL DHINGRA: The pro digital media marketer and an influencer||The meme page Adulthomie needs no introduction, right? If you don't know what it is, you might be living in a shell. The page is being talked about all around with a whopping 1.3 million followers on Instagram. It's not just a regular meme page but a sensation that has got people addicted to its content. The founder of the page, Anmol dhingra  talks about how he understood in the initial days itself, the power of social media and what impact it can have on people from all stratas of life. He wanted to make it worth their while. He says that people want something unique and something entertaining all the time. His aim of starting Adulthomie  was never to create viral content but just to make people enjoy life with the elements of fun and excitement. He says that the struggles continue but what keeps us going is the positivity we spread around and live in. To use social media as a platform to make people enjoy a burst of laughter is not a new idea but getting it right and standing apart from the crowd is what makes the page unique. He owes the success of his page to the lovely followers and his team cum family who supported him throughout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||Neel Shah Views On Entrepreneurial Success Via Social Media||They say you always have to be a step ahead if you truly want to be one of the most successful people and no one knows this better than Neel Shah. By kick-starting his career in the social media platform, this Bcom graduate has achieved several milestones due to his hard work and dedication. Professionally Neel is a social media expert who works his fingers to the bones to uplift his client's businesses. When asked about his profession, he says, " My profession is simply Entrepreneurship that is helping people with my skills. I help people to uplift their businesses via social media." Thanks to his strategic skills and extensive knowledge about the market, Neel has successfully taken several businesses to new heights. Currently, he is the Ceo of LKS Media and also the owner of the renowned social media page named Log.Kya.Sochenge. The page is purely based on entertainment and relatable content which is followed by over 4.5 million active users. On asking about his social media page, Neel said " I started this page in the year 2017. At that time, the main motive behind starting this page was to keep people entertained by posting relatable content." Adding to it, he also admits that in today's world, his social media page has allowed him to achieve Entrepreneurial success. Entrepreneurial triumph can only be achieved by having certain skills and dedication. Neel firmly believes that you have to be a person with vision if you want to achieve success via social media. Social media provides numerous opportunities but recognizing those opportunities is no less than skill and no one knows this better than Neel. On asking about how he envisions the future, Neel says, " It is clear that social media is going to be the future if it isn't already. If people want to live the life of their dreams then social media can be one of their ways. But remember, only people with talent and resilience can make it to the top." By being aware of the growing competition, Neel is still striving hard to ensure that he achieves everything he has dreamed of. The journey might get tougher but we all know that his determination will allow him to go to the heights of success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
09-11-2021||India||Steps essential to start photography business by the astute candid wedding photographer himself, Aniket Kanade||Getting deep down into the world of business is a huge decision. It is not something people have done overnight and have definitely not attained success easily. The path to success in any business requires individuals to face several obstacles and challenges that may test their patience at every step of the way. However, what stands important here is the power, potential, passion and perseverance that people show in order to gain tremendous success in their industries. The world of photography is no different and poses different hurdles, overcoming which people can become their best versions as photographers. For any aspiring photographer, the number one question that may surround their mind is how to set up a full-fledged photography business. Aniket Kanade, who has made quite a name for himself as a professional candid wedding photographer with many celebrity clients as well says that photography is a mixture of both artistic and technical aspects, and photographers must ace both to reach their definition of success. He explains that the journey to success as a photographer at the initial stage can be slow, but following the abovementioned points can definitely help photographers set a robust photography business, even amidst competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Punjab CM removes Advocate General APS Deol||The Punjab Cabinet has accepted the resignation of Advocate General A P S Deol and the post left vacant by him will be filled by Wednesday, said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here. State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been pushing for the replacement of Deol, who had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 desecration incidents and police firing on protesters.  Addressing the media after the Cabinet meeting, Channi said the AG had resigned a few days ago. "The Cabinet today accepted it (resignation)," said Channi, adding that it would be sent to the state governor. "Tomorrow, the new AG will be appointed," said Channi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Bhopal hospital blaze: CM Chouhan orders fire safety audit of all hospitals in MP||A day after the death of four infants in fire at a hospital in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday ordered for the fire safety audit of all government and private hospitals in the state. The chief minister said the fire at the hospital in the state capital on Monday was a result of "criminal negligence", and the guilty will not be spared.  "It was our (government's) responsibility to save these children as they were under our protection. This is a serious incident," he said addressing state ministers and government officials before the cabinet meeting. "This is criminal negligence. Whoever is guilty will not be spared we need to prevent such unfortunate incidents in future. All necessary arrangements should be made to avoid such incidents," he said.  The CM also said fire safety was now more important as oxygen plants and their supply lines were installed at various hospitals in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. A major fire broke out on Monday in the special newborn care unit (SNCU) located on the third floor of the government-run Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital building here, killing four infants.  "I had directed earlier also to conduct the fire safety audit of hospitals. Now, I am telling the chief secretary to submit a report about in which hospitals fire safety audit was conducted and which were left out," Chouhan said before the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday.  Chouhan also ordered for the fire safety audit of all government and private hospitals of the state again to prevent such incidents in future. He praised state Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang, who immediately rushed to the hospital here after the blaze on Monday and took care of the relief works.  The doctors, nurses, ward boys and other people who saved 36 infants by putting their lives in danger will be feliciated, the CM said. Chouhan also said he was keen to visit the spot on Monday night, but "I was stopped so that the relief work could go on smoothly."  The CM said he was issuing directives to the officials throughout the night and taking stock of the situation. After the fire in the hospital here on Monday, Chouhan had ordered a high-level probe into it, to be conducted by Additional Chief Secretary, health and medical education, Mohammad Suleiman. Meanwhile, state Urban Administration Minister Bhupendra Singh, who is in-charge minister of Bhopal district, also visited the fire-hit hospital here on Tuesday along with Sarang. A big tragedy was averted as the infants were timely shifted to another place. At present, we have information of four deaths. The inquiry will reveal what led to their deaths. This is a sad incident and measures are being taken to avoid such incidents in future, Singh said. According to Sarang, a total of 40 children were admitted to the SNCU of the Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital. Out of them, 36 were undergoing treatment in different wards, he said.  Four children died in the fire that broke out probably due to a short circuit, he said. The CM earlier announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each for the family members of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Nawab Malik promises to 'expose' Devendra Fadnavis' underworld connections||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Tuesday refuted former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis' charge that the former had bought land parcels from the people linked with the underworld, saying he will drop a "hydrogen bomb" on Wednesday and expose the "underworld links" of the BJP leader. Malik said he did not buy any property from anyone who is linked to the underworld or is a convict in a bomb blast case. He said by trying to link him with the underworld and bomb blast convicts, Fadnavis is maligning his image. Hours before, Fadnavis had alleged that a company of Nawab Malik and his family members had purchased land in suburban Kurla at a very cheap rate through fictitious documents from two convicts of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. He also alleged that Malik and his family members had entered into land deals with people associated with the underworld. Malik said his daughter will send a legal notice to Fadnavis on Wednesday for his comments against his son-in-law Sameer Khan, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) earlier this year and later released on bail. Just after Fadnavis finished his press conference, Malik tweeted, I am coming , in an apparent message that he will hit back. The charges levelled by Devendra Fadnavis are baseless. I never bought any property from anyone linked to the underworld or a blast convict, Malik told a press conference. He said Fadnavis is making a mountain of a molehill . Fadnavis had said Malik and his family members were part of a company that purchased land in the Kurla area of Mumbai at a very low rate by making some fictitious documents from Sardar Shahwali Khan and Saleem Ishaq Patel, who were convicted in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. Malik said he has been in public life for over 26 years and no one has levelled charges, linking him to the underworld and blast convicts. He said the properties bought by him have been acquired legally after paying stamp duty. All deals have been done in a very transparent manner, Malik claimed. Last week, Fadnavis had claimed that he will burst a bomb by exposing Malik's links with the underworld. Taking a dig, Malik said Fadnavis' bomb turned out to be a dud cracker but he will drop a hydrogen bomb on Wednesday morning, exposing how the BJP leader held the city hostage when he was chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Biennial polls to legislative councils in four states on Dec 10: EC||Biennial elections to the legislative councils in Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh from 42 local authorities' constituencies will be held on December 10, the Election Commission announced on Tuesday. The term of office of the eight sitting members of the Maharashtra Legislative Council from seven local authorities' constituencies is going to expire on January 1 next year, the poll panel said in a statement. With regard to local authorities' constituencies election, the commission has laid down the guidelines that if at least 75 per cent of the local authorities in a local authorities' constituency are functioning, and in addition at least 75 per cent of the electors out of the total electorate of the constituency are available, then electorate is treated as available for electing representatives to the legislative council, it said. According to the information received from the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Maharashtra, the existence of constituent local body functioning is more than 75 per cent in five out of the seven local authorities' constituencies, the Election Commission (EC) said. The commission has decided to hold biennial elections to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from five local authorities' constituencies for six seats, including two of Mumbai. In another statement, the EC said the term of office of the 12 sitting members of the Telangana Legislative Council from nine local authorities' constituencies is going to expire on January 4 next year. The commission has decided to hold biennial elections to the Telangana Legislative Council from the above mentioned nine local authorities' constituencies, it said. In another statement, the EC said the term of office of the 25 sitting members of the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 local authorities' constituencies is going to expire on January 5 next year. Now, the commission has decided to hold biennial elections to Karnataka Legislative Council from the above-mentioned 20 local authorities' constituencies, it said. The term of office of 11 sitting members of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council from eight local authorities' constituencies had expired on August 8 this year. The commission having re-assessed the COVID-19 pandemic situation in Andhra Pradesh and after taking into consideration all relevant facts, has now decided to conduct biennial election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council from eight local authorities' constituencies, the statement said. While the polls for all the legislative council seats will be held on December 10, the counting of votes will take place on December 14, the EC said. The election process has to be completed by December 16. Broad guidelines of COVID-19 as already issued by EC as well as the recent guidelines issued by it would be followed, wherever applicable, during the entire election process for all persons. The Model Code of Conduct concerning the said elections will come into force with immediate effect in the concerned Constituency, the EC said. The chief secretaries of the states have also been directed to depute a senior officer to ensure that the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Operation cover-up by Modi govt in Rafale deal once again exposed, says Congress||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Modi government of conducting an operation to "cover-up" corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal and asked why it did not initiate investigation into the role of a middleman despite recovering incriminating documents from him. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera also alleged that the BJP government has sacrificed national security, jeopardised the interests of the Indian Air Force and caused loss worth thousands of crores of rupees to the state exchequer. French investigative journal Mediapart in fresh revelations in a report has exposed how middleman Sushen Gupta got hold of confidential documents belonging to the Indian Negotiating Team (INT) in 2015 from the ministry of defence, he said. "The documents detailed the stance of Indian negotiators during the final lap of negotiation and in particular how they calculated the price of the aircraft. This gave clear advantage to Dassault Aviation (Rafale)," Khera claimed, citing the Mediapart report. "The 'operation cover-up' by the Modi government to bury the melting pot of corruption, kickbacks and collusion in Rafale deal is once again exposed," he said. "The BJP government undermined national security, jeopardised the interests of the Indian Air Force and caused loss worth thousands of crores to our exchequer," Khera said at a press confrence. Each revelation in the "murky affair in the last five years, every single allegation and each piece of the puzzle leads right up to the topmost leadership of the country- the prime minister's doorstep", he said. Khera alleged that the latest revelations in "operation cover-up" reveal the "dubious nexus" between the Modi government-CBI-ED to bury the corruption in the Rafale deal. The Congress leader asked whether it is not correct that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) recovered "secret defence ministry documents" from the middlemen in a raid conducted on March 26, 2019. The documents, he claimed, included the 'benchmark price document' of August 10, 2015, the 'record of discussions' by the INT of the defence ministry, the 'excel sheet of calculations made by defence ministry' and 'Eurofighter's counter offer of 20 per cent discount to government of India'. Khera alleged that a note of June 24, 2014, sent to Dassault by Gupta, offering a meeting with "the political high command" was also recovered and asked if such a meeting had taken place with the "high command" in the Modi government. "This is nothing short of endangering national security, sedition and a gross violation of Official's Secrets Act," he alleged. "Why did the ED not pursue these evidences further to investigate the scam? Why did the Modi government then not take action against Dassault, the political executive or the defence ministry officers who leaked the documents? Which 'Chowkidar' sold India's national secrets," Khera asked. The Congress leader also alleged that Prime Minister Modi abrogated the anti-corruption clauses -- "no bribery, no gift, no influence, no commission, no middlemen". These are a mandatory clauses in defence contracts according to the defence procurement procedure and were part of the tender by the UPA for purchase of 126 fighter aircraft, he said. "Were the anti-corruption clauses deleted to escape responsibility from bribery and commission to be paid in the Rafale deal? Why was the deletion of anti-corruption clauses approved by the prime minister and the Modi government in September 2016, despite the defence ministry's insistence upon including it in the inter-governmental agreement in July 2015," Khera asked. "Is this the reason that CBI-ED refused to probe the corruption in Rafale deal since October 11, 2018, till date," he asked. Khera claimed that on October 4, 2018, two former BJP Union ministers Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie and a senior lawyer submitted a complaint to director of the CBI citing massive corruption in the Rafale deal. On October 11, 2018, the government of Mauritius, through its attorney general, supplied documents to the CBI regarding alleged payment of commission connected to the Rafale deal, he said. But, on October 23, 2018, CBI Director Alok Verma was removed in a "midnight coup" after the CBI headquarters was raided by the Delhi Police, Khera said, alleging that this was part of a concerted conspiracy to bury the Rafale ghost through the CBI. "Why has the Modi government and the CBI not acted upon the evidence of commission and corruption for the last 36 months? Why has it been buried ? Why did the Modi government remove the CBI Chief in a midnight coup," the Congress leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Devendra Fadnavis brings Nawab Malik's 'underworld link' forward||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday alleged that state minister Nawab Malik and his family members entered into land deals with people associated with the underworld. Speaking to reporters here, Fadnavis also claimed he did not have this information earlier (when he was the state's chief minister). The BJP leader said had he found this previously, he would have exposed NCP leader Malik earlier. Notably, Malik earlier this month sought to link the BJP with an alleged narcotics dealer by tweeting the latter's photograph with the former chief minister's wife Amruta Fadnavis. Malik had also posted a similar photograph of Devendra Fadnavis with alleged the drug dealer. The former CM had then said he will make revelations about Malik's underworld links after Diwali and also share the same with NCP president Sharad Pawar. On Tuesday, Fadnavis said, Nawab Malik and his family members were part of a company which purchased land in Kurla (area of Mumbai) at a very low rate by making some fictitious documents. "There are four such land purchase deals where I can firmly say that Malik has entered into land deals with the underworld." He claimed the land was purchased from Sardar Shahwali Khan and Saleem Ishaq Patel, who were convicted in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. "Why did you do business with the killers of Mumbaikars? the BJP leader asked. "Another question arises that why did these two accused persons sell their land to Malik? They were about to get convicted under then TADA (Terrorist and Disruptive Activities Prevention Act). As per that legal provision, all the properties of convicts get attached and come under government control. Did Malik help them to avoid such land on prime location from getting attached?" he asked. The LoP claimed Nawab Malik's son Faraz Malik had signed the agreement documents of the Kurla land deal with Sardar Shahwali Khan and Saleem Ishaq Patel. "I did not have this information earlier (during chief ministerial tenure). Had I found it, I would have exposed him (Nawab Malik) earlier. I will submit these documents to appropriate authorities like the CBI, ED or NIA. I will also share a copy of it with NCP chief Sharad Pawar," he said. Nawab Malik has since last month levelled a series of allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede after he led a raid on a cruise ship, following which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and some others were arrested. The NCP leader's son-in-law Sameer Khan was also arrested by the NCB earlier this year in an alleged drugs case and was later granted bail by a court. On November 1, Devendra Fadnavis had said Malik's attack on the NCB was an attempt to put pressure on officials of the anti-drugs agency so that the case against his son-in-law is weakened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||BJP slams Congress over fresh Rafale report||Seizing on a French media report that commissions were paid between 2007 and 2012 for securing the Rafale deal with India, the BJP on Tuesday said the INC (Indian National Congress) should be renamed as "I Need Commission" and alleged that the Congress' dissatisfaction with the cut on offer was behind the failed negotiations when it was in power. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra launched a scathing attack on the Congress leadership, especially Rahul Gandhi who has been alleging corruption in the purchase of the fighter aircraft by the Modi government, and accused him of spreading "canard, disinformation and lies". Patra also sought Rahul Gandhi's response to the fresh revelation by French investigative journal Mediapart. "He should respond to this from Italy," Patra said, citing reports that the Congress leader is currently not in India. Corruption has become "homeless" after the BJP came to power, and its address is 10 Janpath, he alleged, referring to the residence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The Congress hit back at the BJP, saying that the government has launched "operation cover up" and demanded to know as to why it had not probed the entire episode so far. Noting that his party has been seeking a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the deal, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked as to why the government has not agreed to this. Political battle over the matter has heated up after Mediapart made fresh claims that bogus invoices were used that enabled French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation to pay at least 7.5 million euros in secret commissions to a middleman to help it secure the Rafale deal with India. According to Mediapart's investigation, Dassault Aviation paid the kickbacks to the intermediary in Mauritius between 2007 and 2012. The Congress-led UPA was in power between 2004 and 2014, leading the ruling BJP for the first time to launch an aggressive counter-attack on the main opposition party after confining itself mostly to dismiss its allegations of corruption in the deal. The Modi government had inked the deal on September 23, 2016, to procure 36 Rafale jets from Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the UPA regime. Hitting out at the Congress, Patra alleged that it was clearly the dissatisfaction of the Congress and the Gandhi family that was the main reason behind the negotiations falling through during the UPA government. The Mediapart story says that "corruption, influence-peddling and favouratism" marked the deal during the UPA government, he noted and said, "It will not be an exaggeration to say that the INC be renamed as 'I Need Commission'. "Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Robert Vadra . all say that I need commission," Patra said. The UPA government had a deal within every deal, he added. The Congress has in past said that the allegations of corruption by the BJP against its ruling family and its members were driven by vendetta. To a question about the Congress' demand as to why the government has not probed the matter, Patra noted that the alleged middleman was earlier arrested by Enforcement Directorate in a corruption case and said probe agencies must be looking into the matter. The BJP spokesperson said the alleged middleman Sushen Mohan Gupta, whose name has cropped up in the Rafale case, was also accused of pocketing commission in the purchase of VVIP choppers. This is too much of a coincidence, and too much of a coincidence is always a conspiracy, he said. The Supreme Court and the CAG have already gone into the contents of the Rafale deal signed by the Modi government and found nothing wrong in it, Patra said. He said Rahul Gandhi had made the alleged corruption in the purchase a big election issue during the 2019 polls but it failed to make any impact. The BJP retained power with a bigger majority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||Chhath Puja celebrated with fervour across India||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||HC raps 'adamant' MSRTC workers for not withdrawing strike despite panel set up by Maha government||The Bombay High Court has deprecated the "adamant stand" taken by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation employees of not withdrawing their strike despite the Maharashtra government extending full cooperation and setting up a panel to address their demand of merger of the MSRTC with the state government.  A vacation bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade in its order made available late Monday night said the Maharashtra government under Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, complied with everything that the MSRTC workers had demanded for withdrawing their strike/agitation. We do not understand why the employees of the MSRTC have now backed out from what they themselves wanted the government to consider, the bench said, adding the state government has cooperated fully with regard to the demand of the MSRTC workers.  A section of the MSRTC employees has not been reporting for duty since October 28 seeking a merger of the cash-strapped corporation with the state government. Pursuant to the HC's orders on Monday, the state government had set up a three-member committee to consider the demand of the MSRTC workers to be treated as state government employees. A government resolution to this effect was issued on Monday evening and the committee even held its first meeting.  Advocate Gunaratan Sadavarte, appearing for the MSRTC workers, however, told the court on Monday evening that the government resolution was not in line with the one issued in October 2020 in the case of reservations pertaining to the promotion of employees from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe categories. Sadavarte told the court that several employees of the MSRTC have committed suicide and some of them in their suicide notes blamed the state chief minister for the same.  He said the workers were hence, not willing to withdraw their strike. The HC, however, said, We fail to understand how by not wanting to abide by the order passed by this court and insisting on continuing to breach the orders of this court, the employees (of MSRTC) stand to gain and how such an adamant stand taken by the employees of the MSRTC will prevent their colleagues from taking the drastic step of committing suicide."  The court in its order noted that Sadavarte had on Monday assured that the workers would withdraw their strike/agitation once the state government forms a committee and the panel holds its first meeting to consider their demand. The bench also observed that on Monday evening, the state government's resolution setting up the three-member committee as well as the minutes of the committee's first meeting were submitted.  In the minutes of the first meeting held by the committee, it is categorically recorded that the committee has been constituted to consider the demands of the employees of the MSRTC to be treated as employees of the State Government, the court said.  The bench then directed the MSRTC to initiate appropriate proceedings and file a contempt petition against the workers who are on strike, and posted the matter for further hearing on November 10. On Monday, the ongoing stir by the MSRTC employees had spread to 223 bus depots, affecting services and inconveniencing lakhs of passengers across the state.  Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab last week said a discussion on the demand for the merger of the MSRTC with the state government and other issues related to the loss-making corporation will take place after Diwali. The MSRTC is one of the biggest state transport corporations in the country with a fleet of more than 16,000 buses and around 93,000 employees, including drivers and conductors.  The corporation used to ferry over 65 lakh passengers daily before the coronavirus outbreak last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
09-11-2021||India||BJP leader Rao says Brahmins, Baniyas are in his pockets||BJP General Secretary P Muralidhar Rao on Monday triggered a huge row with his statement that people belonging to Brahmin and Baniya communities are in his "pockets". Rao, in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, came under attack from the Congress which sought an apology from the BJP leader, who later claimed the opposition party has "distorted" his statement. Addressing a press conference here at the BJP's state headquarters, Rao said the party and its governments are going to have special focus on scheduled tribes and scheduled castes not as vote-banks but to address their concern like backwardness, employment and education. After this, journalists asked Rao that perception about the BJP has been that it is a political party of Brahmins-Baniyas and he was talking about special focus on SCs/STs at a time when the saffron outfit's slogan is sabka saath, sabka vikas (with all, for everyone's development). In reply, the BJP leader, while pointing towards his kurta's pockets, said, "Brahmins and Baniyas are in my pockets . You (media people) termed us a Brahmin and Baniya party when most workers and vote bank were from these sections," he said, adding that the BJP is working towards gaining trust of all sections of the society. "When the number of people belonging to certain sections was higher, people used to say the party belongs to them. We are working to add more people from the SC/ST sections in our party after finding their lower representation. We are reaching out to all and making the BJP a party for every section," he said. Rao said the BJP is not leaving out any section, including Brahmins and Baniyas, from its representation, but only including those who were left out to become a national party in true sense. After a 6-second video of Rao's controversial remark surfaced on social media and was shared by several leaders of Opposition, state Congress president Kamal Nath lashed out at the BJP. In a statement here, the former CM said the BJP gave the slogan sabka saath sabka vikas and his party's general secretary is saying the Brahmins and Baniyas are in his pockets. "This is an insult of these sections as the BJP is claiming its right over them. What kind of respect is given to these classes whose leaders have played an important role in building the BJP? BJP leaders have become arrogant due to power," he said. Nath said the BJP should seek an apology from these communities. A party which talk about sabka saath, sabka vikas is now focussing on certain sections for power, he said. Later, in a video statement, Rao said the Congress has a habit of "distorting" facts and statements. "We don't discriminate among sections of the society. All Indians should be part of development. The Congress betrayed and divided all sections of the society. If STs are backward, the only reason is that the Congress has done injustice to them," the BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' category for second consecutive day||Mercury rose by a few notches in the national capital on Tuesday as the minimum temperature settled at 15.4 degrees Celsius, even as the air quality index remained in the 'very poor' category for the second consecutive day. The relative humidity in the morning was recorded at 85 per cent, according to the India Meteorological Department. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 28 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, it said. The minimum temperature on Monday had settled at 13.6 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was recorded 29.2 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature stood at 15.4 degrees Celsius, an IMD official said. The air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was recorded in the 'very poor' category at 400 in the morning, data from CPCB showed. It was in the same category on Monday as well, which was a marginal improvement from the last three days when it was recorded in the 'severe' category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The weather department has forecast north-northwesterly winds later in the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Daily rise in Covid cases in country lowest in 266 days||India logged 10,126 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 266 days, while the active cases dipped to 1,40,638, the lowest in 263 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 3,43,77,113. The death toll climbed to 4,61,389 with 332 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 32 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 135 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.41 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.25 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,188 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.93 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 36 days. They positivity rate was also recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 46 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,37,75,086, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 109.08 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 332 new fatalities include 262 from Kerala and 15 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the past few days. A total of 4,61,389 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,403 from Maharashtra, 38,118 from Karnataka, 36,226 from Tamil Nadu, 33,978 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,903 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,240 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: NCB vigilance team questions Prabhakar Sail for over 10 hours||Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness, was questioned for more than 10 hours by the NCB's Delhi vigilance team, probing the pay-off allegations in the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an accused, an NCB official said on Tuesday. He has been called by the anti-drugs agency again on Tuesday, the official said. Earlier, after being summoned by the NCB on Sunday, Sail along with his lawyer reached the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) mess in suburban Bandra under police protection at 2 pm on Monday. He left the place, where the NCB team questioned him, around 12.20 am on Tuesday with his lawyer and did not speak to media persons present outside the premises. "We have called him again for questioning on Tuesday, NCB's Deputy Director General (northern region) Gyaneshwar Singh said. The NCB's vigilance team, headed by Singh, who is also chief vigilance officer (CVO) of the federal anti-narcotics agency, had reached here from Delhi on Monday morning. Sail, who claims to be the bodyguard of NCB witness KP Gosavi, last month alleged in an affidavit that he had heard Gosavi discussing a Rs 25 crore pay-off deal after Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB. Sail claimed that Gosavi had said Rs 8 crore of the deal money was to be given to NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Sail's allegations had prompted the NCB to order a vigilance inquiry against NCB officials and others. Wankhede had denied the allegations against him. Last month, a vigilance team led by Singh came to Mumbai to probe the allegations of extortion, but had then failed to record Sail's statement. It had at that time recorded statements of eight persons, including Wankhede, and collected some important documents and recordings related to the cruise drugs case, an official earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Four children die in fire at Madhya Pradesh government hospital ||For children, admitted at the government-run Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital here, died in a fire that broke out on Monday night, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. The blaze started in a ward on the third-floor of the hospital, which houses the ICU, an official said. The newborns, who were just about one to nine days old, had not even been named by their parents as they were admitted to the Special Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the hospital. "We are unable to save three children who were already seriously ill in the fire incident, which is very painful. The rescue operation was swift and the blaze is under control now but unfortunately the lives of three children could not be saved," Chouhan tweeted. "A high-level probe into the incident is ordered. The probe will be conducted by additional chief secretary (ACS) health and medical education, Mohammad Suleiman," he added. Later, he announced a compensation of ₹ 4 lakh for the family members of the victims, reported ndtv.com. The fire broke out at the hospital on Monday night. People were seen running outside the hospital in search of their children. The fire broke out around 9 pm and eight to 10 fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames, said Fatehgarh Fire Station in-charge Juber Khan. “Smoke filled a room of the children's hospital,” he said. Khan said a short-circuit may have caused the blaze. After receiving information, Minister for Medical Education Vishwas Sarang also rushed to the spot and supervised rescue operations. Amid the chaos, angry family members of the children alleged that instead of saving the children, the staffers fled from the spot. A parent said that he was yet to locate his child. Some parents were seen rushing out with their children, eyewitnesses said. A woman, who was also inside the hospital earlier, said that there was a lot of smoke inside the room. Visuals from the hospital showed shocked parents breaking down on the stairs after escaping from the ward as the rescue operation started. The other newborns were shifted to different wards, added ndtv.com. Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital is part of Hamidia Hospital, one of the biggest government medical facilities in the state. Terming the incident as "very painful", former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath demanded a high-level probe into the incident and stern action against those responsible. State BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma also expressed grief over the incident. He also prayed for the speedy recovery of those injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||French investigative journal claim CBI ‘sat  on Rafale evidence’||The French investigative journal, Mediapart, has made the fresh claim that allegedly bogus invoices were used to enable aircraft maker Dassault Aviation to pay at least 7.5 million euros in secret commissions to a middleman to help it secure the Rafale deal with India. According to Mediapart’s investigation, Dassault Aviation paid the kickbacks to the intermediary in Mauritius between 2007 and 2012. It reported that the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate have had proof of the secret commissions since October 2018 but decided not to pursue the matter. The BJP’s national information and technology department in-charge, Amit Malviya, targeted the Congress, alleging that the kickbacks were paid during the UPA rule. “Dassault paid Euro 14.6 Mn to intermediary Sushen Gupta over the period 2004-2013 to sell Rafale. So UPA was collecting kickbacks but couldn’t close the deal? NDA later scrapped it and got into a contract with the French Govt, which upset Rahul Gandhi no end,” tweeted Malviya. The tweet did not say why the CBI and the ED did not announce a probe in spite of having purported proof that the secret commissions were paid. Mediapart had reported in July that a French judge had been appointed to lead a “highly sensitive” judicial investigation into suspected corruption and favouritism in the Rs 59,000-crore inter-governmental deal with India for the supply of 36 Rafale fighter jets. There was no reaction from the Indian defence ministry or Dassault till Monday evening on the latest report. “Mediapart is today publishing the alleged false invoices that enabled French aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation to pay at least 7.5 million euros in secret commissions to a middleman to help secure the sale of 36 Rafale fighter aircraft to India,” the journal said in its new report on Sunday. “It involves offshore companies, dubious contracts and ‘false’ invoices,” Mediapart  said and then referred to the CBI and the ED. Mediapart can reveal that detectives from India’s federal police force, the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI), and colleagues from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which fights money laundering, have had proof since October 2018 that French aviation firm Dassault paid at least 7.5 million euros in secret commissions to middleman Sushen Gupta,” Mediapart claimed in the report. “This was in the context of the French firm’s long and ultimately successful attempt to secure a 7.8 billion-euro-deal in 2016 to sell 36 of its Rafale fighters to India,” Mediapart claimed. Rafale manufacturer Dassault Aviation and the Indian defence ministry have previously trashed allegations of any corruption in the contract. The Supreme Court in 2019 dismissed petitions seeking a probe into the deal. In a statement published in April, reacting to Mediapart’s report on the investigation, Dassault Aviation said the group “acts in strict compliance with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and national laws”. The Narendra Modi government had inked the Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016, to procure 36 Rafale jets from Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to buy 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force failed to fructify during the UPA’s tenure. The Congress has accused the Modi government of massive irregularities in the deal, alleging it is procuring each aircraft for more than Rs 1,670 crore, against the price of Rs 526 crore finalised by the UPA government during negotiations for the MMRCA. Before the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the Congress had raised several questions about the deal and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Cong prods 'secret deal' between Modi & 'corrupt' AgustaWestland||Reports that the Narendra Modi government has lifted the ban on business dealings with the current avatar of Italian firm Finmeccanica prompted the Congress on Monday to ask what the “secret deal” was between the government and the “corrupt” AgustaWestland. The party underlined that the ban had been lifted soon after Prime Minister Modi’s return from Italy, and cited reports that the subject had figured at Modi’s meeting with his Italian counterpart. The Manmohan Singh government had scrapped a contract for procuring VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland, UK subsidiary of Finmeccanica (now Leonardo SpA), and blacklisted the company after the media reported allegations of bribery and the involvement of middlemen. The BJP had accused the company and the UPA of corruption in the deal. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Agusta was corrupt earlier. Now it is clean after being washed in BJP laundry.” He used the hashtag “RIPlogic” to underline his charge of hypocrisy against the BJP. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “It is not the Congress that is saying so; Italy’s ambassador to India has revealed that the issue (ban) was discussed in the meeting (between Modi and the Italy Premier) where external affairs minister S. Jaishankar and NSA (national security adviser) Ajit Doval were also present.” He added: “Is it now okay to deal with a company that Modi and his government had called ‘corrupt, bribe giver and bogus’? Does it mean that the fake bogey of corruption created just before the 2019 elections is being given a quiet burial like what had happened in the 2G spectrum allocation (controversy) a couple of days back with Vinod Rai’s unconditional apology?” The UPA government had in 2010 signed a contract with AgustaWestland to purchase 12 helicopters for Rs 3,546 crore. But it registered an FIR and handed over the investigation to the CBI following the payoffs allegations. In January 2014, the UPA government cancelled the contract. It also filed a case against AgustaWestland in Milan, Italy, for contract violation and got legal sanction for recovery. “In July 2014, the Modi government took an opinion from its attorney-general to undo the banning of AgustaWestland and its parent company, Finmeccanica, and an order was passed by the defence ministry on 22.07.2014 withdrawing the blacklisting proceedings,” Vallabh said. “Now the procurement ban from the company has been revoked. Modi is guilty of shielding, protecting, and promoting AgustaWestland and its parent company, Finmeccanica, whose name has now been changed to Leonardo SpA. “The government had earlier included the ‘blacklisted’ AgustaWestland in the ‘Make in India’ plan and even permitted it to bid for the purchase of 100 helicopters for the Indian Navy. “What will happen to the investigation and pending arbitration against Agusta/ Finmeccanica now? Is this going to (cause) a loss to the exchequer?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The media spent thousands of hours weaving fake stories to malign the Congress leadership for dealing with Agusta. Will they now question the Modi government for lifting the ban? Will they ask Modi, what is the secret deal? Will the media ask if it is now okay to deal with a tainted company?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC might appoint a retired judge to monitor probe||The Supreme Court on Monday said it might appoint a retired judge from a “different (outside Uttar Pradesh) high court” to monitor the Lakhimpur Kheri probe, ensuring state police don’t use the lynching FIR against the farmers to protect those accused of mowing down farmers. “Prima facie it appears that one particular accused (in the killing of farmers) is sought to be given benefit” by procuring evidence from witnesses in the lynching case, the bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said. It said that appointing a retired judge as monitor would inject “independence, impartiality and fairness” into the investigations, being carried out by the Uttar Pradesh police’s special investigation team (SIT). “We are not confident of having your state judicial committee oversee it,” the court told senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government. The bench said the probe was too tardy, asked why the SIT had failed to seize the mobile phones of all but one accused, and castigated the state for furnishing a shoddy probe status report. “The pace of the probe is not up to expectations. It (investigation) is not going the way we expected,” the court said. It suggested it would appoint Justice Ranjit Singh, a criminal law expert, or Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain — both retired Punjab and Haryana High Court judges — to monitor the probe. It asked Salve to seek the state government’s response and fixed the next hearing for Friday. The SIT is probing allegations that Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, had led a convoy in mowing down four farmers and a journalist on October 3. A driver and two BJP workers were then allegedly lynched by other farmers. ‘Mix-up’ fear The court directed the prosecution to ensure that evidence in FIR No. 219 (relating to farmers being run over) and FIR no. 220 (lynching of BJP activists) is “recorded independently and there is no overlapping or inter-mixing in the two sets of evidence”. “We are sorry to say that prima facie it appears that one particular accused is sought to be given benefit…. Now it is being said that there are two FIRs and the evidence collected in one FIR will be used in another. What will happen then? You can appreciate better than us what will be the fate of the case,” it said. “Investigation is separate but on affidavit, you are saying that there (is) overlapping and (that) evidence of FIR No. 220 will be used in FIR No. 219. In 220, the entire evidence is meant and is being secured or procured to protect the particular suspect.” Justice Kant said: “It appears to us that this SIT is unable to maintain an investigative distance between the two FIRs. To ensure that there is no mix-up of evidence in the case we are inclined to appoint a former judge of a different high court to monitor this probe.” Justice Ramana too stressed the point, saying the apex court wanted the “filing of separate chargesheets” on the basis of the two FIRs. “We want to protect the evidence collected,” he said. Probe lacunae The bench underlined that apart from Ashis’s cell phone, the SIT had so far failed to seize the mobiles of the other accused. Fifteen people — including 12 of Ashis’s associates and two farmers — have been arrested in the case. Salve claimed the mobiles of eight accused had been seized. He said that while the mobile phones of some of the accused had not been seized yet, the SIT had collected their call data records (CDRs) that were key evidence. Justice Ramana observed: “There is nothing in the status report. We had granted 10 days. Where are the lab reports? You have not provided any details.” Salve said the forensic lab reports would be available by November 15. The bench declined to entertain a plea for a CBI probe from senior advocate Arun Bharadwaj, appearing for the wife of lynching victim Shyam Sundar Nishad. Justice Ramana said the CBI was not the solution to every problem. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Congress describes demonetisation as one of the worst policy blunders||The Congress on Monday described the demonetisation as one of the worst policy blunders in the world, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of wrecking a booming economy with a sinister decision. On the fifth anniversary of Modi’s 8pm announcement of November 8, 2016, that turned India’s high-value currency into junk overnight, the Congress ran a social media campaign explaining how the demonetisation had derailed the economy and destroyed the informal sector while achieving none of its stated objectives. “If notebandi was a success, then why hasn’t corruption ended? Why hasn’t black money been retrieved? Why isn’t the economy cashless? Why hasn’t terrorism been checked? Why isn’t price rise under control?” party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh wrote on Twitter: “With every passing year, it’s becoming even more clear that 8.11.2016 will be marked in the world’s economic history among the worst policy blunders anywhere. Demonetisation along with the rushed GST destroyed the backbone of the Indian economy — the MSME & informal sectors especially.” Ramesh further said: “First, we were told demonetisation meant cashless economy. Soon the sarvagyani (omniscient, a reference to Modi) changed track and said not cashless but less cash. Now cash in circulation is above pre-demonetisation levels.” Ramesh posted a graph put out by Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Modi government, which showed that more cash was in circulation now than five years ago. The Congress posted several videos recalling the horrors triggered by the demonetisation, including deaths across the country. It underlined how none of the stated objectives — fighting black money, ending terrorism and curbing counterfeit currency — was achieved and how the government kept changing the goalposts by introducing newer objectives every week. The Prime Minister on Monday forgot his “masterstroke” of five years ago, while the BJP remembered it tamely as the “gravest attack on black money” and a move that “strengthened the formal economy”. The Congress and other Opposition parties had fiercely opposed the decision at the time, with former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh famously describing the demonetisation as “organised loot and legalised plunder”. On Monday, the Congress argued: “Demonetisation was never intended to stop fake currency, it was intended to loot common citizens’ hard-earned money. Period. Demonetisation was simply a tact to loot money from common citizens and fill the pockets of 2-3 crony-capitalist friends. Everything else Modi says is a farce, time is but a testimony.” Party leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi: “Had it been a mistake, people would have forgiven it. But there can be no forgiving a trick played deliberately to help friends. No matter how many years pass, not enough. #Notebandi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||Singhbhum earliest continental land to rise above ocean||India’s Singhbhum region may have been Earth’s earliest continental land to rise above the ocean 3.2 billion years ago, scientists said on Monday, announcing findings that push back the emergence of continents by 700 million years. Scientists from India, Australia and the US have found sandstones in Jharkhand’s Singhbhum region with geological signatures of ancient river channels, tidal plains and beaches over 3.2 billion years old, representing the earliest crust exposed to air. The consensus among geologists until now has been that the continents emerged around 2.5 billion years ago through plate tectonics, which involves the horizontal movement, collisions and upward movement of continental plates. The new findings, however, suggest that Earth’s earliest continents emerged not through plate tectonic processes but from massive outbursts of magma that hardened into continental crust starting 3.5 to 3.2 billion years ago. “The Singhbhum region is possibly Earth’s earliest continental land exposed to the air,” Priyadarshi Chowdhury, a geologist at Australia’s Monash University who led the study, told The Telegraph. “Before that, Earth was a water world, the whole planet covered by water.” But, Chowdhury said, patches of the earliest continental land also exist in Australia and South Africa. Geologists have known for decades that the Singhbhum craton — a vast swathe of rocky land that stretches mainly across parts of Jharkhand and Odisha, between the Chhota Nagpur plateau and the Eastern Ghats — has some of the world’s oldest rocks. Chowdhury and his colleagues studied features of rare, 3.2-billion-year-old sedimentary rocks called sandstones in Singhbhum and observed signs of river channels, tidal zones and beaches in the sandstones — all of which occur on crust exposed to air, and not crust underwater. “This is the most direct, unambiguous date yet for the emergence of continental land,” Chowdhury said. The findings appeared on Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a US research journal. The team’s studies on granite rocks in Singhbhum suggest that Singhbhum’s elevation increased over a 300-million-year period — from 3.6km below the sea level at 3.5 billion years ago to over 1.8km above the sea level 3.2 billion years ago. While present-day elevated landmasses such as the Himalayas are the outcome of the convergence of two tectonic plates, the new study has indicated that the earliest continents rose above the sea level from the progressive injection of magma from deep in the Earth. “Sections of granite in the Singhbhum region have telltale chemical signatures that point to their magmatic origin,” said Subham Mukherjee, a geologist at Delhi University and one of the research team’s eight members. Chowdhury said the study probed two aspects of the emergence of continents — when and how. “The sandstones tell us when and the granite tells us how,” he said. The researchers believe that the earliest emergence of continents would have contributed to the proliferation of photosynthetic organisms, which would have increased oxygen levels in the atmosphere. The emergence of continental land would have created shallow seas that are ideal habitats for organisms called cyanobacteria to flourish. “Early continental masses created habitats where early cyanobacterial life boomed. Cyanobacteria are photosynthetic,” Chowdhury said. “They produced free oxygen we’re breathing today.” The other team members were Jacob Mulder, Peter Cawood, Subhajit Roy and Oliver Nebel from Monash University, Surjyendu Bhattacharjee from the California Institute of Technology, and Ashlea Wainwright from the University of Melbourne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
09-11-2021||India||89 people test positive for Zika virus in Kanpur||At least 89 people, including 17 children, have tested positive for the Zika virus in a surge of cases in Kanpur, its health department said on Monday. First discovered in 1947, the mosquito-borne Zika virus reached epidemic proportions in Brazil in 2015, when thousands of babies were born with microcephaly, a disorder that causes abnormally small heads and underdeveloped brains. “There has been a surge in cases of the Zika virus and the health department has formed several teams to contain the spread,” Dr Nepal Singh, chief medical officer of Kanpur district, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||Pakistan High Commission envoy summoned over fisherman killing ||India on Monday summoned a senior diplomat of the Pakistan High Commission to register a strong protest over the killing of a fisherman from Maharashtra’s Palghar off the Gujarat coast on Saturday allegedly by personnel of the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency. New Delhi has called for a probe by Pakistan into the firing on the Indian fishing vessel and asked Islamabad to instruct its forces to refrain from “such acts of unprovoked firing”, pointing out that the issue of fishermen is a humanitarian and livelihood matter. According to India, the Pakistani agency fired upon an Indian fishing boat Jalpari on Saturday, resulting in the death of a fisherman and serious injuries to another. “The government of India condemned this deplorable action… which is in contravention to all established international practices and bilateral understandings,” sources said. The boat, with crewmembers from Gujarat and Maharashtra, had set sail from Okha port in Gujarat on October 26, 12 days before the firing. Gujarat police said they were fishing off the Jakhau coast when PMSA personnel chased and fired at them. Both countries detain fishermen who venture into the deep waters in search of a better catch as the boundary at Sir Creek is yet to be demarcated. Sir Creek is a tidal estuary that separates Gujarat from the Sindh province in Pakistan. Often the detained fishermen spend years in prison though both countries recognise this as a humanitarian issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||Ban on cake-cutting, popping of champagne at Kodava weddings||An organisation of Kodavas in a pocket of Karnataka has banned cake-cutting and champagne-popping at the Hindu community’s wedding mandaps in the name of “tradition”, triggering charges of pushing a Sangh parivar agenda. The Kodava Samaja of Ponnampet taluk (block) in Kodagu district, some 220km from here, issued the diktat on Friday against the “western” practices being increasingly adopted at Kodava weddings. It clarified that cakes and champagne could be served at wedding feasts but the ceremonial cutting and popping on the mandap had to go. It also directed grooms against sporting beards and brides from leaving their hair loose. While most responses from Kodavas on social media have been favourable to the diktats, some have sniffed a saffronisation plot in a district that has become a BJP stronghold. Chotekmada Rajiv Bopaiah, president of the Ponnampet Kodava Samaja, told The Telegraph on Monday: “We have nothing to do with the Sangh parivar. We are only saying our children should be taught our way of life.” He added: “This decision is not to insult anyone or any other culture. But cutting cakes and popping champagne on the wedding platform is not our culture. Traditionally, our grooms do not sport beards on wedding day and the brides tie up their hair. “But there’s a tendency nowadays to borrow practices and rituals from other cultures, which will eventually threaten the existence of our small community.” A Hindu martial race numbering roughly 1.5 lakh and concentrated in Kodagu district and its neighbourhood, the Kodavas are known for their distinct culture, rooted in nature worship, and generally progressive outlook. Notable Kodavas from Kodagu include Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa, General K.S. Thimayya, hockey internationals such as M.P. Ganesh, B.P. Govinda, M.M. Somaya, A.B. Subbiah and Arjun Halappa, and athlete Ashwini Nachappa. Bopaiah said the Kodava Samaja in neighbouring Virajpet taluk, too, had on Sunday decided to implement similar restrictions. Asked about the rest of the 32 Kodava Samajas, he said: “It’s up to them to take their own call.” P.T. Bopanna, a Kodava author who has researched Kodava culture, said the diktat was a “move to push the Hindutva agenda”. In an article on CoorgNews.in, which he edits, Bopanna described the restrictions as “not only regressive, but an insult to the Kodava community”. He recalled a proposal in 2018 to ban women of childbearing age from climbing the Brahmagiri Hill in Kodagu following astrological advice that cautioned against “desecrating” the birthplace of river Cauvery that the Kodavas worship. The Sangh parivar supports a similar restriction in Sabarimala, Kerala. A Kodava tweeter, K.K. Aiyamma, mocked the “Republic of Ponnampet” for the diktat and underlined that most Kodava Samajas had not adopted it. “The order is only applicable to Republic of Ponnampet. The Bangalore, Mysore, Madikeri, Delhi, New York or Timbuktu Kodava Samaja have not issued any such diktat,” Aiyamma tweeted. Chepudira P. Belliappa slammed the “fatwa” in a Facebook post. “Kodavas take pride in being a forward-looking and progressive community. This ‘fatwa’ against cutting cake and serving champagne at weddings as un-Kodava, is absurd. How one celebrates a happy event should be their choice as long as it does not hurt anyone,” he wrote. But Tim Kodava made a curt comment: “We are not Christians.” Others asked whether the community would in that case be ready to shed Western clothing too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||Academics point out campus caste harassment ‘endemic’ in India||The allegation of campus caste harassment levelled by PhD scholar Deepa Mohanan, who conducted a 10-day hunger strike at a Kerala university, is only the latest among similar complaints from varsities across India where caste bias is endemic, academics and activists have said. At a webinar organised on Sunday to express solidarity with Deepa, academics cited data accessed from the University Grants Commission that shows universities have largely ignored a June 2019 UGC letter seeking information on caste discrimination over the previous year and the action taken. The data provided by universities that did comply reflected a high incidence of caste harassment on campus, they added. For instance, Banaras Hindu University told the higher education regulator that it had received 11 complaints from Scheduled Caste students, four from Scheduled Tribe students and two from Other Backward Class students — all in a single year. Apart from the June 2019 letter, the commission has written nine letters in the past 10 years — the latest on September 9 this year — to all universities and colleges asking them to establish a mechanism to tackle caste discrimination on campus. This mechanism includes a committee to look into complaints by Dalit and tribal students, and a page on the university website where they can lodge the complaints. Sources said many universities have yet not complied, and the commission has done nothing to pull up the defaulters. The commission’s June 2019 letter came after Dr Payal Tadvi, a postgraduate gynaecology student at Mumbai’s Topiwala National Medical College, committed suicide in May 2019. She had accused three senior students of taunting her over her tribal background. Last year, an academic filed an RTI plea seeking to know how certain leading universities had responded to the commission’s directives. According to data supplied by the UGC, Delhi University had not provided the information sought in June 2019. Hyderabad Central University, where Dalit PhD scholar Rohith Vemula hanged himself in 2016 alleging caste victimisation, told the regulator it had received one complaint from a Dalit student in the previous one year and “solved” the matter. It added that it was yet to develop the web page, as instructed. N. Sukumar, Ambedkarite and DU political science teacher, said many universities were setting up committees with people whose political inclinations made them likely to bury any complaint of caste abuse. “Many universities, DU among them, did not provide the data (on caste discrimination) sought,” he said. “The grievance redress mechanism too is poor in most institutions. In most instances, the universities pressure the aggrieved students to withdraw their complaints.” Sukumar advocated a central law that stipulated stringent punishment not only for the campus caste bullies but also the universities that failed to act against them. C. Lakshmanan, convener of the Dalit Intellectual Collective, which organised the webinar, said the UGC’s letters and instructions were “ritualistic”. “The UGC is not sincere about its own regulations,” he said, adding that the regulator never acted against errant universities. Beena Pallical, secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights, told The Telegraph that the repeated campus suicides had not deterred dominant-caste teachers from victimising Dalit students. “It’s a pattern seen across universities. There’s deliberate discrimination to deny higher education and research opportunities to Dalits so that education remains a Brahminical fief,” she said. Mohanan, a scholar with the Kottayam-based Mahatma Gandhi University’s nanotechnology institute, ended her hunger strike on Monday, sources said. Earlier, the Kerala government and the university had agreed to remove the institute director, whom she has accused of humiliating her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||Naveen distributes health smart cards in Kalahandi district||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday distributed Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana, health smart cards, to beneficiaries in Kalahandi district amid protests by the Opposition. The BJP and Congress workers tried to show blackflags to Naveen both in Bhubaneswar and Kalahandi. Several protesters were detained by the police. Opposition leaders were particularly peeved as minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is  facing criticism for his alleged closeness with the prime accused in the 24-year-old school teacher Mamita Meher murder case, shared the dias with Naveen at the function. With this the chief minister sent out a clear message that Mishra still enjoys his support. Besides distributing BSKY smart health cards to the beneficiaries, the chief minister dedicated key developmental projects worth nearly Rs 900 crore to the people. Captain Mishra had been dropped out of Naveen’s Mayurbhanj tour last month when the allegation against him surfaced. Following the incident, the Opposition sharpened their attack on Captain Mishra. Since then, the ruling BJD has mounted a damage control exercise. Ahead of Naveen’s visit, the minister made a public appearance and clarified that he had no role in the murder of Meher murder case and also demanded punishment for the accused. However, it did not pacify the Opposition who were demanding his resignation. Captain Mishra’s sharing the dias with Naveen is now being viewed as government faith in him and ruling party’s unwillingness to accede to the Opposition’s demand for his resignation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||China opts out of Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan||China has opted out of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan being hosted by national security adviser Ajit Doval on Wednesday. Pakistan, a close ally of China, had already announced that it would not participate in the meeting. There was no official word from either New Delhi or Beijing on China’s decision to stay away from the meeting. However, the list of participants issued by the external affairs ministry on Monday evening did not mention China, which is understood to have cited scheduling issues as reason for not accepting India’s invitation. “The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan will witness an expanded participation of Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, who will all be represented by their respective national security advisers/Secretaries of the Security Councils,” the ministry said. The ministry said it would review the security situation in the region arising from recent developments in Afghanistan. It will also deliberate upon measures to address the relevant security challenges and support the people of Afghanistan in promoting peace, security and stability. This is the third such dialogue in this format. The first two were hosted by Iran in 2018 and 2019 in anticipation of the US drawdown from Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||Bihar: Nitish Kumar vows to review implementation of liquor ban||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday vowed to conduct a full review of the implementation of prohibition in the state and fix the responsibility of government officials in compromising the ban after being stung by 41 hooch deaths in Bihar within a week. In a message to the politicians criticising him, the chief minister asked them to provide information if they saw the ban being flouted because it was everybody’s responsibility. “We are going to conduct a full review of prohibition on November 16. It will be done district-wise. We also want to know why liquor seized in any district away from the borders was not seized in the districts through which it was transported,” Nitish said. “We have asked the chief secretary, director-general of police and other officials concerned to find out who was not taking action against liquor. We will take action against officials who did not take timely action in this regard,” Nitish added. Speaking on the sidelines of his janata durbar, Nitish replied to media questions on back-to-back hooch tragedies in Gopalganj, West Champaran and Samastipur districts. He also stressed the need for a fresh awareness campaign against the consumption of liquor and highlighted the need to find out whether the fear of the law was absent among the people. However, Nitish said “there will always be people who would do something wrong” despite the efforts by the government. Prohibition is Nitish’s pet project. He imposed it in April 2016 though the availability of liquor never stopped with the mafia taking deep roots across the state in nexus with the enforcement agencies and politicians. Hooch tragedies have also been happening since then, though their pace has increased and has led to the loss of around 95 lives this year. The chief minister also responded to recent criticisms of prohibition by leaders from various parties, including BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal and Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “I feel sad that people give various kinds of statements. Why do they just give statements? Why don’t they catch the culprits? They should provide information if they notice anything wrong happening. They should remember that all parties unanimously supported prohibition, hence they should assist in its implementation,” Nitish said. The chief minister asserted that he had not implemented prohibition for his personal interest, but did it for the sake of the welfare of the people. He also emphasised on the benefits of liquor ban and claimed that it had helped improve the standard of living of the people besides bringing down domestic violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||NDA govt to fund meritorious, poor OBC students' private schooling||The NDA government is planning a scheme to sponsor the education of 30,000 meritorious but poor Other Backward Classes students at top private residential schools and colleges every year, two government sources have independently told The Telegraph. Some reservation experts welcomed the initiative but several OBC ideologues and activists expressed reservations, saying the number of beneficiaries was too low or that the proposed scheme should not have been linked to the private sector. One OBC activist said the government should have waited for the report of the commission formed to recommend a sub-categorisation of the OBCs, and linked the scheme to the sub-categories according to their share of the OBC population. Under the proposed “Top Class Education” scheme for OBCs, the social justice and empowerment ministry will sponsor the education of 15,000 schoolchildren from Classes IX to XII and 15,000 undergraduate students at private schools and colleges every year. The beneficiaries may be selected through entrance tests and a yet-to-be-fixed income criterion. The “creamy layer” cut-off for OBC reservation is Rs 8 lakh a year. The scheme, expected to cost Rs 4,000 crore in five years, has finance ministry approval and is pending before the cabinet, sources said. “It’s similar to the ‘Top Class Education’ scheme for the Scheduled Castes,” an official said. The scheme for Dalits, started by the UPA government in 2007, supports 4,200 students of higher education at top-ranked institutions, including private institutions. The ministry sponsors the tuition fee — up to a ceiling of Rs 2 lakh a year — apart from living expenses. The proposed OBC scheme has no tuition fee ceiling. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former National Commission for Backward Classes chairperson, said 30,000 scholarships were too little going by the OBCs’ share of the population. According to the 1931 census, OBCs make up 52 per cent of the Indian population. A caste census was carried out in 2012 but its findings have not been released. P.C. Patanjali from the OBC Joint Action Committee said the government should have waited for the report of the Justice Rohini Commission that will suggest sub-categorisation of the OBCs for a rational distribution of the 27 per cent quota. “Otherwise, the castes that are (relatively) advanced economically and politically will grab the benefits,” Patanjali said. Officials said the commission’s report was ready but the government was sitting on it. Kiran Kumar, president of the All India OBC Students Association, said that instead of linking the scheme to the private sector, the Centre should have emulated Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu in establishing residential schools with high quotas for OBC students. “This is a model of privatisaton. When the government is ready to spend so much, it could have built its own schools for OBCs,” he said. Kumar suggested the scheme was being planned to woo OBCs ahead of Assembly elections in five states including Uttar Pradesh. Government officials said the proposal had been placed before the cabinet months ago and they were unsure when it might be announced. Shashank Ratnoo, a lawyer and expert on OBC issues and reservation, said the scheme represented help over and above the OBC reservation already implemented in admissions to the government’s Kendriya and Navodaya Vidyalayas. “It’s a welcome initiative since it represents additional support over and above what is already being provided,” Ratnoo said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
09-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: CRPF jawan shoots down 4 troopers and injures 3||Four CRPF troopers were killed and three injured after one of their colleagues opened fire at them in a suspected case of fratricide at the paramilitary force’s camp in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district early on Monday. The incident took place at around 3.25am in the camp of CRPF’s 50th battalion in Lingalapalli village, around 400km from state capital Raipur. Sources said a CRPF jawan identified as Reetesh Ranjan fired shots at his colleagues with his AK-47 service rifle. All the seven personnel who sustained bullet injuries were taken to a government hospital where four of them were declared brought dead. “Prima facie it seems that due to some emotional stress leading to sudden psychological disbalance constable Reetesh Ranjan lost his control and in a fit of rage opened fire on his colleagues,” the CRPF spokesperson said in a statement. He said senior CRPF officers, including the DIG and Commandant of the unit, had reached the incident spot. “Senior officers from Raipur have also rushed to the spot. All the injured are being provided requisite medical care and evacuation of the injured in need of better medical care has been tied up.” The local police, he said, have begun investigation into the case and all legal actions will follow. The CRPF has ordered a court of inquiry into the incident to ascertain its cause and suggest remedial measures. A CRPF official in Delhi said there was a fight between Ranjan and his colleagues in the days preceding the firing. “It is a very shocking incident and we have lost four of our soldiers. There were no complaints against Ranjan in the past. Probably there were some issues in his family or other personal reasons that led to this fratricide. A detailed investigation will bring out the exact cause behind the firing,” he said. Reetesh was apprehended immediately after the incident and was being interrogated to ascertain the motive behind the firing. The deceased were identified as Dhanji, Rajib Mondal, Rajmani Kumar Yadav and Dharmendra Kumar. Dhanji and Yadav hailed from Bihar, Rajib Mondal from Bengal while the details about Dharmendra Kumar are not yet clear. (See Page 5) Dhananjay Kumar Singh, Dharmatma Kumar and Malaya Ranjan Maharana suffered bullet injuries and are being treated at the hospital where their condition is said to be stable. A former director-general of Border Security Force said the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, had in the past highlighted the service conditions in the paramilitary forces and cited several reasons, including slow promotions, salary mismatches, too much work, separation from family and continuous “hard” postings leading to stress among the jawans. “Stress, denial of leave, long separation from families and sometimes humiliation by senior officials and colleagues lead to violent behaviour among jawans,” he told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
