10-11-2021||India||Bombay HC to Nawab Malik: Did you verify the information before posting it on Twitter?||NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede is a "public officer" and his actions can be scrutinized by anyone, the Bombay High Court said on Wednesday while hearing a defamation suit filed by his father against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik.  Dnyandev Wankhede, Sameer's father, has sought damages of Rs 1.25 crore from Malik and an order restraining him from making further false or incorrect statements against the Wankhede family.  The NCP leader has levelled a series of allegations against Sameer Wankhede, accusing him, among other things, of forging his birth certificate to get a government job.  During the hearing, Dnyandev Wankhede's lawyer Arshad Shaikh asked why Sameer should provide any justifications to a person who is "just an MLA and not a court." To which, Justice Madhav Jamdar said, "You are a public officer....you just need to prove that the tweets (posted by Malik) are prima facie false....Your son is not only an individual, but a public officer and can be examined by any member of public." On the other hand, the court also asked Malik's lawyer Atul Damle, "Is it not your duty to verify the documents before posting? Have you verified the authenticity of the documents as a responsible citizen and spokesperson of a national party?" Wankhede's lawyer then sought time to file an additional affidavit to establish that Malik's allegations were false. The court granted him time till Friday, and also asked the NCP leader's lawyer to file an affidavit to the effect that he had verified the documents (related to Sameer Wankhede's personal details) before posting them on Twitter or publishing them.  The matter was posted for further hearing on November 12.  Dnyandev Wankhede's suit said that Malik's claim that he was Muslim amounted to questioning religious beliefs of the family, and the minister's allegations had caused an irreparable damage to the family's reputation.  It also sought a direction to Malik to withdraw all "defamatory statements" and tweets about the Wankhede family.  Sameer Wankhede last month led a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast during which the NCB allegedly seized drugs and arrested Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, and 19 others.  Malik alleged that the whose raid was bogus. He also claimed that Sameer Wankhede was born a Muslim as his father had converted to Islam, but later Sameer forged his birth certificate to get a job in the Scheduled Castes quota and stated falsely that he was Hindu. The NCB official has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
10-11-2021||India||Rijiju hits out at Bengal over delay in setting up fast-track courts ||Union Law minister Kiren Rijiju today hit out at the West Bengal government over delay in setting up fast-track special courts to deliver swift justice in cases of sexual offence and alleged it was behaving as if the state was "outside the Indian Union". Addressing the Times Now Summit,  Rijiju spoke in favour of the sedition law stating that punitive measures need to exist to ensure that the absolute right of freedom of expression is not used to damage the unity and integrity of the country. He also said that by the end of the year, a "record" number of judges will be appointed. On fast-track courts, the Union minister said he will ensure that enough pressure is exerted on the West Bengal government to set up such special courts. "It is very unfortunate that the West Bengal government has not established any fast track courts. It is an injustice to the youth of the state. In fact, West Bengal is the only state which has not taken any steps in this regard. I have written to the West Bengal Chief Minister and I will remind her again. "West Bengal is behaving as if the state exists outside the Indian Union. This is not good," he said. After the passage of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act in 2018, the central government had decided to set up 1,023 fast-track special courts, including 389 to deal exclusively with cases related to violation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, in 31 states and union territories. According to government sources, 28 states and Union Territories have given their consent for the scheme. West Bengal, which was earmarked 123 such courts, Andaman and Nicobar, which was to get one such court and Arunachal Pradesh, which was earmarked three, have not yet given their consent. Arunachal Pradesh has told the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry that for the time-being, such courts are not required in the states due to a lower number of cases. Goa was asked to set up two such courts. It gave consent for one, but is yet to operationalise it, the sources said. The consent of states is a must as fast track special courts are part of a centrally sponsored scheme where both the centre and the state chip in with funds. "I will ensure that enough pressure is exerted on the West Bengal government to set up fast-track courts," he said. Mr Rijiju also pointed out the need for Lok Adalats, stating judiciary and justice should be delivered at the doorsteps of people to encourage them to seek legal aid.  The minister spoke on the often controversial topic of the appointment of judges and said that the government has become more proactive. He said that it is not the government alone that appoints judges, but they are picked after a long process. "The government cannot generate the names on its own. The last five months, the government has been very proactive and by the end of the year, you will see a record number of judges being appointed. After this, many misconceptions will be dispelled," he said. Speaking on the oft-repeated allegation of the opposition parties on the government's influence on the judiciary, Mr Rijiju contended that such accusations were "unsavoury" and only worked to cast aspersions on its independence. The minister also said that the government's differences in opinion with the judiciary in certain cases should not be seen in the light of "divisions and fissures". "If you exist in a democratic society such differences exist and show independent thinking. We must appreciate differences of opinion," he said. Replying to a question on possible inducement to judges with post retirement posts, Mr Rijiju said that such appointments were neither "unconstitutional or illegal". "I believe as the law minister that unless a step is unconstitutional or illegal or is barred by a provision of law, there should not be any problem (in such appointments)," said Mr Rijiju, stating that the nomination of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi to Rajya Sabha was not barred under any law. While the minister refused to comment on specific cases, he backed the sedition law stating that no freedom can be used to harm national interests. "Actions that are detrimental to the national interest, there has to be something in law to ensure that no freedom should be given to a person that can destroy the unity and integrity of the country. "To exist as a nation, you need certain things which must be a part of your thought process... "While I would not like to comment on the provisions of the sedition law, generally speaking, while freedom of expression is absolute, it should not extend to a point that it will damage our unity and diversity," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
10-11-2021||India||Mamata hits out at Centre over rising prices of essentials||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit out against the BJP-led government at the Centre today and said "Acche Din" (good days) promised by it did not mean skyrocketing prices of essentials and causing hardship for the common man. Referring to demonetisation by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government five years ago, Mamata said she does not believe in causing hardships to the masses by taking such a decision but in helping the people to ensure they live comfortably. "I don't believe in causing hardship for the general people in the name of Acche Din. Acche din does not mean skyrocketing prices of essentials and causing hardships for the common man. I don't believe in causing hardships for people through decisions like note ban but help them so that they live in plenty," she said while taking part in a Chhat Puja celebration in the city. "I have ensured that Chhath Puja celebrations take place without any problem. I have rebuilt the ghats. I have also announced two days holiday for Chhat Puja. I believe in humanity and not in dividing people on the basis of religion, caste and community," she said. The non-Bengali communities form a sizeable chunk of the voter base in Calcutta and Howrah Municipal corporation areas, which will go to the polls on December 19. At present, both the corporations are being controlled by the Trinamul Congress. Mamata's outreach to non-Bengali communities came months after the state witnessed a high voltage election. The Trinamul Congress had then used Bengali sub-nationalism as a poll plank to trounce BJP and return to power for the third consecutive period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
10-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet decides to restore MPLAD Scheme after Covid-induced suspension||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved restoration and continuation of the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS), which was suspended in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a press conference after a meeting of the Cabinet presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the scheme has been restored for the remaining part of financial year 2021-22. The scheme will continue till 2025-26.  Funds will be released at the rate of Rs 2 crore per MP for the remaining period of 2021-22 in one installment, he said. From 2022-23 to 2025-26, funds will be released under the scheme at the rate of Rs 5 crore per annum to each of the MPs in two instalments of Rs 2.5 crore each, he added. In April last year, the government had suspended MPLADS during 2020-21 and 2021-22, and said that the funds would be used for managing health services and the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country.  Under the scheme, MPs can recommend development programmes involving expenditure of Rs 5 crore every year in their constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
10-11-2021||India||BJP leader and ex-deputy CM Nirmal Singh asked to demolish his illegally built house in Jammu||The Jammu Development Authority (JDA) has served a notice on senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister Nirmal Singh asking him to demolish his illegally constructed house on the outskirts of the city within five days. Singh and his family moved into the palatial bungalow near the Army's ammunition sub-depot at Ban village of Nagrota on July 23 last year, even though the high court had in May 2018 directed the authorities to ensure "strict implementation" of a 2015 notification barring general public from carrying out any construction within 1,000 yards of defence works. "The matter is sub-judice and I will be consulting my lawyers for future course of action, the BJP leader told PTI, confirming the receipt of the notice issued by the JDA on November 8. In its order of demolition, the JDA said the building was constructed without attaining the valid permission from the competent authority. "...you are hereby directed to remove the illegal construction on your own level within five days from the date of issuance of the order. If you fail to remove the illegal construction within the stipulated period of time, the same shall be demolished by the enforcement wing of JDA and cost of removal shall be recovered from you as arrears of land revenue," the JDA said. The high court on May 7, 2018 last year had asked all parties concerned to maintain status quo until final disposition of an Army plea which has claimed that the building was in violation of laid down norms. Raising security and safety concerns in view of the building's proximity to an ammunition depot, the Centre had filed two petitions before the high court. Singh had earlier claimed it was a political conspiracy against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
10-11-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi promises Rs 10,000 a month to ASHA workers if Congress is voted to power||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of "insulting" the work done by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and promised an honorarium of Rs 10,000 per month for ASHA and Anganwadi workers if her party is voted to power in the assembly polls next year. Taking to Twitter, she shared a purported video of an alleged "assault" by the police in Shahjahanpur on ASHA workers who wanted to meet Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath with their demands. "Every assault on the ASHA sisters by the UP government is an insult to the work done by them. My ASHA sisters have given their services diligently in cooronavirus times and on other occasions. Honorarium is their right. It is the duty of the government to listen to them," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. "ASHA sisters deserve respect and I am with them in this fight," Gandhi said. The Congress party is committed to the right of honorarium of ASHA sisters and their respect and on the formation of government, ASHA and Anganwadi workers will be given an honorarium of Rs 10,000 per month, she said. In another tweet, she slammed the Uttar Pradesh government over the alleged poor state of 'Goshalas' (cow sheds) and urged it to take corrective measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Cong to launch stir against price rise from November 14||The Congress will launch a 15-day nationwide mass agitation programme from November 14 to highlight the issue of inflation and price rise.  Congress general secretary KC Venugopal charged at a press conference that price rise is destroying livelihoods and adding to people's woes and that it has been caused by "destruction of the economy, deepening recession, highest-ever unemployment rate, farm distress and escalating levels of poverty and hunger".  Attacking the government over the issue, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government has proved to be the most "expensive regime." Venugopal said the prices of mustard and other edible oils have doubled in the last one year. Seasonal vegetable prices have increased by 40-50 per cent in a month.  The cost of subsidised LPG cylinder has gone up by 50 per cent to Rs 900-1,000 in the last one year. Similarly, petrol and diesel prices have gone up by Rs 34.38 and 24.38 to Rs 103.97 and Rs 86.67 per litre respectively in the last 18 months, he said, adding the back-breaking price rise and inflation, unprecedented levels of unemployment and loss of jobs has made lives unbearable for the common people.  He claimed that 14 crore jobs were lost during the Covid period alone. Crores of daily wagers and the salaried class have faced up to 50 per cent salary cut. The unemployment rate is at an all time high of 8-9 per cent. During 10 years of its government, the Congress-UPA pulled 27 crore Indians out from the 'Below the Poverty Line' (BPL) while in the last two years, the Modi government has pushed 23 crore fellow Indians back below the poverty line (as per the latest report of Azim Premji University), he charged.  Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said during the course of the agitation, which is being called Jan Jagran Abhiyan, party workers will reach out to the maximum number of people across the country to strengthen the people's voice against the "unprecedented" price rise of CNG, cooking gas, diesel, petrol, cooking oil, pulses and other essential commodities.  He said the AICC is also launching the logo of Jan Jagran Abhiyan and releasing a pamphlet with facts about price rise, its repercussions and a questionnaire pertaining to people's prevailing predicament.  Congress leaders and workers shall undertake a week-long padyatra (march) with night halts in villages, towns or cities of their mass contact areas, he said.  Padyatra will begin every morning with a prabhat pheri (early morning rounds) followed by 'shramdan' (voluntary contribution towards community) and cleanliness drive and 'padyatris' will hold numerous small group meetings to communicate the nuances of inflation and its adverse effects on lives of the common people.  An AICC training camp is also being organised for state level trainers from November 12 to 15 at Sevagram and Wardha in Maharashtra with specific emphasis on issues pertaining to the Jan Jagran Abhiyan. The state level trainers shall conduct a training programme at Parliament, assembly and sector level, Singh said.  The AICC will be issuing a toll free number on which the participants of the Jan Jagran Abhiyan and those supporting it can register themselves through a missed call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Afghan territory must not be used for terrorism, say NSAs after Delhi dialogue||Top security czars of India, Russia, Iran and five central Asian countries on Wednesday pledged to work for ensuring that Afghanistan does not become a safe haven for global terrorism and called for the formation of an open and truly inclusive government in Kabul. At the end of an India-hosted security dialogue on Afghanistan, the security officials came out with a declaration reaffirming that Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist activities. The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan voiced concern over the deteriorating socio-economic and humanitarian situation in that country and underlined the need to provide urgent humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people. The security officials also said that humanitarian assistance should be provided in an unimpeded, direct and assured manner to Afghanistan and that the assistance is distributed within the country in a non-discriminatory manner across all sections of Afghan society. The central Asian countries that attended the dialogue are Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In his opening remarks, NSA Ajit Doval said the recent developments in that country have important implications not only for Afghan people but also for the region. The declaration said the officials reiterated strong support for a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan while emphasising the respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs. It said they also expressed deep concern over the suffering of the Afghan people arising from the security situation in Afghanistan and condemned the terrorist attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. They specifically emphasised that Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist act. The declaration said the officials condemned in the strongest terms all terrorist activities and reaffirmed their firm commitment to combat terrorism in all its forms including its financing. It also referred to the need for dismantling of terrorist infrastructure and countering radicalisation to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a safe haven for global terrorism. The officials also called for a collective cooperation against the menace of radicalisation, extremism, separatism and drug trafficking in the region. They stressed the necessity of forming an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan and has representation from all sections of their society, including major ethnopolitical forces in the country. The declaration said the inclusion of all sections of the society in the administrative and political structure is imperative for the successful national reconciliation process in the country. Recalling the relevant UN resolutions on Afghanistan, the participants noted that the UN has a central role to play in that country and that its continued presence there must be preserved. The officials also emphasised the importance of ensuring that the fundamental rights of women, children and minority communities are not violated. In his comments, Doval said it is time for closer consultations, greater cooperation and coordination among the regional countries to deal with the challenges emanating from Afghanistan. "We all have been keenly watching the developments in that country. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan but also for its neighbours and the region," Doval said. "This is the time for close consultation amongst us, greater cooperation and interaction and coordination among the regional countries," he said. India invited China and Pakistan too but both the countries decided not to attend it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Top security officials of seven countries call on PM Modi||Top security officials of Russia, Iran and five central Asian countries jointly called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday after attending a dialogue hosted by India to firm up a collective approach to deal with security challenges following the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan. NSA Ajit Doval and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla also joined the security officials in their meeting with the prime minister, officials said. It is learnt that Modi was apprised about the discussions at the 'Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan' by the security officials. India hosted the dialogue to firm up a common approach for practical cooperation in confronting increasing threats of terrorism, radicalisation and drug trafficking following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul. The central Asian countries that attended the dialogue are Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In the dialogue, the security czars flagged concerns over the possible rise of terrorist activities from the Taliban-controlled Afghanistan and called for a collective approach to deal with the challenge. In his opening remarks at the India-hosted Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, Doval said the recent developments in that country have important implications not only for Afghan people but also for the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Uphaar: Delhi court issues notice to govt, AVUT on plea challenging  jail terms to Ansals ||A Delhi court Wednesday sought response from the government and Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) on appeals challenging 7-year jail terms awarded to real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal for tampering with evidence in the 1997 case of Uphaar cinema fire which had claimed 59 lives. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil issued notice on the plea filed by the Ansal brothers challenging their conviction and the jail term by a magisterial court here on Monday.  The judge also sought a report from the medical superintendent of Tihar jail after senior advocate P K Dubey, appearing for Gopal Ansal, submitted that his client was suffering from certain ailments. During the hearing, the accused objected to the locus of AVUT.  The sessions court also directed the accused to serve the copy of the appeal to the association after its counsel, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa opposed their submission.  A magisterial court on Monday had also imposed a fine of Rs 2.25 crore each on the Ansals. The court had also awarded 7-year-jail term each to former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma and two others -- P P Batra and Anoop Singh -- and a fine of Rs three lakh each on the them.  The case is related to tampering with the evidence in the main fire tragedy case in which the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to 2-year jail term by the Supreme Court. The apex court however released them taking into account the prison time they had done on the condition that they pay Rs 30 crore fine each, to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital.  The fire had broken out at the Uphaar cinema during the screening of the Hindi film 'Border' on June 13, 1997, claiming 59 lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Soon, Covid vaccines may be delivered by drones. Ask Telangana||It sounds like a scenario from a sci-fi movie. An unmanned drone being loaded up with Covid-19 vaccines and flying from a district hospital in Telangana to a remote primary health centre. On the return journey the drone’s temperature-controlled boxes are loaded with blood and other samples for analysis at the district hospital. Such scenes are about to become commonplace in the not-too-distant future in Telangana where trial-flights with eight drone companies have just ended. Other states in northeast India too are conducting similar trials in difficult-to-reach hilly areas. Says Rama Devi Lanka, Director, Emerging Technologies, Telangana Government: “From these trials we’ve understood how far the drones can deliver and what payload can be carried. Based on these findings we will plan certain corridors.” Now the Telangana government’s moving to the next part of its trials where companies will make “continuous or regular” deliveries in a handful of districts. Eight companies took part in the first round of trials over a 45-day period. The drones travelling at around 400ft have done trials carrying four separate containers for 11.5km. The containers are cooled at different temperatures to carry everything from vaccines and medicines to blood and even anti-venom drugs to treat snakebites which are common in Telangana’s more far-flung districts. Data-loggers in boxes Says Lanka: “We’re putting data-loggers inside each of the boxes. We’ve trained the asha workers and the nurses to check whether the temperatures have been maintained and whether there are any broken vials.” The government’s also studying all the flight data about the drones and whether they were flown at speeds that ensured that medical supplies or samples did not get damaged. Take a look at TechEagle Innovations, a Gurgaon-based company that’s been taking part in the Telangana trials and which is looking to do vaccine and pharma deliveries in other parts of the country. TechEagle’s now waiting for a green signal to push ahead with medicine deliveries in the northeast. TechEagle has both fixed-wing and other types of drones that can travel upto 100km at a speed of 105kmph.  All its drones have been designed and built in India and for the next stage of the vaccine-delivery trials it plans to use a different drone that can travel greater distances. Says company founder Vikram Singh: “We want to scale this medical and vaccine delivery to multiple states in the next three months.” More services in future TechEagle has also tied up with a nationwide freight-forwarding firm Jeena Ltd and is likely to be looking at offering the same healthcare services in different parts of the country in the very near future. The firm designs and manufactures 15-16 types of drones for different usages. Back in 2018 it had been acquired by food delivery company Zomato which was looking at using drones to deliver to customers’ homes. By June 2020, however, the deal was called off. Telangana’s state government in partnership with the World Economic Forum has been looking at delivering medical services using drones for almost two years now. However, it ran into all manner of difficulties about flight permissions. These issues have become easier to cope with after the Central Government eased the rules regarding drones in mid-August. Vikarabad district was chosen for the trials because it is not near any major airports. Regular deliveries in few districts The government’s now working out specific corridors where drones can fly in different districts. It expects to start regular deliveries in two or three districts to start with. The Telangana government has huge plans and aims to ramp up drone deliveries in a big way once the trials are completed. Says Lanka: “We will see how many districts will be covered and how many drones we will need and where they should be positioned.” Besides that there is far more on the cards. Adds Lanka: “Once we start off we will require a lot of drones. In my view this is just the beginning for service delivery in healthcare. Also, once this proves successful there are a lot of other non-healthcare services that might come up.” There are already four schools where drone operators are trained in Hyderabad. But the state government and the drone companies are pushing for more training schools where longer more effective courses can be held. Thousands of drone operators are likely to be needed in the coming years now that the government has eased the rules around the industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Kerala court remands two Maoists to judicial custody||A court in Thalassery on Wednesday sent to judicial custody two Maoists arrested by the Kerala Anti-Terror Squad on November 9. Underground Maoist cadres B G Krishna Murthy and Savithri, who have several cases against them in various police stations of Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, were apprehended by the ATS from Madhur in Karnataka in the early hours on Tuesday.  A day after their arrest, the ultras were produced before the District Sessions Court, Thalassery under tight security. Both Murthy and Savithri, who face charges under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act including spreading Maoist ideology, possession of weapons, weapons training and unlawful assembly with an intention to launch armed agitation, were sent to judicial remand till December 9.  They will be sent to Viyyur Central jail in Thrissur district, official sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Fadnavis appointed people with criminal background on govt posts, claims Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday accused former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of sweeping under the carpet a case of seized fake notes and resorting to criminalisation of politics by appointing people with criminal background on government boards. Continuing his tirade against the leader of the opposition, Malik in a press conference said there are more bombs to be dropped in coming days and he will spill the beans on this issue against the BJP.  There was no immediate reaction from BJP leader Fadnavis on the fresh charges levelled by Malik. Malik on Tuesday said he would drop a hydrogen bomb and reveal Fadnavis' alleged underworld links. Fadnavis had on Tuesday alleged a dubious land deal involving Malik, his family members and two convicts of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case over a decade ago, a charge refuted by the minister.  On Wednesday, the NCP minister said while fake notes were seized in other states after demonetisation on November 8 2016, there was not a single such instance in Maharashtra. At that time Fadnavis was the chief minister of the state. Malik said on October 8, 2017, the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized fake notes worth Rs 14.56 crore from the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC).  But Devendra Fadnavis helped sweep the case under the carpet. The seized amount was later shown with a value of Rs 8.8 lakhs, Malik alleged, questioning why the case was not handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Incidentally, Sameer Wankhade (the Narcotics Control Bureau officer against whom Malik has levelled several serious allegations) was the DRI's joint director at that time, he added. Malik further said one Imran Alam Sheikh was arrested in this case. Later, his brother Haji Arfat Sheikh was made the chairman of the state minority commission, the minister claimed.  He alleged that Fadnavis appointed people with criminal background on several state boards. He said one Munna Yadav from Nagpur was made the chairman of the Maharashtra Construction Workers Welfare Board despite criminal charges like murder registered against him. Malik also alleged that during Fadnavis sheltered an individual whose second wife was a Bangladeshi. When the Malad police tried investigating the case, they was pressured.  Fadnavis resorted to criminalisation of politics by appointing people with criminal background on government posts, the minister alleged. Malik and Fadnavis have been targeting each other with charges of underworld links. Both have denied any links with the underworld. On Tuesday, Fadnavis said Malik and his family members were part of a company which purchased land in Kurla area of Mumbai at a very low rate by making some fictitious documents.  Malik had last week sought to link the BJP with an alleged narcotics dealer by tweeting the latter's photograph with the former chief minister and his wife Amruta Fadnavis. The former CM had then said he will make revelations about Malik's underworld links after Diwali and also share the "documents and proofs" of the same with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Weapon seized from Union minister's son was fired, confirms forensic report||A forensic report has confirmed that weapons recovered from Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others after the Lakhimpur violence had been fired. Protesting farmers had alleged that Ashish Mishra had opened fire. Though the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report confirmed that the weapons had been discharged, it does not specify whether they were fired on the day of the violence or some other day. Four weapons, including a rifle belonging to Ashish Mishra alias Monu Mishra, had been seized following the Lakhimpur violence. A pistol owned by Ankit Das, nephew of former Union minister Akhilesh Das, and a repeater gun, which was with Das' bodyguard Lateef Kale, were also among them. A forensic report of the fourth weapon, a revolver owned by Das' aide Satya Prakash, is awaited. "Of the four weapons sent for ballistic examination to the FSL, it has been confirmed that firing took place from three, including Ashish Mishra's rifle. However, the report did not confirm when the firing took place," a senior official said here. The special investigation team (SIT) probing the case is yet to issue an official statement on the FSL report. After the arrest of Ashish Mishra, Das and Kale, the SIT had recovered their licensed weapons -- a rifle, pistol, revolver and a repeater gun -- and sent them for forensic examination on October 15. According to the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the police on a complaint of Jagjit Singh, a native of Bahraich district, the entire episode was "premeditated" for which the "conspiracy was hatched" by the minister and his son. The FIR stated that the farmers had gathered at the sports ground of the Maharaja Agrasen Inter-College on October 3 and they wanted to peacefully show black flags to Ashish Mishra and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who were visiting Banbirpur. "Around 3 pm, Ashish Mishra, along with 15-20 armed men, in three speeding four-wheelers, reached the protest spot in Banbirpur. Ashish Mishra, who was seated on the left side of a Mahindra Thar, opened gunfire. The Thar mowed down the crowd and sped ahead," the FIR stated. "Because of the firing, farmer Gurvinder Singh, son of Sukhwinder, a resident of Matronia in Nanpara, died," it stated. However, two successive autopsies conducted on Gurvinder Singh had ruled out bullet injuries. Ashish Mishra and 15-20 unnamed men were mentioned as accused and charged with murder, criminal conspiracy, rash driving, and rioting among others. Of them, police have so far arrested 13. Minister Ajay Mishra had refuted the allegations that his son was involved in the episode that took place near his native Banbirpur village in the Tikonia area of the district. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 147, 148, 149 (all three related to rioting), 279 (rash driving), 338 (causes grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 304A (causing death by negligence), 302 (murder), and 120B (party to a criminal conspiracy).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||Afghan developments have important implications in the region: Doval in key meet||The recent developments in Afghanistan have important implications not only for the people of that country but also for its neighbours and the region, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on Wednesday at an eight-nation dialogue hosted by India on the Afghan crisis. Chairing the meet, Doval in his opening remarks said it is time to have close consultations, greater cooperation and coordination among the regional countries on the Afghan situation. The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan is being attended by security czars of Russia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. India is hosting the dialogue to firm up a common approach for practical cooperation in confronting increasing threats of terrorism, radicalisation and drug trafficking following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul. "We are meeting today to discuss matters relating to Afghanistan. We all have been keenly watching the developments in that country," Doval said. "These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan but also for its neighbours and the region," he said. The NSA hoped that the deliberations will be productive. "This is a time for close consultations amongst us," he said. "I am confident that our deliberations will be productive, useful and will contribute to help the people in Afghanistan and enhance our collective security," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
10-11-2021||India||INX Media: Delhi HC dismisses CBI challenge, allows Chidambaram, others to inspect documents||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday dismissed the CBI's challenge to a trial court order allowing inspection of documents by Congress leader P Chidambaram, son Karti Chidambaram and other accused in the INX media case.  The CBI had sought to set aside a special judge's March 5 order that directed the agency to allow inspection of documents kept in the 'malkhana' by the accused or their counsel.  "The petition is dismissed," said Justice Mukta Gupta.  The investigating agency had opposed the inspection of documents on the grounds that the probe in the INX media case, in which the Chidambarams are accused, is still ongoing, and that it may result in evidence tampering.  In its plea before the high court, the CBI had said that the INX Media case involved high level of corruption with wide ramifications on society, and while the accused have a right to a fair trial, the collective interest of the society could not be impinged.  "A fair trial is not what the accused wants in the name of a fair trial but it must soothe the ultimate justice. Although right to fair trial of the respondents/accused was not infringed, since all documents relied upon by petitioner (CBI) were provided to the respondents/accused, it had said.  The agency contended that the very essence of trial is to unearth the truth for which the court cannot assist the accused in search of a plausible defence.  The high court had on May 18 stayed trial proceedings in the case involving Chidambaram and his son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||TN rains: Red alert sounded for today and tomorrow||A 'red alert' - for extreme to very extreme rainfall for today and tomorrow - has been issued in 20 districts in Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, according to NDTV.com following the emergence of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal that aggravated into depression. The portal adds, “It is expected to move west-northwest and reach Tamil Nadu's northern coast by tomorrow morning, leading to heavy to very rainfall over parts of the southern state as well as neighbouring Puducherry and Karaikal.” The Tamil Nadu government has already formed 434 'siren towers' to keep authorities on alert on floods and other exigencies, and is also working in tandem with telecom networks “to ensure mobile connectivity is not affected; 50 cellular phone towers (on wheels) are ready for use.” In Chennai 46 boats and JCBs, more than 500 giant motor pumps have been installed for rescue operations, Greater Chennai Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi told NDTV, adding, “169 relief centres are operational and floods from rainfall earlier this week have been cleared in 216 of around 400 areas. 14 of 16 flooded subways have also been cleared.” Free food will be supplied from the Amma canteens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||India logs over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 460 casualties in a day||India recorded a single-day rise of 11,466 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the country's tally of infections to 3,43,88,579, while the count of active cases has declined to 1,39,683, the lowest in 264 days, Union Health Ministry data showed. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,61,849, with 460 more fatalities being recorded, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 33 straight days. Less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 136 consecutive days now. The tally of active cases has declined to 1,39,683 which comprises 0.41 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.25 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 955 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.90 per cent. This has been less than two per cent for 37 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.20 per cent. This figure has been below two per cent for 47 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,37,87,047, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 109.63 crore. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestones of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 460 new fatalities include 384 from Kerala, and 27 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the past few days, hence the toll of the state is high. A total of 4,61,849 fatalities have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,430 from Maharashtra, 38,122 from Karnataka, 36,238 from Tamil Nadu, 34,362 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,903 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,252 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Jharkhand: Minor brothers drown in river during Chhath rituals||Two children drowned in Koel river in Jharkhand's Palamu district during Chhath rituals, police said on Wednesday. The incident happened near Chhat ghat in Rajhara late on Tuesday, they said. The victims were Shashi Kumar (10) and Sajjan Kumar (seven), sons of Raju Bhuniya, police said.  The two brothers went to the Chhath ghat with their mother for rituals when the incident happened, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Bommai likely to meet Narendra Modi on November 11||Ahead of his trip to New Delhi on Wednesday, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 11 and is scheduled to meet several central ministers on issues concerning the state's projects. The Chief Minister, who is also likely to meet BJP national leadership during the visit, did not completely rule out the possibility of discussion on cabinet expansion. "I'm leaving for Delhi today, where I will be meeting central ministers and I have sought time to meet the Prime Minister, the appointment is expected for tomorrow," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said he will be meeting several central ministers on issues concerning the state's projects, and will have a meeting with Karnataka's legal team to review and discuss inter-state river disputes concerning both Krishna and Cauvery. The CM said he is also scheduled to attend an all India conclave organised by a television channel, before returning to Bengaluru tomorrow evening. Responding to a question whether he will be meeting BJP national President J P Nadda to discuss cabinet expansion, he said, "I have sought time.. I have not thought about it (to discuss cabinet expansion), but what will be discussed there, I don't know."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Raids yield ‘Rs 38 lakh in cash’ from Odisha official||Odisha vigilance officials have claimed that they have stumbled upon properties worth Rs 6 crore when they raided the house of a deputy manager of the Odisha Police Housing and Welfare Corporation on Tuesday. The vigilance sleuths seized Rs 38 lakh cash from his house in Bhubaneswar. Following an alleged tip-off about huge properties disproportionate to his known sources of income by deputy manager Pratap Kumar Samal, vigilance officials approached the court for getting a warrant to conduct raids. Based on a warrant, 10 teams of vigilance officials raided his residence in Bhubaneswar and his village in Bhadrak district. So far, the vigilance has  claimed to have unearthed 25 immovable properties, including five plots and one building at his village Basudevpur in Bhadrak, 17 plots and two buildings in Bhubaneswar and Khura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Naveen and Jagan discuss issues pertaining to inter-state border||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday discussed issues pertaining to the inter-state border, water disputes between the two states, energy and left-wing extremism. Both the chief ministers have decided that the chief secretaries of the two states will set up an institutional mechanism to deliberate on outstanding issues and find a solution that is in the best interest of the people of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. Jagan arrived here in the afternoon and was closeted with Naveen for about half an hour at the state secretariat. Officials from both the states also took part in the meeting. While the Odisha government insisted on finding a solution to the dispute over the 21 villages of the Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district, Andhra Pradesh officials sought Odisha’s cooperation in the execution of various ongoing water dam projects on the border between the two states. Later, a mutually agreed joint statement of Naveen and Jagan was released to the media. Both the states agreed to work closely on the following issues: Kotia group of villages, Neradi barrage, Jhanjavathi reservoir, Polavaram project, release of water for the Bahuda river and mutual no objection certificate for the Balimela and Upper Sileru in the energy sector. Both the states will work towards setting up a chair for Odia and Telugu languages in B.R. Ambedkar University, Srikakulam and Berhampur University respectively. “Besides, appointment of language teachers in schools in border districts of the two states, supply of books and conduct of language examination will also be taken up to promote brotherhood,” the statement reads. Ahead of their meeting in the evening, chief secretaries of both the states deliberated upon the issues pertaining to construction of Neradi barrage over the Vamsadhara river, Kotia cluster of villages and Jhanjavathi project. The Odisha government said how Andhra officials intruded into the villages under Kotia panchayat and other parts of southern Odisha and created a serious law-and-order problem. The officials cited the need to maintain the sanctity of the border between the two states. Odisha government officials also pointed out how Andhra was trying to implement its welfare schemes in Odisha village. The Odisha government officials also cited how despite their opposition Andhra Pradesh had conducted panchayat elections in seven villages of the Kotia gram panchayat. Earlier, both the states had moved the Supreme Court on the issue of Kotia and the apex court had asked both of them to talk to each other and find a solution. The Andhra officials explained the need for acquiring 103 acres that is required from Odisha for the construction of the Neradi barrage on the Vamsadhara (Project II expansion). They said out of 103 acres, 67 acres is riverbed area and maintained that the barrage would provide irrigation facilities to nearly 6,000 acres in Odisha. On the Jhanjavathi project, they maintained that once the project is completed, nearly 1,174 acres in Odisha would be inundated. Ten villages will be affected. While four villages will be completely submerged, six villages will be partially submerged. Out of the 1,174 acres, 875 acres is government land. It’s an ongoing irrigation project across the interstate river Jhanjavathi in Vizianagaram district. Initially an inter-state agreement was signed on December 25, 1978, to utilise the water of the river. Later on July 27, 1980, a meeting was held to find a solution to the issue of submergence. However, the issue is yet to be resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Reports confirm firing from 4 weapons on Oct 3, say cops||Uttar Pradesh police sources have said ballistic reports have confirmed firing from four weapons in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, when four farmers and a journalist were mowed down by a VIP convoy, adding that two of the weapons were owned by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis. “Two of the weapons, a rifle and a revolver, belong to Ashis Mishra Monu and a repeater gun and a pistol are owned by Ankit Das, an associate of Ashis,” a police source associated with the special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur massacre said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity. The head of the SIT, Upendra Agrawal, did not receive a phone call made by this newspaper to seek his response. However, responding to a WhatsApp question asking if the ballistic reports of the weapons of Ashis and Ankit confirmed firing on October 3, Agrawal wrote back: “No comment.” convoy led by a Thar jeep owned by Teni, the Union minister of state for home, had hit from behind farmers returning from a protest and ploughed through them. Four farmers and a journalist were crushed to death. Teni’s driver and two BJP workers in the convoy were lynched in retaliatory violence. Farmers at the site had said Ashis was in the Thar and Ankit was in a Fortuner behind him and that both had opened fire as they got out of their vehicles and ran into the fields. Ashis denies he was at the spot. “Ankit had said in his statement before the SIT that he and his security guard Mohammad Latif had fired from the repeater gun and the pistol. Ashis said he was not at the spot and there was no question of firing from his weapons,” a police source in Lucknow said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Modi blocked probe into Rafale deal to protect himself: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had blocked an investigation into the Rafale deal to protect himself, and dared the government to set up a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) now to uncover the truth. “Why is the government not ordering an investigation if the BJP thinks the Congress is at fault? Are they fools that they are saving the Congress by stonewalling inquiries? Order a JPC now. And make the electoral bonds public; everything will be clear, which party got money from what sources,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a news conference, after the BJP accused the Opposition party of benefiting from Rafale kickbacks when the UPA was in power. French investigative journal Mediapart had revealed on Monday that the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate have since 2018 had evidence that kickbacks were paid by Dassault Aviation to a middleman between 2007 and 2012 to help it secure the Rafale deal, but the agencies did not pursue the matter. The BJP seized on the revelation of kickbacks being paid when the Congress was in power to accuse the party of corruption, but did not explain the inaction by the central agencies since 2018. “On October 11, 2018, the Mauritius government handed over documents of payments made in the deal to the CBI. And on October 23, 2018, Modi raided the CBI office in the middle of the night and removed CBI director Alok Verma,” Khera told a news conference on Tuesday. “Modi colluded with the corrupt and hence had to protect the corrupt,” he said. The Congress has long held that Verma was removed as the CBI chief in the midnight operation to prevent an investigation into the Rafale deal. Rejecting the BJP’s attempt to accuse the Congress of taking kickbacks, Khera said: “The French news portal has reported that Dassault hired Sushen Gupta in 2000 when the Vajpayee government was in office. Payments were made to him in 2002 and 2004 during the BJP regime as well. Middlemen are regime agnostic, the services continued.” He added: “It is pathetic that the BJP remembers the dates when payments were made in the UPA’s time but doesn’t talk about the critical events under the Modi government.” The Congress spokesperson went on to list those “events”. “The Enforcement Directorate seized confidential documents from Gupta’s house during a raid in connection with some other case on March 26, 2019. The seized papers included the benchmark price document for Rafale from 2015, minutes of defence ministry meetings, Excel sheet of the ministry’s calculations, competitor Eurofighter’s letter written to then defence minister Arun Jaitley and a note dated June 24, 2014, sent to Dassault by Gupta that he can arrange a meeting with the political high command,” Khera said. The leak of these sensitive documents should have been taken very seriously, the Congress spokesperson said. “What action did the government take? Why was an FIR not filed? Who was in power in June 2014? Did the promised meeting with the political high command take place? Did the government find out who was leaking the documents?” he asked. “This is treason. This is playing with national security. Why was the deal not cancelled when the government discovered that Dassault was taking the help of middleman?” Khera underlined: “The Rafale scam is not about payment of commission. The biggest defence scam of India is about compromising with national security.” He dismissed as irrelevant the payments made to Gupta during the UPA years because the deal didn’t go through at that time, and stressed that the UPA government had followed due process, issuing an international tender for the purchase of aircraft. The Congress spokesperson said: “What did Modi do? He purchased 36 aircraft without following the due process, increased the price from Rs 526 crore to Rs 1,670 crore, dropped the technology transfer clause and went to the extent of removing the no-corruption clause. He made a personal intervention to revoke the integrity clause and sovereign guarantee, going against the advice of the defence ministry and the law ministry.” Khera recalled that on October 4, 2018, former BJP Union ministers Arun Shourie and Yashwant Sinha and lawyer Prashant Bhushan had submitted a memorandum to then CBI chief Verma seeking a probe into the Rafale deal. “On October 11, 2018, the Mauritius government handed over documents of payments made in the deal to the CBI. And on October 23, 2018, Modi raided the CBI office in the middle of the night and removed Alok Verma,” he said. The entire Rafale operation was handled by the Prime Minister himself and the Congress would not blame the government, Khera said. “Circumstantial evidence points the needle of suspicion towards the highest authority in the government,” the spokesperson said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had repeatedly raised the issue of corruption in the Rafale deal before the 2019 elections with the slogan “Chowkidar chor hai”, tweeted on Tuesday: “When truth is with you at every step, why do you worry? My dear Congress friends, keep fighting this corrupt government. Don’t give up, don’t be afraid.” At the news conference, Khera said: “Now the difference between chowkidar and chor has disappeared. People know what is the truth.” While a fresh petition in the Supreme Court in the light of new revelations is not being ruled out, the Congress’s priority is to raise the matter with full force in the Parliament session starting later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Bar Council of India directs lawyers to call off strike, judge boycott||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Tuesday directed the Delhi Bar Council to “forthwith” withdraw a strike and the boycott of a judge to protest the conviction of an advocate for assaulting a woman lawyer in 1994. The BCI, the regulatory body for lawyers and legal education, said such protests amounted to subverting the judicial system to change a verdict. “Therefore, in lieu of entirety of the facts and circumstances of the case, abstaining and resorting to strikes or trying to subvert the judicial machinery by pressurising to change a judicial decision by way of abstaining from court work/ strikes, by boycott of a judicial officer, and/ or by trying to procure any other order/ decision in any manner which is against the concepts and tenets and procedures of codified law, is not in any way the correct or legal course of action,” BCI secretary Srimanto Sen said in a statement issued in New Delhi. “Therefore, the State Bar Council of Delhi is directed and requested to forthwith direct and to ensure that the Coordination Committee of All District Court Bar Associations of Delhi immediately withdraw the call for complete abstinence from judicial work by lawyers in district courts across the state on 09.11.2021, as also to issue directions to them to withdraw the call for carrying on indefinite boycott of a judicial officer if the issue being agitated upon by them is not resolved to their satisfaction after meeting with Hon’ble Chief Justice of Delhi High Court,” the statement added. Despite the BCI directive, some lawyers went ahead with the strike on Tuesday. The BCI was referring to the unanimous resolution of the Coordination Committee of All District Court Bar Associations of Delhi on Monday to abstain from work on Tuesday in the district courts against the recent judgment of chief metropolitan magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar of the Tis Hazari Court convicting former Delhi High Court Bar Association president Rajiv Khosla of assaulting a woman lawyer in 1994. The woman lawyer went on to become a district and sessions judge and retired last year. The committee had earlier decided that the issue would be discussed with the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and to observe “complete indefinite boycott of the court of the concerned judicial officer” in case the matter was not resolved. Deploring the decision, the BCI said the that being the harbingers of the legal process, practice and procedure lawyers were expected to do the needful not through strikes and agitations but by way of providing legal assistance to Khosla to file an appeal against his conviction or seeking other legal remedies. “Calling upon all members of the Bar to abstain from judicial work for one day in district courts across the state and thereafter further resolving to indefinitely boycott the judicial officer if the discussion with the Hon’ble Chief Justice of Delhi does not go as per their desire will not go down well with the litigant public, the common masses as well as with the judiciary,” the BCI statement said. “It will be seen as a sign of distress and pressure tactic being resorted to by the most powerful class of citizens in India, who help others in availing justice. This will lead to literal breakdown of the mindset of the common man, who shall be constrained to feel that if lawyers themselves have to resort to such methods to get things done, we shall also resort to the same. Justice, judiciary, law, lawyers, will all be severely damaged by such an act,” the statement added. According to the BCI, frequent strikes further complicate matters and weaken the advocates’ fraternity as such moves had been held as illegal by the Supreme Court in several judgments. “Our profession is considered a noble profession and the professional work rendered by us is unique and for the benefit of the common man, including aggrieved parties who come to advocates in the hope that advocates will be able to get them justice when all doors are closed for them,” the BCI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
10-11-2021||India||Defence-versus-ecology poser from Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked whether it would be justified for it to overlook the country’s defence interests while considering environmental concerns raised over the Centre’s plea to widen a highway in Uttarakhand, referring to “recent events” amid rising border tensions with China. The government has urged the apex court to modify a September 2020 order restricting the width of each lane of the under-construction four-lane Char Dham National Highway in Uttarakhand from 5.5 metres to 10 metres, citing defence preparedness. The plea has been challenged in the court by the NGO Citizens for Green Doon over environment concerns. The 900km upcoming Char Dham National Highway links the pilgrim sites of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath in Uttarakhand besides providing logistical support to the defence ministry for bolstering border preparedness. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath asked senior advocate Colin Gonzalves, appearing for the NGO: “We cannot deny the fact that at such a height, the security of the nation is certainly at stake. Can the highest constitutional court say that, no we will override the defence needs, particularly in the face of recent events? Can we say that environment will triumph over the defence of the nation? Or we say that defence concerns be taken care of so that environmental degradation does not take place?” The court did not specify which “recent events” it was referring to. The highway also passes through areas near the China border. On September 30, close to 100 soldiers of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army were reported to have transgressed the Line of Actual Control in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and spent a few hours on Indian territory before returning. India is locked in a border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh for over a year and the neighbouring country’s soldiers have also intruded into Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh. Citizens for Green Doon has opposed the Centre’s plea to widen the highway on the ground of irreparable ecological imbalance and massive damage to the Himalaya. During Tuesday’s hearing, Justice Chandrachud said: “All development has to be sustainable and there is no doubt about it. But sustainable development has to be balanced with defence interests. We cannot really deny the fact that we are really in a terrain and high altitude where the defence of the nation is extremely important. Can we therefore say we will override the concerns of the armed forces or defence?” Gonzalves pointed out that various expert committees had cautioned against any damage to the area and that this year alone there had been 16 landslides. The lawyer argued that the Himalaya would not be able to withstand the degradation of the environment and would collapse. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the defence ministry, had said the highway expansion was crucial to strengthening the country’s defence preparedness. “There is a need for armed forces vehicles, rocket launchers, etc, to travel on these roads and all this was not taken into account…,” Venugopal had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
10-11-2021||India||BJP accuses Congress of pocketing huge sums over Rafale deal||The BJP on Tuesday accused the Congress of pocketing huge sums over the Rafale fighter jet deal, seizing on a French investigative journal’s claim that Dassault Aviation had paid kickbacks to a middleman between 2007 and 2012 to secure the pact. The BJP, however, failed to come up with a convincing reply as to why the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate did not pursue the matter despite being in possession of proof since October 2018 of commissions to the tune of 7.5 million euros, as claimed by Mediapart. “INC (Indian National Congress) means ‘I need commission’. Sonia Gandhi says ‘I need commission’, Rahul Gandhi says ‘I need commission’,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra told a media conference. As the Narendra Modi government continued to maintain silence on the latest Mediapart report, the BJP spokesperson claimed that at least Rs 65 crore had been paid as commission between 2007 and 2012 through alleged middleman Sushen Gupta. Asked about the portion of the Mediapart report that said the CBI and the ED had proof of corruption in the Rafale pact way back in October 2018, the BJP spokesperson was not as assertive. “I am not a spokesperson of the CBI and do not know whether the CBI is investigating or whether an investigation is going on. I can’t comment,” he said. “A cursory look at newspaper reports of 2019-20 shows that this middleman Gupta is under the radar of the ED. He was also arrested and is being investigated for money laundering. These are ongoing investigations,” Patra said.  “Who said that no investigation is being done against the middleman?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
10-11-2021||India||IAF summit amid China standoff in eastern Ladakh||The top brass of the Indian Air Force will review the security challenges facing India, including Chinese transgressions and the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh, during a three-day commanders’ conference starting on Wednesday. Sources in the defence ministry said the commanders would review the overall security situation on the borders with China and Pakistan during the conference, which will be attended by the air officers commanding-in-chief of all commands of the IAF and all directors-general posted at the Air Headquarters in Delhi. The conference comes after the 13th round of military talks between the Indian and Chinese armies last month. That session failed to achieve any breakthrough as the Chinese were not agreeable to disengage from India-claimed territory at the remaining friction points along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. A defence ministry official said Beijing’s reluctance to disengage from the friction points had led to growing frustration in the security establishment. “The Chinese army is said to have strengthened its positions at the friction points by building airbases and military camps,” he said. Sources in the security establishment say the Chinese have been insisting that the remaining occupied zones at the Depsang Plains and Hot Springs belong to them and asked Indian troops to move further back within India-claimed territory as a precondition for disengagement. This has been rejected by the Indian Army. India and China have been locked in border disputes at multiple points in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Chinese army is said to have altered the unmarked LAC in these areas and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Besides surface-to-air missile squadrons, the IAF has deployed fighter aircraft, including Sukhoi, Mirage, Mig-29 as well as Apache attack and Chinook heavy-lift helicopters, in Ladakh to counter the massive deployment by the PLA. “During the three-day conference starting tomorrow, the top brass will also address strategies and policies related to capabilities that would give the IAF a significant edge over its adversaries,” an air force official said. The commanders, he said, will also address the IAF’s operational capabilities and issues pertaining to reforms and restructuring to ensure more efficient processes across all domains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
10-11-2021||India||Kerala Congress targets Malayalam film industry||The Congress is the new disruptor for the Malayalam film industry just when it is trying to emerge from the Covid pandemic that saw tens of projects being either shelved or delayed. A protest over fuel prices that turned ugly when a Malayalam actor questioned Congress workers blocking a main road in Kochi 10 days ago has snowballed into a controversy with party activists holding up film shoots for several hours at two places. It all started when actor Joju George questioned the rationale behind a Congress blockade of the busy Edapally-Vytilla bypass in Kochi city on November 1. After being stranded in his car for about 45 minutes along with other vehicles, an angry George had stepped out and admonished the party workers. He had later clarified that he intervened only after a stranded family taking an aged person for chemotherapy in an autorickshaw requested his help since they were getting late for their appointment. Television footage showed George angrily interacting with the Congress workers and asking them to let the traffic flow. A late bloomer, George is a critically acclaimed actor known for his recent films such as Joseph and Nayattu (Hunt), in both of which he portrayed a traumatised policeman. The Congress workers smashed the rear windshield of George’s Land Rover Defender SUV. The party accused him of being drunk when confronting the Congress workers. But George, who insisted he gave up drinking five years ago, proved he was sober by getting his blood sample tested and filed a case against the Congress workers for causing damage worth Rs 6 lakh to his car. He has deactivated all his social media accounts following intense cyber bullying from Congress backers. George has proclaimed that he belongs to a “Congress family”. Police booked 15 Congress workers, including former Kochi mayor Tony Chammany and several Youth Congress leaders, six of whom have so far been arrested under non-bailable sections and remanded in judicial custody. An industry source said Ernakulam district Congress president Mohammed Shiyas, under whose leadership the roadblock was held on November 1, was peeved at George for rebuffing his offer for a settlement if the complaint was withdrawn. “The disruptions started when Joju (George) turned down the offer to patch up,” said the source. With George refusing to withdraw his complaint, a section of the Congress turned against the Malayalam film industry and disrupted filming at two locations on Sunday and Monday. Youth Congress workers marched to the location where Kaduva (Tiger) was being filmed at Mundakkayam in Kottayam on Sunday. Another group of Youth Congress workers arrived and objected to the disruption, leading to a clash between the two factions. The police brought the situation under control. Congress workers struck again, this time at the location of Keedam in Kochi on Monday. They marched to the location shouting slogans against George and the Malayalam film industry before jostling with the police deployed at the spot. Filming had to be halted for several hours on both occasions. George is not said to be part of either film. Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha member K. Muraleedharan on Tuesday said protesters could march to shooting locations of George. “There could be protests at Joju George’s shooting locations. But the party has no responsibility for that. The workers are very upset. Don’t ask us if something of that sort happens,” he told reporters. “We respect artistes and we are not against film actors. But what he did is not correct,” Muraleedharan said, referring to the actor’s protest. Youth Congress workers on Tuesday placed a wreath with George’s picture outside a cinema in Kochi. They were protesting against the presence of a poster of his recent film Star. Filmmaker and general secretary of the Film Employees Federation of Kerala, B. Unnikrishnan, expressed concern at the unrest against the industry. “We have never seen such disruption of film shooting by the Congress,” he told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “Each day of shooting costs between Rs 5 and Rs 6 lakh,” he said. Unnikrishnan had on Monday written to the leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan of the Congress, seeking his intervention to stop party workers interfering with film shooting. “A democratic institution like the Congress should not allow a difference of opinion with an actor to develop into hatred against an art form and an industry,” Unnikrishnan wrote. But Shiyas blamed George for the series of developments. “I don’t understand the logic of opposing protests by blocking roads since film actors and CPM leaders have already done so in Delhi at the farmers’ protest,” Shiyas told a television channel, but added he didn’t support obstructing film shoots. The film industry is, however, wary of local party units taking their own call seeking vengeance against George and film bodies that backed him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
10-11-2021||India||COP26 discussion draft underlines urgency on climate but target far||The COP26 discussion draft that was released on Sunday underlines the urgency of action aimed at averting the average global temperature from rising above 1.5°C from pre-industrial times, but also seeks “global net-zero” emissions by 2050. That would mean the world should by 2050 produce only as much of Earth-warming greenhouse gases as it is able to remove. But many scientists and analysts believe that would require far stringent emissions-lowering actions worldwide over the next two decades. The US and the European Union have pledged net-zero by 2050, China by 2060 and India by 2070. Some view the mention of urgent actions to cap global warming at 1.5°C and the net-zero target of 2050 in the document, released for negotiations, as a contradiction. “For the world to reach net-zero by 2050, it needs to start working today. The developed countries should commit to a 2030 deadline and countries like India to 2050,” said Sanjay Vashisht, director of Climate Action Network South Asia, a group of non-government organisations. Harjeet Singh, an adviser to Climate Action Network International, also expressed concern that there have not been any formal negotiations yet on the net-zero pledges. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, a former Union environment minister, said net-zero was a “bogus claim”. “Who knows where we will be in 2050 or 2070... we need to focus on closer targets,” said Ramesh, who is currently chair of the parliamentary standing committee on science, technology, environment, forests and climate change. Sections of policy analysts believe the UK — the COP26 host this year — wants to showcase the summit as a success with net-zero being the focus of announcements. But several scientific studies have cautioned that global temperatures may cross the critical 1.5°C threshold within two or three decades, said Saleemul Huq, an adviser to the Least Developed Countries group at the summit. “Setting a long-term net-zero target as the prime objective seems out of place,” he said. An Indian negotiator in Glasgow told The Telegraph that India has already committed to a net-zero target of 2070. “If we advance our net-zero to 2050, the developed countries will have to show the way with a 2030 target and China with 2040,” the negotiator said. Experts also criticised the document — calling it an “UK draft” — for missing the important redlines in global climate discussions. “There has been no mention of fossil fuel (elimination) in the draft. All are talking about eliminating fossil fuels. But there is no mention — it’s nonsensical” said Eddie Perez, a climate expert and negotiation tracker from Canada. A senior negotiator from a developed country told this newspaper that fossil fuels’ cuts were not part of the official Paris climate agreement in 2015 and hence could not be accommodated. “Though the countries have been talking about net-zero, hardly any is talking about peaking the year of emissions,” said another climate policy analyst in Glasgow. “And the draft is silent on that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
10-11-2021||India||Hooch kills four persons in Bihar, toll reaches 45 in a week||At least four persons are said to have lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar on Tuesday, taking the hooch deaths to 45 in the state in the past one week. The latest incident occurred at Sirasiya village under Kanti police station. The toll may increase as around half a dozen people are battling for their lives in hospitals. However, Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant put the number of deaths and those in hospitals at two each. “Two people of Sirisiya have died while two others are hospitalised. They seem to have consumed spurious liquor. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. We will be able to confirm the cause of death only after recording the statements of the family members of the victims and studying the post-mortem reports,” the officer said. Residents of Sirisiya identified the deceased as Sumit Kumar Rai, Ashok Kumar Rai, Dilip Rai and Ram Babu Rai. “My husband consumed liquor with a few others on Monday night and came home complaining of nausea, stomach ache and pain in the entire body. After some time he started vomiting blood. We rushed him to a nearby hospital where he died during treatment,” said Shobha Devi, wife of Sumit who was a mason. The incident comes on the heels of back-to-back hooch tragedies in Gopalganj, West Champaran and Samastipur districts. Another hooch incident has been reported in Muzaffarpur in October in which five people had died. Police and excise officials launched raids in the Kanti police station area after the latest incident. Kanti SHO and two village chowkidars have been suspended. Around 100 people have lost their lives after consuming hooch this year, putting a question mark on the success of prohibition in Bihar. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced he will review the implementation of prohibition on November 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
