11-11-2021||India||India happy with WHO's approval to Covaxin, says it will ease travel||The World Health Organization's (WHO) approval to Covaxin vaccine earlier this month would bring about a significant improvement in the ease of travel for vaccinated Indians and India is also taking up with countries that are issuing separate orders for individual vaccines to recognise the Bharat Biotech-manufactured COVID-19 jab, the Ministry of External Affairs said today. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said 96 countries have either accepted WHO-approved vaccines, which would include both Covishield and Covaxin, or in some cases only Covishield or Covaxin. "But we hope that with the WHO approval to Covaxin, this list will be enlarged and all 96 or more countries will accept both vaccines. I think that is a significant improvement in the ease of travel of vaccinated Indians abroad," he said. Asked to clarify the government's statement that 96 countries have agreed to mutual recognition of COVID-19 vaccination certificates with India, Bagchi pointed out that on the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare webpage as well as on that of the Ministry of External Affairs, one will see that as on November 9, there are two types of lists -- one high risk category countries and another category A. The new revised guidelines for entry into India broadly sticks to the same nomenclature, he said. Bagchi said the countries that either acknowledge WHO-approved vaccines and those that accept our vaccines are on that list of Category A. He said 96 countries have accepted WHO-approved vaccines or have recognised our vaccines. "In a significant development, India developed and produced Covaxin was accorded the emergency use licencing by World Health Organization (WHO) earlier this month on November 3. This should ease international travel of those vaccinated with Covaxin. Many countries already recognize WHO-approved vaccines and now with Covaxin joining this list that should become automatic,” Bagchi said. Some countries had issued individual orders for individual vaccines and they perhaps need to issue separate orders for approving Covaxin, he said, adding that India is taking up the matter with those countries. Some countries have also accorded on their own national regulatory clearance to Covaxin and so this list of countries that accept Covaxin may be further enlarged, Bagchi said. On the export of vaccines, he said that keeping in mind India's domestic requirement, it has resumed its overseas supply of vaccines. Some shipment have already taken place while others are in the making including through the Covax facility, Bagchi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||World Children's Day 2021: UNICEF India wants schools to reopen soon||The pandemic-enforced closure of schools for a longer period of time across India has become a cause of worry for the United Nations Children’s Fund, or UNCEF. According to the global body, children are losing a lot more than just education, but a lot of other things, too. It is worried over the fact that children are losing time with their teachers and friends to nutritious school meals and in some cases, a safe haven that prevents abuse and violence. The UNICEF has called for safe reopening of schools and learning recovery on World Children's Day 2021 This year’s WCD theme focuses on helping children to recover from interruptions and learning losses experienced over the last two years due to the pandemic. The UNICEF India along with its partners have planned a number of events between November 14 and November 20.  Both the virtual and physical spaces will be used to bring light to this issue. UNICEF is partnering with Google India, Oracle India, Kimberly-Clark India, Ibis, Housing.com, B-Medical systems, INIO Media network to serve the purpose. These organisations will lend their platforms for children and highlight WCD theme for the year 2021. World Children's Day 2021 UNICEF Events November 14-20: Pandemic classroom installation A pandemic classroom will be installed at Open Amphitheatre, Select City Walk Mall, Saket. It will highlight the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on children’s education, learning and well-being. November 18: Launch of Changing Childhood Project Report UNICEF will release findings of The Changing Childhood Project, a landmark poll by UNICEF and Gallup that asked multiple generations for their views on the world and what it is like to be a child today. November 19-20: Iconic buildings and historic monuments to #GoBlue Monuments across the country including Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament House and Qutub Minar will be adorned with blue lights highlighting  the nation-wide celebration of child rights and to put the spotlight on Learning Recovery. November 20: Charter of Demands presented to Parliamentarians on prioritising children’s education and their recovery UNICEF India has also roped in Parliamentarians’ Group for Children (PGC) as partner to organise a Parliament with Children on November 20. The event will be held in the presence of members of Parliament. According to the UNICEF, the PGC convenes, informs and engages Members of Parliament on issues of children's rights. Children will present their demands to re-open schools at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots and 1984: In Zakia Jafri case, Sibal draws parallel||Congress’s Kapil Sibal, who is also a senior advocate, argued in Supreme Court today that the 2002 Gujarat riots and the 1984 Sikh riots were similar in the way the attackers had hunted for their victims. Appearing for Zakia Jafri -- the widow of Gujarat's Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, who was killed in the riots -- Mr Sibal spoke of the violence that swept Delhi after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. "I was living at Maharani Bagh and there were houses of two Sikh gentlemen that were already identified by the mob. They came only for those houses. Similarly, Muslim houses were identified during the 2002 Gujarat riots," Mr Sibal told the court. Zakia Jafri has questioned the Special Investigation Team's handling of the riots investigation and its clean chit to then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi. Sibal argued on Thursday that the team has conducted no investigation at all. “The SIT itself should be investigated. It did not do its job. It was an act of protection... The SIT only worked to protect the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad), Bajrang Dal, RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) members and protect people worthy of names,” he told the three-judge bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar. The team “rendered conclusions contrary to facts that they were aware of”, he said, slamming the team headed by former CBI chief RK Raghavan set up by the Supreme Court in 2008. "If the investigating agency does not do its duty, the victim suffers doubly -- at the hands of the accused and then at the hands of investigation agency which did not do its duty. He also contended that the police and SIT "collaborated and were rewarded handsomely". "The SIT chief was made the High Commissioner of Cyprus. Ahmedabad Police Chief's call records show that he conversed with accused but he was later promoted as DGP of Gujarat," he added. The next hearing of the case will be held on November 16. Ehsan Jafri was among the 68 people killed at the Gulberg Society in Ahmedabad on February 28, 2002 -- a day after the S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express was burnt at Godhra, killing 59 people and triggering riots in Gujarat. The SIT had submitted its closure report in February 2012 -- a decade after the riots -- and gave a clean chit to PM Modi and 63 others, citing "no prosecutable evidence". The Supreme Court has started hearing the case after multiple adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||Facebook's surprise findings on hate in India||Content espousing hate surged in India around key events from elections to Covid and protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, show Facebook's internal documents reviewed by NDTV. The documents reveal how despite the spike in inflammatory and anti-minority content India, Facebook's senior officials downplayed the threats it posed just a year earlier, raising the question of whether they did enough to combat it. A document from July 2020, titled “Communal Conflict in India”, for instance, showed how offline harm was often accompanied by online hate, during key moments of crisis. The report said one of the reasons that motivated it was the "recent spike in inflammatory content and hate speech in India" and "marked rise in violence against Muslim Minority in India over the last 18 months". It found that in December 2019 -- which saw over 80 per cent increase in inflammatory content over the baseline around the time of the anti-CAA protests -- online content on Facebook and WhatsApp included “misinformation on protests, demonizing content (against Muslims) hate speech and inflammatory spikes”. The same document also showed how in March 2020, at the start of the first COVID lockdown, there was a 300-plus per cent in spike in inflammatory content. Online content at the time blamed Muslims for the spread of Covid 19. These documents are part of disclosures made to the American Securities and Exchange Commission and provided to American Congress in redacted form by whistleblower Frances Haugen's legal counsel. The redacted versions received by the US Congress were reviewed by a consortium of news organizations, including NDTV. Internal documents also reflect the human impact of this spike in hate, captured in interviews of Muslims and Hindus in India conducted by Facebook. The team found that Muslim users felt particularly threatened or upset, while Hindus did not express similar fears. A Muslim man from Mumbai said that he was scared for his life, and that he was worried that all "Muslims are going to be attacked" due to the wide circulation of Islamophobic hashtags like #CoronaJihad. However, a document from just a year before this, January 2019, "Critical Countries: Review With Chris Cox" said that "there is comparatively low prevalence of problem content (hate speech etc) on Facebook" in India. Mr Cox is a senior Facebook executive, who was in charge of the company's applications including Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram at the time. The document goes on to say that "surveys tell us that people generally feel safe" in the country and "experts tell us that the country is stable". This supposed "clean chit" was just months before the high pitched Lok Sabha polls, and the very divisive Delhi election campaigns. However, by 2021, the tune seems to have changed. Documents from the time show that Facebook's assessment of India had changed in an apparently belated acknowledgement of spiralling online and offline hate. Documents, which were related to then upcoming 2021 state elections in the country, said that "India has been assessed as severe for Societal violence... with recurring mobilization along identity fault lines, tied by both the press and civil society groups to social media discourse". On this apparent change in stance, spokesperson for Meta said their teams have developed "an industry-leading process of reviewing and prioritizing which countries have the highest risk of offline harm and violence every six months. We make these determinations in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and following a review of societal harms, how much Facebook's products impact these harms and critical events on the ground."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||CBSE, ICSE students demand exams in hybrid mode, file plea in SC||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court of India by the students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) Class 10, 12 exams. The students are against offline-only mode for Class 10 and Class 12 term 1 exams and seek direction to hold the term 1 exams in hybrid mode - a mix of both online and offline.  The CISCE which conducts the ICSE Class 10th and ISC Class 12th annual exams, will begin the term 1 exams from November 15, while CBSE term 1 exams will start with exams for minor papers from November 16.  “Exams for major subjects in December 2021 are spread over three weeks, placing the petitioners in great apprehension on the risk of infection and the impact on subsequent exams. Preceding the exams for major subjects in December 2021 are the exams for Minor subjects in November 2021 in physical mode, further aggravating the likelihood of turning the exams for Major subjects into a Super Spreader Event,” the plea said.  The plea filed by six students through Advocate Sumanth Nookala says that continuous exposure through offline exams will "sharply" increase the risk of Covid infection and it is a violation of Right to Health.  “At any rate, such continuous exposure through offline exams sharply increases the risk of infection to Covid 19 rendering the impugned action as arbitrary and in violation of Right to Health,” the plea said.  The option of online exams, the plea added will facilitate social distancing, and will reduce strain on logistical constraints.  The petitioners also have argued that taking students’ consent to conduct exams without giving a valid choice is not right and should not happen. “Many students have reported that consent is being secured by resorting to misrepresentation and coercion,” the plea added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||Politics is 'business' of doing good for people, says Leander Paes||Tennis superstar and Trinamool Congress member Leander Paes on Thursday said he joined politics with an aim to make a difference in the lives of people. Paes was talking to reporters during a visit to the Velim assembly constituency in South Goa. “I am sure people are wondering why I have come into politics. For me, it is the business of doing some good for the people,” said the 48-year-old Olympian. Paes joined the TMC here in the presence of party chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during her trip to Goa last month. Banerjee visited the BJP-ruled coastal state ahead of next year's assembly polls. “I have conducted my professional tennis career in a certain professionalism in a certain manner, in a certain patriotism. For me, as I have done patriotism using tennis as a vehicle, I would like to use this business of politics to make difference to the people,” he said. The Indian tennis legend said he calls politics a "business" because there is a lot of database, knowledge and involvement of professional teams in political activities. Also, at the helm we have got a lady (Banerjee) who is the captain of the team, he said. Paes said that Banerjee has given him an opportunity to do good for the people and "that is something I am really grateful for". “I believe in her because she is a champion. I know her since I was 8 years old, she has helped me a lot in my teens, when I needed to travel abroad and did not have sponsorship and foreign exchange at that time,” he said. The tennis veteran described the Bengal CM as a "doer". “When she says something she will do it. In my (political) journey it is about giving back to the people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||India takes note of ‘Chinese construction activities’ mentioned in US report||Days after a Pentagon report said Beijing built a large village in a disputed territory in the Arunachal Pradesh sector, India on Thursday said it has neither accepted any illegal occupation of its territory by China nor has it accepted unjustified Chinese claims. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on its security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. He also said that India too stepped up infrastructure development including construction of roads and bridges in areas along the border with China. Bagchi said India has taken note of the US Department of Defence report to the US Congress that made a reference to construction activities by the Chinese side along the India-China border areas. He said China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades. "We have taken note of the US Department of Defence' report to US Congress which inter-alia also makes a reference to construction activities by Chinese side along the India-China border areas particularly in the Eastern sector," he said. Bagchi was replying to a question on the matter. "Reports had also appeared in the media earlier this year on this issue. As we had stated then China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades," he said. "India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims. The government has always conveyed its strong protest to such activities through diplomatic means and will continue to do so in the future," Bagchi said. He said Indian has also stepped up border infrastructure including the construction of roads, bridges etc, which has provided much needed connectivity to the local population along the border. "The government remains committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along the border areas for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens, including in Arunachal Pradesh," he said. "The government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity," Bagchi added. In its recent report, the US Department of Defence said China built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between its Tibet Autonomous Region and India's Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||BJP targets Congress over Salman Khurshid's comments on Hindutva||The BJP on Thursday launched a scathing attack on the Congress over its leader Salman Khurshid reportedly comparing Hindutva with the jihadist Islam of terrorist groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram in his latest book, and said the opposition party is weaving a web like a spider against Hindus. Meanwhile, a Delhi-based lawyer has filed a complaint with the Delhi Police seeking registration of an FIR against Khurshid on the matter. According to lawyer Vivek Garg, Khurshid, in his book 'Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times', wrote: "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years." Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said Khurshid's book on Ayodhya hurts religious sentiments of people. "In this book Hinduism is compared to ISIS and Boko Haram," Bhatia said, adding that the Congress is weaving a web like a spider against Hindus. Alleging that this is happening at the behest of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, Bhatia questioned her silence on the issue and said: "If you remain silent, then it will be clear that your ideology is also against Hindus." Demanding Khurshid's removal from the Congress, the BJP spokesperson said, "Earlier, the term 'Hindu terrorism' was invented when the Congress was in power." BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya in a tweet highlighted a paragraph of the book and said, "Congress's Salman Khurshid in his new book writes that Hindutva is similar to the jihadist Islamist groups like ISIS and Boko Haram. What else can we expect from someone whose party coined the term Saffron terror just to draw equivalence with Islamic jihad, to get Muslim votes?" The book by former Union minister Khurshid on the Ayodhya verdict was released on Wednesday. Lawyer Garg said Khurshid made the remarks in a chapter called 'The Saffron Sky' (page -113). The complaint was addressed to the Delhi Police Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) and the SHO of Roop Nagar police station on Wednesday seeking registration of an FIR in the matter under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. When contacted, a senior police officer said, “We have received a complaint on Thursday but are verifying the allegations made by the complainant. Accordingly, action will be taken as per law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||MP: Two killed, 14 injured after pick-up truck overturns in Satna||Two persons were killed and 14 others injured when a pick-up truck overturned at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Satna district on Thursday, police said. The victims were returning from a pilgrimage in Maihar when the speeding pick-up truck overturned at Sagauni village under Ramnagar police station area, about 80 km from the district headquarters, Maihar sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP) Himali Soni said.  Rambai Saket (55) and Shivlal, whose age is yet to be ascertained, died in the accident. One of them died on the spot, while the other victim succumbed to injuries at a health facility, she said. The injured, majority of them women, were admitted to a nearby health centre, from where some were referred to other hospitals for treatment, the official said, adding that the victims hailed from Sidhi district.  The driver of the pick-up truck jumped out before the vehicle overturned, and fled the scene, she said. A case has been registered and further investigations are underway, the SDOP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||Amruta Fadnavis seeks apology from Nawab Malik for his tweets ||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis' wife Amruta Fadnavis on Thursday sent a legal notice to Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, seeking apology for trying to link her with an alleged drug peddler by tweeting certain pictures. Malik, the chief spokesperson of the NCP, should tender unconditional apology within 48 hours and delete his "defamatory tweets", the notice said. If he didn't, she will initiate proceedings against him under section 499 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and also file a civil suit for damages, it said. The notice, sent through Parinam Law Associates, claimed that Malik tarnished Amruta Fadnavis and her family's image. The intention was "to portray and suggest that our client has connection with drug peddlers, more particularly one...along with whom, the images of our client are shared in the said defamatory tweets," the notice said. The NCP leader also held a press conference and levelled "false and baseless allegations" as he wanted to gain "cheap political mileage" and divert the attention of the public "from the misrule and failure of the ruling government (in Maharashtra) and the action taken by central agencies against the drug menace," the notice claimed. The pictures tweeted by Malik had been clicked during an event organized in Mumbai for the conservation of rivers four years ago by a group called 'River March', it said. The alleged drug peddler seen in the pictures with Amruta had been hired by the River March, and she and her family had no link with him, the notice said. On Wednesday, Malik accused Devendra Fadnavis of sweeping under the carpet a case of seized fake notes and appointing people with criminal background to government boards when the latter was Maharashtra chief minister. The BJP leader had earlier alleged that Malik's family had had a dubious land deal with two convicts of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
11-11-2021||India||Amarinder backs extension of BSF jurisdiction, opposes Punjab Assembly resolution||Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday opposed the resolution adopted by the Punjab Assembly against the Centre's move to extend the BSF's jurisdiction, saying the Union government's decision does not infringes upon the state authority. The leader said with neighbouring Pakistan using sophisticated technology and improvised drones with a range of as much as 30 km, it is important that the Border Security Force (BSF) gets more operational jurisdiction. "The BSF like the Punjab Police is our own force and not any external or foreign force coming to occupy our land," he said in a statement here. The Union government had last month amended the BSF Act to authorise the border guarding force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50 km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The Punjab Assembly on Thursday adopted a resolution against the Centre's notification, calling it an "insult" to the state police and seeking its withdrawal. "The operational jurisdiction of the BSF concerns national security and not the law and order in the state, which the current powers that be in Punjab are apparently not able to understand," Amarinder Singh said opposing the resolution. The state government should not politicise the issue of national security for "petty partisans ends and motives", he said. The leader said apart from Punjab, the jurisdiction of the BSF is up to 50 km from the international border in Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Gujarat and West Bengal. "Extending the operational jurisdiction of the BSF neither infringes upon the federal authority of the state nor questions the competence of the state police in maintaining law and order as some vested political interests are trying to make out," Amarinder Singh remarked. The former chief minister said there is a huge difference between law and order and national security. "Unfortunately, people playing up the issue are unable to make out the difference between the law and order and the national security," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Gehlot calls on Sonia to discuss cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi here and the two leaders are learnt to have discussed the political situation as well as the impending cabinet reshuffle in the state. Gehlot met Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with AICC general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken and AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, at former party chief Rahul Gandhi's residence here on Wednesday night and held lengthy discussions on the cabinet reshuffle in the state. A major reshuffle is on the cards in Rajasthan in the next few days and various modalities are being worked out by adopting the "one man, one post" formula while considering appointments in the cabinet, sources said. Gehlot later told reporters that the Congress high-command will decide on the reshuffle and Maken has all the information about it. He said the party wants good governance to continue in the state. Gehlot said the Centre should further reduce the excise duty on petrol and diesel and the states would follow suit by reducing VAT. Rajasthan is not among the states that have reduced the VAT on petrol and diesel so far after the Centre reduced the excise duty by Rs 10 per litre on petrol and by Rs 5 per litre on diesel. Pointing towards the spiralling fuel prices, Gehlot urged the Centre to support the states by further reducing taxes on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Depression to cross coast between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh around Chennai this evening: IMD||The depression over the Bay of Bengal will cross the coast between north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh this evening and Chennai would witness "strong" winds up to 45 km, the weather office said on Thursday, prompting the Chennai airport to suspend all flights arriving between 1.15 pm and 6 pm, according to NDTV.com. "The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and severity of wind," the airport said, as six districts across Tamil Nadu, including capital Chennai, receive heavy rainfall from a depression over the Bay of Bengal this week and is expected to cross the coast this evening. Most districts in northern Tamil Nadu including Chennai are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, S Balachandran said, even as the city and its suburbs received sharp showers all through the night and on Thursday morning as well. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin reviewed the situation and urged the Ministers and officials concerned to expedite relief activities in affected areas. The Depression over southwest Bay of Bengal moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 21 kmph during past six hours and lay centered at 5.30 AM on Thursday over southwest Bay of Bengal, about 170 km east-southeast of Chennai and 170 km east of Puducherry, the India Meteorological Department said in a bulletin issued at 8.30 AM. "It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu & adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts around Chennai by the evening of today," it added. As a result, Balachandran said, Chennai would witness "strong surface winds" ranging between 40-45 km. "People should not venture out unnecessarily," he told reporters. Citing latest rainfall data, he said Tambaram (Chengalpet dt) received 232.9 mm, followed by Cholavaram (220 mm) and Ennore at 205 mm. Chennai (Nungambakkam) recorded 158 mm. The system was being constantly monitored, he said in response to a question. Rains continued to lash various parts of the city and its suburbs on Thursday, leading to inundation in many areas like KK Nagar even as a number of subways and roads in many parts of the metro were closed for vehicular traffic. Police said trees were uprooted in places like Egmore and Perambur. Personnel of Greater Chennai Corporation, police and Fire and Rescue Services were involved in various relief and rescue work, including pumping out stagnant water. The north-east monsoon, which brings the bulk of rainfall to Tamil Nadu, has been active for the past fortnight and many parts have been receiving incessant rainfall since Sunday. Most of the water bodies in the state, including the reservoirs meeting the drinking water needs of Chennai, the Mettur Dam in Salem and others are full and excess water is being released from most of them. Meanwhile, Stalin spoke to Ministers and Special Officers deputed to manage the rain-related issues in various districts and reviewed the situation with them, an official release said. He directed them to expedite the relief activities and ensure the provision of quality food and medical facilities in relief camps. He further wanted the authorities concerned to take steps to prevent crop loss. He also held a review meeting with top state government officials including Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu. The chief minister also ordered constituting a six-member ministerial panel, headed by Cooperatives Minister I Periyasamy, to assess crop damage, especially in the Cauvery delta region, and submit a report to the government to expedite relief work, the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Madness or treason; Varun Gandhi's swipe at Kangana ||BJP MP Varun Gandhi took a swipe at film actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday for her reported remarks that India received freedom in 2014 and what it got in 1947 was "alms", and asked if her thinking was madness or treason. He also posted a short clip of her remarks during a new channel programme in which she is heard saying in Hindi, "That was not freedom but 'bheekh' (alms), and the freedom came in 2014." Ranaut, who was recently given Padma Shri, was apparently referring to the BJP coming to power in 2014. She has sparked controversy in the past with her right wing comments and jibes at opposition politicians. Slamming her, Gandhi said, "Insulting the sacrifice of Mahatma Gandhi sometime, respecting his killer sometime, and now the disdain for the sacrifices of Mangal Pandey, Rani Laxmibai, Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and lakhs of freedom fighters. Should I call this thinking madness or treason?"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||3 Reasons Why De'el Woods Wants To Empower Struggling Musicians||De’el Woods has always believed in the idea that the world becomes a better place when we start volunteering our time and money to those struggling. Whether it is in terms of money, time, or effort he always desired to help those in need. And as soon as De’el was capable enough to assist other people, he started doing so. Here are 3 reasons shared by De’el that provokes him to empower struggling musicians: The music industry has been a very competitive industry and as a result, not many artists get to prove their capabilities. Thus, De’el created his own record label, Better Than Amazing Records, which aims to provide a platform for musicians to work on their art. He believed that many amazing voices go unnoticed just because of the lack of opportunity. And many creative artists don't have enough connections or the financial strength to create new opportunities for them. Therefore, these struggling musicians have to wait for years before they can finally land a good opportunity. De’el noticed this issue in the industry because of his two cousins who were in the industry for 25 years combined. As a result, he worried that there might be many other talented artists like his cousins who aren’t able to get their work heard around the world. That being so, he decided to help as many musicians as he possibly can. De’el was always a smart and high spirited individual. However, financial issues always let him down. As he was raised by a single mother, De’el was responsible for himself from a very young age. While in high school, he worked at a total of 5 jobs throughout his years there and sold clothes out of the trunk of his car to earn some extra cash. Even after starting his career as a network marketer, there came a point when he had to donate plasma for gas money and food. As a result, De’el knew the issues that tag along with poverty and he did not want other people to face them. The need for good music is often underestimated in this society. People don't realize, but at some point or the other, we all are used to enjoying music. Thus, De’el wanted good music to be uncovered in front of the world. Initially, he wanted his family’s amazing voices and creativity to be known worldwide. However, after beginning to work as a writer and owner at his record label, De’el now wants to discover all the unexploited potential talent in the music industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||How Lisa Hocker Achieved Her Goals||Always determined to achieve her goals, Lisa never gave up on her dreams. She worked hard, did whatever she could so that eventually, she could get her desired targets. Lisa’s story of success started with practicing law. After completing law school in Boston, she moved to California and worked as a prosecutor for five and a half years, and then as a public defender and private criminal defense attorney for the remaining fifteen and a half years. While working full-time in court, Lisa was pulled towards the domain of network marketing, a branch of direct selling. Therefore, to experiment with the business, she took an opportunity to work at a direct sales company. Meanwhile, Lisa chose not to give up her law practice and continue with direct selling on the side. Within the first few months of handling both fields, Lisa developed a simple and efficient system to carry out her daily operations. Her refined practice was so efficient that she was quickly able to achieve the title of the biggest recruiter in her domain. People working around her got curious about her practice as the majority of those had no clue on how to actually achieve real success. As a result, Lisa became a mentor to these people and started training them with her techniques on conquering the challenging world of sales. To further expand her reach, Lisa transformed her skills and experiences into a book, Direct AF Sales, which hit the Amazon bestseller. After being a successful mentor, and author of a bestseller, Lisa decided to launch her own business called, Direct AF Sales, LLC, which sells not only her book but also a product and course on network marketing that she created. Her product, Sales Dice, is an innovative technique to decide on specific actionable tasks to be performed during the following day. This helps an individual stay on track and not waste any time on laziness. Since her dice combines fun with productivity, there is no other product like that in the market! As a successful entrepreneur, Lisa now wishes to grow her business by writing another book and build the biggest team her network marketing company has worldwide. Thus, this way she can help the maximum number of people by guiding them to create wealth for themselves and their families!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Daily Research Plot founded by Balram Jee Jha has ranked as one of the best Entertainment News||The Anime and Superhero Movies enthusiast Balram Jee Jha founded DailyResearchPlot.Com with his friend Manjeet Mahato, has ranked as one of the best websites for Entertainment, Hollywood Celebrity Gossips, and Anime News in just span of two years. It was the vision of the Superhero Comics and TV Series enthusiast Balram Jee Jha, which has been started as a Blogging Website under their parent company Crisp Multimedia Solutions Pvt. Ltd. Later with the growth of audience and Google News Inclusion, it turned into the Entertainment News Website in 2020. Daily Research Plot (DRP) was their vision since their college time which became reality in the mid of 2019. Daily Research Plot was envisioned to write reviews, comic book explanations, and fan theories website with a few team members. The website has more than a million readers and has ranked in Google Top Trends on regular basis, this month in October the Team has started creating video reviews for their readers on their website and Youtube Channel with the same name (Daily Research Plot). With the growth of the website in just one year, the team increased to 50 hardworking journalists and content creators, and later in 2021, various other sections like Gaming, Technology, and Finance News sections were added to the website. Balram Jee Jha was born in the very small town of Darbhanga, Bihar and his schooling was done in the same city. He completed his higher studies in New Delhi and Bhopal. IN his college time only he had planned to open his own Designing and Advertising Agency, So after working for several News and Media Agencies he founded Crisp Multimedia Solutions Pvt. Ltd. with his college friend Manjeet Mahato. Then in 2017, they started working for their childhood dream of content creation for the fans of Superhero films and TV Series, and hence in 2017 they started building the website and launched it in the mid of the year. This year in 2021, the Agency has started its Youtube Channel (Daily Research Plot) where the team is creating reviews and fan theories videos for the fans of Superhero Universes like MCU and DCEU. The duo has also founded FTT Media in 2021, under which they have planned to develop dedicated websites for sections from Entertainment Agency from Anime News, Hollywood Gossips, Gaming, and TV Series and two websites are already live which are FTTAnime.Com and FTTTVPedia.com Daily Research Plot (DRP) is expanding its content on every platform from Web Search, Youtube to Social Media Platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Matthew Gallagher Shares 3 Pro Tips to Become Successful and Achieve Your Goals||Success is one of the most sought-after goals and is defined differently by each individual. For some, success is attained from having a prosperous career, for others, it’s all about a healthy home and family. It is unattainable without putting in a significant effort. It is a whole mindset that needs to be adopted, healthy habits that need to be acquired so accomplishing goals becomes natural. Matthew Gallagher is a story of success and hard work. He knows what it takes to reach for the stars and hold them in your hands. Emerging from a poverty stricken background and facing endless hardships as a child, like homelessness, making a life for himself was the only way to break the family traditions. He wanted to be a successful businessman and it took him two careers, countless trading jobs, and small businesses to be able to get there. Luckily, both his careers as a programmer and an actor got him reasonable recognition and enough to have a comfortable life but the dream was not achieved. He was still hungry so he moved on, till he got what his eyes were set upon since childhood. Matthew discusses his three essential tips that can help you on your journey to success. It is essential to be passionate about your journey and to be committed to your goal because the journey to success is never easy. Life throws constant hurdles in the way to halt you from the process, undermine your potential and discourage you. Staying committed to your goals and being passionate about them, is the key to success as it prevents you from losing focus. Your journey need not be only challenging and sore. Having fun along the way can make it a more pleasant experience. Trying out new things and taking risks here and there are great ways to excite you and help you gain perspective. There is no need to exhaust and bore yourself in the process, your success journey should be fun, healthy, and worth living. As they say, it is the journey that matters at the end. Matthew can’t stress this enough. He believes it is one of the most important things while on the road to success. Contrary to popular belief, success is not sweet but bittersweet. The never-ending struggles and failures in the process are always going to haunt you. It is up to you to let them scare you or you may embrace your failures and take a step further on your journey to success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||How Celebrity Barber Ali Alhashemi Influences His Fans to Pursue Happiness, Not Materiality||Barber Ali Alhashemi is a popular Instagram personality and an influencer who motivates people through his content and videos. Very impactful, Ali, also known as Barber Al, influences his fans to pursue happiness by working hard. He believes no profession is big or small. What matters is the lens through which people view their profession. Ali Alhashemi is a celebrity barber who cuts hair for a variety of celebrities, but he has never let this become a source of pride. In fact, he has further humbled himself and has resolved to help individuals in every way that he can. As far as his professional accolades are concerned, Ali also has an organic haircare range that includes hair gel, hair pomade, shampoo, and body wash. He has recently authored a book by the name of “The Barber Al Story”. Barber Al has a big heart, his primary concern being that nobody in his community goes to bed feeling ignored, discouraged or demotivated. Even amidst trying times, Ali could carve out a niche for himself, and it is this reality that has made him so self-motivated and driven by the passion to bring a positive change in people’s lives. If you make an appointment with Barber Al, what is certain is that you will get a once-in-a-lifetime experience, and hence you must prepare yourself to experience the time of your life. He suggests his fans to choose the professions where their interest and contentment lies, and not the ones which are the most lucrative in the market. This is because any profession, no matter how small, will give you the most profit if you are genuinely inclined towards it. In his book, he writes that at work, he had “early mornings and late nights”. This establishes how sincere and committed he has always been with his work, and that is precisely what he preaches his Instagram viewers too. His dedication towards his work, in his own words, always “nourished his focus while starving his distractions”. According to Ali, staying committed to the aim of success at all costs, and burning midnight oil for it is the only way to reach where you wish to be, for with achieving your goals, there are no shortcuts. Ali is also a disciplinarian and a skilled administrator. For Ali’s employees, he makes sure that his own barbers work in a friendly environment. He has a terrific system in place that keeps his barbers satisfied, allowing him to have many barbers on hand, resulting in faster service and higher quality work for his customers. As an influencer, he asks his followers if they are making a difference in their respective communities, and if what they are doing has a positive impact on the world. Our reflections about occupations and professions are overwhelmed with these thoughts, but when you truly make a difference through your work, Ali believes it is then when you go to bed feeling content at heart each night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi raises question over safety of women in Uttar Pradesh||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the issue of safety of women, alleging that women are unsafe in the state. Her attack came after media reports claimed that an officer at Bapu Bhavan in Lucknow has been arrested for allegedly molesting a contractual worker after a video of the incident went viral. "Be it secretariat, road or any other place: Women are unsafe in Uttar Pradesh. This is the reality of the government's claim on 'women's safety'," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "A sister from Uttar Pradesh had to make a video of the incident with her viral due to inaction on her complaint of sexual harassment. How much patience and fighting power would she have had?" the Congress general secretary said. Gandhi urged women in the state to unite and fight for themselves. "You are a girl, you can fight. All the women of the country are standing with you," she said. Congress has been attacking the state government over the issue of law and order and women's safety, alleging that criminal activities are rampant, a claim denied by the Yogi Adityanath dispensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
11-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality severe amid unhelpful meteorological conditions||A layer of smog shrouded Delhi-NCR on Thursday and partially blotted out the sun on Chhath Puja as the air quality slipped back into the severe zone with unfavourable meteorological conditions aiding accumulation of pollutants, authorities said. Green think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said the ongoing smog episode is a public health emergency. "This requires urgent emergency action on key combustion sources (vehicles, industry, waste burning) and dust sources (construction and roads) to prevent further trapping of pollution when there is no wind to blow this away," said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, CSE. At 10 am, Delhi recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 407. Thirty-three of the 39 air quality monitoring stations in the national capital recorded air pollution levels in the severe category. The 24-hour average AQI was 372 on Wednesday. Ghaziabad (454), Greater Noida (404) and Noida (426) also recorded severe air quality at 10 am. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". An official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said shallow fog and low temperatures in the morning -- Delhi recorded the season's lowest temperature of 12.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday -- trapped pollutants close to the ground and calm winds led to stagnant conditions. He added that the visibility levels at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the Safdarjung Airport dropped to 600-800 metres. The CSE said the current severe smog episode in Delhi-NCR is expected to last for two more days. It also said the average daily contribution of smoke from farm fires from the middle of October to November 8 was the lowest in four years. "Compared to the first smog episode of the previous four years, the current smog has matched the duration of the first smog of 2018 and 2020 season -- both lasted six days. If conditions do not improve, it might overtake the 2019 smog that lasted eight days," the CSE said. The longer duration of this year's smog despite relatively windier local conditions might be due to a lack of pollution control measures in the city, the green think tank said. On average, the contribution of smoke to Delhi's daily PM2.5 from the middle of October to November 8 was the lowest in the last four years. "So far, it has recorded an average of 12 per cent (farm fire share) per day in contrast to 17 per cent per day in 2020, 14 per cent per day in 2019 and 16 per cent per day in 2018 (as reported by SAFAR)," the CSE said. The share of farm fires in Delhi's pollution rose to 48 per cent on Sunday, the highest since November 5, 2018, when it was recorded at 58 per cent. Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||India logs over 13,000 fresh Covid cases, 340 casualties in a day||India added 13,091 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,44,01,670, while the active cases declined to 1,38,556, the lowest in 266 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,62,189 with 340 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 34 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 137 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.40 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.25 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,127 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 38 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 48 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,00,925 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 110.23 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 340 new fatalities include 259 from Kerala and 17 from Maharashtra.Of the 259 deaths, 48 were reported over the last few days and 211 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a Kerala state government release said on Wednesday. A total of 4,62,189 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,447 from Maharashtra, 38,131 from Karnataka, 36,247 from Tamil Nadu, 34,621 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,904 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,267 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||One killed in fire incident in Shimla||A 60-year-old man was killed after a fire broke out at his residence here, an official of the Himachal Pradesh disaster management department said on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Kishore Bajaj, a resident of SDA Colony in the Vikasnagar area of Shimla city, he added. The exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said.  The Shimla District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC) informed that the blaze has been put out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Delhi wakes up to cold morning||The national capital on Thursday recorded the season's lowest temperature so far at 12.6 degree Celsius, one notch below normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It said that the minimum temperature is likely to fall further in the next few days.  It is the lowest temperature the city recorded this season so far. The city will witness mainly clear sky with mist or shallow fog. The maximum temperature of the day is likely to hover around 28 degrees Celsius, IMD officials said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the city's air quality has again entered the severe category with the air quality index (AQI) clocking the value of 402 at 8 am on Thursday.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The weather office said that the relative humidity at 8.30 am on Thursday was 95 per cent. The minimum temperature of the city on Wednesday was recorded at 13.4 degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Indian tobacco sellers use FB to bypass restrictions and sell bidis||Some tobacco product sellers in India have used Facebook to bypass marketing restrictions and promote sales of bidis, a public health group said on Wednesday after documenting what it described as over 340 instances of canvassing over 9 months. Facebook policy does not allow the promotion of tobacco products, according to the social media giant’s website. Vital Strategies, the public health group, said that between December 2020 and August 2021, it had documented 271 instances of direct marketing through images of bidis and 73 instances of indirect marketing that linked the product to lifestyle, celebrations, festivals or remembrance days. One bidi manufacturer placed the image of its brand beneath a poster offering best wishes to women on International Women’s Day on March 8. Another image showed a man on the bonnet of a fancy car and a bidi packet in his hand with the brand visible. Others used Mahashivratri and New Year’s greetings to promote their brands. The findings bolster concerns that sections of the tobacco industry are relying on social media platforms to promote products, skirting India’s Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act of 2003, designed to protect youths and consumers from harmful marketing. Nandita Murukutla, the vice-president for global policy and research with Vital Strategies, said in a media release: “Our report is a call to action for governments to surveil (sic) and address tobacco marketing on digital media.” “It is also a call for social media companies, Facebook in particular, to close down tobacco marketing that facilitates sales of this deadly product.” Surveys in the country have suggested that among India’s 267 million tobacco users, nearly 72 million smoke bidis and nearly half of the users had smoked their first bidi before their 10th birthday. Health groups estimate that bidi sales are eightfold higher than cigarette sales in India. Nearly a quarter (24 per cent) of bidi marketing on social media used messaging depicting bidis as part of an aspirational, fun, or luxurious lifestyle. About 20 per cent of bidi marketing used messages linked to community celebrations such as birthdays of famous figures, religious festivals or the New Year. Among the 344 instances of direct or indirect marketing, 337 (98 per cent) were observed on Facebook and seven (2 per cent) on Instagram, also owned by Facebook that has been rebranded as Meta Platforms. “It was surprising to see the dominance of Facebook — we wouldn’t typically associate users of bidis to also be Facebook users,” said Vaishakhi Mallik, associate director with Vital Strategies. “But through Facebook, messages and images also circulate into other social media such as WhatsApp groups.” Mallik said social media giants had a duty of care, especially to their younger users. “Though bidis are more harmful to health than other tobacco products, they have flown under the regulatory radar for far too long,” she said. “Our findings point to the need for more careful and stringent surveillance of the bidi industry’s branding and marketing efforts — both online and offline.” Amit Yadav, a senior technical adviser for tobacco control at the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, said the survey was the first to demonstrate how bidi companies were openly leveraging social media platforms to promote harmful products in violation of India’s COTPA regulations. “This data should support efforts by state governments in enforcing tobacco control measures, while providing policy-makers evidence-based proof of bidi marketing,” he said. Facebook policy on tobacco and related products says: “Ads must not promote the sale or use of tobacco products and related paraphernalia. Advertisements must not promote electronic cigarettes, vaporisers or any other products that simulate smoking.” The Facebook website lists the following as examples of what is allowed: # Blogs or groups connecting people with tobacco-related interests, as long as the service does not lead to the sale of tobacco or tobacco-related products. # Anti-smoking campaigns and e-books, counselling services for smoking addiction and smoking rehabilitation programmes or facilities. According to the policy, the following are examples of activities that are not allowed: # Tobacco or tobacco-related products, including cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, tobacco pipes, hookahs, hookah lounges, rolling papers, vaporiser devices and electronic cigarettes # “Buy cigarettes and e-cigarettes here today!” The Vital Strategies team that used software tools to scan digital media found that Facebook had hosted at least 30 distinct pages for bidi companies, some of which appeared to be using their pages to facilitate sales of their products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Congress to launch nationwide stir against price rise from Nov 14||The Congress has announced a 15-day “Jan Jagran Abhiyan” from November 14 on price rise, the first of a series of mass contact programmes it is planning that will highlight people’s concerns. The party believes the Narendra Modi government has not been singed by the galloping fuel prices because people are not aware of the basic facts, and has decided to explain through the campaign how the Centre has “looted” Rs 23 lakh crore over the past seven years through taxes on petroleum products. “Even after the reduction of taxes last week, the central excise on petrol is Rs 29 per litre which was just Rs 9.48 during the Congress-led UPA regime. On diesel, the central excise is Rs 28 per litre against Rs 3 in 2014,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Wednesday. Senior leaders K.C. Venugopal and Digvijaya Singh announced the detailed programme on Wednesday. Instead of holding big public rallies, the party has asked its leaders to take out a padyatra in every district to establish live contact with the masses and ensure a two-way interaction. The leaders have been asked to stay in the districts overnight to be able to participate in discussions with residents on their concerns and grievances. All the senior leaders will participate in foot marches for at least seven days between November 14 and 29. Pamphlets and theme songs for the campaign are ready; a toll-free number will be unveiled through which people can register their support for the cause; the social media department is preparing to live-stream events and the data analytics department plans to use the call details to continue further conversation. The party aims to make this programme a success and follow it up with similar agitations on unemployment, farmers’ problems, labour issues and the sale of national assets. This would change the perception of the Congress as being restricted to social media while Rahul Gandhi alone leads the party’s public outreach initiatives. The campaigns have been structured to ensure the participation of every leader. A committee on sustained agitations, headed by Digvijaya, has been tasked with the planning and execution of these campaigns to ensure continuity. Control rooms have been set up at the state and central levels to monitor the activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Parading of bodies triggered conspiracy, Zakia tells SC||The alleged conspiracy behind the 2002 Gujarat pogrom started playing out when the charred bodies of the kar sevaks killed in the Godhra train fire began to be paraded to Ahmedabad, the wife of a riot victim told the Supreme Court on Wednesday. The apex court is hearing a plea from Zakia Jafri, whose husband and former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri was burnt alive with 68 others, challenging the clean chit given to then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and others in the riots. The Citizens for Justice and Peace, an organisation that fights for constitutional rights of all Indians, is a co-petitioner in the case. “Parading of the bodies (from Godhra to the Sola Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad) was also part of the conspiracy and there was no curfew declared in Ahmedabad till 12.45pm,” Zakia’s counsel Kapil Sibal said, resuming his arguments from last week. “Photographs were taken of these bodies which created an atmosphere of revolt, revulsion and hatred. No one’s phone was seized. That is the best evidence possible,” he told the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravikumar. Sibal indicated the hand of higher-ups in the government and police. “We say the conspiracy was hatched by Acharya Giriraj Kishore of the VHP who was escorted by police to the Sola Civil Hospital (where the bodies lay). Can your Lordships imagine a VHP functionary being escorted by police?” he said. Ehsan and others were massacred in Ahmedabad’s Gulbarg Housing Society after the authorities allegedly ignored his pleas for help. An apex court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) probed Zakia’s riot conspiracy charges against Modi, other ministers and police bosses and absolved them in 2012. The trial court accepted the SIT’s closure report in 2013 and Gujarat High Court upheld the decision in 2017, prompting Zakia to approach the Supreme Court. “The question that has to be answered was (whether) the SIT (was) trying to protect the accused. It (probe) was set up by your Lordships,” Sibal said. He made several points and allegations, such as: # The Gujarat administration’s move of handing over the kar sevaks’ bodies to a VHP strongman should have been investigated. Under convention, bodies can be handed over only to relatives. “There was hasty disposal of the dead bodies of the Godhra victims. The post-mortem was done on the railway platform itself….” # “They had ample intelligence inputs prior to the Sabarmati Express reaching Godhra. Had steps been taken as per police manual, perhaps this national tragedy could have been averted.” # Over 3,000 RSS workers had gathered at the Sola Civil Hospital, yet no curfew was imposed. No explanation has come how such a large gathering was permitted. # The state government delayed calling in the army, whose services were requisitioned only on March 1, 2002, and who reached Godhra on March 2. The Godhra fire had occurred on February 27 and the Gujarat-wide violence broken out on February 28. # “Fifty-five people were released on bail when Dilip Trivedi (alleged VHP functionary) was appointed special public prosecutor. Should this matter be not investigated?... First you have VHP people calling for riots and then you appoint VHP people as prosecutors.” # Instead of arresting key accused Babu Bajrangi, a state-level Bajrang Dal leader, the SIT recorded his statement and gave a clean chit to many accused. # The SIT should have seized the mobiles of the accused, which it did not. Neither the judicial magistrate nor Gujarat High Court looked into these shortcomings. # The SIT rejected the testimony of senior police officer R.B. Sreekumar — who had questioned the police role during the violence — on the ground that he had been denied a promotion (and bore a grudge) although several other police officers corroborated his account. # Certain seized tapes suggested a conspiracy to smuggle explosives into Ahmedabad from a quarry owned by a VHP worker. The SIT did not probe this. # The SIT did not challenge the high court judgment acquitting former minister Maya Kodnani, who had been convicted and jailed in the Naroda Patiya case in which 97 people were killed. # To a query from Justice Khanwilkar on the SIT’s response to the Tehelka portal’s purported sting operation, which allegedly buttressed the charge of conspiracy, Sibal said the agency had rejected it as irrelevant since it contained extrajudicial confessions. “In a case of conspiracy there won’t be direct evidence. It can only be inferred from circumstances for which you have to investigate, gather evidence, visit the spots and record the statement,” Sibal said. He said the SIT did none of this. Sibal also made an emotional statement during the arguments, stressing the evils of sectarian violence and saying his family was a victim. “Communal violence is like lava erupting from a volcano, be it by any community. It is an institutionalised problem. When the lava touches the ground… it scars and leaves the earth a fertile ground for future revenge,” he said. “I lost my maternal grandparents to it in Pakistan. I am a victim of the same. I don’t want to accuse A or B. A message must be sent to the world that this cannot be tolerated.” He added: “I am not on any high-ranking person who gave instructions or not. You can take this from me on record. This is a bigger picture if rule of law can prevail or can muck be allowed to run its course.” The arguments will continue on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Adverse legal opinion behind delay in releasing Varavara Rao's book||The publication of the English translation of a collection of Telugu poems by P. Varavara Rao, the Hyderabad activist facing trial in the Elgar Parishad “terrorism” case, has been delayed because of adverse legal opinion the publisher is said to have received. Rao, 81, and 15 others were arrested in 2018 and 2020 for alleged links to Maoists who are accused of involvement in the Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste clashes the next day in which one person died. In a statement, the editors of Varavara Rao: India’s Revolutionary Poet — Telugu journalist and Rao’s nephew N. Venugopal, and London-based author Meena Kandasamy — said they were awaiting a “favourable, second legal opinion”. Last October, Penguin Random House India had announced that the book, an anthology of poems on a wide range of subjects including repression and incarceration, would be published under its Vintage imprint this year. Venugopal and Kandasamy said in their statement on Tuesday night that they “reiterate our trust in Penguin Random House India, and await a favourable, second legal opinion…. We have hope that this book will be published in the near future.” Their statement was in response to a report on The Quint web portal on Tuesday that “Penguin Random House has stalled the publication of a collection of his (Rao’s) poems, citing its concerns about the ‘nature of charges’ levelled against him”. Neither Penguin Random House India nor its subsidiaries Ebury Publishing and Vintage responded to queries emailed by The Telegraph. Elizabeth Kuruvilla, the executive editor of Ebury and Vintage, has retweeted Kandasamy’s tweet of the statement. Kuruvilla had been quoted by The Quint as saying that the book was still in the “publication schedule”. “It is not the only book in our list whose publication has been delayed in the past pandemic year, as it is undergoing the same rigorous processes we follow for all the books we publish,” Kuruvilla was quoted as saying. Venugopal told this newspaper that the contract with the publisher requires the book to be published before October next year. “We (initially) submitted 65 poems. Three of these poems were written after this (Bhima Koregaon) case…. They have all been published in Telugu magazines and one of them has been translated into Hindi and published in Dastak (a magazine). We dropped the three poems as a precaution to avoid any legal hassle although there is no legal ban on them. Our deadline was last December, within which time we submitted the work that has 62 poems which are now under consideration,” Venugopal said. He added: “It seems the legal opinion of this publisher (Penguin Random House India) said there may be problems with some poems…. They have not indicated what these (problems) are. What they indicated was that some of the poems have to be deleted because of this legal opinion, but anyway we will go for second opinion.” Venugopal, also editor of the Telugu monthly Veekshanam, said he was told about the unfavourable legal opinion by Penguin Random House India between March and April this year and that the legal vetting process was still on. In 2010, Penguin had published Captive Imagination, an English translation of Rao’s letters from solitary confinement in Secunderabad prison between 1985 and 1989. The 62 poems for the upcoming book include some from his collection of poetries from 1979 to 1985, Bhavishyatthu Chitrapatam (Portrait of the Future). The poems about repression and his time in police custody were published by Samudram Mudranalu in 1986 and banned by the government of undivided Andhra Pradesh from 1987 to 1990 while Rao was in jail in two Maoist cases. The first case was withdrawn and he was acquitted in the second. In the Elgar case, Rao and the others were booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), a law used to deal with terrorism. The eldest accused, Father Stan Swamy, an 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist from Ranchi, died awaiting bail in custody four months ago. Rao, who has multiple ailments and had been hospitalised with Covid during his latest incarceration, is on medical bail but his movements have been restricted to Mumbai. He is due for surgery related to appendicitis and hernia. Despite demands from internationally renowned human rights activists every few weeks in the last three years, the National Investigation Agency and the Maharashtra government have consistently opposed bail pleas in the Elgar Parishad case. Forensic analysis of devices of the accused by an American firm has indicated planting of evidence on the computers of two of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Hands-off call on Afghanistan at Delhi Regional Security Dialogue||The Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan, adopted at the third Regional Security Dialogue hosted by India here on Wednesday, called for non-interference in the war-ravaged country’s internal affairs and “collective cooperation” against radicalisation, extremism, separatism and drug trafficking in the region. With China and Pakistan staying away from the meeting, the declaration reflected the views of India, Russia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. This is one in a series of such conferences being organised by different groups of countries in quick succession since the Taliban overran Afghanistan on August 15. Pakistan is hosting a meeting of the Troika Plus — the US, Russia and China — in Islamabad on Thursday where special representatives of all four countries will meet Afghanistan’s foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. The stated purpose of both meetings and all the others has been to push the Taliban government to be more inclusive and representative of all the ethnicities of Afghanistan, protect women’s rights, avert the humanitarian crisis facing the country and ensure that there is no spillover of the security situation into the neighbourhood. For India, which had made huge investments in Afghanistan during the two-decade-long US-led war on terror, protecting its stakes in the country is high on the agenda. For this, India must have a say in the direction Afghanistan takes despite the obvious advantage Pakistan has, having provided safe havens to the Taliban leadership for nearly three decades. At Wednesday’s meeting convened by him, national security adviser Ajit Doval stressed the need for close consultation, greater cooperation and coordination among the regional countries, not just those that share a border with Afghanistan. It is in keeping with this principle that India invited Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan, which do not share a border with Afghanistan, to the meeting. Russia, too, does not have a border with Afghanistan after the collapse of the USSR but is a key stakeholder and a member of many such dialogue processes. Addressing the meeting, the secretary of Russia’s Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev, sought to underscore the importance of the October 20 Moscow format of consultations in the midst of all the increased activity and sessions on Afghanistan. The joint statement issued at the end of the Moscow format had said that participants advocated taking into account the new reality in Afghanistan irrespective of recognition of its changed ruling arrangement by the international community. India is yet to comment on the Moscow format joint statement. The Taliban was represented at the Moscow format, providing India the first opportunity to sit across the table with the new government in Kabul. The Delhi Declaration talks of the humanitarian crisis and urgency to reach relief to the people, calls for a government that represents the major ethno-political forces in Afghanistan and underscores the need to ensure the rights of women and minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Union cabinet restores MPLAD Scheme post Covid suspension||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the restoration of the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for the remaining part of this fiscal and its continuation till 2025-26 after a third-party evaluation done by the statistics and programme implementation ministry recommended that it be continued. The MPLADS — a centrally sponsored scheme launched in 1993 that allows MPs to recommend to the district administrations public works in their constituencies — was suspended in April 2020 for two fiscals to shore up finances for the pandemic. The decision handicapped MPs as they were left with no resources to improve health facilities in their constituencies. During the time when the scheme was suspended, the statistics and programme implementation ministry carried out a third-party evaluation of the MPLADS projects in 216 districts across the country. The report recommended continuation of MPLADS. Asserting that the economy is on the path to recovery, the Union cabinet decided to release Rs 2 crore per MP for the remaining part of this fiscal and revert to the allocation of Rs 5 crore per annum from the next financial in two equal instalments. Implementation of MPLADS is done by the district administrations. Accounts of the money are maintained by them and subsequent instalments are released on submission of utilisation certificates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
11-11-2021||India||Free coaching programme for SC/ST students lies defunct in Lucknow||A free coaching programme for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, minority and women students that the UPA government had started at a central university in Lucknow has been stalled for the past four years because the University Grants Commission has stopped the funding. The Residential Coaching Academy (RCA) at the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) — which coached students for competitive exams — has not received funds since 2017 and has been defunct. Its yearly licence hasn’t been renewed since April last year. The higher education regulator has cited the university’s failure to furnish utilisation certificates for the RCA funds given before 2017. The academy began operating in 2009 as one of five set up by the then UPA government at five central universities, including the Jamia Millia Islamia in Delhi. Jamia’s academy has been a success, with 230 of its trainees cracking the civil service exam in the past 10 years. The academy at the BBAU provided six months’ coaching, admitting two batches every year via an entrance test. “The student response was extremely good,” said B. Hanumaiah, who was the BBAU vice-chancellor when the academy was set up. Two assistant professors taught at the academy, which had its own building and a hostel for 100 male students. Till March 2016, it trained over 400 students, of whom 54 cleared various competitive exams. Trouble started when the university failed to present its progress report (on various academic activities) to the UGC in 2016. Two teachers alleged that the BBAU had diverted funds meant for the coaching academy to the construction of a canteen and a parking lot. The following year, the UGC stopped the RCA grants after the university failed to furnish utilisation certificates. Yuvana Satya Priya and Mahadeva A, then assistant professors at the academy, wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind in December 2017 saying the RCA was a victim of “sabotage” and seeking his intervention. They blamed then vice-chancellor R.C. Sobti and then RCA director Ram Chandra for the mess, and alleged the university had “neglected” the academy and was trying to finish it off. They also alleged funds diversion. The letter brought no results. Mahadeva left the university in 2018. Ram Chandra said he had not received any UGC letter seeking the progress report for 2016. He said no fund diversion had happened in his tenure. Sobti denied involvement in any funds diversion and said the RCA progress report was not his responsibility. Basant Kanaujaya, a PhD student at BBAU, said the mass communication department was now using the RCA building since the coaching academy was defunct. “Since it was meant for SCs, STs and minorities, nobody bothers about the RCA. In 2019, the RCA advertised student admissions and held an entrance test but nobody was admitted,” he said. N. Sukumar, a political science professor with Delhi University, said the regulator should not have stopped the RCA’s funds. “If there were any issues with funds utilisation, the UGC should have conducted an inquiry. The UGC seems to have decided to stop the funds because the RCA was serving the SCs and STs,” he said. An email sent to the UGC chairman on November 2 seeking the reasons for stopping the funds is unanswered. An email to current vice-chancellor Sanjay Singh, seeking a reaction to charges that the university had neglected the RCA’s possible revival, brought a response from registrar S. Victor Babu. His answer suggested there was precious little movement for four years, till January this year. “After receiving letter from UGC on utilisation certificate (UC) in January 2021 for the remaining amount of Rs 32.61 lakh, the university is in the process of preparing the UC for the said amount. As there is no mismanagement of the funds, hence there is no need of any enquiry,” Babu wrote. He did not explain why the utilisation certificate could not be submitted in the 10 months since the letter arrived. “After submitting the UC to UGC and subsequent sanction of extension (licence renewal) and release of grants by UGC, the university will initiate the admission process,” Babu wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
11-11-2021||India||Upper caste villagers prevent Dalit woman to build house in Kerala||Upper caste families in a Kerala village prevented a Dalit woman who had been allotted homestead land there from unloading construction material to build a house, and the state’s police and Left government allegedly refused to help for eight months. Chithra, the woman, said the first load of cement blocks was eventually unloaded on Wednesday at the intervention of the Opposition-governed Thrikkunnapuzha panchayat, which acted under pressure from Dalit activists. The caste atrocity occurred in Pallana, a village in Alappuzha district that has a memorial to social reformer poet Kumaran Asan who drowned in a boat accident in the local backwaters in 1924 and was cremated there. “I’m very happy today,” Chithra told reporters, adding she had visited the local police station and written to the chief minister, director-general of police, revenue officials and the Scheduled Caste development department over the last eight months but received no help. Residents of the upper caste neighbourhood at Pallana “didn’t want the area to become a Dalit colony”, fearing that if Chithra was allowed to build a pucca house more homeless Dalits might be allotted land in the area, she said. The locality is home to sizeable tracts of open government land. Chithra — a day labourer with a bedridden husband, Dhanesh, and two minor children — lived in rented accommodation at a nearby village but was allotted 5 cents (2,175sqft) of land in Pallana last year under a government scheme for people who do not own homes. Early this year, the state government sanctioned Rs 4 lakh for her under the Life Mission housing scheme and sent the first tranche of Rs 40,000 about eight months ago. But when two lorries Chithra had hired arrived carrying sand, stones and cement, the neighbours forced them to turn back. “Three families caused all the trouble, hurling caste slurs and preventing the unloading of construction material,” Chithra said. The family now lives on the allotted land, in a shed with a tin roof propped up by wooden poles and a makeshift toilet. The low-lying area gets flooded every year. Chithra’s luck changed after Dalit activist Mohan took her story to the local media a few days ago. A Dalit woman, Sujatha, and a physically challenged Dalit man, Anshad, too have been allotted 5 cents of land each near Chithra’s plot. Seeing Chithra’s ordeal, they had so far not made any attempt to build a house. State Congress spokesperson Pandalam Sudhakaran slammed the government. “What social renaissance are we talking about? In two days we will celebrate the 85th anniversary of the Temple Entry Proclamation, with our leaders using it as another photo opportunity,” he told this newspaper. Non-Brahmins, making up more than 95 per cent of Kerala’s Hindu population, were denied entry to the sanctums of temples till the proclamation of November 12, 1936 – a culmination of spiritual leader and social reformer Narayana Guru’s efforts to end Kerala’s oppressive caste system. Sudhakaran cited how Dalit PhD scholar Deepa Mohanan had undergone a 10-day hunger strike in Kottayam alleging caste harassment by the director of her institute. “We have many more Deepas in Kerala, which is a so-called progressive state. Those who commit such atrocities must be arrested on criminal charges,” Sudhakaran said. Rights activist C.R. Neelakandan too said: “Such caste atrocities happen regularly across our state because very few perpetrators get punished.” Last year, it emerged that Dalits in an Idukki village were being denied haircuts at barber shops frequented by upper caste men. In January this year, a Palakkad public crematorium’s refusal to incinerate a Dalit woman’s body revealed another skeleton. Dalits have been banned from the Shri Jatadhari Devasthanam temple in Kasaragod for the past few years after they protested caste discrimination at the shrine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
11-11-2021||India||Covid-19: No Bali Yatra in Cuttack this year||The famous Bali Yatra in Cuttack will not be held for the second consecutive year with the district administration deciding against it in view of the Covid-19 epidemic. The week-long festival that recalls Odisha’s rich maritime tradition begins every year on the Kartik Purnima day which falls on November 19 this year. The yatra, organised on the banks of Mahanadi river in the silver city (Cuttack), commemorates the business trips that traders of the state used to make through the sea route to far away islands such as Bali, Sumatra and Java in Indonesia. Odisha in those days was known the world over for its maritime trade links with different countries and the boat making skills of its people. Bali Yatra festival not only brings back those memories but also offers traders a big business opportunity with stalls being put up at the fairground on the bank of Mahanadi. Business worth around Rs 500 crore takes place almost every year during the yatra. Hence, cancellation of the yatra is a big disappointment both for traders and the common people who enjoyed visiting the stalls and the general ambience of the fair. However, Cuttack collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani made it clear that the decision not to hold the festival had been taken in the larger interest of public health. “We have decided not to hold the yatra to avoid congregation of people. We don’t want to take any risks. Protecting the health of the people is our priority,” Chayani told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
11-11-2021||India||Union govt denies permission to Kerala officials to visit Dubai Expo||The Union government has denied permission to two Kerala bureaucrats to visit the UAE to oversee preparations for the state’s pavilion coming up at the Dubai Expo 2020. The office of industries minister P. Rajeev said the Union government had denied clearance to Kerala’s principal secretary for industries K. Elangovan and director of the department S. Harikishore to visit Dubai from November 10 to 12. The state’s pavilion is scheduled to open at the India pavilion from December 24 to January 6 where it plans to showcase its industrial and tourism potential. “Centre has denied permission to our officials to visit the UAE and coordinate arrangements for Kerala’s pavilion in the @expo2020dubai No specific reason has been cited. We register our strong protest,” Rajeev tweeted. The ministry instead informed the state on Tuesday, more than a week after it sought permission, that it could send its officials during the first week of December. A statement by the minister’s office described the exposure at the international event in Dubai as an opportunity to showcase the state’s potential to the international community, which was why the state nominated the two officials to visit the emirate to supervise the arrangements. Originally scheduled for 2020, the first Expo in the West Asian region had to be postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It opened on October 1 to much fanfare and would continue till March 31, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
11-11-2021||India||22-year-old dies in UP police custody, 5 cops suspended||A 22-year-old man called for questioning in a kidnapping case died at Kasganj police station in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, prompting his family to allege that he was killed by cops and the Opposition to call the death “very suspicious”. The police, however, claimed that Altaf had strangled himself using the string of his jacket’s hood in the washroom of the police lockup. Five cops have been suspended for negligence. The Opposition Samajwadi Party attacked the Yogi Adityanath government for “yet another custodial death”, alleging that criminals and the police were executing an “encounter” of law and order in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP. Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav termed the death “suspicious” and demanded a judicial probe. Akhilesh tagged a portion of a news report that claimed: “Bad script is written in UP.” The report claimed that while Altaf was 5ft 6in, the tap from which the police claimed he hung himself was only 2ft above the ground. The report carried a purported picture of the tap. Last month, a Dalit youth named Arun Valmiki had died in police custody in Agra after his arrest on theft charges. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had said Arun’s family had told her that he had been mercilessly assaulted in custody and also administered electric shock. The police had said he died of a heart attack. In Kasganj, police superintendent Rohan Pramod Botre said on Wednesday that Altaf, a resident of the Nagla Syed locality, had been called for questioning at the local police station the day before in connection with a case related to IPC Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing a woman to compel her marriage). “During interrogation, he requested the policemen to let him go to the washroom and was allowed to use the one inside the lockup,” Botre said. “He was wearing a black jacket. He tried to strangulate himself with the string of the hood that he had tied to the tap of the toilet. When he did not return for some time, the policemen went inside and found him unconscious. He was rushed to the community health centre at Ashok Nagar in Kasganj, where he died,” the SP added. A post-mortem is being conducted, the officer said. “The lax policemen will be punished. We have suspended five policemen,” Botre said. Altaf’s family alleged that he was killed by the police. Former chief minister Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi: “The death of the youth called for interrogation at the police station is very suspicious. In the name of laxity, suspension of some policemen is mere eyewash. In this case, a judicial probe should be conducted to generate confidence in the police in the BJP regime.” He ended his tweet with the hashtag “BJPKHATAM (BJP is finished)”. The Samajwadi Party also took to Twitter to attack the Adityanath government, calling the incident another misdeed of Uttar Pradesh’s “thoko (trigger-happy) police”. “In UP, under the patronage of the chief minister, criminals and police are committing an encounter of law and order. The guilty policemen should face a murder case and must be punished,” the party tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
