12-11-2021||India||Former-UP minister, two others get life terms in gang rape case||Former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prajapati and two others were sentenced to life imprisonment by a special court here on Friday for gang-raping a woman and her minor daughter.  The special court for lawmakers headed by Additional Sessions Judge P K Rai also imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh on each convict.  Prajapati and two other convicts Ashok Tiwari and Ashish Shukla were present in the court when it pronounced the quantum of sentence against them.  Judge Rai had on Wednesday held Prajapati, a key figure in the previous Akhilesh Yadav government, and his accomplices guilty of gang-raping the woman and her minor daughter.  It had said the prosecution has been able to prove charges against them beyond a reasonable doubt.  The court had found all the three guilty of committing gang-rape under section 376 (D) of the IPC and making "gang penetrative sexual assault on a child" under section 5 (g) read with section 6 of the POSCO Act.  Section 6 of the POCSO Act provides for the punishment for gang-raping a minor girl. The punishment ranges from at least a 10-year jail term to life imprisonment.  Prajapati held transport and mining portfolios in the Akhilesh Yadav cabinet and was arrested in March 2017. He had been in jail since then.  During the hearing on Friday on the quantum of sentence, the counsel for Prajapati and others earlier pleaded before the court for leniency in awarding the sentence.  But the prosecution counsel opposed it vehemently, arguing that Prajapati was a minister in the government when he committed the offence along with his accomplices and if a man on such a responsible post commits this kind of offence, misusing his power and position, the court should deal with him sternly to give a message to the society .  The three convicts now have the option of challenging their conviction and sentence in the high court.  While convicting the trio on Wednesday, Judge Rai had acquitted four others -- Vikas Verma, Roopeshwar, Amrendra Singh, alias Pintu, and Chandrapal -- due to lack of evidence.  The prosecution had produced 17 witnesses in the case.  While holding the trio, the court had also directed the Lucknow police commissioner to ascertain the circumstances in which the rape victim and two other witnesses had changed their statements time and again during the trial.  While deposing before the court, the victim had initially supported her allegation of gang-rape in the FIR, but during her cross-examination, she had retracted from it.  The court, however, relied on her initial deposition while convicting the trio.  The FIR against the minister was registered at the Gautampalli police station here on Feb 18, 2017 on the directions of the Supreme Court, which had given its order on the woman's plea against the police inaction over her complaint.  The woman had claimed that the minister and his accomplices have been raping her since October 2014 and she decided to complain against them after they targetted her minor daughter as well in July 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
12-11-2021||India||Railways to discontinue 'special' tag for mail and express trains||Under pressure from passengers over hike in fares, the Railways on Friday issued an order to discontinue the ''special'' tag for mail and express trains and revert to pre-pandemic ticket prices with immediate effect. Since the coronavirus-triggered lockdown was eased, the Railways has been running only special trains. It started with long-distance trains and now, even short-distance passenger services are being run as special trains with "slightly higher fares" to "discourage people from avoidable travels". In a letter to the zonal railways on Friday, the Railway Board said trains will now be operated with their regular numbers and fares will revert to normal pre-Covid prices. Ticket prices of special trains and holiday special trains are marginally higher. "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all regular mail/express trains were being operated as MSPC (mail/express special) and HSP (holiday special). It has now been decided that the MSPC and HSP train services, included in the Working Time Table, 2021, shall be operated with regular numbers and with fares as applicable for the concerned classes of travel and type of train, as per the extant guidelines. "This issues with the concurrence of Passenger Marketing Directorate of Railway Board," the order dated November 12 said. The order, however, did not specify when the zonal railways are required to revert to their pre-Covid regular services. "The zonal railways have been instructed. While the order is with immediate effect, the process will take a day or two," a senior official said. "With this more than 1,700 trains will be restored in the next few days. The first digit will now not be zero as was in the case of special trains," another official said. Officials, however, said curbs introduced in view of Covid such as temporary restrictions on concessions, bed rolls and meal services would continue to be in effect. With the operation of special trains and no concessions, the Railways'' revenue too has seen a substantial growth. The transporter registered an increase of 113 per cent in earnings from the passenger segment during the second quarter of 2021-2022 as compared to the first.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
12-11-2021||India||Delhi's smog worsens, pollution board says prepare for emergency||The centre's pollution control board on Friday ordered states and local bodies to be in "complete readiness" for emergency measures to tackle New Delhi's worsening smog conditions due to a drop in temperature and wind speeds. A thick haze of toxic smog hung over Delhi, exacerbated by a spike in the burning of crop waste in surrounding farmlands. It reduced visibility and the Air Quality Index (AQI) hit 470 on a scale of 500, according to the pollution control board. This level of pollution means the air will affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing diseases. According to the pollution board's "Graded Response Action Plan", air quality remaining "severe" for 48 hours must prompt states and local bodies to impose emergency measures that include shutting down schools, imposing 'odd-even' restrictions on private cars based on their number plates, and stopping all construction. In a circular late on Friday, the board said the government and private offices should reduce the use of private transport by 30% and advised the city's residents to limit outdoor exposure. "Meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18, 2021 in view of low winds with calm conditions during the night," the board said. Earlier this week, local authorities had ordered a shutdown of brick kilns, increased the frequency of mechanized cleaning and a crackdown on garbage burning and dust. The concentration of poisonous PM2.5 particulate matter averaged 329 micrograms per cubic meter of air. The government prescribes a "safe" PM2.5 reading at 60 micrograms per cubic meter of air over a period of 24 hours.PM2.5 is small enough to travel deep into the lungs, enter the bloodstream and can cause severe respiratory diseases, including lung cancer. "This is becoming a nightmare," said Gufran Beig, founder project director of air quality and weather monitor SAFAR that falls under the Ministry of Earth Science. "Fire counts are in the range of 3,000-5,000 and not declining," Mr Beig told Reuters, referring to crop stubble fires in the regions around the capital. India's efforts to reduce crop-waste burning, a major source of air pollution during winter, by spending billions of rupees over the past four years have done little to avert a sharp deterioration in air quality. Delhi, often ranked the world's most polluted capital, faces extremely bad air in winter due to the crop stubble burning, emissions from transport, coal-fired plants outside the city and other industrial emissions, open garbage burning and dust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
12-11-2021||India||Delhi riots: murder charge against four for 'calculated attack' on man||Calling it a calculated attack, a Delhi court has framed charges of murder, rioting, and criminal conspiracy against four accused for allegedly killing a man during the riots here last year.  Anwar Hussain, Kasim, Shahrukh, and Khalid Ansari are accused of allegedly murdering a man named Deepak by beating him mercilessly near Ambedkar College on February 25, 2020. He died due to hemorrhagic shock, as per the post mortem report.  Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat framed charges under requisite sections against the accused persons and explained it to them in vernacular in the presence of their lawyers, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial in the case.  The judge said, "By the manner of their mobilization and intent as construed from their conduct, the said unlawful assembly can be said to have conducted itself for riots and other offences like the murder of deceased Deepak, in the prosecution of their common object.  "The conspiracy is also writ large by the calculated attack on the victim by the unlawful assembly," he said in an order dated November 9.  The judge said that the most important witness in the case was one Sunil Kumar, who was an eye witness to the entire incident and gave a complete picture as to how the deceased Deepak was killed by the armed Muslim mob consisting of accused persons.  As per the court order, Sunil had stated, "On February 25, one Muslim unlawful assembly coming from Kardampuri Pulia and shouting Allah Ho Akbar was trying to cross the Pulia Gokulpur. The said armed unlawful assembly caught hold of Deepak who was mercilessly beaten."  The eyewitness stated that he hid behind a wall behind the drain and saw the entire murder through the gap in the wall. He also identified all the four accused persons by their names.  "Thus, for the purpose of the charge, the prosecution has been able to satisfy the Court that an unlawful assembly including accused persons in the prosecution of their common object had committed riots and hit the deceased Deepak with a deadly weapon causing his death," the court noted.  The court said that there are grounds for presuming that the four accused committed offences under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), and 302 (murder) read with section Section 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of the offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC.  Charges have also been framed under sections 302 (murder) read with 120B (criminal conspiracy).  Under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), an accused should be informed of the offence under which he is charged. The basic purpose of the charge is to let them know of the offence that they are charged with so that they can prepare a defence.  Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
12-11-2021||India||Ranaut's comments on freedom struggle: Take back actor's Padma Shri, says NCP||The NCP on Friday demanded the revocation of Padma Shri conferred on actor Kangana Ranaut for her controversial remarks on Independence and said she should be booked for insulting freedom fighters.Taking a dig, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said the actor is talking too much after an excess dose of "Malana cream", a type of hashish that draws its name from Malana valley in Himachal Pradesh.  "We strongly condemn this statement, which has insulted lakhs of freedom fighters, those who have sacrificed their lives. From Gandhiji to other freedom fighters who waged a long battle for freedom, all have been insulted. We demand that her Padma Shri be revoked. She should be booked for insulting freedom fighters," Malik said.  Ranaut, at a recent event, said the Independence India obtained in 1947 was "bheek" (alms) and that the country truly became free in 2014, a reference to the BJP coming to power at the Centre under Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Covaxin ‘highly efficacious’ against symptomatic Covid-19: Lancet||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine “is highly efficacious” in preventing symptomatic Covid-19, according to long-awaited results from a study published in the peer-reviewed UK medical journal The Lancet. The Indian regulatory approval for the rollout of Covaxin in January had sparked widespread controversy in the scientific and medical world as it was given at a time when the Phase-3 trials of the vaccine were still underway. Covaxin, whose scientific name is BBV152, offers “77.8 per cent protection against symptomatic Covid-19 in adults,” according to the interim Phase 3 study whose results were reported Wednesday. Bharat Biotech which funded the Phase 3 study along with the Indian Council of Medical Research said the findings should “remove any doubts about the vaccine’s efficacy and safety. The company added it was committed to “data transparency” in a shot at scientists and doctors who had criticized the company for putting the vaccine on the market without “adequate efficacy data.” The findings reported in The Lancet, which are in line with previous efficacy results, come a week after the World Health Organization gave the all-clear to the indigenously made vaccine for emergency global use, 11 months after it was first approved in India. The study noted “several limitations” in the representative nature of the trial group due to the lack of inclusion of pregnant women -- pregnant women are almost invariably excluded from clinical trials. But the article’s overall conclusions about the vaccine were positive and it said the study had “several strengths,” including its wide age range of 18 to 98 years. The study reported “no major differences in immune responses across the broad age groups.” The vaccine is “highly efficacious against laboratory-confirmed symptomatic COVID-19 disease in adults. Vaccination was well tolerated with no safety concerns raised in this interim analysis,” the study said. In a separate Lancet article, Chinese Covid-19 experts Jing-Xin Li and Feng-Cai Zhu of the Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention Phase 3, called the study’s findings a “welcome advance,” particularly its preliminary conclusions that the vaccine was effective against the highly contagious delta variant. The Indian regulatory approval for the rollout of Covaxin in January sparked widespread controversy in the scientific and medical world as it was given at a time when the Phase-3 trials of the vaccine were still underway. The study was carried out between November 2020 and May 2021 and involved 24,419 volunteers at sites across India. The participants were aged between eight and 97. No severe-vaccine-related deaths or adverse events were reported. The vaccine, which uses an older “inactivated-virus” technology that has been used for decades in vaccines against polio, influenza and rabies, “was well tolerated,” the study noted. The protection offered by Covaxin compares favourably with the Ser­um Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine developed by Oxford University, The Phase-3 study said. While overall efficacy against any symptoms of COVID-19 was 77·8 per cent, efficacy against severe COVID-19 was 93·4 per cent, according to the study. Preliminary analysis found an efficacy of 65·2 per cent against the highly contagious delta variant. Chinese experts Li and Zhu said that particularly important was the study’s preliminary analysis findings of an efficacy rate of 65·2 per cent against the “extraordinarily transmissible” delta variant. “In all the delta-positive cases, the viral load in vaccine recipients was significantly lower than in the placebo recipients,” they noted. Zhu and Li said the ramping up the rollout of Covaxin could help increase vaccine supplies to low- and middle-inc­ome countries, given that it can be much more easily stored than mRNA vaccines that must be kept at sub-zero temperatures. Covaxin can be shipped and stored for up to 12 months in any refrigerator at 2-8 degrees centigrade. The vaccine could lessen “the ultra-cold chain requirements of other vaccine platforms, increase the finite global manufacturing capacity, and improve the insufficient supply of vaccines,” Zhu and Li said. The WHO has called Covaxin “extremely suitable for low- and middle-income countries due to its easy storage requirements.” Results of clinical trials on the use of Covaxin in children aged from two-18 years now are being evaluated by the Indian drug regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Congress has 'pathological hatred' for Hinduism: BJP||The BJP claimed on Friday that the Congress leadership nurses "pathological hatred" for Hinduism as it hit out at Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of Hindutva, saying it is at his behest that Congress leaders like Salman Khurshid, Shashi Tharoor and P Chidambaram have allegedly targeted the religion.  BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra attacked Gandhi after the Congress leader sought to draw a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, a term widely used by the RSS, and alleged that the RSS-BJP ideology was about spreading hate. Patra alleged that Gandhi has a history of making critical comments about Hinduism and its culture.  It is in the character of the Congress and the Gandhi family to attack Hinduism at every opportunity, he said. Citing terms like Hindu Pakistan, Hindu Taliban and saffron terror used by Congress leaders Tharoor and Chidambaram, he said they make these remarks at Gandhi's behest. He also referred to Digvijay Singh and Mani Shankar Aiyar in this context.  "What they say is not a coincidence but an experiment. And the headmaster of this experimental lab is Rahul Gandhi.... There is a pathological hatred for Hinduism among Congress leaders, and they get traction for this from the Gandhi family," he alleged.  Patra also referred to a comment of Rahul Gandhi, which had found a mention in the WikiLeaks in 2010, that Hindu extremist groups could pose a bigger danger to India than Islamic terror organisation and some other remarks to attack him.  Gandhi had linked atrocities against women to Indian culture, he claimed. The BJP's attack on Gandhi came a day after the ruling party had slammed the opposition party over its leader Salman Khurshid comparing Hindutva with the jihadist Islam of terrorist groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram in his latest book.  It is clear that Khurshid has also endorsed what Rahul Gandhi has been saying, Patra said. People of India will never forgive the Congress, he said. Gandhi on Friday said his party's ideology is like a "beautiful jewel" with an unending power inside it, but it has been overshadowed by the BJP, and maintained Hindu and Hindutva are different concepts.  Gandhi was addressing online a four-day 'AICC orientation programme' organised at Sevagram Ashram in Wardha in Maharashtra. Congress representatives from across the states are participating in the programme.  Patra said seeking apology from him would be irrelevant. The Congress leader, he alleged, has violated constitutional tenets with his remarks that spread "hate" in society.  The Congress, he said, had also tried to delay the court hearing in the Ram temple case and had, when in power, questioned the existence of Lord Ram.  To a question about the Congress drawing a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, Patra shot back, "Can they talk on similar lines about other religions? Of course not. They cannot talk of similar issues in any other religion. The question is why do they talk ill of Hinduism all the time."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Aryan Khan appears before NCB to mark weekly presence||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who is out on bail in an alleged drugs seizure case, appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here on Saturday as instructed by the court.  The Bombay High Court had last month asked him to mark presence before the anti-drugs agency every Friday while granting him bail. Aryan visited the NCB office at Ballard Estate in South Mumbai in the afternoon, agency sources said. He left within few minutes after meeting probe officials, they added.  The NCB had arrested Aryan and 19 others after raiding a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 and allegedly seizing drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Norovirus cases confirmed in Kerala||A day after Norovirus cases were confirmed in Wayanad district, the Kerala government on Friday said people need to be vigilant about the very contagious virus that causes vomiting and diarrhea.  The rare Norovirus infection was reported in some 13 students of a veterinary college in Pookode near Vythiri in Wayanad district two weeks ago.  Though things have been brought under control and no further spread is reported, health authorities said they are preparing a data bank of the students of the veterinary science college besides holding an awareness class as part of preventive measures.  Veterinary college authorities said the infection was first found in students living in hostels outside the campus.  The health authorities were quick to collect samples and sent them to NIV in Alappuzha for testing.  State health minister Veena George chaired a meeting of the health officials here and took stock of the situation in Wayanad.  According to a health department release, the minister directed the officials to intensify activities to prevent the spread of the virus.  Currently there is no cause for concern but everyone should be vigilant, it said.  Officials said preventive activities including super chlorination are underway.  Drinking water sources need to be hygienic and with proper prevention and treatment, the disease can be cured quickly.  Everyone should be aware of the disease and its means of prevention, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Smog cover over Delhi-NCR, AQI season's worst at 471||The layer of eye-stinging smog lingering over Delhi-NCR thickened on Friday, giving an orange tint to the sun and lowering visibility to 200 metres at several places in the region reeling under hazardous pollution levels since early November.  Over 4,000 farm fires, which accounted for 35 per cent of Delhi's pollution on Friday, played a major role in pushing the 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) to 471 by 4 pm, the worst this season so far. It was 411 on Thursday.  The city has recorded severe air quality on six of the last eight days after Diwali.  According to an analysis by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), people in the national capital breathe the worst air between November 1 and November 15 every year.  Faridabad (460), Ghaziabad (486), Greater Noida (478), Gurugram (448) and Noida (488) also recorded severe air quality at 4 pm.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".  According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the 24-hour average concentration of lung-damaging fine particles known as PM2.5 in Delhi-NCR crossed the 300 mark around midnight and stood at 381 micrograms per cubic metre at 4 pm (Friday), more than six times the safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre.  The PM10 level was recorded at 577 micrograms per cubic metre.  According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered to be in the emergency category if the PM2.5 and PM10 levels continue to be above 300 micrograms per cubic metre and 500 micrograms per cubic metre respectively for 48 hours or more.  Officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said moderate fog and low temperatures in the morning -- Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees Celsius on Friday -- and calm winds have been trapping pollutants close to the ground.  "Visibility levels at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the Safdarjung Airport dropped to 200-500 metres due to moderate fog. It (fog) has intensified on Friday due to high humidity," an official said.  Green think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) had Wednesday said the ongoing smog episode is a public health emergency and could be the longest in four years.  The longer duration of this year's smog, despite relatively windier local conditions, might be due to a lack of pollution control measures in the city, the CSE had said in a report.  In another report, it said vehicles accounted for more than 50 per cent of Delhi's pollution during the early phase of this year's winter, from October 24 to November 8.  According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecasting agency SAFAR, stubble burning has accounted for at least 25 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution for nine days on the trot, starting November 4.  Gufran Beig, the founder project director of SAFAR, said stubble burning generally contributes in PM2.5 but this time its coarser particles in PM10 are also becoming a lead pollutant at several locations in Delhi.  "This is a new feature in winter period. This is mainly because of particle growth mechanism due to high humidity at night and increased humidity during the day probably due to water sprinkling which also increases the holding capacity of the air. Since flow is regular many PM2.5 particles are growing towards PM10 (sic), he said.  The share of farm fires in Delhi's pollution had increased to 48 per cent on Sunday, the highest since November 5, 2018, when it was recorded at 58 per cent.  Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1.  Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai Friday launched the second leg of a campaign to control dust pollution.  On Thursday, he had launched a month-long campaign to prevent open burning of waste and biomass in the city in a bid to further cut down pollution from local sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Congress ideology alive but overshadowed by BJP, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said his party's ideology is like a "beautiful jewel" with an unending power inside it, but it has been overshadowed by the BJP, and maintained Hindu and Hindutva are different concepts.  If crystalized, the Congress ideology which is alive and vibrant will envelope that of the BJP-RSS, he said and emphasised on strengthening his party's ideas within the organisation and spreading them across the country.  Gandhi was addressing online a four-day 'AICC orientation programme' organised at Sevagram Ashram in Wardha. Congress representatives from across the states are participating in the programme.  He said, "We have to accept that there are two ideologies in India - the Congress ideology and the RSS ideology. We have to accept, the BJP-RSS has spread hatred in today's India."  The former Congress president said there has been "complete capture" of the media by the saffron outfit.  "The BJP has overshadowed the loving, affectionate and nationalistic ideology of the Congress party. Our ideology is alive and vibrant, but it has been overshadowed by the BJP," said the Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad in Kerala.  "It has been overshadowed partly because of complete capture of the media and complete capture of the Indian nation. It has also been overshadowed as we have not propagated our ideology among our own people aggressively," said Gandhi.  Gandhi observed that Hindutva and Hinduism are two different concepts.  These are the types of things we need to explore and understand and develop a group of people...100, 200, 300, 500 people who deeply understand these differences, who can apply these differences to issues, behaviour, to action.  Is Hinduism about beating a Sikh, or a Muslim; Hindutva, of course, is. In which book is it written? I have not seen it. I have read the Upanishads. I have not read it, he said.  "We say there is a difference between Hindutva and Hindu religion. It is a simple logic - if you are a Hindu then why do you need Hindutva? why do you need this new name?" he asked.  The Congress leader said in today's India, ideological fight has become very important.  "The Congress ideology...the ideology it follows has been existing in India for thousands of years. Just like the RSS has its icons, the Congress has its own icons... they are different icons. But, we have them, it is about bringing this ideological ocean and allowing our people to swim in it," he said.  Gandhi admitted the Congress did not propagate its ideas properly in the past.  "Now is the time to strengthen Congress ideology in its own organisation and spread its across India through party workers," he said.  The Congress MP stressed on importance of ideological training, which he said, should be mandatory for all party workers.  "The central way to propagate the party's ideology is by training people in a conversation about what it means to be a Congress person and how is that different from being an RSS person," Gandhi said.  Ideologically training of party workers, in my view, should be made mandatory irrespective of seniority, Gandhi said in his address. Gandhi said the Congress ideology, if studied and propagated deeply in the organisation, has answers of all questions related to various issues of public concern - ranging from Article 370, terrorism to nationalism, but the party doesn't give necessary tools to its workers to articulate them.  Gandhi said the Congress ideology is like a "beautiful jewel" with an unending power inside it.  "It is our strength...it is why we exist and it is important we discover it. They (BJP) have discovered their ideology and crystalized it. We have to crystalize our ideology and the moment we do that it will envelope their ideology. The hate that is being spread today will vanish and the future which seems uncertain will become certain," he added.  Recalling his conversation with former Uttarakhand minister Yashpal Arya who returned to the party fold last month, Gandhi said Arya told him for a Congressman, it is very suffocating to survive in the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh's ED custody extended till November 15||A special court here on Friday extended the Enforcement Directorate custody of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh till November 15 in an alleged money laundering case.  Opposing the ED's demand of extension of custody, Deshmukh's lawyer questioned why it had not yet arrested dismissed police officer Sachin Waze who is also an accused in the case, and why IPS officer Param Bir Singh was never summoned for probe. The ED had arrested the NCP leader on November 1 under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. A holiday court on November 6 had sent Deshmukh (71) in judicial custody after rejecting the ED's plea seeking an extension of remand.  A day later, the Bombay High Court set aside the order and sent Deshmukh in ED custody till November 12.  On Friday, he was produced before special PMLA court judge H S Sathbhai, who extended the custody till November 15.  Special public prosecutor Shriram Shirsat told the court that Deshmukh was "evasive and giving vague answers", so further custody was needed.  Sachin Waze had played a key role in collecting bribes from bar owners in Mumbai at Deshmukh's behest, and the ED was in the process of seeking permission from the concerned court to record Waze's statement in this case, the prosecutor said.  Further custody of Deshmukh was needed to confront him with new evidence which may emerge from Waze's statement, the ED said.  Waze, then assistant police inspector, was arrested in March 2021 following the discovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence, and the subsequent death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.  Opposing the extension of remand, Deshmukh's lawyer Vikram Chaudhri said as per the ED, Waze was among main accused, but it never arrested him.  "According to them Waze played a key role....They filed a charge sheet without arresting him, he is an accused only on paper," the lawyer said.  He also asked why the ED has not summoned former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who had alleged that Deshmukh, as home minister, had asked Waze to collect Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.  "Why hasn't his statement been recorded," Deshmukh's lawyer asked.  The probe agency was acting with malice, advocate Chaudhary alleged.  He also argued that before the high court, both the parties had agreed that the ED should get Deshmukh's custody for only four days.  But the prosecution said that the central agency needed further remand in light of new facts that emerged from interrogation regarding transfers and postings of police officials during Deshmukh's tenure. The agency has also summoned, on Saturday, a private person who used to handle certain prestigious projects in Deshmukh's constituency, and the NCP leader will be confronted with new evidence that might come to light from his questioning, it said.  Meanwhile, NCP MP Supriya Sule met Deshmukh during his appearance before the PMLA court on Friday. Sule left after meeting him.  The ED filed a money laundering case against Deshmukh after the CBI registered a corruption case based on Param Bir Singh's accusations.  The ED's case is that Deshmukh, through Waze, collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai, and the money was later transferred to Deshmukh's educational or charitable trusts through a few Delhi-based firms.  His two aides -- Kundan Shinde and Sanjeev Palande -- were also arrested in the case and are in judicial custody now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Will get Salman Khurshid's book banned in Madhya Pradesh, says Home Minister Narottam Mishra||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is contemplating banning in the state, senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid's book in which he has compared Hindutva to radical jihadist groups like ISIS and Boko Haram, said Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Friday.  The minister also hit out at Khurshid over the book on the Ayodhya verdict, titled 'Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times', which was released on Wednesday.  Talking to reporters in Bhopal, Mishra said, "We will take the opinion of legal experts on the book and get it banned in Madhya Pradesh."  Mishra criticised Khurshid over the controversial content of the book and accused the former Union minister of targeting Hindutva and attempting to divide the majority community.  "These people do not leave any opportunity to target Hindutva and divide Hindus on caste lines. After 'Bharat Tere Tukde Honge Inshallah Inshallah', Rahul Gandhi was the first to go there (at JNU). Salman Khurshid is now taking forward the same idea," he said.  Mishra stated that Congress leader Kamal Nath had earlier said this is not "Mahan Bharat" but a "Badnam Bharat" (in context of coronavirus pandemic), and his party colleague Khurshid is now moving in the same direction.  Khurshid, in his book, writes: "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Data Protection Bill needs to be cleared soon as data theft has become a common crime: Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday said the Data Protection Bill, tabled in 2019 in Parliament, needs to get cleared at the earliest as data theft has become a common crime in the virtual world. Rawat, while inaugurating the 14th edition of 'c0c0n', an annual Hacking and Cyber Security Briefing, organised by Kerala Police, said there was a need to synergise the efforts of cyber security experts of various government departments in order to "secure our digital assets." The CDS said India doesn't have a dedicated cyber security law and there was a need for a framework for managing virtual space at national level. "There is a need for a framework for managing virtual space at national level. Multiple government agencies deal with cyber security. Our defence services have cyber experts and state police have cyber cells. There is a need to synergise the efforts of these experts working with different government ministries and other private sector entities towards a common goal of effectively securing our digital assets," Rawat said. In his virtual address, Rawat said the rise of digital payments has significantly increased complex cyber crimes and the IT Act 2000, which was amended in 2008 needs to be updated further putting in place cyber security standards in line with the nature of information and assets. "Data protection is yet another crucial issue that we need to look at. Most nations have data protection laws. The Data Protection Bill tabled in 2019 is yet to reach finality. We need to work together to get it cleared at the earliest as data theft has become a common crime in the virtual world," he said. Rawat noted that according to estimates, cyber crimes in India during the global pandemic have gone up by almost 500 per cent. "Cyber criminals take advantage of security vulnerabilities to steal data, generate profits and cause disruption. Hence cyber security is now not just the purview of few IT professionals but of each and every individual of the team," he said. Rawat congratulated Kerala police "for taking the lead and battling the dark forces in the cyberspace." "The first step on the way to victory is to recognise the threat. Hence at the very outset, I must congratulate Kerala police for taking the initiative to recognise and acknowledge this all important non-contact domain of warfare. Identification, discussions and deliberations are preliminary phases to develop pragmatic solutions and initiate actions that can mitigate threats," he said. The conference, which is being conducted by Kerala Police in association with two non-profit organisations, Society for the Policing of Cyberspace( POLCYB ) and Information Security Research Association (ISRA), would be primarily discussing online scams and defenses during the lockdown period. State police chief Anilkant said this year various challenges of crypto currencies, digital warfare and role of nation states among other issues will be discussed. The conference is being held virtually so that people from across the globe can attend the event as the 13th edition of 'c0c0n' last year saw more than 6,000 attendees from around the world. The conference aims to discuss at the international level the challenges facing the digital world during the COVID period and the solutions needed to overcome them. The theme of this year's 'c0c0n' is - Improvise, Adapt and Overcome. National and international experts will speak on various issues during the conference, which will conclude tomorrow, including cyber attacks on critical infrastructures, quantum computing, automotive cyber security, drone attacks detections using deep learning, data security and privacy, cyber espionage and cyber warfare. To encourage more women into cyber security and to offer them equal opportunity to rise to senior leadership roles, the Kerala police is inviting more women, who play prominent roles in cyber security, as speakers for the 14th edition of 'c0c0n'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
12-11-2021||India||Finance minister to meet CMs, state finance ministers on Monday||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Monday meet chief ministers and state finance ministers to discuss measures to attract private investments to help boost the economy. Speaking to reporters, Finance Secretary T V Somanathan said the meeting comes in the backdrop of strong economic recovery post the two COVID waves, and the central government has made a big push in Capex. "India is becoming an attractive destination for investment there is a positive sentiment from the private sector," he said, adding geopolitical developments are also in favour of India. Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth said the discussion during the meeting will focus on easing norms on land and water use for attracting private investments. The purpose of this meeting is to use this juncture not only to push growth from the Centre but also at the states level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||SC to hear plea seeking direction to Centre to take steps to deal with hate speech on November 22 ||The Supreme Court Friday said it would hear on November 22 a plea that has sought a direction to the Centre to examine various international laws and take appropriate "effective and stringent" steps to control hate speech and rumour-mongering in the country. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar asked senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was appearing for the petitioner, to serve the copy of the plea to the ministries of home affairs, law and justice and the Law Commission -- which have been arrayed as respondents in the petition. The apex court was hearing the petition, filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay in his personal capacity through advocate Ashwani Dubey, which has also sought a direction to the Centre to take legislative steps to implement recommendations of the Law Commission to deal with the menace of hate speech and rumour-mongering. The top court said the matter would be heard on November 22, when a separate plea, which also came up for hearing during the day, related to the issue would also be taken up. "The petitioner is filing this writ petition as a PIL... seeking writ/order/direction to the Centre to examine the international laws relating to 'hate speech' and 'rumour mongering' and take apposite effective stringent steps to control 'hate speech' and 'rumour-mongering' in order to secure rule of law, freedom of speech and expression and Right to Life, Liberty and Dignity of citizens," Upadhyay has said in his plea. The petition further sought a direction that the courts, while awarding punishment for the offences against "public tranquillity, offences relating to elections etc", shall pronounce sentences running consecutively and not concurrently. It urged that the government be asked to take appropriate steps to implement recommendations of Law Commission Report-267 on hate speech. "The injury to the citizens is extremely large because 'hate speech and rumour-mongering' has the potential of provoking individuals or society to commit acts of terrorism, genocides, ethnic cleansing etc. Hate speech is considered outside the realm of protective discourse, it said. "Indisputably, offensive speech and rumour-mongering have devastating effects on people's lives and risks their health and safety. Hate speech is harmful and divisive for communities and hampers social progress. If left unchecked, hate speech can severely affect not only the rule of law but also the right to life, liberty and dignity of the citizens," the plea said. In 2012, around 50,000 citizens from north-eastern states moved from their residences across India and rushed to their native places after "circulation of false images of violent incidents that took place not in India but in Myanmar several years ago", it said. The plea, which referred to the existing penal provisions in the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said hate speech is an incitement to hatred primarily against a group of persons defined in terms of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religious belief and it poses complex challenges to freedom of speech and expression. "A difference of approach is discernible between the US and other democracies. In the US, it is given constitutional protection; whereas under international human rights covenants and in other western democracies, such as Canada, Germany, and UK, it is regulated and subject to sanctions. In view of this, the petitioner is of the opinion that new provisions in IPC are required to be incorporated to address the issues elaborately..," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Government does not have strategy on China: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday alleged that the country's national security is "unpardonably compromised" as the government does not have a strategy on China. He cited a news report where the External Affairs Ministry and the Chief of Defence Staff had a different take on the China border issue.  Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat on Thursday said the controversy about the Chinese coming into the Indian territory and building a new village is "not true", and that the villages were well within the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). He also asserted that China has not transgressed the Indian "perception" of the LAC.  In its recent report, the US Department of Defence said China built a large village inside disputed territory between its Tibet Autonomous Region and India's Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern sector of the LAC. Earlier in an official reaction to the US report, the External Affairs Ministry said India has neither accepted China's "illegal occupation of its territory nor any unjustified Chinese claims".  While taking a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his "56-inch chest" remarks, Gandhi said on Twitter, "Our national security is unpardonably compromised because GOI has no strategy and Mr 56 is scared. My thoughts are with the soldiers risking their lives to guard our borders while GOI churns out lies," he further alleged.  In the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Modi had said it takes a 56-inch chest to convert Uttar Pradesh into Gujarat in terms of development. Attacking the government over the issue, Congress leader P Chidambaram said it is time Defence Minister Rajnath Singh drew a line in his ministry and asked the CDS to remain "well within his side of the LAC."  "MEA said that China is in 'illegal occupation' of Indian territory and India will not accept 'unjustified Chinese claims'. "Within hours, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) said that the Chinese 'have not transgressed anywhere on our perception of the LAC' and they are 'well within their side of the LAC'," Chidambaram said in a series of tweets.  The former Union finance minister also said the Chinese are laughing all the way from the Plenum to the 20th Congress of the Communist party. "It is time for the Defence Minister to draw a LAC in the Defence Ministry and ask the CDS to remain well within his side of the LAC," the Congress leader said.  Last month, India and China failed to make any headway in resolving the 18-month standoff in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh during the 13th round of military talks between the two countries. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector of eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur: UP granted time till Monday to air its stand on monitoring of SIT probe by ex-judge of HC||The Supreme Court on Friday granted time till November 15 to the Uttar Pradesh government for apprising its stand on the suggestion that a former judge of a different high court should monitor the state SIT probe on day-to-day basis in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people including four farmers were killed on October 3. "Would your Lordships give me time till Monday? I have almost got it done. We are working something out," senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the UP government, told the bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana. List on Monday, said the bench which, also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, acceding to the request. The apex court, on November 8, had expressed dissatisfaction over the probe and suggested that to infuse "independence, impartiality and fairness in the ongoing investigation, a former judge of a different high court should monitor it on day-to-day basis. The bench had also said that it has no confidence and does not want the one-member judicial commission appointed by the state to continue probe into the case. Retired Allahabad High Court judge Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava was named by the state government to enquire into the eruption of violence on Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The state government was asked to inform about its stand on the suggestion of monitoring of probe by a former judge of a different high court. "We, somehow or the other, are not confident and we do want any judicial commission appointed by your state government to continue," the bench had said. Observing that the investigation was not going the way it expected, the bench had red flagged some of the issues pertaining to the SIT probe conducted so far and said: prima facie it appears that one particular accused (in the farmers' mowing down case) is sought to be given benefit by securing or procuring evidence from witnesses in the subsequent case related to the lynching of political activists by the farmers' mob. It was also very critical of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of state police for seizing the mobile of Ashish Mishra, one of the arrested 13 accused, and rest of the phones belonged to the witnesses to the alleged mowing down of the farmers. "We have seen the status report. There is nothing in the status report except to say that some more witnesses have been examined. We granted 10 days time. Laboratory reports have not come. No, no, no...it is not going the way we expected," it had said. "We propose to appoint a person like say from Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Ranjit Singh, who has an expertise in criminal law and army background... let an independent judge like Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, again from the same HC, monitor everything," it had said. Prior to this, the bench had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018 and to record the statements of other witnesses before the judicial magistrate under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and expedite the examination of digital evidence by experts. The police has so far arrested 13 accused, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, in connection with the case. The apex court was hearing a matter about the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons including four farmers were killed during a farmers' protest. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in the convoy at Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, and a local journalist was killed in the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Terrorist killed in Srinagar was assigned to carry out suicide attack, says J&K police||Three militants, including a 'fidayeen' (suicide bomber), were killed in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Friday, taking the number of ultras killed so far this year to 133.  A 'Mujahideen Gazwatul Hind' militant who was assigned to carry out a 'fidayeen' (suicide) attack in Srinagar was killed, while a Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) district commander was among the two ultras slain in an encounter in Kulgam, the police said.  As many as 133 militants, including several top commanders, have been killed this year so far, they said.  The 'fidayeen' militant was a relative of one of the accused in the February 2019 Pulwama suicide attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed, police said.  A police spokesman said acting on a specific input about a possible terrorist attack and the movement of terrorists in the Bemina area of Srinagar, a checkpoint was established on Thursday to thwart such evil designs.  In the meantime, terrorists attacked a checkpoint established near Bund Bemina which was retaliated leading to an encounter, he said, adding further reinforcement was rushed to the spot.  In the ensuing gunfight, one terrorist of proscribed terror outfit Mujahideen Gazwatul Hind was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of the encounter, the spokesman said.  He identified the slain ultra as Amir Riyaz, a resident of Khrew Pampore and a relative of one of the accused in the February 2019 suicide attack in Pulwama's Lethpora in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed.  The preliminary investigation indicated that he (Riyaz) was assigned to carry out similar kind of fidayeen attack. Digital evidences recovered from his mobile show that he was prepared by terror outfit for fidayeen attack, the spokesman said.  In another overnight encounter in Kulgam district of south Kashmir, two militants, including a district commander of the HM outfit, were killed.  Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Chancer village in the Chawalgam area of Kulgam on Thursday following inputs about the presence of militants there.  During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists got ascertained, they were given opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party. The joint teams ensuring safety of civilians rescued and shifted them to safer places. The fire was retaliated leading to an encounter, the spokesman said.  In the initial exchange of fire, one terrorist was killed. However, due to darkness, the operation was suspended for the night, he said.  The spokesman said in the early hours of Friday, repeated announcements were made to the hiding terrorist to surrender but he fired on the joint search party which was retaliated leading to his elimination.  The dead bodies of both the killed terrorists were retrieved from the site of the encounter, he added.  He identified them as district commander of proscribed outfit Hizbul Mujahideen Shiraz Ahmad alias Shiraz Molvi alias Abu Haris, a resident of Souch Kulgam, and Yawar Ahmad Bhat, a resident of Ponipora Kulgam.  As per police records, both the killed terrorists were linked with proscribed terror outfit HM and were part of groups involved in several terror crimes including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities, the spokesman said.  Shiraz Ahmad was an A++ (plus plus) categorised terrorist and was active since 2016, figuring among the list of most wanted terrorists, he said.  He was also involved in recruiting innocent youth into terror ranks and in spreading a reign of terror by killing civilians as well as political workers in Devsar and Brazloo areas of Kulgam. There are 15 FIRs registered against him for several terror crimes, the spokesman said.  Incriminating material and arms and ammunition including an AK-rifle and a pistol were recovered from the Kulgam encounter site. An AK-rifle was also recovered from the Bemina encounter site, he said.  The recovered material has been taken into case records for further investigation. Police have registered cases under relevant sections of law and investigations have been initiated, he added.  The spokesman said Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar has congratulated the joint teams for carrying out both the operations in a professional manner resulting in elimination of three terrorists including a most wanted terrorist.  Kumar also congratulated police and security forces for working with great synergy and coordination on the ground that lead to the killing of 133 terrorists including many top commanders during this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Police have greater role in border management, says Ajit Doval||Besides maintaining law and order, police forces have a greater role in border management spanning over 15,000 km covering Pakistan, China and Myanmar and Bangladesh with which India has security related issues, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on Friday. Speaking at the passing out parade of the 73rd batch of IPS probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) here, Doval said India's sovereignty goes as far as the last police station's jurisdiction from the coastal areas to the border areas. He further said maintaining law and order in every part of the 32 lakh sq km of India is the responsibility of police forces. "Not only the policing about which you (IPS officers) have been trained well. But it will extend. You will be responsible for border management of this country. 15,000 km of the border, most of it has got peculiar problems of its own," he added. "There is a border in Pakistan with China or Myanmar or Bangladesh. We have got different types of security-related issues which are manned by the police and the central police organisations which are manning these borders," Doval said. According to him, the strength of the police force in the country is 21 lakh and so far 35,480 personnel have sacrificed their lives. "We would also like to remember those 40 IPS officers who were martyred," Doval said. The security advisor said India which will usher in a new era as it paces towards 100th year of independence will be known for its many achievements and accomplishments and will be one of the leading nations across the globe. "Quintessence of democracy does not lie in the ballot box, but it lies in the laws which are made by the people who are elected by or elected through the electoral process," Doval said. "Laws are not as good as they are made No nation can be built where rule of law has failed. People cannot feel safe and secure where law enforcers are weak, corrupt, partisan," he maintained. Police have to work closely with other organisations for which they require a mental attitude together to serve the nation, he said. Wars have ceased to become an effective instrument giving their political and military objective even as they are unaffordable, uncertain about their outcome, he said, adding it is the civil society that can be subverted, divided and manipulated "to hurt the interest of the nation," Doval said. "If the internal security fails, no country can be great. If people are not secure, people are not safe, they cannot rise to the potential and probably the country will never grow," he further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 267 days||India logged 12,516 new coronavirus infections, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,44,14,186, while the active cases declined to 1,37,416, the lowest in 267 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,62,690 with 501 fresh fatalities, including 419 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Of the 419 deaths in Kerala, 47 were reported in the last few days and 372 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a Kerala government release said on Thursday. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 35 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 138 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.40 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.26 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,140 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.07 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 39 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.10 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 49 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,14,080 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 110.79 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,62,690 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,475 from Maharashtra, 38,138 from Karnataka, 36,251 from Tamil Nadu, 35,040 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,904 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,280 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Massive fire breaks out at scrap godown in Mumbai||A massive fire broke out at a scrap godown in suburban Mankhurd in the wee hours of Friday, but no casualty was reported, a fire brigade official said. The blaze started in the godown, located in the Mandala area of Mankhurd, at around 3.15 am and at least 12 fire engines, 10 tankers and over 150 firefighters were rushed to the spot to douse the flames, he said. After nearly five hours of firefighting, the blaze was extinguished at around 8.30 am, the official said. No one was injured in the fire, whose cause was under investigation, he added. Several shops in the market keep electric wires and scrap materials in a scattered manner. The market is located on Veer Jijamata Bhonsle Marg in the eastern suburb of Mumbai. In September as well, the market had reported an incident of fire. At that time the blaze was confined to seven to eight shops in the market, where different types of scrap material, including empty chemical drums, was stored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Lancet publishes research paper on Covaxin's efficacy||Covaxin, India’s first homegrown Covid-19 vaccine pushed at times by the health and regulatory bureaucracy into avoidable controversy, gained fresh scientific credence on Thursday with a top international medical journal publishing a peer-reviewed research paper on its efficacy. The paper in The Lancet has described the results of Covaxin’s trial in India that had demonstrated the vaccine’s ability to offer 93 per cent protection from severe disease, 78 per cent protection from symptomatic disease and 64 per cent protection from asymptomatic disease. The vaccine’s developers had in July this year announced the observed efficacy levels. But the scientific and medical community had long awaited publication of the results in a journal that would mark independent peer review and acceptance. Covaxin, jointly developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, is one of the two main vaccines used in India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign. The other is Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India. “A paper in The Lancet is a big thing — it is reassuring,” said a vaccine science researcher who requested not to be named. The journal had earlier this year also published results of clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca, Chinese and Russian vaccines. The Covaxin results have shown that it is “generally effective against Covid-19, preventing symptomatic disease and decreasing need for hospitalisation”, the paper said, outlining the implications of all available evidence. The trials also showed 65 per cent protection against the highly contagious Delta coronavirus variant. “This is a recognition of industry-driven research and development efforts,” said Krishna Ella, a scientist-turned-entrepreneur and the managing director of Bharat Biotech. Covaxin is made from inactivated (killed) virus that some scientists believe could offer broader protection than available from designer vaccines. The publication is a “great moment for India — and marks a successful private-public partnership,” said Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the ICMR, the government institution that had isolated and grown the coronavirus from early patients in India and sent it to Bharat Biotech for vaccine development. Scientists have hailed the paper’s publication but said it did not dent concerns that some had expressed about how sections of India’s health and regulatory bureaucracy had earlier pushed Covaxin into controversy. The ICMR DG, for instance, had in July 2020 — even before the start of trials — urged doctors involved in the trial to expedite the vaccine’s assessment to enable its release by August 15, 2020, stunning sections of the medical community. The DG had quickly clarified that his letter had merely intended to emphasise the need for speed and that the vaccine development effort would adhere to rigorous science. But his letter had triggered concerns whether regulatory authorities would give concessions to an Indian-made vaccine. “This was an entirely avoidable controversy — it should not have happened at all,” said a senior scientist who is among the Centre’s advisers on Covid-19 among other issues. Sections of scientists had also accused India’s drug regulatory authority of opacity when it approved in early January this year the use of Covaxin without the results of trials aimed at assessing its protective efficacy. “It is great to see the Covaxin paper published in The Lancet,” said Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist and adjunct faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “But that doesn’t change the opacity of decision-making by our drug regulatory authorities in January this year,” Rath said. We still don’t know exactly what data they used to arrive at their decision.” The World Health Organisation had last week granted emergency use listing for Covaxin after a rigorous review of the vaccine’s safety, efficacy and quality. The WHO approval would enable the vaccine’s use in more countries and expand international travel opportunities for Covaxin recipients. The vaccine’s observed 64 per cent efficacy in protecting people from asymptomatic infections indicates “significant protection for public health”, researchers Jing-Xin Li and Feng-Cai Zhu at China’s Centres for Disease Control and Prevention in Nanjing wrote in the same issue of The Lancet. Protection from asymptomatic infections implies that vaccinated people are less likely to develop symptoms and thus less likely to become potential sources of the virus for any further spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Supreme Court to take up 'urgent hearing' on UAPA validity||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to take up for “urgent hearing” a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the anti-terror law UAPA in the wake of it being used against advocates and journalists for their social media posts on the communal violence in Tripura. The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, among other things, bars the benefit of even anticipatory bail to an accused, the petitioners told the Supreme Court. The bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli assured advocate Prashant Bhushan that the matter would be taken up on priority after the counsel sought urgent hearing on behalf of the three petitioners — advocates Mukesh Gaur and Ansarul Haq Ansari and journalist Shyam Meera Singh. The three have been booked under the UAPA and the Indian Penal Code for their social media posts on the recent violence that followed a VHP protest against the attacks in Bangladesh on Hindus during Durga Puja. Gaur and Ansari had been part of a fact-finding team to Tripura. The petitioners pleaded that the vagueness of the definition of “unlawful activity”; the “wide net” the law casts on freedom of speech and expression; its tendency to bring within its fold mere criticism of government policies or actions that have no effect on public order or the security, sovereignty and integrity of India; and its indiscriminate use against those critical of the government produces a “chilling effect” on the freedom of speech and expression. They also underlined that Section 45(d)(4) of the 1967 act bars anticipatory bail while Section 45(d)(5) makes it almost impossible to secure bail. According to the petitioners, the UAPA violates Articles 14 (equality before the law and equal protection of law), 19(1)(a) (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. The petitioners said they were seeking protection of their fundamental rights against the backdrop of “targeted political violence against the Muslim minorities in the state of Tripura during the second half of the month of October, 2021, and the subsequent efforts by the state of Tripura to monopolise the flow of information and facts emanating from the affected areas by invoking provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, against members of civil society, including advocates and journalists who have made the effort to bring facts in relation to the targeted violence in the public domain”. The petitioners added that if the government was allowed to criminalise the very act of fact-finding and reporting, that too under the stringent provisions of the UAPA, the only facts that would come out in the public domain were those that were convenient to the State. “If the quest for truth and reporting thereof itself is criminalised, then the victim in the process is the idea of justice. Such circumstances strike at the very foundations of a participative democratic society as it curbs the ‘free flow of information and ideas’ and no inconvenient facts will be available in the public domain for the citizenry to demand ‘corrective action’ from the State where there have been shortcomings and lapses on its part,” the petition stated. It was submitted that around October 14, after reports emerged from Bangladesh of attacks on Durga Puja pandals, “in a perverse counterblast, political Right-wing forces in the state of Tripura started fomenting religious passions against the Muslim minorities”. The petitioners said that the Right-wing political forces organised processions in Tripura to ostensibly protest against the violence in Bangladesh but it led to the targeting of Muslims in the state. Arson, looting and violence were orchestrated on the establishments of Muslim citizens, and mosques faced attacks and arson at various places in Tripura, the petition said. It was submitted that a four-member fact-finding team of advocates, including Gaur and Ansari, had visited some of the affected areas between October 30 and November 1. On the basis of their interactions with the affected people and their visits to the mosques that had been targeted, the team on November 2 put in the public domain a report titled “Humanity Under Attack in Tripura #Muslim Lives Matter”. The next day, an FIR was registered at West Agartala police station under IPC sections dealing with provoking breach of peace, forgery and criminal conspiracy, and the UAPA. The petitioners said this was “ex facie an attempt to curb the free flow of information from the riot-affected areas given that there is nothing in the report which even remotely supports any secessional activity, or questions the sovereignty or territorial integrity of India, or causes any disaffection against the State of India”. They submitted that the components of the definition of “unlawful activities” under UAPA Section 2(1)(o) were not even remotely made out. Their report does not exaggerate any of the facts and accurately documents what was learnt and seen by the fact-finding team, the petitioners said. “It only corroborates with further specifics and in greater detail what has also been broadly reported by national and international media. The report and contents thereof do not fall within any of the restrictions on freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India and is covered by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India,” the petition said. “The absurdity is further compounded by the fact that though the FIR refers to 102 social media posts which are alleged to have intended to cause communal disharmony and intended to cause disaffection against the State; and the notice under Section 41(a) calls upon the Petitioners No. 1 & 2 to delete the offensive posts —no post actually referred to in the FIR have in fact been made by the Petitioners No. 1 & 2,” it added. “It is submitted that the impugned definition of ‘unlawful activities’ prohibits an innocuous speech by threat of punishment. It casts a ‘wide net’ on freedom of speech and expression and makes even possession of documentational literature, reporting of information, expression of ideas, thoughts, and discussions which are no threat to the security of India and have no tendency to create public disorder punishable under Section 13 of the Act. “The overbroad language of the section leaves open the possibility that the person criticising measures of government or acts of public officials might also come within the ambit of the penal section. Further, the impugned section abridges the right to free speech and expression in the absence of tangible and proximate harm. The definition fails to define criminal offence with sufficient definiteness and is so ‘vague’ so as to make its application dependent solely on the discretion of police machinery,” the petitioners said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
12-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Collaborators later rewarded, victim's wife tells SC||Officials who “collaborated” in the 2002 Gujarat violence or in the scuttling of a probe into the possible role of VIPs were later rewarded, a riot victim’s wife told the Supreme Court on Thursday. R.K. Raghavan, chief of the special investigation team (SIT) that gave a clean chit to then chief minister Narendra Modi and others, was appointed high commissioner to Cyprus and then Ahmedabad police commissioner P.C. Pandey was promoted to Gujarat director-general of police, Zakia Jafri’s counsel Kapil Sibal submitted. Zakia, whose husband and former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri was burnt alive with 68 others in Ahmedabad’s Gulbarg Society, had got the apex court to appoint the SIT to probe her riot conspiracy charges against Modi, some other ministers and police officers. She has now challenged Gujarat High Court's 2017 ruling upholding the trial court's acceptance of the SIT's closure report. The Citizens for Justice and Peace is a co-petitioner in the case. "All these people who collaborated were rehabilitated in a big way. R.K. Raghavan was made the high commissioner," Sibal told the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravi Kumar. He said call data records (CDR) indicated that Pandey was sitting in the police control room as the bodies of the kar sevaks burnt alive in the Godhra train fire were brought to Ahmedabad to stoke passions, and the violence erupted. "He was sitting in his office all day long. He was not doing anything. If he (were) so concerned, would he have allowed the bodies to be brought by road from Godhra to Ahmedabad and allowed passions to flare up?" Sibal said. "…P.C. Pandey was one of the worst collaborators. He later became the DGP of Gujarat. The journey from accused to DGP is disconcerting." Sibal had on Wednesday argued that the way the charred bodies were allowed to be brought to Ahmedabad in a procession was proof enough of a conspiracy involving the top echelons of the administration. As on Wednesday, he accused the SIT of shielding the accused despite possessing materials such as CDR that allegedly suggested certain police officers collaborated with mobs in identifying the houses of Muslims, and tapes of purported sting operations. Sibal alleged the SIT had ignored evidence of hate speeches and inflammatory slogans to absolve the accused. "The SIT was rendering conclusions contrary to facts that they were aware of. In fact, the SIT should be investigated. I'm not concerned with individuals, I'm concerned with the process. I'm only saying the SIT did not do its job --- it did a collaborative exercise," Sibal said. He said details of landline calls, including the frantic calls made by Ehsan Jafri as a mob attacked his home, had been destroyed. "Under whose instructions were Jafri's phone calls destroyed? It was nothing but a calculated design to shield and not to punish," Sibal said. He said the administration had ignored state intelligence reports about the possibility of violence by the kar sevaks returning from Ayodhya. Sibal also quoted an alleged statement by Bajrang Dal leader Babu Bajrangi --- that the rioters had police support --- to a purported sting operation by the Tehelka news portal. He said Tehelka journalist Ashish Khetan, who had conducted the purported sting, was made a prosecution witness in the Naroda Patiya massacre but not in the Gulbarg Society case. The trial court had treated the Tehelka tapes as admissible evidence while convicting some of the accused in the Naroda Patiya case. The arguments will resume on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Busy intersection in Mangalore to be renamd after V.D. Savarkar||The BJP has taken the first step towards renaming a busy intersection in Mangalore after V.D. Savarkar, ignoring Opposition criticism of its “agenda of naming everything after Savarkar or Golwalkar”. Bharat Shetty, the Mangalore City North MLA, recently wrote to the city corporation to rename the Surathkal Junction after Savarkar, about a year after the party got a prominent flyover in Bangalore named after the Hindutva ideologue. The Mangalore civic body has already begun the renaming process, forwarding Shetty’s letter to the town planning department for its opinion. The BJP has quickly jumped in to counter the Opposition protests. “Those who oppose this (Shetty’s proposal) understand neither India’s history nor Savarkar’s role in the freedom struggle,” Dakshina Kannada district BJP president Sudharshan Moodbidri said. He added: “So far we have been naming places after foreigners and invaders.” The Opposition has accused the BJP and Shetty of resorting to “communal polarisation” to cover up their failures. “He (Shetty) has failed to fulfil his duties as an MLA, so he is using such tactics to divert people’s attention,” CPM leader Muneer Katipilla told The Telegraph on Thursday. “The Sangh parivar is already targeting minorities with moral policing. Naming a main intersection after such a person would only add to the communal tension.” Katipilla suggested the intersection be named after Subbiah Shetty, who was a minister in the Congress government headed by Devaraj Urs, or K. Nagappa Alva, a medical doctor who went on to become the state’s health minister. A Congress member of the legislative council, U.T. Khader, suggested the intersection be named after a freedom fighter from Karnataka. “Several freedom fighters sacrificed their lives at the Cellular Jail in the Andamans while Savarkar wrote letters of apology to the British,” he said. In September last year, then chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa had ignored protests from the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular and inaugurated a flyover named after Savarkar in Yelahanka, north of Bangalore. In neighbouring Kerala, the Union government has made an unsuccessful attempt to name the new campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram after M.S. Golwalkar, a former RSS chief. Then Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had announced the campus would be named Shri Guruji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Disease in Cancer and Viral Infection. But the Centre was forced to backtrack in the face of opposition from the state’s Left government and non-BJP Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||LAC: EAM confirms China village near Arunachal for ‘several years’||The external affairs ministry on Thursday said the construction of a village along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) near Arunachal Pradesh — mentioned in a recent Pentagon report — was one of several structures that China has built in the area over the past several years. The attempt seemed to be to blunt the criticism that is coming the Narendra Modi government’s way with regard to Chinese infringement in disputed territory. In its annual report to the US Congress on the military and security developments involving the People’s Republic of China, the department of defence had said: “Sometime in 2020, the PRC built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between the PRC’s Tibet Autonomous Region and India’s Arunachal Pradesh state in the eastern sector of the LAC.” Responding to questions on this during the weekly media briefing, external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said the government had taken note of the Pentagon report that refers to “construction activities by the Chinese side along the India-China border areas, particularly in the eastern sector”. “China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas, including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims. The government has always conveyed its strong protest to such activities through diplomatic means and will continue to do so in the future,” Bagchi said. He detailed the measures being taken by the government to improve border infrastructure, including the construction of roads and bridges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Delhi confirms meeting Taliban representatives in Moscow||The external affairs ministry on Thursday confirmed that two of its officials had held a bilateral meeting with Taliban representatives in Moscow on October 20 but refused to say whether India accepted the “joint statement” issued by the Russian foreign ministry after the meeting of the Moscow format that day. The Joint Statement of the Participants in the Moscow Format Consultations on Afghanistan, Moscow, had advocated taking into account the new reality in Afghanistan irrespective of recognition of the Taliban government by the international community. This is the first time New Delhi has commented on India’s participation at the Moscow format meeting on Afghanistan where two officials of the foreign ministry met a delegation led by Afghanistan’s deputy Prime Minister Maulvi Abdul Salam on the sidelines. That such a meeting had taken place was announced by the Taliban on October 20 itself but India had remained officially tight-lipped although sources had confirmed the engagement. As to what was discussed at the bilateral meeting, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi’s response on Thursday was: “There was a discussion. There is nothing more to say about it for now.” To another direct question on whether India accepts what was written in the joint statement, the spokesman said: “We participated in the event. This event was hosted by Russia. It was an important event. It achieved a lot of important milestones in discussions…. It was issued as a statement. I have nothing further to say in terms of either questioning it or accepting it.” Asked if India was a signatory to the statement, Bagchi’s response was: “Does it have signatures? I leave it at that.” Sources indicated that India was not comfortable with the joint statement’s formulation that “further practical engagement with Afghanistan needed to take into account the new reality, that is the Taliban coming to power in the country, irrespective of the official recognition of the new Afghan government by the international community”. Given its close association with Russia and the need to be part of the discussion on Afghanistan, India apparently does not want to publicly contest the joint statement that some claim is more a chairman’s summary of the meeting. But Moscow continues to advocate that line. The secretary of Russia’s Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev, said at the Delhi Security Dialogue on Wednesday that the  Moscow format had laid a good foundation to determine the position of member countries regarding dialogue with Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Indian Army to focus on 24/7 surveillance along China border||The Indian Army is focusing on round-the-clock surveillance capability and has been installing more cameras and sensors and using satellite imagery on the northern frontiers with China, sources in the defence ministry have said. “The Indian Army has been installing additional surveillance cameras and sensors on a war footing at the sensitive zones prone to Chinese transgressions along the 3,488km border and also using satellite imagery to deal with any Chinese misadventure,” a ministry official told The Telegraph. The work on setting up a better surveillance system across the northern frontier, he said, has been going on for some time but it has now gained momentum in the wake of the ongoing military standoff in Ladakh between the two armies. “The Indian Army has recently procured more advanced Israeli-made Heron drones, which have been carrying out round-the-clock surveillance with real-time images. These drones are capable of operating for nearly 30 hours at a stretch at altitudes up to 30,000ft. Besides, the cameras have been relaying live feed in a 20km range at an altitude of over 14,000ft,” the official said. The sources said the objective behind bolstering surveillance capability was also to ensure overall operational preparedness of the army along the undemarcated China frontier, a major part of which is disputed. The army has already deployed additional cameras and has been using satellite imagery to monitor the “aggressive” Chinese troops deployment along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector in the wake of the latest transgression by the People’s Liberation Army in Arunachal Pradesh. Last month, Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Manoj Pande had said the army was trying to maximise technology for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance along the LAC in the eastern sector. In the first week of October, Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a “face-off” for a few hours at the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh after nearly 200 Chinese soldiers crossed into the Indian side. Of the 3,488km-long undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. Sources in the security establishment said the Chinese army had also deployed “advanced” cameras and surveillance equipment along the LAC to keep an eye on Indian patrols. “Their surveillance system is more advanced and robust than us,” a security official said. The PLA is also said to have erected concrete watchtowers with CCTV cameras inside the “occupied zone” in eastern Ladakh to monitor Indian troops deployment. As a tit-for-tat measure, the Indian Army has put up wooden poles with cameras to keep a watch on the movements of the adversary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Adityanath government dismisses services of Dr Kafeel Khan||Paediatrician Kafeel Khan of Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College and Hospital, who had been suspended in 2017 after the death of 30 children due to oxygen shortage, has been dismissed, a government official said on Thursday. The sacking came a day after the Uttar Pradesh government had sought time from Allahabad High Court to reply to Dr Khan’s objections to his suspension. Dr Khan has been sacked after being found guilty in the probe into the circumstances leading to the death of the children, principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar said. As the matter is sub judice, the detailed information about Dr Khan’s dismissal will be submitted in court, Kumar added. Dr Khan said he had not received any intimation from the government. “I have not got any official communication about my dismissal. A reporter called me up today (Thursday) and informed me that the medical education department has terminated my services with immediate effect. Later, I called up my sources in the department and they confirmed to me that the news is correct,” Dr Khan told The Telegraph. “I will challenge the decision of the Yogi Adityanath government and can tell you that I will get my job back at any cost because I have not committed any mistake and was never involved in any corruption…. I had saved dozens of children when they were dying at BRD Medical College because of shortage of liquid oxygen,” he added. “Of the eight doctors and staff who had been suspended, seven have been reinstated. I am the only one who is being punished just because I speak the truth and it doesn’t suit the chief minister,” Dr Khan said. The vendor had stopped the supply of liquid oxygen in the paediatric ward because of non-payment of dues. Dr Khan had been attached to the office of director-general medical education after his suspension. He had challenged his suspension in Allahabad High Court and the matter is pending. The court had posted the case for hearing on December 7 after the state government sought more time on Wednesday to provide the details of the inquiry against Dr Khan. “I was suspended on August 22, 2017, in the case and on March 5, 2019, Allahabad High Court had asked the UP government to end the inquiry and on April 18, 2019, the high court had given me a clean chit,” Dr Khan said. “When I was in jail, the UP government again set up an inquiry against me on February 24, 2020, and on August 6, 2021, the state government declared in front of the court that they are withdrawing the inquiry order,” Dr Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Odisha PCC calls for six-hour state bandh on Friday||The Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee has given a call for six-hour Odisha Bandh on Friday to protest against the Naveen Patnaik government’s failure to act against minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra over his alleged links with the prime accused in the Kalahandi teacher Mamita Meher murder case. Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Niranjan Patnaik told The Telegraph, “The chief minister has not sacked the minister so far. Though there is sufficient evidence against the minister that he patronised the accused, no action has been taken against him. On Friday, we will organise a six-hour bandh from 6 am to 12 noon.” Addressing a press conference at the Congress Bhavan here on Thursday, senior congress leader Debasis Patnaik said: “The purpose of calling a six-hour bandh is to ensure that their normal livelihood related activities are not affected. The objective of calling the bandh is to highlight the Odisha government’s failure in protecting the dignity of women. Several women have been killed in the state but police have failed to initiate action against the influential and powerful people involved in such cases. Our workers will stage road blockades and rail roko at different places.” The Congress has also appealed to various trade unions and other parties to support the six-hour bandh. However, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has made it clear that the minister won’t resign and accused the Opposition of indulging in cheap politics over the issue. Former minister and senior BJD MLA Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak said: “The prime accused in the Mamita Meher case has already been arrested. Investigation is on. No politics should be done over the issue.” Mamita had gone missing on October 8 but police did not accept the FIR of her parents for five days. When pressure mounted police accepted the FIR and arrested the main accused Govinda Sahu. But later Sahu managed to escape from the police barrack in film style. As pressure mounted again police re-arrested the main accused on October 19 from a sugarcane field and later recovered Mamita’s mortal remains from an eight feet deep pit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Methanol suspected in Bihar hooch tragedy||Preliminary investigations indicated that methyl alcohol or methanol has been used in making hooch that led to 46 deaths in four separate incidents within a span of eight days that shook dry Bihar during the festival season earlier this month. The deaths occurred in rural areas in Gopalganj, West Champaran, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur districts. Though chief minister Nitish Kumar is going to review the situation on November 16, experts are wondering whether the loss of so many lives in quick succession across a large swathe of the state could be solely because of the failure of liquor ban or has some conspiracy also mingled with it. “We have got inputs about the use of spirit at Telhua village in West Champaran where the hooch tragedy occurred. This is a new and alarming thing and we are verifying it, because its availability in rural area means an outside hand in it,” Champaran range deputy inspector general (DIG) Pranav Kumar Praveen told The Telegraph. Total 16 people had died in and around Telhua village during Diwali after consuming spurious liquor. Several others had to be hospitalised of which a few lost their eyesight. Similarly, 19 people died at Muhammadpur and neighbouring villages in Gopalganj district last week after allegedly consuming hooch. Gopalganj district magistrate Nawal Kishor Choudhary, while conducting raids with superintendent of police (SP) Anand Kumar in its aftermath, suspected the use of spirit or methyl alcohol, despite seizing fermented jaggery and substances used in brewing liquor. Altogether 275 people were arrested, a station house officer (SHO) and seven village chowkidars were suspended, 105 FIRs registered, 2100 litres of liquor, Rs 8 lakh cash and 34 vehicles were seized in the raids. “We strongly suspect the use of methyl alcohol to be the reason behind the hooch tragedy. We are trying to trace the backward linkages. The same substance was used in the hooch tragedy that happened at Vijaypur in the district in February,” Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar told this newspaper. The police and excise officials in Samastipur and Muzaffarpur also suspected the consumption of methyl alcohol behind the deaths. Right now they all are awaiting post-mortem and viscera reports to arrive at the final conclusion. Methyl alcohol or methanol is considered highly toxic. If consumed, it leads to vomitting, vision loss, irreversible damage to the central nervous system and various organs of the body leading to death. Industrially, it is used in manufacturing a vast number of compounds that are used in synthetic dyes, paints, resins, pharmaceuticals, perfumes, antifreezes, and as a general solvent. Methanol is also used to render ethanol (the main ingredient of alcoholic beverages) unfit for human consumption so that it could be used for industrial purposes only. “There is no way any person could have died due to the consumption of country liquor or illegally, locally brewed liquor from mahua flowers, jaggery or rice. These have been used in Bihar since ancient times without anybody losing his life. The only reason behind the recent deaths could be the use of methyl alcohol,” said Nawal Kishore Singh, a former liquor trader and a well-known name among the erstwhile liquor manufacturers, suppliers and traders in Bihar and Jharkhand. Singh also asserted that the back-to-back hooch incidents indicated that somebody deliberately supplied methyl alcohol in different parts of Bihar — either out of greed or to discredit prohibition. “If we consider a longer time frame, seven or eight hooch tragedies have happened in the state in the last 20 days and around 60 or more people have died in them. The most pertinent aspect is that the people who sold spurious liquor did not get ethyl alcohol, which they would have got easily from so many sugar factories or molasses and would not have caused deaths or blindness. They got methyl alcohol instead,” Singh added. Arguing that it is next to impossible for any layman to differentiate between ethyl and methyl alcohols – hence they would not have known what they were using. Another liquor source, who had been active in the pre-prohibition era (liquor was completely banned in Bihar in April 2016), pointed out that the ban was being flouted across the state with impunity by the nexus of mafia, police, excise officials and patronised by some politicians. “They are minting money through liquor. Why would they harm their own interests by providing poisonous liquor? They would rather like to preserve their trade. One or two hooch incidents in a year could be understood, but so many incidents suddenly? Maybe someone or some group passed on methyl alcohol to them without being suspected,” he said. The source hinted at the need to investigate the former liquor barons and even some vested interests in the Opposition parties or disgruntled elements in the government to get to the bottom of the deaths. Around 100 persons died in hooch tragedies in Bihar this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Indian scientists help identify 'good' ,'bad' genes in chickpea||Indian scientists have helped identify “good” and “bad” genes in the chickpea through a 10-country research effort that has also corroborated the legume’s origins in the Fertile Crescent and migration into South Asia. The study, described as the most comprehensive genomic analysis yet on chickpea, a staple legume in over 50 countries, will help shape future crop breeding strategies to boost yields, the scientists said on Wednesday. Chickpea yields have steadily improved since organised plant breeding efforts started about a century ago in the early 20th century. But the new study has revealed that even the highest yielding current cultivated chickpea varieties still possess so-called bad genes that can lower crop performance in the field. “Traditional plant breeding has been largely based on crossing and selecting best-looking lines,” said Rajeev Varshney, research director at the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in Hyderabad, who led the study. “We now know exactly which genes need to be selected and which need to be purged to improve yields,” he said. “We have a genome-based road map to improve the crop even more.” The so-called good genes are those that confer beneficial traits — such as drought or heat tolerance or higher yields — in plants, while bad genes are those that reduce crop performance. The study has also for the first time used large-scale genomic data to affirm the origin of chickpea domestication in the region of the Middle East called the Fertile Crescent some 10,000 years ago, earlier established through archaeological research. The genome analysis points to two paths of migration to the rest of the world. One moved the crop east into South Asia and East Africa, while the other introduced chickpea into the Mediterranean region and Central Asia. The scientists published their findings in the research journal Nature on Wednesday. “Chickpea demand is set to increase in the coming years as the world’s population rises — we need research like this to help major producers such as India to boost crop production while making crops climate-resilient,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director-general of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Varshney, working with collaborators across the world, had sequenced the chickpea genome in 2013. In their new research, they analysed the genomes of over 3,100 cultivated and 195 wild chickpea varieties from across the world to study patterns of genes. “By developing many genomic resources for chickpea over the last decade, ICRISAT has helped the crop shed its ‘orphan’ tag,” said Jacqueline Hughes, ICRISAT’s director-general. “We will continue to research chickpea and translate findings into crop varieties that benefit farmers and consumers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
12-11-2021||India||Punjab Assembly adopts resolution against Centre's BSF order||The Punjab Assembly on Thursday adopted a resolution against the Centre’s notification that extended the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF), calling it an “insult” to the state police and seeking its withdrawal. The House unanimously passed the resolution “rejecting” the Narendra Modi government’s order in the absence of the only two BJP members. The Union government had last month amended the BSF Act to authorise the border guarding force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50km stretch, up from the existing 15km, from the international border in Punjab, Bengal and Assam. The resolution was moved by Punjab deputy chief minister and Congress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. It stated that “Punjab is a land of martyrs… they have made exemplary sacrifices in our country’s freedom struggle”. “Punjab police is a unique patriotic force which has contributed immensely in maintaining the unity and integrity of the country. As per the Constitution of India, maintaining law and order is the responsibility of the state government and for this purpose, the government of Punjab is fully competent,” the resolution said. “The decision of extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km by the Union government is an expression of distrust towards the state police and people of Punjab. This is their insult too,” it added. The resolution further said the central government should have consulted the state before taking such a major decision, adding that the law-and-order situation in Punjab was totally under control and there was no need to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF. “All the political parties of Punjab have unanimously condemned the decision of the Union government and have demanded that the Union government should withdraw the notification dated 11.10.2021 issued by the ministry of home affairs, government of India. “Therefore, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha unanimously resolves that a resolution rejecting the notification of the central government in this regard may be passed,” it said. Randhawa termed the Centre’s notification on extending the BSF’s jurisdiction an “attack on the federal structure”. He also said that the Assembly members should meet Prime Minister Modi over the issue. Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia told the House that the Congress-led government in Punjab should pass a decision that the Punjab police would not cooperate with the BSF beyond 15km from the border. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi sought the support of all political parties over the issue, saying it was a joint fight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
