13-11-2021||India||Cong accuses Modi of removing anti-corruption clause from defence procurement policy||The Congress accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday of removing the mandatory anti-corruption clause from the defence procurement policy in 2016, despite objections raised by the defence ministry.  Addressing a press conference here, Congress spokesperson Ragini Nayak also alleged large-scale corruption in the Rafale fighter jets deal.  "Modi's bulldozer removed the clause which meant there would be no payoffs, no middlemen, no gifts, despite objections by the defence ministry," she said.  Referring to an Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid on the premises of a defence procurement broker in 2019, Nayak said it had led to the recovery of many classified documents, which proved that the Rafale deal was a murky affair.  She also mentioned a note recovered by the ED that spoke of arranging a meeting between representatives of French firm Dassault Aviation and the "political high-command" and asked whether it was after this meeting that the price of the Rafale fighter jets had jumped from Rs 526 crore to Rs 1,670 crore.  "If this meeting did take place, it was against national security. It is sedition, a clear violation of the Official Secrets Act," the Congress leader said.  "It was because of these reasons that Rahul Gandhi had said the gap between chowkidar (guard) and chor (thief) has been completely bridged," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||Tell me whether you want BJP's JAM or SP's JAM: Shah attacks Yadav over Jinnah remarks||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday targeted the Samajwadi Party, alleging it stands for "Jinnah, Azam Khan and Mukhtar (Ansari)", and asserted that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has rid the Purvanchal region of "mosquitoes and mafia".  "Modiji brought 'JAM' - Jan Dhan bank accounts, Aadhaar cards and a mobile phone to every person - for a corruption-free system, but the SP people say they have also brought 'JAM' - Jinnah, Azam Khan and Mukhtar (don-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari)," Shah said addressing a rally in Azamgarh, an SP bastion represented by party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lok Sabha, in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.  "You should tell me whether you want BJP's JAM or SP's JAM. These people can never work for the welfare of Uttar Pradesh. They indulge in dividing people on the basis of caste, causing riots, appeasement and vote-bank politics," Shah said.  As the election season is approaching, Akhilesh Yadav is seeing greatness in Mohammad Ali Jinnah, he said, referring to the Pakistan founder.  "There are so many people from the minority community here. Is there anyone here who sees greatness in Jinnah," Shah said.  Akhilesh Yadav has drawn flak for his statement in which he equated Muhammad Ali Jinnah with Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru, saying they helped India get freedom.  Shah said Chief Minister Adityanath has ensured the migration of mafias from Azamgarh and other parts of Uttar Pradesh.  Noting that the people of Uttar Pradesh had given an overwhelming mandate to the BJP in the previous elections, he spoke about doing away with Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and setting up of a grand temple of Lord Rama under the Modi government.  Speaking at another public meeting in neighbouring Basti, Shah praised Yogi Adityanath for bringing all-round development of the state and sought another term for him with "record-breaking victory" for taking 'vikas ki aandhi" (development wave) forward in the state.  Yogi Adityanath has "'freed Purvanchal (eastern UP) of mosquitoes and mafia'', the BJP leader said.  ''You (Akhilesh Yadav) never cleaned this area. Mosquitoes were ruling and children were dying of brain fever. But Prime Minister Modi's Swachhta campaign was implemented here by Adityanath and the region became mosquito-free,'' he said.  Shah was addressing the rally in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh after laying the foundation of a new state university in Azamgarh.  The BJP governments at the Centre and in the state have inaugurated many projects in recent weeks in the Purvanchal region (eastern Uttar Pradesh), where it had bagged a large chunk of seats in the 2017 assembly polls.  Shah also urged the UP Chief Minister to name the new university at Azamgarh after Maharaja Suheldev, and as soon as the Union minister ended his speech, Adityanath announced that the state university will be named after Maharaja Suheldev.  Suheldev was a legendary king from Shravasti, popularly known to have defeated and killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Miyan at Bahraich in 1034 CE.  Electorally important Rajbhar and Pasi castes see Suheldev as an iconic figure.  Om Prakash Rajbhar who was with the BJP in the 2017 polls has joined hands with the SP for the upcoming state election.  Comparing the present BJP government with the previous SP government, the Union Home Minister said, "I want to thank Yogi ji as the Azamgarh which under the rule of the SP was known in the world for fundamentalist thought and sheltering terrorists, on this very soil, a 'dhaam' (abode) of Maa Saraswati is being built.  Showering praises on the UP Chief Minister, Shah said he has brought many transformations in the state which was earlier plagued by casteism, dynastic politics and appeasement.  Before 2017, UP was the sixth largest economy in India, and today it is the second-largest economy in the country. UP's GDP was 10 lakh 90 thousand crore rupees, and now it is 21 lakh 31 thousand crore rupees, he said.  Previously the unemployment rate was 17.5 percent, and now it has come down to 4.2 percent.  "There were two 'aadhe-adhure' (half-built) expressways, but now five new expressways have been built," he said.  Citing the "exodus" of Hindus from Kairana under SP rule, he said the mafia has now beeen forced to leave the state and there is rule of law in Uttar Pradesh  "The land which was grabbed by the mafia has been freed and utilised for developmental works. The welfare schemes for the poor have been implemented at the ground level," he said.  "The 'vikas ki aandhi' has to be taken forward, a lot has been done by Modi ji and Yogi ji but a lot still needs to be done for which your blessings are required once again," Shah who was in Basti to inaugurate 'Sansad khel mahakumbh' said.  The Union minister, who has been on a two-day visit of the state beginning Friday, also credited Adityanath for making UP a ''riot-free" state.  Considered as the architect of the BJP victory in the previous general election as well as the 2017 state polls, Shah held a meeting to draw strategies for the 2022 polls at Varanasi the previous day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||CM Bommai meets Yediyurappa, BJP state chief Kateel as Bitcoin scam casts shadow||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai called on former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa amid the opposition allegations that the BJP government was not doing enough to probe the alleged Bitcoin scam.  The two leaders reportedly had a discussion for about 30 minutes late on Friday, sources close to Bommai said. After his meeting with Yediyurappa, Bommai went to the BJP state headquarters and was closeted with the BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel for more than an hour. The meetings assume significance as Bommai had recently visited Delhi and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior party leaders, including BJP national president J P Nadda. Soon after the meeting, he told reporters that Modi had asked him not to worry and to work with loyalty and boldness in the interest of the people "and rest everything will be fine." Bommai had paid a two day visit to national capital on Thursday and discussed in detail many issues, especially related to the administrative steps taken in the last 100 days since he took over as Chief Minister of Karnataka.  He had termed his visit to the national capital as successful,saying the Prime Minister was all praise for some of his initiatives during this period. Soon after his return, senior BJP leader and former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar rushed to Delhi, which gave rise to speculation.  These meetings were held amid Congress mounting an attack on the Chief Minister for "not initiating proper action" in the alleged Bitcoin scam involving a hacker. Congress leaders have alleged that 'influential politicians' are involved in the scam after officials seized bitcoins worth Rs nine crore from a city based hacker, Srikrishna alias Sriki, who is also accused of hacking into government portals, sourcing drugs through the dark net and paying for it through cryptocurrency.  The party has alleged that the size of the scam could be much bigger because just on two days on December 1, 2020 and April 14, 2021 illegal transactions worth Rs 5,240 crore took place. The Congress has also wondered why Sriki, has been in custody for more than 100 days on "one pretext or the other", while no proper action was taken against him.  It also demanded to know why the RBI was not informed and assistance of Interpol was not sought. The party has also demanded a Supreme Court monitored probe as it has international ramifications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||26 naxals killed in encounter in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district||At least 26 Naxalites were killed on Saturday in an encounter with police in eastern Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district, over 900km from Mumbai, senior officials said. Milind Teltumbde, a member of the Maoists’ central committee, was suspected to be among those dead, according to some reports. The police did not confirm the reports. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil told PTI that the police were verifying if Teltumbde, one of the wanted suspects in the Koregaon Bhima-Maoists link case, was among the slain rebels. Gadchiroli district superintendent of police Ankit Goyal said the bodies of 26 Naxalites had so far been recovered from a forest. The gun battle began in the morning at Korchi in the Mardintola forest while a C-60 police commando team was conducting a search, Goyal said. Four police personnel were seriously injured and taken to Nagpur by helicopter for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||Political situation in J-K extremely worrying and disturbing: Hurriyat||Moderate Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Saturday termed the prevailing political situation in Jammu and Kashmir extremely worrying and disturbing and said the additional deployment of forces in the Valley has created an atmosphere of panic and insecurity among the people.  The separatist amalgam, quoting newspaper reports, said in severe cold, people are being subject to regular stoppage and frisking on roads by the security forces who have set up roadblocks all over the city and towns causing great harassment to the public.  The prevailing political situation in Jammu and Kashmir is extremely worrying and disturbing. The large-scale additional deployment of armed forces in cities and towns has created an atmosphere of panic and insecurity among the people. Besides, the policy of arrests, raids, killings and severe human rights violations continues unabated, the Hurriyat said in a statement issued here. Crackdowns are also routinely carried out in various areas and men and women paraded indiscriminately and being subject to harassment, it said.  The Hurriyat said the humanitarian and political crisis in Kashmir keeps worsening with passing time and unless the conflict is addressed to be resolved , it is unlikely that the situation will change for the better.  It also criticised authorities for forcibly preventing Muslims of the valley from offering Friday prayers at Jammu and Kashmir's largest place of worship -- the Jama Masjid in Srinagar -- from August 6, 2021. The religious sentiments of the people were being severely hurt by these measures, it added.  The amalgam also demanded the release of its chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq who continues to be under house detention since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked J-K's special status and other separatist leaders including Mohammad Yasin Malik, Shabir Ahmad Shah, Shahid-ul-Islam and Aasiya Andrabi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||Are your smog towers working?: Supreme Court asks Delhi govt||The Supreme Court asked the Delhi government on Saturday about the steps taken by it to control air pollution in the national capital and sought to know if the smog towers installed by it were working.  "The Delhi government has said it has installed smog towers. Are these working?" a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who appeared in the court on behalf of the city government.  Mehra told the bench that the smog towers are working.  "The AQI was 84 on September 30 and now it has become 474. We have increased to 390 points. It is like smoking 20 cigarettes a day even if you are a non-smoker. While this court will look into various other factors, it is probably the stubble burning. If PUSA people can look into it...", he told the bench, also comprising justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant.  Mehra said he will place on record a detailed affidavit about the steps taken by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government.  The top court, however, said, "Affidavits and arguments are okay but the people want that the air pollution should be reduced."  It also said it has become a fashion to blame the farmers for air pollution.  The apex court was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal recently inaugurated the "country's first smog tower" at Connaught Place and said it will prove to be a milestone and many such structures can be installed in the city if the pilot project yields results.  He had said the concentration of PM2.5 had reduced from 150 micrograms per cubic metre to 100 micrograms per cubic metre and that of PM10 from 300 micrograms per cubic metre to 150 micrograms per cubic metre in the national capital since 2014 due to the efforts made in the last few years.  PM2.5 refers to fine particles that penetrate deep into the body and fuel inflammation in the lungs and the respiratory tract, leading to the risk of cardiovascular and respiratory problems, including a weak immune system.  "This is the first such smog tower in the country. It is a new technology. We have imported it from the US. The structure will suck polluted air from above and release clean air from below. It will purify 1,000 cubic metres of air per second," Kejriwal had told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||Mumbai Congress seeks sedition case against Kangana Ranaut for freedom comment||Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap on Saturday submitted a complaint to the Andheri police seeking a sedition case against actor Kangana Ranaut for her statement that the Independence India won in 1947 was "bheek" (alms). At a recent event, she had said the country became truly free in 2014, a reference to the BJP coming to power at the Centre under Narendra Modi. Jagtap told reporters Ranaut had insulted the freedom struggle and those who had made sacrifices in it, adding that, through this complaint, the Congress was voicing the sentiments of millions of citizens. He also demanded that the Padma Shri given to the actor be taken back. The actor, known for her provocative and often inflammatory statements, came under more pressure to withdraw her comments with Maharashtra's ruling Shiv Sena saying she should be stripped of all national awards and the Delhi Mahila Congress writing to the police commissioner to say she should be booked for sedition among other things.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||Delhi pollution: Schools shut for week, construction works barred, govt employees to work from home||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced various emergency measures, including closure of schools for a week, ban on construction activities and work from home for government employees, to deal with the pollution crisis faced by the city. The chief minister, after an emergency meeting, told reporters that his government will also present a proposal for lockdown before the Supreme Court. Terming the rise in air pollution in Delhi-NCR an "emergency" situation, the Supreme Court asked the Centre and the Delhi government on Saturday to take immediate measures to improve the air quality and suggested steps such as stopping vehicles and clamping a lockdown in the national capital. Kejriwal said the schools will remain closed for one week from Monday in view of high air pollution levels. Work from home will be implemented concerning government offices and a separate advisory on it will be issued for private offices, he said. Construction activities will be prohibited in Delhi from November 14 to 17. The chief minister said that pollution level is rising in Delhi due to stubble burning in neighbouring states and called upon all stakeholders to work together to combat it. Earlier, Chief Justice NV Ramana, hearing a petition on air pollution in the national capital, asked the Centre, "You tell us how do you plan to take the emergency measures? Two-day lockdown? What is your plan on lowering the AQI (Air Quality Index) levels?" reported ndtv.com. Breathing the Delhi air is "like smoking 20 cigarattes a day," the state government admitted in the court, stressing, "We agree to the gravity of the situation." "You see how bad the situation is....even in our houses, we are wearing masks," the Chief Justice added. The overall air quality index of Delhi was recorded at 473 at 10 am. In Delhi, the air quality index of Lodhi Road, Delhi University, IIT Delhi, Pusa Road l, and Delhi airport was recorded at 489, 466, 474 and 480 and 504 respectively, according to SAFAR. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Authorities on Friday had advised people to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30 per cent as air quality in Delhi-NCR inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions. The Centre while assuring that strong measures are being taken to combat the situation, seemed to blame Punjab over stubble burning. "We are taking steps to stop stubble burning. But in (the) last five-six days the kind of pollution, we have seen is because of (the) stubble burning in Punjab. The state government needs to buckle up... stubble burning (is) happening in farms," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
13-11-2021||India||Modi govt incapable of protecting nation, says Rahul Gandhi after Manipur terror attack||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Modi government over the terror attack on a convoy of Assam Rifles in Manipur, alleging the incident "once again proves" that it is incapable of protecting the nation.  He also sent his condolence to the families of those who lost their lives in the attack.  "The terrorist attack on the army convoy in Manipur once again proves that the Modi government is not capable of protecting the nation. My condolences to the martyrs and condolences to their families. The nation will remember your sacrifice," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  The Commanding Officer of Khuga Battalion of Assam Rifles Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and son, besides four personnel of the paramilitary force were killed in the ambush in Manipur on Saturday morning, in a fresh eruption of militant violence in the border state.  Other Congress leaders, including Ashok Gehlot and Jairam Ramesh, also condemned the attack and demanded action against those behind it.  "Strongly condemn the cowardly attack on Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur in which five brave personnel and two family members lost their lives. Salute their martyrdom and extend sincere condolences to the bereaved families," Rajasthan Chief Minister Gehlot said on Twitter.  "This is absolutely shocking and deeply saddening! Hope those responsible will be brought to justice soon," said former union minister Jairam Ramesh.  Tripathi's convoy was targeted at Sehkan village in Churachandpur district by suspected militants of the People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK), a militant group in Manipur demanding a separate homeland.  There were blasts from Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) before the Assam Rifles personnel engaged the militants in a gunfight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||BJP's Sudhanshu Trivedi condemns Rahul Gandhi over Hindutva issue||Keeping up its attack on the Congress over the opposition party's criticism of Hindutva, the BJP claimed on Saturday that India was partially a "Muslim nation" when it was in power as sharia provisions were then part of the legal system and measures were taken to give them primacy even over Supreme Court judgment.  BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi alleged that the violence in Maharashtra over the "false" news of mosques being targeted in Tripura, disinformation campaign in social media and Congress leaders' comments attacking Hindutva were part of a larger conspiracy against Hinduism.  Attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, he wondered if the opposition leader was training his party workers in Maharashtra in defaming Hindutva and driving an organised campaign to stoke communal discord and violence.  It was during his speech via video conferencing to Congress workers at a training camp in the state that Gandhi had sought to draw a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, and had attacked the latter.  The BJP has been on the offensive after Congress leader Salman Khurshid compared Hindutva, a term associated with the RSS-BJP ideology, with terrorist Islamist organisations.  Trivedi said the Congress symbolises politics of appeasement and spreads hate against Hinduism and causes riots.  Noting that Shivaji's rule was also associated with Hinduism, Trivedi said leaders like Rahul Gandhi cannot comprehend the concept and asked him to read up his own party stalwarts like Mahatma Gandhi, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Jawaharlal Nehru.  Nehru, he added, had written that the word 'Hindu' can be understood in the broader context of Indian identity and should not be seen narrowly.  "Under the Congress rule India was partially a Muslim nation. I am saying so because sharia provisions were part of the constitutional system," the BJP leader said, referring to the practice like instant talaq, now barred, and grant of Haj subsidy, since discontinued.  "Supreme Court judgment was overruled to give primacy to sharia provisions," Trivedi said in an apparent reference to the Rajiv Gandhi government bringing a law to override an apex court order in the famous Shah Bano case.  Before the Modi government took office and with the exception of the Vajpayee dispensation, India was partially a Muslim nation under the Congress' rule and the party is now becoming desperate as India is now turning secular in a real way, he claimed.  He took a swipe at Congress leaders for giving their "wisdom" on Hinduism and referred to their use of terms like Hindu Taliban and Hindi terrorism to hit out at them.  These are the same people who do not want a proud India to bloom in all its glory, and are trying to stop its rise, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Delhi: Rare case of post-dengue mucormycosis reported at Apollo hospital, say doctors||A "rare" case of mucormycosis has been reported in a 49-year-old male patient at a leading private hospital here post his recovery from dengue, doctors said on Saturday. The case reported at the Apollo hospital in south Delhi comes amid a huge spike in the number of dengue cases in the national capital.  According to a civic report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, nine deaths and a total of 2,708 dengue cases have been recorded this season till November 6, which is the highest count since 2017 for the same period.  Over 1,170 cases were logged in the first week of November.  In a statement issued on Saturday, the Apollo hospital said, "A 49-year-old male has been reported to be one the rare cases of post-dengue mucormycosis by a team of doctors at the hospital." The patient had come to the hospital, complaining about a sudden loss of vision in one eye, 15 days after his recovery from the vector-borne disease.  During the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic earlier this year, a large number of cases of the "black fungus" were reported throughout the country after the coronavirus infection was detected in patients suffering with chronic diabetes. Mucormycosis or the "black fungus" is more common among people whose immunity has got lowered due to COVID-19, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.  Mucormycosis post dengue is a new observation and hence, patients with a recent history of dengue should remain actively updated about their health and consult a healthcare expert immediately after noticing any new symptoms, doctors at the Apollo hospital said.  Dr Suresh Singh Naruka, senior consultant (ENT), Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, who is leading the treatment of the patient, said, "A rare case of black fungus (mucormycosis) came into our view when the patient came to the hospital, reporting a sudden loss of vision in one eye post dengue fever. It is rarest of the rare to see mucormycosis as a post-recovery complication in a dengue patient as this condition is generally seen in people who have a history of diabetes, compromised immunity and various other infections."  "It is a deadly infection caused by a group of fungus called mucor. This fungus invades into the healthy tissues of the nose, sinuses, eyes and brain so rapidly that any delay in diagnosis and management can lead to adverse long-term complications," he added.  Dengue is accompanied with high fever and therefore, doctors feel that people might suspect that they have contracted COVID-19.  The dengue mosquito larvae breed in clear, standing water, while those of malaria thrive even in dirty water.  Dr Atul Ahuja, senior consultant (ENT and head and neck surgery) at the hospital, said, "Diagnosing and managing a case of rhino-orbital (involving nose and eye) mucormycosis in a patient who has just recovered from dengue fever is very important, as even after best treatment, patients of mucormycosis can lose their eyesight permanently and in a state of an aggressive infection, removal of eye becomes necessary for preventing any further spread of infection."  Dr Nishant Rana, registrar at the facility, said, "Before coming to the hospital, the patient had an episode of nasal bleeding as a complication owing to dengue 15 days prior to his recovery, wherein he noted a low count of platelets with no transfusion history. Mucormycosis in his case is a resultant factor of compromised immunity owing to dengue."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Maharashtra: Curfew in Amravati as fresh violence erupts||A curfew was imposed in Maharashtra's Amravati city on Saturday after a mob hurled stones on shops during a bandh allegedly organised by BJP in protest against rallies taken out by members of a minority community the day before against the purported communal violence in Tripura, police said. Police resorted to lathicharge to control the situation, an Amravati Police official said. On Saturday morning, hundreds of people, many of them holding saffron flags in their hands and raising slogans, came out on streets in Rajkamal Chowk area of this east Maharashtra city, located around 670 km from the state capital. Some members of the mob hurled stones at the shops and damaged them in the Rajkamal Chowk and some other places, the official said, adding that the police lathicharged the protesters to bring the situation under control. Against the backdrop of back to back incidents of stone-pelting on Friday and Saturday, officiating police commissioner Sandip Patil issued orders imposing a curfew in the city limits of Amravati under sections 144(1), (2), (3) of the CrPc to avoid any untoward incidents. Except for medical emergencies, people are not allowed to come out of their houses. Similarly, a gathering of more than five people is not allowed, as per the order. The curfew will remain in force till further notice. On Friday, various cities in Maharashtra had witnessed stone-pelting during rallies taken out by some Muslim organisations protesting against the purported communal violence in Tripura. These incidents were reported from Amravati, Nanded, Malegaon, Washim and Yavatmal districts. Police have so far arrested 20 people and detained four others by registering 20 FIRs under various charges, including rioting, in connection with Friday's incidents. In Amravati, over 8,000 people had gathered outside the district collector's office on Friday to submit a memorandum demanding that atrocities against the minority community be stopped. When people were leaving after submitting the memorandum, stone-pelting took place at three places between Chitra Chowk and Cotton Market under the limits of the Kotwali police station. Meanwhile, launching a veiled attack on opposition BJP, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the violence in Amravati and other places is aimed at destabilising the MVA government. Speaking to reporters in Aurangabad, Raut said the state government is firm in the saddle and that the real faces of the perpetrators of violence will be exposed soon. "The violence that is taking place in Maharashtra is aimed at destabilising the MVA government. Raising the bogey of violence, they (Opposition) will meet the state governor and write letters to the Union home ministry claiming that the (law and order) situation in Maharashtra is deteriorating. This will happen in future too. But the state government is firm in the saddle," Raut said. He said the "real faces" behind this violence will be exposed in the inquiry of the state Home ministry. The Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress are the constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. A day after the bandh was observed by Muslim organisations, Amravati district guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said some anti-social elements are trying to vitiate the atmosphere by throwing stones on shops. "The state government will take necessary action. However, some people are using this for political gains," she said and appealed to people to not believe in rumours. AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel has also condemned the violence in Amravati. "I want to question those leaders in the state who came to power by taking the votes of Muslims and why they didn't condemn the violence in Tripura. If this violence in Maharashtra is a 'tit for tat' by any political party then this is the example of irresponsibility," he said. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis said it was wrong to organise rallies in the state for an incident that "never occurred" in Tripura and appealed to people to exercise restraint. The Tripura government and local police have clarified that no religious place of a minority community was burned down. They have issued pictures of the same as well. I appeal to both the communities to observe restrain, the former chief minister told reporters in Mumbai. The senior BJP leader also said that political parties in the state government should not give inflammatory statements. "It is absolutely wrong to hold rallies here in Maharashtra for an incident that has not even taken place in Tripura state. It is wrong to attack shops of a particular community, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Nothing wrong in comparing political parties with those killing people in the name of religion: Mehbooba Mufti||Amid a raging controversy over senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid's book, in which he compared Hindutva as propagated by some to radical jihadi groups such as the ISIS and the Boko Haram, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said there is nothing wrong in comparing political parties with groups killing people in the name of religion. She accused the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of hijacking "Hindutva and Hinduism" and said Sanatan Dharma does not teach communalism.  Khurshid, in his book, wrote: "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years."  "The communal parties which want to make Hindu and Muslims fight each other and indulge in lynching in the name of religion. You can compare such parties with the ISIS or any other like-minded group because both kill people in the name of religion," Mufti told reporters outside the People's Democratic Party (PDP) headquarters here.  Responding to a question on Khurshid's book, she said "Sanatan Dharma does not teach us communalism".  "RSS, Jan Sangh and BJP want to make people in the country fight each other in the name of religion. They have hijacked Hindutva and Hinduism," she said.  The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister referred to "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" (the world is one family) and said, "Sanatan Dharma teaches us that. What BJP and RSS are trying to teach us is neither Hindutva nor Hinduism."  Meanwhile, a group of Bajrang Dal activists, led by Rakesh Bajrangi, staged a demonstration against Khurshid outside the Press Club here, demanding a ban on his book and registration of a case against the former Union minister.  "Comparing Hindutva with terror groups is a sin committed by Khurshid. His book should be banned and an FIR lodged against him," Bajrangi said as his supporters burnt an effigy of the Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Militant violence: Colonel, wife  and six-year-old son killed in Manipur||A commanding officer from Assam Rifles, his wife and six-year-old son, besides four personnel of the paramilitary force were killed on Saturday in Manipur in a fresh eruption of militant violence in the northeastern state. Colonel Viplav Tripathi, commanding officer of the Khuga Battalion of Assam Rifles, and the six others were travelling in a convoy when it was attacked at Sehkan village in Churachandpur district around 11am. In a joint statement, two banned militant organisations — the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and the Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF) — claimed responsibility for the ambush. These two organisations, along with the Ulfa-Independent, had in July last year killed three Assam Rifles personnel in Manipur’s Chandel district. Saturday’s incident marks the first major attack on security forces in Manipur since June 4, 2018, when an army convoy was targeted in Chandel, resulting in the death of 18 personnel. The state, which was for decades in the throes of insurgency, had largely been calm since. The militants greeted the convoy on Saturday with a hail of bullets fired from hilltops covered in thick foliage. Improvised explosive devices were also hurled at the vehicles. Condemning the attack, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the sacrifices of the soldiers and their families would never be forgotten. “I pay homage to those soldiers and family members who have been martyred today. Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of sadness,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the Modi government. “The terrorist attack on the army convoy in Manipur once again proves that the Modi government is not capable of protecting the nation,” Rahul said in a tweet in Hindi. Assam Rifles said in a statement that “five soldiers, including Col Viplav Tripathi, commanding officer of 46 Assam Rifles, have made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. The family of the commanding officer, i.e. his wife and child, also lost their lives in the incident.” The statement added: “The DG and all ranks of Assam Rifles offer condolences to the brave soldiers and families of the deceased.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh promised “justice” to the bereaved families. “The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur, is extremely painful and condemnable. The nation has lost 5 brave soldiers, including CO 46 AR, and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families. The perpetrators will be brought to justice soon,” he tweeted. Assam Rifles, the country’s oldest paramilitary force, was raised in 1835 during British rule. It is under the administrative jurisdiction of the Union home ministry but its operational control rests with the Indian Army. Col Tripathi, the slain officer, had previously served in Mizoram before being transferred to Manipur in July 2021. “During his tenure in Mizoram, under his able and energetic leadership, the battalion has been at the forefront in border management, thwarting illegal smuggling in the IMB (India-Myanmar border) and the hinterland. The battalion has also recovered several weapons and war-like stores that could have landed in the hands of anti-national elements, thus avoiding major casualties,” the Assam Rifles statement said. “Col Viplav through his remarkable endeavours had bonded closely with the locals of Mizoram. The anti-drug campaign conducted by his battalion in January 2021 received several laurels and praise and the awareness was rightfully created by him in the entire state, including the remote villages to ensure the youth are guided in the right direction.” Assam Rifles said Tripathi’s “goodwill for the society will last an eternity”. Initially, the force had said it suspected that the insurgent group responsible for the massacre “must be from PREPAK cadre as the PREPAK remembrance day is celebrated on 12/13 November 2021”. The PREPAK (People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak) demands a separate and independent homeland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Karnataka: NAL's drone delivers COVID-19 vaccines to remote village||In a unique demonstration of technological prowess with a human touch, the National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL) air delivered COVID-19 vaccines through their drone called Octacopter at a primary health centre here on the city outskirts on Saturday.  The Octacopter successfully delivered 50 vials of Covid-19 vaccines along with syringes in a special container from Chandapura PHC to Haragadde PHC, NAL said in a statement. "CSIR-NAL's octacopter took off at 9.43 am from Chandapura PHC carrying COVID-19 vaccines and delivered it to Haragadde PHC at 9.53 am.  Octacopter flew at an altitude of 300m AGL at a speed of 10 metres per sec and covered an aerial distance of about 7 kms in about 10 minutes," the NAL, a constituent of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), said. After delivery of vaccines at Haragadde, the drone returned to Chandapura PHC, NAL said adding, the entire mission has covered distance of about 14 km in 20 minutes including delivery of vaccines.  "It usually takes about 30 to 40 minutes to deliver vaccines to Haragadde from Chandapura by road. The Doctors at PHCs were delighted to witness the demonstration of the fast and safe aerial delivery of vaccines," Dr Manisha of the Karnataka Health Department was quoted as saying.  The medical officers expressed happiness and complimented CSIR-NAL for their societal cause and assured support to continue the joint initiative to remote places in the coming days.  Dr P V Satyanaraya Murthy, Head of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle division, at CSIR-NAL congratulated his team and said the Octacopter was the need of the hour for delivery of vaccines in the remote areas.  "NAL Octacopter is perfectly designed for such a mission which is easy to operate by unskilled operators. NAL has already tied up with private firms for drone manufacturing and offering operational services," NAL quoted Murthy as saying.  It said the Octacopter is an indigenously developed medium class BVLOS multi-copter UAV.  The UAV is made out of light weight carbon fiber foldable structure for ease of transportation and has unique features like autonomous guidance through dual redundant MEMS based digital Autopilot with advanced flight instrumentation systems, the NAL said.  It further said that the Ministry of Civil Aviation has granted conditional permission to CSIR-NAL for conducting BVLOS flight trials on Saturday.  The Octacopter can carry a payload of 15 kg with hovering endurance of 40 minutes. It can fly at an operational altitude of 500 m AGL and at maximum flying speed of 36 kmph.  "Its regulatory compliance includes DGCA-NPNT, Geo fencing and digital sky with 360 degree Collision avoidance making it one of the best UAV in its class.  Octacopter developed by NAL can be used for variety of BVLOS applications for last mile delivery like medicines, vaccines, food, postal packets, human organ's etc," the NAL said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||United States congressional delegation meets Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with a delegation of US lawmakers on Saturday, during which he appreciated the consistent support and constructive role of the US Congress in deepening the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership anchored in shared democratic values. In a statement, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said the US congressional delegation was led by Senator John Cornyn and included senators Michael Crapo, Thomas Tuberville and Michael Lee, and Congress members Tony Gonzales and John Kevin Elizey. Cornyn is the co-founder and co-chair of the Senate Caucus on India and Indian Americans. "The congressional delegation noted the excellent management of the COVID situation in India despite the challenges of large and diverse population. The prime minister noted people's participation based on the country's democratic ethos played a key role in managing the worst pandemic of the last one century," the PMO said. There was a warm and frank discussion on regional issues of mutual interests, including those related to South Asia and the Indo-Pacific region, it added. Modi and the visiting delegation took note of the increasing convergence of strategic interests between the two strategic partners and expressed their desire to further enhance cooperation with an aim to promote global peace and stability. Views were also exchanged on the potential for enhancing the bilateral relationship and strengthening cooperation on contemporary global issues such as terrorism, climate change and reliable supply chains for critical technologies, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||TN floods: Hyundai forms task force to support affected customers ||Hyundai Motor India on Saturday said it has formed a task force to support flood-affected customers in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. "During these adverse times, we have ramped up our service support to flood-affected customers in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.  This contribution is the company's way of expressing solidarity with the people of flood-affected areas, as they rebuild their lives in the aftermath of the recent floods," Hyundai Motor India Director (Sales, Marketing & Service) Tarun Garg said in a statement. The relief teams will continue to extend support to ensure customers' peace of mind, he added.  To ensure seamless mobility, the company said it has deployed a dedicated emergency roadside assistance service team to support the customers. Additionally, the automaker said it is also offering a 50 per cent discount on the depreciation amount of insurance claims for flood-affected vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Kejriwal calls emergency meeting to tackle air pollution in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday called an emergency meeting to tackle severe air pollution in the city, with Supreme Court asking authorities to take immediate measures. The meeting, to be held at 5 pm, will be attended by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Environment Minister Gopal Rai and Delhi Chief Secretary Rajiv Gauba, officials said.  Meanwhile, the Supreme Court termed the rise in air pollution in Delhi-NCR as an "emergency situation", stressing that crucial measures need to be taken. The apex court also took note of opening of schools in Delhi and asked authorities to take immediate measures like putting vehicles off road and clamping lockdown in Delhi.  It asked the Centre and the Delhi government to take immediate steps to curb pollution and report back on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
13-11-2021||India||Air quality in Delhi 'severe', two-day lockdown on SC lips||Air quality in Delhi was reported to be in the "severe" category on Saturday, prompting the Supreme Court to ask the government about the measures it was planning to tackle the "emergency situation". Delhi's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at  473. In  neighbouring areas of Noida and Gurgaon, AQI readings were 587 and 557 respectively. Chief Justice NV Ramana, hearing a petition on air pollution in the national capital, asked the Centre, "You tell us how do you plan to take the emergency measures? Two-day lockdown? What is your plan on lowering the AQI (Air Quality Index) levels?" reported ndtv.com. Breathing the Delhi air is "like smoking 20 cigarattes a day," the state government admitted in the court, stressing, "We agree to the gravity of the situation." "You see how bad the situation is....even in our houses, we are wearing masks," the Chief Justice added. The Centre while assuring that strong measures are being taken to combat the situation, seemed to blame Punjab over stubble burning. "We are taking steps to stop stubble burning. But in (the) last five-six days the kind of pollution, we have seen is because of (the) stubble burning in Punjab. The state government needs to buckle up... stubble burning (is) happening in farms," it said. Chief Justice Ramana said in his reply, "Why are you projecting like pollution is because of farmers? It is only certain percentage of pollution. What about the rest? What are you doing to control the pollution in Delhi? We have nothing to do with which government ....state or centre.You tell us what is your proper plan...not about 2-3 days," the ndtv.com report said. The overall air quality index of Delhi was recorded at 473 at 10 am. In Delhi, the air quality index of Lodhi Road, Delhi University, IIT Delhi, Pusa Road l, and Delhi airport was recorded at 489, 466, 474 and 480 and 504 respectively, according to SAFAR. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Authorities on Friday had advised people to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30 per cent as air quality in Delhi-NCR inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions. Over 4,000 farm fires, accounting for 35 per cent of Delhi's pollution on Friday, played a major role in pushing the 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) to 471 by 4 pm. It was 411 on Thursday. A sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) said meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18 and agencies concerned must be fully ready to implement measures under 'emergency' category. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 11.1 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season's average, on Saturday. The relative humidity was recorded at 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Priyanka terms Amit Shah's remark on girls' safety in UP as 'jumla'||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday termed as "jumla" Union Home Minister Amit Shah's reported remark that a 16-year-old girl could wear jewellery on the roads in Uttar Pradesh at midnight, and said only women of the state know what they have to contend with every day. The Congress general secretary shared a media report on Twitter over chain snatching with three women in Kanpur to attack the BJP government in the state. "The home minister of the country gives the jumla of venturing out while loaded with jewellery, but only the women of UP know what kind of things they have to contend with every day," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "That is why 'ladki hoon ladh sakti hoon' is necessary. So that the participation of women in politics and in making security related policies increases," she said. Addressing a gathering in UP last month, Shah had lauded the law and order in the state and reportedly said that now a 16-year-old girl could wear jewellery and ride a scooter on the roads of UP at midnight during festivals without any fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||MP govt exempts vehicles attending PM's Bhopal rally on Nov 15 from paying road tax||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to exempt vehicles travelling to Bhopal to attend the 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas' tribal convention, to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 15, from paying the toll.  Buses ferrying tribals to the rally, to be held at the Jamboree Maidan, will also have mechanics onboard to ensure quick repair in the event of the buses developing a snag during the journey. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed officials to take stock of the preparations for Monday's programme in a meeting held on Friday, an official statement said.  All the vehicles coming for the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas programme in Bhopal will be free from (paying) toll tax, the statement quoted Chouhan as saying. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet had decided to declare November 15 as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas to mark the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda and honour the contributions of the members of Scheduled Tribes to Indian history and culture.  Meanwhile, the chief minister also directed officials to ensure that an ambulance accompanies the vehicles coming for the programme from distant and remote districts of the state. The officials were also directed to ensure that the buses carrying tribals for the rally are fit for travel and subject drivers to breath-analyser tests.  This programme is being discussed in the entire country. There should be no shortage in the arrangements for safe transportation of all participants, their accommodation and food. It is our responsibility that the tribal brothers and sisters coming from different districts should arrive and reach back to their homes safely, Chouhan said.  According to BJP insiders, the saffron party was trying to ensure the participation of 2.50 lakh tribals in the event. Though the government is so far silent on the budget of the forthcoming convention, Congress MLA and tribal leader Hiralal Alawa had on November 11 alleged that CM Chouhan was diverting funds meant for health, education and development of adivasis for Modi's publicity for the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||India logs over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 555 casualties in a day||A total of 11,850 new coronavirus infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, taking the country's infection tally to 3,44, 26,036, while the active cases declined to 1,36,308, the lowest in 274 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,63,245 with 555 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 36 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 139 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 1,36,308, comprising 0.40 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.26 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 1,108 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.94 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 40 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.05 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 50 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,26, 483, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 111.40 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Congress to hold parallel tribal convention coinciding with Modi's Bhopal programme||The political race to win over tribals seems to be hotting up in Madhya Pradesh, with the Congress deciding to hold a convention in Jabalpur on November 15 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address a tribal rally in Bhopal to mark the birth anniversary of the community icon and freedom fighter Birsa Munda. Days ahead of the prime minister's visit, the ruling BJP has accused Congress of ignoring tribal icons including Munda and others for its "reverence of a single-family". The opposition party hit back, alleging the saffron party is trying to use tribal icons for its "vote bank politics". The Madhya Pradesh government has organised a tribal convention on the occasion of the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas (Tribal Pride Day) on November 15 at Bhopal's Jamboree Maidan which will be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet had decided to declare November 15 as 'Janjatiya Gaurav Divas' to mark the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda and honour the contributions of the members of Scheduled Tribes to Indian history and culture. The Congress is organising a convention in Jabalpur on November 15 to pay tribute to the revered tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda, whose statue was installed there by our (erstwhile) government, on his birth anniversary, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta told PTI on Saturday. He claimed that Congress organises this event every year which is attended by tribal people from many areas surrounding Jabalpur. Madhya Pradesh Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath, local MLAs and tribal leaders will attend the programme this year, he added. These revolutionaries have been revered by Congress for decades. But this (the upcoming Bhopal convention to be addressed by the PM) seems to be a newfound love of BJP and their affiliated organisations for tribals for a vote bank politics, he said. MP BJP secretary Rajnish Agrawal, however, accused Congress of ignoring tribal icons and revering only one family, apparently referring to the Gandhis. Congress has ignored tribal icons like Birsa Munda, Shankar Shah, Raghunath Shah and many others to revere only one family. Now, the BJP has forced them to remember these icons, Agrawal said. He alleged that Congress had opposed the government's decision to hold the 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas' on Birsa Munda's birth anniversary. BJP governments constructed memorial of tribal icons and worked to make the new generation aware about their lives, he said. Incidentally, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on September 18 announced that 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas' will be held on November 15 every year to mark the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda. He had made this announcement during a programme to observe the martyrdom day of tribal icons and erstwhile Gondwana Empire ruler Shankar Shah and his son Raghunath Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Hinduism and Hindutva entirely different: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Friday said Hinduism and Hindutva are entirely different, contending that a political project based on hate could not be equated to religion. “What is the difference between Hinduism — as we know it — and Hindutva? Are they the same thing? Can they be the same thing? Is Hinduism about beating a Sikh or a Muslim? Is Hinduism about killing Akhlaq? Hindutva, of course, is. Where is it written that religion is about killing an innocent man, I am unable to find this,” Rahul said, addressing by videoconference the opening of the party’s training programme at Wardha in Maharashtra. He continued: “If they are the same thing, why don’t they have the same description? Why do they have different names? Why do you use the word Hinduism, why not just use Hindutva, if they are the same thing? They are obviously different things and so these are the type of things that we have to start to explore and understand and develop a group of people, hundred, two hundred, three hundred, five hundred, thousands of people, who deeply understand these differences, who can apply these differences to issues, to behaviour, to action.” The Congress ideology, if explained properly to the masses, can wipe out the agenda of hate, Rahul asserted. “I have read the Upanishads, I have not seen it (hate). Where is it written that you should kill an innocent man? I am unable to find this in any Hindu scripture or in Islamic scripture or in Sikh scripture. I can see it in Hindutva,” he added, driving home the message that the political project called Hindutva was separate from the Hindu religion. Describing the Congress ideology as an ocean reflecting the wisdom of thousands of years of Indian life processes, Rahul said: “You can start with Shiva, Kabir, Guru Nanak… these are ideas that we stand for. Gandhi is a very good example. So, these are people who have stood for… and we have to deeply study what they were saying. Is there something common between what Guru Nanak said or Kabir said and the Hindutva ideology? Is there something in common between what Gandhi said or King Ashoka said and the Hindutva ideology?” Rahul was subtly arguing that the RSS-BJP claim of representing Indianness was false and that their ideology was antithetical to Indian culture and philosophy. “So, these are the type of things we have to discuss and these are the type of things that we have to spread among ourselves, and once we start to communicate it among ourselves, we will find it will automatically start to spread among all others. And this is the mission that you are embarking upon,” Rahul told Congress workers. Rahul said the Congress ideology was alive and vibrant but had been overshadowed by the RSS ideology of hate. “It has been overshadowed partly because of a complete capture of the media, a complete capture of the Indian nation, but it has also been over shadowed because we have not propagated our ideology among our own people aggressively. The central way we have to propagate our ideology is by training our own people and by involving our own people in a conversation about what it means to be a Congress person and how that is different from being an RSS person,” he explained. While the Congress and liberal intellectuals have always differentiated between Hinduism and Hindutva, the message has not percolated down to the masses and the RSS-BJP have succeeded to a great extent in portraying themselves as the sole representatives of Hindus. Political scientists and historians have explained that Hindutva is a political project and not a religious code, and that it is about political dominance and control. The RSS-BJP icon V.D. Savarkar, who propagated this ideology, had himself declared that Hindutva was entirely different from Hinduism. He had conceived of Hindutva to use religion to bolster a majoritarian political project. A controversy has erupted over Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s book in which he has written: “Sanatan dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints was being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years. Since the political content was clear, the term inevitably found place in election campaigns.” While Khurshid has clearly drawn a distinction between Hinduism, the religion followed by the majority of Indians, and the Hindutva politics of the Sangh parivar, he has been under attack from the BJP and its ecosystem that is accusing him of maligning Hinduism. Even on Friday, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said in response to Rahul’s address: “Rahul and the Congress have a pathological hatred of Hinduism and this was reflected in Khurshid’s book as well. It is in the character of the Congress and the Gandhi family to attack Hinduism at every opportunity.… What they say is not a coincidence but an experiment. And the headmaster of this experimental lab is Rahul Gandhi.” Asked about Rahul differentiating between Hinduism and Hindutva, Patra said: “Can they talk on similar lines about other religions? Of course not. They cannot talk of similar issues in any other religion. The question is, why do they talk ill of Hinduism all the time?” But in projecting Hinduism and Hindutva as one and the same, the BJP is contradicting its own icon Savarkar and going against the Indian Constitution, which says politics and religion should be kept separate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut describes India independence as 'bheekh'||The harangue builds… then abruptly it is over…. As the audience continues its tumultuous applause, Hitler smooths his hair in a steady, unhurried motion…. What is one to make of this decades later? To many in Germany in 1933, the speech was inspirational. Today, it is associated with the Holocaust. From Hitler’s Movement Signature by Martha Davis and Dianne Dulicai The applause lingered like a bad odour. More than who said it or what was said, the applause spoke louder and clearer on Wednesday when Kangana Ranaut described India’s independence as “bheekh (alms)” and sought to project 2014 as the year in which the republic attained freedom. The platform could not have been more mainstream. The audience could not have been more mainstream. They represented the very Establishment that flowered and flourished, not in the past seven years but over the nearly 75 years since August 15, 1947. Ranaut drew applause from a bunch of corporate figures and publicists at a summit organised by TimesNow, the news channel. The applause started when Ranaut, responding to TimesNow’s Navika Kumar on a question about V.D. Savarkar, said: “What is secular? Secular is no-man’s land. Not yours, not mine, everybody’s. It is no-man’s land, right? Because they are what British left behind in the name of Congress. They were the extension of the British.” The loud claps rose from the back, and a few from the front tables too. Ranaut then moved on to V.D. Savarkar and eventually said: “Woh azadi nahi thi, woh bheekh thi; aur jo azadi mili hai woh 2014 mein mili hai (That was not freedom, that was alms; and what freedom we got, we got in 2014.)” This drew even more applause. Earlier during the interaction, Ranaut had said that for her family, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the “biggest superstar there will ever be”. On Thursday, amid questions on social media why no one, not even Kumar, was seen contesting Ranaut, TimesNow tweeted a clip of the “bheekh” statement and said: “The question asked was about Savarkar, but the response was on a different matter. Navika Kumar then followed up with a question about whether Kangana was expressing her loyalty to the BJP, and Kangana responded by saying she’s a patriot. Here’s the complete viral sequence.” On Friday, two days after the session, TimesNow tweeted: “Kangana Ranaut may think India got Independence in 2014 but this cannot be endorsed by any true Indian. This is an insult to millions of freedom fighters who gave up their lives so that present generations can live a life of self-respect & dignity as free citizens of a democracy.” Actress Swara Bhasker had tweeted: “Who are the idiots who are clapping is what I want to know.” So far, few have stood up to be counted. But that need not mean they are idiots. Aditya Mukherjee, retired professor of contemporary history from Jawaharlal Nehru University, told The Telegraph: “What Kangana Ranaut is saying is not a fringe opinion; she is reflecting the opinion of the mainstream ruling forces today.” Mukherjee explained: “On the one hand, interpretations of history have been used by ruling regimes to legitimise their rule and their policies, as it has been used by social movements, both progressive and reactionary, to defend positions taken by them. On the other hand, doing complete violence to the majesty of the discipline of history, its ‘procedures’ and ‘discourse of proof’, total falsification or ‘invention’ of facts and the substituting of facts with faith, beliefs and mythology have been resorted to by political forces. This is what we are witnessing today.” He added: “Their current star Savarkar begged multiple times for forgiveness from the British and promised to remain loyal if he was released…. An estimated 10,000 people died in the Quit India Movement. Many, many more, including the entire leadership of the Congress, were put in jail while the communal forces were allying with imperialism.” G. Arunima, director of the Kerala Council of Historical Research, said Ranaut seemed to have “overstepped her script” at a time the government was celebrating the 75th year of Independence. “Congress-bashing appears to be her only way to speak…. What marks 2014 was the way the Congress was pushed back in a fundamental way, dismantled like it had never been before.” Others see a generation trapped in the past and dictated to by faith. Historian S. Irfan Habib, former Abul Kalam Azad Chair at the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, said: “It is an extreme form of illiteracy, bigotry and blindness to the past and the present…. She is so enamoured of an ideology and an individual that she sees the world through blinkered glasses. She has created her own world and imagined her own past and lives in it.” He added: “This is particularly a problem in South Asia. Even more regressive parts of the world like West Asia are opening up, even establishing relations with Israel — irrespective of what the regime does -- because they recognise that the economy and better foreign relations are the way to prosperity. But here our past and religions are becoming more important even as the economy goes to the dogs, people die of government negligence. There is a rise in both Hindu and Muslim fundamentalism.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||IRS officer replaces Ramacharyulu as adviser to the RS secretariat||Rajya Sabha Chair M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday removed Parasaram Pattabhi Kesava Ramacharyulu as Rajya Sabha secretary-general just two months after the official had become the first Upper House “insider” to be elevated to the post. Retired Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer P.C. Mody, former head of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, replaces Ramacharyulu, who has been appointed adviser to the Rajya Sabha secretariat where he has spent 40 years. Mody is said to be close to the ruling dispensation. While the Lower House has had nine secretaries-general from the Lok Sabha secretariat, all the 11 who had held the post in the Rajya Sabha before Ramacharyulu were from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), retired or serving. Mody is the first IRS officer to be appointed to the post. No explanation has been provided, even unofficially, for the sudden change that stands out particularly because much was made in September of a Rajya Sabha insider making it to secretary-general for the first time. Sources underlined that Ramacharyulu’s September appointment carried the proviso “till further orders” while Mody has been appointed to “the rank and status of Cabinet Secretary till August 10, 2022, or until further orders whichever is earlier”. Naidu’s term as Vice-President of India and Rajya Sabha Chair too ends in August 2022. Opposition MPs were quick to question the change. Congress Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “Not surprised at all. Dr. P.P.K. Ramacharyulu is a thorough professional, non-partisan and perfectly qualified for the post — three deadly sins in the Modi regime.” Manoj Jha of the RJD told The Telegraph that he agreed with Ramesh. Asked whether he knew of any incident that could have triggered the change, Jha said he did not. He underlined that the House had not been in session since Ramacharyulu’s appointment as secretary-general. Jha tweeted: “There is more to ‘it’ than what meets the ‘eye’….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Congress flags India’s national security along LAC||Apparently contrary positions taken by the Chief of Defence Staff and the external affairs ministry on reports of Chinese intrusion into Arunachal Pradesh, amid a haze on the bigger transgressions in Ladakh, prompted the Congress on Friday to say India’s national security was being “unpardonably compromised”. Chief of Defence Staff Vipin Rawat had on Thursday told a media conclave that claims about the Chinese building a village in Arunachal were “not true” and that the “so-called villages… are well within their (China’s) side of the LAC”. His comments revived memories of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion of June 19, 2020 — four days after a clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley had killed 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops — that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory. This allowed Beijing to dismiss the allegations of border transgressions and claim ownership of all the positions it held. However, also on Thursday, the foreign ministry said the government had taken note of the Pentagon report that cited the Chinese constructions in Arunachal, and slammed China for its “construction activities in the past several years along the border areas”, including areas it has “illegally occupied”. Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the government of lacking strategy or courage to tackle the Chinese intrusions. “Our national security is unpardonably compromised because the Government of India has no strategy and Mr 56 inch is scared,” he tweeted. “My thoughts are with the soldiers risking their lives to guard our borders while the Government of India churns out lies.” “Mr 56 inch” was an allusion to Modi, who had used the metaphor to bolster his image of a “strong leader”. Rahul has been condemning Modi as a “coward” too scared even to name China, let alone accept there have been intrusions and do something about them. Rahul attached a report with his latest tweet that underlined the difference between the positions taken by the CDS and the external affairs ministry. Congress veteran and former home minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Ministry of External Affairs said that China is in ‘illegal occupation’ of Indian territory and India will not accept ‘unjustified Chinese claims.’ Within hours, the CDS said that the Chinese ‘have not transgressed anywhere on our perception of the LAC’ and they are ‘well within their side of the LAC.’” He added: “The Chinese are laughing all the way from their Plenum to the 20th Congress of the Communist party. It is time for the Defence Minister to draw a(n) LAC in the Defence Ministry and ask the CDS to remain well within his side of the LAC.” Rawat had said: “As far as we are concerned, no such village development has taken place on our side of the LAC. They are building this infrastructure, this kind of so-called villages, which are well within their side of the LAC. They have not transgressed anywhere on our perception of the LAC.” He had added: “The present controversy that has erupted — that the Chinese have come across into our territory and built a new village — is not true.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Alumnus gifts $10m to IIT Delhi||IIT Delhi has received a commitment from former student and US-based entrepreneur Anant Yardi for a $10-million (about Rs 75 crore) donation, raising the total donations committed by alumni since 2019 to Rs 340 crore. The commitment from Yardi, president and founder of Yardi Systems, the largest real-estate software provider in North America, comes a year after IIT Delhi opened a School of Artificial Intelligence (AI). IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao on Friday said the latest donation would be spent on the School of AI: “This generous gift will catalyse cutting-edge research in AI and related areas.” IIT Delhi had in 2019 started an endowment fund to raise donations from alumni on the lines of Ivy League institutions. Former students and Flipcart co-founders Binny Bansal and Sachin Bansal have committed Rs 125 crore over 10 years. Of the total commitment of Rs 340 crore, the institute has so far received Rs 60 crore. “The endowment fund is a corpus; the interest will add to the institution’s revenues,” Rao said. Mausam, the head of the School of AI who uses a single name, said the donation from Yardi would be spent on establishing a lab and recruiting talented teachers. The school now has five PhD students. Mausam added that the School of AI would focus its research on the use of AI in industries like healthcare, manufacturing processes and robotics. Rao said IIT Delhi wanted to enhance its endowment fund donations, research and development efforts, and the start-ups launched by mostly final-year students in which the institute has a stake. “Ten years from now, our target is that one-third of our expenses will be met from the revenues generated by the endowment fund and one-third from research and development and start-ups. We will reduce our dependency on the government,” Rao said. IIT Delhi now needs about Rs 1,000 crore a year for all its activities. The Union education ministry provides Rs 600 crore while the tech school’s income from research and development for industry and government, tuition fees and other sources like the start-ups comes to around Rs 400 crore. “We need about Rs 2,000 crore a year to take the institute to the next level to compete with global institutions,” Rao said. Currently the IITs are largely tech schools. However, the world’s top universities offer education and research in multiple disciplines across engineering, medicine, the humanities, management and law. The IITs are now expanding their operations. For example, IIT Delhi has started a school of inter-disciplinary research and the School of Public Policy, Rao said. The Centre has advised all public-funded educational institutions to try and become self-sufficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
13-11-2021||India||Not all those who chant Jai Shri Ram are saints: Senior Cong leader||Senior Congress leader Rashid Alvi on Friday said that not all those who chant “Jai Shri Ram” are saints, and cited a passage from the Ramayan as proof. “We all want Ram Rajya in this country. But how can there be hatred in a country where the lion and the goat drink water together?” the former Union minister said, alluding to the notion that Ram Rajya is a state of equality, justice and fraternity. He added: “All those who chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ are not munis (saints).” Citing the Ramayan, Alvi said: “When Lakshmanji was unconscious and Hanumanji (on a mission to fetch medicinal herbs) descended from above (on the Himalayas), he heard someone reciting ‘Jai Shri Ram’. He (Hanuman) was a devotee. He came and sat near the feet (of the person chanting Ram’s name).” Alvi added that this person was, however, a demon tasked to waste Hanuman’s time “and so asked him (Hanuman) to first go to Mansarovar and take a bath there – he said you cannot chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ without taking a bath”. Alvi was referring to the story of Kalanemi. The Ramayan describes how, as Lakshman lay mortally injured during the Lanka war, the physician Sushen asked Hanuman to bring the herb Sanjeevani from Mount Gandhamadan in the Himalayas by sunset if Ram’s  brother was to be saved. Kalanemi, assigned by Ravan to delay or kill Hanuman, sat on a mountain in the Himalayas disguised as a sadhu and chanted Ram’s name, drawing Hanuman’s attention. As Hanuman bathed in a nearby lake on his advice, a crocodile Kalanemi had placed there attacked him. Hanuman killed the crocodile, but it immediately changed into an apsara  and warned him about the Kalanemi’s real intentions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
13-11-2021||India||Kerala villagers try to block Dalits, face action from state Commission||The Kerala State Commission for SC/ST has initiated action against residents of a village in Pathanamthitta district for stopping eight Dalit families from constructing houses on land donated by a local individual in the latest case of caste discrimination. Commission chairman B.S. Mavoji, who led a team of officials to the site in Pazhavangadi panchayat in Ranni on Friday as part of the investigation, confirmed caste discrimination and death threats faced by the Dalit families and directed the police to book a case under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The commission recorded statements of the beneficiaries of the land donated by Valliath Thomas Varghese, 77, an American citizen with roots in Ranni, and the locals, all of them Christians. “People from that area have taken an anti-Dalit stand. It has become a conflict between Dalits and those against them,” he told reporters after hearing both sides. Each family now owns three cents of land in the village as the donor completed the registration formalities two weeks ago. The locals had been up in arms against Varghese’s decision to donate the land, part of his inheritance, to the Dalit families a few months ago. “This is a gross violation of Article 17 of the Indian Constitution (abolition of untouchability). We are directing the police to register cases against those who used caste slurs, tried to attack them and gave death threats to the Dalits under the atrocities act,” he said. Quite similar to an earlier case in Alappuzha district where upper caste families prevented a Dalit woman from building her house, the obstruction in Ranni was based on the argument that the locality would end up being a “Dalit colony”, an unofficial term used to describe enclaves where members of the community reside. A harried Varghese told The Telegraph that he only wanted to help the needy and did not look at their caste while shortlisting beneficiaries from a batch of 65 families. “I picked the eight families since all of them lived in rented accommodation with their children. But the local people accused me of converting the area into a Dalit colony, which they shamelessly described as a brothel,” said Varghese, who has been living in Ranni for four years. A few local families had recently filed a case claiming ownership to the panchayat road that connects the donated land in a bid to stop the project. Varghese blamed local ward member Shirley George of the Congress for coming in the way. “She clearly told me that she won’t allow Dalits to live in her neighbourhood as long as she is a panchayat member.” “I have lost my peace of mind for doing something, which I thought was good for the society until the same society came back to bite me,” Varghese added. Sources privy to Friday’s developments said the commission chairman chided Shirley for her stand. Shirley could not be contacted for comments as her phone was not reachable. Ranni MLA Pradeep Narayanan of the Kerala Congress (Mani), a part of the ruling Left front, had recently visited the place and promised suitable action. However, the Congress has refrained from commenting on the issue apparently because the neighbourhood is its stronghold. Member of the SC/ST commission, S. Ajayakumar told this newspaper that the visit by the chairman was part of the procedure after registering a case. “We had registered a suo motu case based on media reports,” said the CPM leader and four-time MP. Ajayakumar attributed the surge in cases related to atrocities against Dalits to the rise in complaints and media reports. “There was a time when they (Dalits) rarely came forward to lodge complaints,” he said. Retired academic and socio-political commentator, M.N. Karassery described the atrocities against Dalits as a blotch on Kerala. “We are the most syncretic of societies in the country. But it’s appalling how the downtrodden are being ghettoised and blatant untouchability is openly practised,” he told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
13-11-2021||India||BJP unleashed Kangana to defame the freedom movement: Congress||The Congress on Friday said the RSS-BJP had unleashed the likes of Kangana Ranaut to defame India’s freedom movement because they themselves did not participate in it, and asked President Ram Nath Kovind to take back the Padma Shri awarded to the actress a few days ago. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Freedom movement’s stalwarts are being insulted when the country is celebrating the 75th year of Independence. Those who acted like puppets of the British cannot understand the struggle and sacrifice of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh and lakhs of other freedom fighters. That’s why supporters who have been given Z-plus security by the Government and awarded such awards like Padma Shri have been given contract to defame the freedom movement.” Congress leaders see a sinister trend as the likes of Sakshi Maharaj and Pragya Singh Thakur, both BJP MPs, have repeatedly attacked Mahatma Gandhi and hailed his assassin Nathuram Godse. Congress leader Anand Sharma said in a series of tweets: “Shocking and outrageous. Kangana Ranaut’s statement heaping insult on the courageous freedom fighters…. Prime Minister should break his silence and tell the nation if he endorses the views of Ms Ranaut.” Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said: “Kangana has insulted the country. So Kangana should apologise to the country. All her national awards should be withdrawn. BJP should also clarify its position on her statement.” Kangana had described India’s Independence in 1947 as “bheekh” (alms) and said the country became free in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
13-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: UP to appoint former HC judge to monitor probe ||The Uttar Pradesh government has accepted the Supreme Court’s suggestion to appoint a former Punjab and Haryana High Court judge to monitor the police probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, which the court has said “is not going the way we expected”. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the state government, indicated this on Friday to a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana. Salve sought adjournment till Monday, by when the state is expected to name the judge from a list of two recommended by the apex court. On November 8, the court had said that either Justice Ranjit Singh or Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, both former Punjab and Haryana High Court judges, should be appointed to monitor the probe and sought the state’s views by Friday. Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, is accused of leading a convoy of cars that allegedly mowed down four protesting farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. A driver and two BJP activists were then allegedly lynched by angry farmers. On November 8, the bench --- which includes Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli --- had said that having a former high court judge as monitor would inject “independence, impartiality and fairness” into the probe. It had said this would also ensure that the special investigation team (SIT) of the state police didn’t use the lynching FIR against the farmers to protect those accused of mowing down farmers. “Prima facie it appears that one particular accused (in the killing of farmers) is sought to be given benefit” by procuring evidence from witnesses in the lynching case, the bench had said. It had added that the probe was too tardy, asked why the SIT had failed to seize the mobile phones of all but one accused, and castigated the state for furnishing a shoddy probe status report. “The pace of the probe is not up to expectations. It (investigation) is not going the way we expected,” the court had said. The bench is dealing with a letter petition from two Supreme Court advocates, Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C.S. Panda, seeking an independent probe into the deaths. Although the matter was to be heard on Friday, Salve urged the bench: “Would your Lordships give me time till Monday? We have almost got it done. We are working something on it.” Justice Ramana agreed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
13-11-2021||India||Pollution levels spike in NCR, likely to stay over the next three days||India’s air quality monitoring agency on Friday asked residents across the National Capital Region to avoid outdoor physical activity as pollution levels spiked into and are likely to remain in the severe category over the next three days. The Union earth science ministry’s System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) attributed the severe pollution that blocked sunlight through the day to an increase in crop residue stubble burning across northwestern states. The average concentration of tiny particulate matter sized 2.5 microns (PM2.5) — small enough to be inhaled deep into the lungs — over Delhi on Friday was 349 microgram per cubic metre, or over five times the safe limit of 60 microgram per cubic metre under guidelines set in 2009. But the PM2.5 counts are expected to rise to 375 on Saturday and touch 389 on Monday, SAFAR has predicted. The agency has urged persons sensitive to air pollution to “avoid all physical activity outdoors” and “stop any activity” if they experience any unusual coughing, chest discomfort, wheezing, breathing difficulty or fatigue. It has also asked NCR residents to close windows and close the fresh air intake options on air-conditioners. The air quality over the NCR had also turned severe last week, the day after Diwali, primarily from a mix of firecracker emissions and crop stubble burning in parts of Haryana and Punjab. Stubble burning is a farming practice that Central and state authorities have tried to curb by promoting alternative stubble management strategies. But SAFAR has documented daily stubble fire counts ranging from 2,293 up to 5,450 between November 4 and November 11. The count increased to 4,056 on Friday from 3,914 on Thursday and stubble burning accounted for about 35 per cent of PM2.5 levels over the NCR on Friday. A drop in the minimum temperature is likely over the next two days resulting in air quality to remain severe or improve into the upper end of very poor category, SAFAR said in a bulletin. However, increase in local surface winds could help disperse the pollutants. SAFAR has also predicted a change in wind patterns from Saturday evening that is likely to reduce the transport of pollutants from upwind regions and reduce the amount of soot from stubble burning that is ferried across over the NCR. The Central Pollution Control Board that monitors air quality in real-time across the country had on Friday afternoon labelled air pollution levels over 20 among 136 cities as “severe.” Among them, Agra, Faridabad, Gurugram, Meerut, Noida, and Vrindavan are there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
13-11-2021||India||Eleven women officers to get permanent commission status||The Indian Army on Friday agreed to grant permanent commission status to 11 women officers but only after the Supreme Court warned of contempt proceedings if its earlier order on granting the status was not complied with. On October 22, the court had directed the army to grant permanent commission status to the women officers before November 1 in accordance with the terms of its earlier judgments in the Babita Puniya case reiterated again in March this year in the Col Nitisha’s case. As the army failed to comply with the directive, the women officers moved a contempt plea, which was heard on Friday by a bench of Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice A.S.Bopanna. During the hearing, additional solicitor-general Sanjay Jain said permanent commission status could not be conferred on the 11 women officers in view of their annual confidential reports. However, senior advocate- Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for some of the women officers, said the  court had passed a directive for the grant of permanent status despite the army making the same plea earlier. V. Mohan, another senior advocate representing the women officers, said the army, in order to circumvent the court’s order, had deliberately filed a fresh application seeking discretion in awarding 20 per cent marks. “This is extremely humiliating for the women officers. This application by the army for discretion of 20 per cent marks is essentially asking for a review of your Lordships verdict,” she said. The ASG, however, argued that if the women officers were promoted despite adverse remarks by superior officers, it would send a wrong signal. “They (women officers) are serving in the army. They continued to serve,” Justice Chandrachud said, to which the ASG said the court could not ignore their “weak points”. At this juncture Justice Chandrachud said: “We are holding the army guilty of contempt of court.” “The army may be supreme in its authority but the constitutional court is also supreme. We had given you a long rope. The remarks we had made in the judgment allowing you to file affidavit on the consideration taken was to ensure that you say what you are doing,” Justice Chandrachud said. The matter was later adjourned till 2pm to enable the ASG and senior advocate Col Balasubramanyam representing the army to seek further instructions. After the court resumed, the ASG and the senior advocate informed the court that the army had agreed to grant permanent commission to the 11 women officers. The court later said it would pass a detailed order on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
