14-11-2021||India||Centre plans major changes for a hands-on approach to governance||In a major push for a hands-on approach to governance, the Modi government is planning to rope in young professionals, seek suggestions from retiring officials and make the best use of technology for project monitoring, besides various other steps to be overseen by eight different groups comprising of members from the entire Council of Ministers, sources said. The 77 ministers have been divided into eight groups to develop technology-based resources, create a pool of professionals for recruiting in their teams and other similar initiatives to be adopted in the offices of all ministers'' offices to bring more transparency and further improve and efficiency of the Modi government, the sources said. This exercise of dividing the ministers into eight groups was done following ''Chintan Shivirs'' (brainstorming sessions) of the entire council that were chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with each meeting lasting for nearly five hours. A total of five such sessions were held - one each on Personal Efficiency, Focused Implementation, Ministry Functioning and Stakeholder Engagement, Party Coordination and Effective Communication and the last one was on Parliamentary practices. The last brainstorming meeting was also attended by the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. All these meetings primarily focused on improving the efficiency and the delivery system of the Modi government. The forming of groups is another step in that direction, broadly focusing on overall improvement in the governance by making ministers more hands-on approach, the sources said. All the 77 ministers in the council are part of one of these eight groups, each comprising nine to ten ministers with one Union minister designated as a group coordinator, sources said. Developing a portal in each minister''s office that gives updates on the performance of the Centre''s flagship schemes and policies, a dashboard for monitoring decisions made by the respective ministers and a system to schedule meetings and managing correspondence are among the tasks assigned to these groups. They have also been asked to create profiles of all districts, states and ministries and develop stakeholder engagement programmes. One of the groups has been assigned to set up a mechanism for creating a team of at least three young professionals with command over research, communication and other key areas, the sources said. Similarly, a group has been assigned to create a portal that maintains feedback and experiences of the retiring employees, sources said. Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Smriti Irani, Anurag Thakur are among the ministers who are the coordinators of their respective groups, the sources said. They have been given this responsibility so that they can share the good practices of their respective offices with other cabinet colleagues. Most of the ministers who had given presentations during the Chintan Shivirs have been given the responsibility of coordinating their respective groups. Meanwhile, for attending these brainstorming sessions, Union ministers on the instruction of Prime Minister Modi did carpooling with their cabinet colleagues from different ministries and hailing from different states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
14-11-2021||India||Bengal's education department wins gold at Skoch Award||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said school and higher education and tourism departments of her government have secured gold at the Skoch award. Instituted in 2003, the Skoch award recognises efforts in digital, financial, social inclusion, governance, inclusive growth, technology and applications and corporate leadership. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Suvendu Adhikari, however, claimed that "there are serious allegations regarding the credibility of such awards". ''School education department and higher education department of GoWB - both have won the prestigious SKOCH GOLD awards. Heartiest congratulations to all officials and members for this remarkable achievement,'' Chief Minister Banerjee wrote on Twitter. State education minister Bratya Basu also expressed happiness over the achievements and complimented all the stakeholders in the sector, including teachers, officials and students, for their efforts and services to ensure that teaching activities do not get hampered during the COVID-19 pandemic. ''Happy to share that the Tourism Department of GoWB has received the esteemed SKOCH GOLD award for transformational performance during #COVID19! Congratulations to all officials and members for your hard work and dedication. Let us keep aiming higher,'' Banerjee also said on the microblogging site. Adhikari alleged that spending more results in "bigger awards". "Some WB Govt depts have won 'prestigious" SKOCH Awards recently. There are serious allegations regarding the credibility of such awards. Seems like everyone who applies gets the award. In final stage one just has to buy expensive stalls for displaying themselves," the BJP leader said. He also said, "Spending more results in bigger awards. For eg (example) Skill development dept bought a Rs 12 lakh stall and got Gold award while someone bought Rs 2 lakh stall & received Silver award or SKOCH order of merit. These 'for sale' awards raise questions about the authenticity of the awardees." Bengal Power Minister Aroop Biswas denied the allegations and said the Skoch gold award is an important honour for every recipient who meets certain criteria and benchmarks. "The BJP was rejected by people of the state in the last assembly elections," he added. Notably, the central government's tribal affairs ministry had received the 'Skoch challenger' award for its performance in e-governance earlier this year, while Maharashtra's rural development and Haryana's industries and commerce departments had also won the award for liability register payment system and ease of doing business respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
14-11-2021||India||CBSE term 1 exams:  Updates on guidelines, sample question papers||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) term 1 exams will begin from November 16 for the Class 12 minor papers and Class 10 minor exams will be starting from November 17. The major exams for the Class 10 CBSE term 1 will be held from November 30 and the Class 12 CBSE term 1 major exams will start on December 1. In the first term exams, students will be asked only objective-type questions. CBSE has already released the CBSE admit cards for the term 1 exams on Tuesday, November 9. Students can access the term 1 roll numbers on cbse.gov.in. To access the CBSE term 1 admit cards, students will have to use their user ids and passwords. For students participating in international or national sports events and international olympiads and who miss the term 1 board exams, the board will conduct special exams at a later date. For students who test positive for Covid during the examinations and cannot take the Term 1 exams, the final result will be based on Term 2 exams. To check roll numbers, students have to login at the cbse.gov.in/cbsenew/cbse.html portal and insert the login credentials. Steps To Check Roll Numbers ⚫ Visit cbse.gov.in/cbsenew/cbse.html ⚫Scroll down and click on the designated link ⚫On the next window, click on the Continue button ⚫Select the class -- Class 10 or Class 12 ⚫Insert the login credentials ⚫Submit and access the roll number The term 1 exams will be held for the 50 per cent syllabus. Students preparing for the CBSE board exam can download the rationalised syllabus from the CBSE academic website -- cbseacademic.nic.in. The CBSE Term 1 sample question papers have been released along with the marking schemes. Meanwhile, a plea has been filed in the Supreme Court of India by the students of CBSE and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) Class 10, 12 exams. The students filing the plea are against offline-only mode for Class 10 and Class 12 term 1 exams and seeks direction to hold the term 1 exams in hybrid mode - a mix of both online and offline. The CISCE which conducts the ICSE Class 10th and ISC Class 12th annual exams, will begin the term 1 exams from November 15||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
14-11-2021||India||Congress to go solo in UP polls, contest all 403 seats: Priyanka||The Congress will contest all 403 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls on its own and emerge victorious in the electoral battle, party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday. Ruling out an alliance with any political party, she said the leaders of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (SP) were nowhere to be seen even when the 2017 Unnao rape case and the Hathras gangrape-and-murder case in 2020 rocked the country, adding that only the Congress was fighting for the people.  Addressing the party cadre at the Pratigya Sammelan - Lakshya 2022 in Anoopshahr here, the Congress general secretary stressed on the importance of the Uttar Pradesh polls for the party, calling it a "do-or-die" situation.  Emphasising that the electoral contest can only be won by strengthening the party at the booth level, she called upon the Congress workers to bolster the booth committees.  Priyanka Gandhi asked the Congress workers to be active on social media and post all party activities on various social networking platforms.  Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP, she said the saffron party has no respect for the freedom movement as its leaders did not shed blood and sweat for the country's independence, and added that only leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and BR Ambedkar envisioned freedom for the country.  Priyanka Gandhi said the Congress has not only brought development but has also promoted brotherhood and harmony.  Hitting out at the BJP-led government at the Centre over the rising fuel prices, she said for 70 years, the Congress ensured that the fuel prices did not shoot up above Rs 70 per litre. However, in the last seven years, the BJP government has let the guard down, which has allowed the prices to shoot upwards of Rs 100 per litre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Policeman injured in militant attack in Srinagar||A policeman was injured after militants fired at a police party in the Nawakadal area of the city on Sunday, police said. A team of the Srinagar Police carried out a raid in the Jamalata area of Nawakadal after learning about the presence of militants there, a police spokesman said. He said as the team approached the suspected spot, the hiding terrorists started indiscriminate firing, resulting in injuries to one police personnel. The injured policeman was evacuated to a nearby hospital, the spokesman said. He said keeping in view the safety of the civilians and the evening rush in the area, the police team exercised maximum restraint. However, reinforcements of the police and the CRPF laid cordon of suspected clusters of houses and search has been started, the spokesman added. Police have registered a case and initiated an investigation into the matter, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||TMC, CPI(M) target Modi govt over extending tenure of CBI, ED directors||Opposition parties the TMC and the CPI(M) on Sunday targeted the central government over extending the tenure of the CBI and the ED directors, asking why it could not wait for Parliament to be in session. The tenures of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) can now be up to a maximum of five years from the present two years, according to two ordinances brought in by the government on Sunday. The Parliament session begins on November 29. “To avoid its scrutiny, Centre on Sunday promulgates ordinances to extend the tenure of Directors of CBI and ED. This desperate hurry smacks of something fishy,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet. The directors of the CBI and the ED enjoy a fixed tenure of two years from the date of their appointment in the wake of the directives of the Supreme Court in the famous Vineet Narain case. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien said the ordnances were brought to “mock” Parliament. “How Modi-Shah’s BJP mock #Parliament and shamelessly use Ordinances. Same stunt repeated today to keep their pet parrots in ED and CBI,” he said in a tweet, also posting a chart of previous such ordinances brought in by the government ostensibly to bypass Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Those raking up partition are supporting Taliban, says Adityanath||Those who are raising the issue of partition are in a way supporting the Taliban, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday. His remark is seen as a veiled dig at the Samajwadi Party (SP). Om Prakash Rajbhar, the chief of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), an ally of the SP, had on Thursday blamed the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for the country's partition, a day after saying India would have remained unified had Muhammad Ali Jinnah been made its first prime minister. Earlier, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had equated Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, with Mahatma Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru. With months to go for the Assembly polls in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, Jinnah appears to be dominating the political discourse. Addressing the Samajik Pratinidhi Sammelan here, Adityanath said, “Those who are speaking about the partition are in a way extending support to the Taliban. As soon as the Taliban resurfaced in Afghanistan, a number of voices started to come up in its support. When strong action was taken, these voices went soft.” “Supporting the Taliban means supporting a power that works against humanity, against Lord Buddha's message of 'maitri' (friendship). Certain people are moving in that direction and we need to be aware of them,” he added. The BJP leader said those supporting the Taliban need to learn from the past. “We should not forget how Buddha's statues were destroyed in Bamiyan (in Afghanistan) by the Taliban. Breaking the statues of Buddha means trying to put an end to peace. Twenty years ago, when this incident took place, we thought that one day, they (Taliban) will face 'durgati' (misfortune). A few days later, the US dropped bombs on them. Back then, I had said they reaped what they sowed,” he said. Without naming any political party, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, "The opposition does not have any issue to raise.... Rashtranayak (national hero) Sardar Patel is on one side and Jinnah, who divided the country, is on the other. They support Jinnah and insult Patel. But we support Patel. He is a rashtranayak while Jinnah will remain a villain for centuries. Will you support those supporting Jinnah?" Referring to history books, he said, "History never termed emperor Ashoka or Chandragupta Maurya great, but it termed Alexander, who was defeated by Chandragupta Maurya, great. Historians are silent on such issues. However, once the countrymen learn the truth, India will change." Showering praises on Narendra Modi, Adityanath said the prime minister is making the country resurgent and the philosophy of "Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat" entails this. Addressing a public meeting in Hardoi, the SP chief had said, "Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped the country achieve independence and never backed away from any struggle."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||BJP weaponising pain of Kashmiri Pandits for votes: Mehbooba Mufti||Accusing the BJP of weaponising the pain of Kashmiri Pandits to garner votes and further its "divisive politics", PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday said Kashmiri Muslims have to work harder on seeing the return of their Hindu brethren in a dignified manner. She said some BJP-linked persons, who are sitting in the studios in Delhi and claim to represent the community, are spitting venom and are sabotaging any meeting point between the Pandits and Muslims of the valley. "They (Kashmiri migrant Pandits) are out of their homes for such a long time and want to be back but the question is how to go about it. The way the BJP has adopted the issue is to further create a division between the two communities (Pandits and Muslims) rather than bring them together," Mufti told PTI at her party's headquarters here. Five delegations including that of Kashmiri Pandits met the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and briefed her about their issues and concerns in the backdrop of the recent targeted killings in the valley. She said Kashmiri Muslims are the "losers" in the migration of the Pandits but to see their return to the valley, it ultimately rests on the people, especially the new generation, to reach out to each other and work for building an atmosphere of brotherhood prevalent prior to the eruption of militancy in 1990. "Kashmiri Pandits need to speak in unison and reject the vested interests who are speaking venom to further the divide. May be we (the Muslims of Kashmir) have to work harder on seeing their return in a dignified manner, the People's Democratic Party (PDP) president said. Mufti said the targeted killings took place in the valley despite prior information with the government that the Pandits will be attacked. "The killings triggered a sense of insecurity among the Pandit employees working in the valley forcing them to flee in panic. The height of things is that the government is very much confused which is evident from the fact that sometimes they ask the employees to report back to their duties and sometimes they ask them to stay back (in Jammu)," she said. Mufti said PDP patron and former chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed chalked out a programme for their return with the then central government headed by former prime minister Manmohan Singh that worked satisfactorily. "We started building accommodations and transit camps, whether it was in Vessu, Sheikhpora, Mattan or Ganderbal, for the Pandit youth employed under the PM Employment Package. Unfortunately, the process lost its pace under the current dispensation which failed to provide two bedrooms with a kitchen to such employees despite so many years," she said. Asking the Pandit community to isolate the vested interests toeing the BJP agenda, Mufti said some people from Delhi attempting to represent the entire community are spitting so much venom all the time that there does not seem to be a meeting ground. "They are sabotaging any meeting between the two communities because it suits the BJP that has weaponised Kashmiri Pandits' pain to garner votes and further their agenda of divisive politics," she said. Mufti said their venomous statements generate a reaction in Kashmir and there is also a backlash in Jammu as well. "The problem is that the voices that are trying to represent Kashmiri Pandits are doing a great disservice to them by vitiating the whole atmosphere." She said all such people are linked to BJP by not only the ideology but even otherwise as well. Their interest is connected with BJP in many ways including political and financial. So, they are trying to run the narrative of the BJP." PDP State Secretary R K Pardesi, who was part of the Pandit delegation, said, "We have lost many generations but the dream to return to the valley remained unfulfilled." "Under the leadership of Mufti (Mohammad Sayeed), a hope rekindled for our return when the former chief minister set up accommodation at 'Dharam Shallas' at famous temples in Mattan and Ganderbal in 2002. The move also facilitated interactions between the two communities but his death snatched a true well-wisher of the community," Pardesi said. He said PDP under the leadership of Mehbooba Mufti is the only party with a vision and roadmap to ensure the dignified return and rehabilitation of the Pandits in the valley. "The BJP has done only lip service over the past seven years. I challenge them to single out even one concrete step which has been taken by the party for our return, he said. The alleged failure of the government led to the innocent civilian killings by militants in the valley, Pardesi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Climate experts support India’s stand on ‘phase down’ of coal at CoP26 summit||Climate experts on Sunday came in full support of India, after it was criticised by several nations for using the term "phase down" instead of “phase out’ of coal at COP26 in Glasgow, saying it should not be seen as a diversion from its commitment towards this global climate crisis. Almost 200 nations at the UNFCCC CoP26 in Glasgow accepted a compromise deal on Saturday, aimed at keeping the key global warming target alive, but it contained a last-minute change that watered down crucial language about coal. Several countries, including small island states, said they were deeply disappointed by the change promoted by India to phase down, rather than phase out coal power, the single biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions. While the world expressed disappointment, climate experts in India felt that the first-ever mention of phase down of coal by the country in an international climate agreement is an important indication of the energy transformation underway, and criticised the developed nations for once again failing to deliver the promised climate finance. “The COP26 has definitely narrowed the gap for limiting global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius and the processes which can be taken for future action. But the failure of the US and EU to deliver on the promised USD 100 billion in climate finance remains urgent and central to any ambitious climate action. “Blocking the establishment of even a modest fund to help vulnerable communities around the world with the massive loss and damage they are experiencing at the hands of the climate crisis is a serious blow. As with Covid, those with the least resources have been left to fend for themselves. However, the first-ever mention of coal phase down in an international climate agreement is an important indication of the energy transformation underway and a clear signal to markets and industry. CoP26 is real progress but much more is still to be done,” said Aarti Khosla, Director, Climate Trends. Sharing a similar view, Kamal Narayan, CEO Integrated Health and Well Being Council (IHW), said, "With the kind of commitment and leadership India has shown in building renewable energy infrastructure and its aim to draw more of its energy requirements from such sources, the use of 'phasing down' coal instead of 'phasing out' alone shall not be seen as diversion from its commitment towards this global emergency." He said while activists would hardly be pleased with the CoP26 outcomes and may criticise it for being too slow, the global realities and growth challenges for major populations like India too need to be considered. Manjeev Puri, Distinguished Fellow, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), said, "There is nothing much. There is no real commitment on part of developed countries to move ahead with serious and urgent domestic action, let alone in terms of global collaboration and truly significant climate finance for tackling climate change." According to Suyash Gupta, Director General, Indian Auto LPG Coalition, it is "unfair" for the west to ignore India's energy imperatives. "It is unfair for the west to ignore India's energy imperatives -- home to almost a fifth of the world's population. 'Been there, done that' - those being critical of India's unambiguous and pronounced stand at CoP26, cannot live in denial - after getting the world to the present situation. "In fact, on a per capita basis, the west itself needs to do much more. Considering India's impeccable non-proliferation record, the west must rather play the role of an enabler and expedite India's entry into the Nuclear Supplier Group (NSG). Despite traversing well on the renewable roadmap, India just cannot wish away the energy needs of its 1.3 billion people - with two-thirds of its needs being currently met by coal," Gupta said. He said that unless a more conducive global ecosystem is in place to fast-track the transition, India cannot be stifling its growth and sustenance needs. The Glasgow Climate Pact states that the use of unabated coal should be phased down, as should subsidies for fossil fuels. The wording is weaker than the initial proposals, with the final text calling for only a "phase down" and not a "phase out" of coal, due to a last-second intervention by India, and of inefficient subsidies. But this is the first time fossil fuels have been mentioned in a UN climate talks declaration. Ulka Kelkar, Climate Programme Director, WRI India, said that India will have to join other countries to escalate emission reduction actions more frequently. "This will not be easy for a lower-middle income country that is trying to lift millions of people out of poverty. India's battle against climate change will be led by scaling up renewable energy, which will be the foundation of our net zero future; by industry, who will fight to stay competitive in the global economy; and by states and cities, who will need to urbanize with respect for nature. "Now that CoP26 has finalised the rules of carbon trading, India will be able to sell more than a million carbon credits from previous years, and can also create a domestic market for carbon trading," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||PM Modi tasks entire council of ministers to develop resources for further improving governance||In a major push for a hands-on approach to governance, the Modi government is planning to rope in young professionals, seek suggestions from retiring officials and make the best use of technology for project monitoring, besides various other steps to be overseen by eight different groups comprising of members from the entire Council of Ministers, sources said.  The 77 ministers have been divided into eight groups to develop technology-based resources, create a pool of professionals for recruiting in their teams and other similar initiatives to be adopted in the offices of all ministers' offices to bring more transparency and further improve and efficiency of the Modi government, the sources said.  This exercise of dividing the ministers into eight groups was done following 'Chintan Shivirs' (brainstorming sessions) of the entire council that were chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with each meeting lasting for nearly five hours.  A total of five such sessions were held - one each on Personal Efficiency, Focused Implementation, Ministry Functioning and Stakeholder Engagement, Party Coordination and Effective Communication and the last one was on Parliamentary practices.  The last brainstorming meeting was also attended by the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.  All these meetings primarily focused on improving the efficiency and the delivery system of the Modi government. The forming of groups is another step in that direction, broadly focusing on overall improvement in the governance by making ministers more hands-on approach, the sources said.  All the 77 ministers in the council are part of one of these eight groups, each comprising nine to ten ministers with one Union minister designated as a group coordinator, sources said.  Developing a portal in each minister's office that gives updates on the performance of the Centre's flagship schemes and policies, a dashboard for monitoring decisions made by the respective ministers and a system to schedule meetings and managing correspondence are among the tasks assigned to these groups.  They have also been asked to create profiles of all districts, states and ministries and develop stakeholder engagement programmes.  One of the groups has been assigned to set up a mechanism for creating a team of at least three young professionals with command over research, communication and other key areas, the sources said.  Similarly, a group has been assigned to create a portal that maintains feedback and experiences of the retiring employees, sources said.  Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Smriti Irani, Anurag Thakur are among the ministers who are the coordinators of their respective groups, the sources said.  They have been given this responsibility so that they can share the good practices of their respective offices with other cabinet colleagues.  Most of the ministers who had given presentations during the Chintan Shivirs have been given the responsibility of coordinating their respective groups.  Meanwhile, for attending these brainstorming sessions, Union ministers on the instruction of Prime Minister Modi did carpooling with their cabinet colleagues from different ministries and hailing from different states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine to be administered only to adults now||Zydus Cadila's COVID-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, which has been cleared by India's drug regulator for those aged 12 years and above, will only be administered to adults as of now under the government's national anti-coronavirus vaccination programme, sources said on Sunday.  The health ministry has given a go ahead to initiate the preparatory work for the inclusion of the indigenously-developed, needle-free jab in the national Covid inoculation drive and it can be introduced in the programme anytime soon.  The ministry has already placed a purchase order with the Ahmedabad-based firm for one crore doses of the vaccine.  "ZyCov-D, which has been cleared by India's drug regulator for those aged 12 years and above, will be given only to adults as of now under the national Covid vaccination drive," an official source said.  Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said the government does not want to make haste about administering Covid vaccines to children and any decision in this regard will be taken based on expert opinion.  He said children are not being inoculated against COVID-19 on a large scale anywhere in the world, though it has been initiated in some countries in a limited manner.  "About vaccinating the children, we will take a decision based on expert opinion. We have decided to think and evaluate before going ahead with vaccinating children as they are the future of our country and we need to tread with caution in this matter," Mandaviya had said.  Meanwhile, a comprehensive programme for paediatric immunisation, including developing a priority list of comorbidities, is being worked out by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI).  ZyCov-D is the first Covid vaccine cleared by India's drug regulator for inoculation of those aged 12 years and above.  As for the emergency use approval for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in the age group of two to 18 years by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), it is under expert opinion and evaluation, official sources said.  For administering ZyCov-D to adults, frontline workers and vaccinators will be provided a brief training for using the needle-free applicator in actual field settings.  At present, every citizen aged above 18 years is eligible for Covid vaccination.  Drug firm Zydus Cadila on November 8 said it had received an order to supply one crore doses of its Covid vaccine, ZyCoV-D, to the Indian government at Rs 265 per dose.  "Zydus Cadila has received an order to supply one crore doses of ZyCoV-D, the world's first Plasmid DNA Vaccine, to the Government of India at Rs 265 per dose and the needle-free applicator is being offered at Rs 93 per dose, excluding GST," the pharma firm said in a regulatory filing.  The vaccine will be administered using a needle-free applicator as opposed to the traditional syringes. The applicator is called "PharmaJet".  PharmaJet is a needle-free applicator to ensure painless intradermal vaccine delivery, which also leads to a significant reduction in any kind of major side effects.  ZyCoV-D is the first DNA plasmid vaccine in the world for human use, developed indigenously by the company against COVID-19, Zydus Cadila said.  The three doses of ZyCoV-D are to be administered 28 days apart. The vaccine was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Indian drug regulator on August 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Next 75 years should strike balance between rights and responsibilities of citizens, says Smriti Irani||The next 75 years of independent India need to be equally about the responsibility of citizens towards the community and the nation, and not just about rights, Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said on Sunday.  She was speaking as a guest of honour at the valedictory ceremony of the six-week-long 'Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA).  The minister said that while the focus since independence was on rights, she was hopeful that the forthcoming years would strike a balance between rights and responsibilities.  Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, judges of the Supreme Court Justice UU Lalit and Justice AM Khanwilkar along with Attorney General KK Venugopal were present at the event.  Irani lauded NALSA for the campaign, which started on October 2 as part of the 75th anniversary celebrations of India's independence, and emphasised that free legal aid in the country is not charity but a right.  The true test of a democracy is ensuring that justice reaches all its children, the Union minister said as she shared her desire for a just future for women and children.  That in the three phases from October 2 to the 14th (of November), 70 crore Indians and their lives could be touched upon, (the campaign) gives a message to our nation that free legal aid 'ehsan nahi adhikar hai' (free legal aid is not charity but a right). For that NALSA and the Hon'ble Chief Justice and judges of the Supreme Court have our gratitude, she said.  Irani noted that the country will celebrate Constitution Day on November 26.  "We must ponder for a while and recognise that these 75 years have been about the exploration of our rights, the next 75 years need to be equally about responsibility towards our communities, towards self and towards our nation.  "'I'm hopeful that the forthcoming 75 years strike that balance between rights and responsibilities, the Union minister stated.  Speaking about the campaign, she shared that merely between October 30 and November 7, the outreach was extended to over five lakh villages, two lakh outreach teams were constituted and over 1.2 lakh programmes saw the attendance of 6.5 crore Indians.  The culmination of your efforts of awareness and outreach campaign is just a manifestation sir of your promise that justice would be denied to none and will be made available to all, she said.  The Union minister also announced a new workshop and working engagement in collaboration with NIMHANS National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences-- for those who want to enhance the quality of justice which is to be delivered to our children .  Irani said she reflected on the appeal by Justice Uday Umesh Lalit to have a court that recognise how difficult it is for a child who undergoes trauma to engage and receive justice .  From January 8 till February, we invite the participation of everybody who seeks to legally protect our children. For that, they are introduced to the mental health and legal dimensions of forensics.  "We have endeavoured to ensure that our duty holders understand what affects a child's decision on abuse disclosure and reporting, she said.  The programme, she shared, would make an endeavour to develop a methodology and skillset to elicit abuse narrative from a child without further traumatising the child .  It was also shared that over one lakh duty holders in child care institutions accessed counselling under a programme called 'Samvaad' that began a year and a half ago under the aegis of NIMHANS.  While much has been spoken about the 800 million Indians who have received free ration, much is being celebrated about the one billion plus (COVID-19) vaccine doses. There have been stories that have been left unsaid," she said speaking of the project launched in collaboration with her ministry.  "Not only children who are in need of counsel in our child care institutions but also duty holders who were under immense stress were reached out to. Our endeavour was to ensure that those in need of counselling know that there is someone a phone call away, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Ready to sacrifice anyone involved in Bitcoin scam but name the influential persons: Bommai challenges Congress||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday asserted that his government is 'ready to sacrifice anyone involved' in the Bitcoin scam and challenged the Congress to name the "influential people" it has alleged are behind the irregularities. "The Congress says there are some influential people involved in it (Bitcoin scam). If you know them, then name them. We will investigate it without any second thought. If there is anyone involved in the country or in the state, we will initiate action mercilessly," Bommai told reporters on the sidelines of an event here.  The Chief Minister was reacting to a query on Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala's allegations.  "We are the ones who brought out this scam. We will not spare anyone and are ready to sacrifice anyone involved in it. There is no question of any second thought on our decision. To hide the role of Congress, you are naming persons who are nowhere in the picture," he charged.  Surjewala had alleged in a press conference in Delhi on Saturday that the size of the scam could be much bigger because just on two days on December 1, 2020 and April 14, 2021 illegal transactions worth Rs 5,240 crore took place.  The Congress leader had also posed a series of questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asked what was the role of Karnataka Chief Minister Basaravaj Bommai, who was the state's home minister when the scam took place.  Surjewala also demanded to know why international investigation agencies, including the Interpol, were not informed about the stolen Bitcoins.  Lashing out at the Congress leader, Bommai said the BJP government had held the hacker Srikrishna alias Sriki, investigated him and exposed him unlike the Congress, who released him when they were in power in 2018. Challenging Surjewala to provide whatever information he has to the Enforcement Directorate or the Karnataka police, Bommai said action would be taken immediately.  The Chief Minister also sought to know why the Congress government in Karnataka between 2013 and 2019 did not probe the matter when the scam started in 2016. "If there was a Karnataka connection to it, then why did you not probe it when you were in the government? Surjewala should question the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and ministers why their did not heed to it," Bommai charged.  He further said that Srikrishna was held for the first time in 2018, but was let go. If the police had then probed his background, they would have come to know everything about him. "You could have done it in 2018. Why was it not done? You released him and allowed the problem to grow big," Bommai alleged.  The Chief Minister said the hacker was arrested in a drug case in 2020 and a detailed interrogation revealed his role in hacking Bitcoin portals.  Bommai also hit out at Surjewala for relying on a Twitter handle to claim that transactions worth Rs 5,240 crore took place.  "His allegations are based on something appeared on a Twitter handle. If you rely on a Twitter handle to level allegations, then it shows your mental bankruptcy. Anyone can say anything on Twitter," he alleged.  The Chief Minister said Surjewala should have spoken keeping the circumstantial evidence and witnesses with him, instead of basing his charges on tweets.  "If you rely on tweets on a Twitter handle and say that frauds to the tune of crores of Rupees has taken place, then I would clearly say that this does not suit the spokesperson of a national party," Bommai charged.  He asserted that his government is untouched by this scandal because they were the ones who arrested the hacker, investigated the scam, exposed it and referred the matter to the ED, the CBI and Interpol.  Bommai added that his government is also providing all kinds of help to the ED and the CBI.  To a query on the number of Bitcoins held by Srikrishna, Bommai said the hacker had shown an exchange account as his, though no individual can have the exchange account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
14-11-2021||India||Modi govt extends tenures of CBI and ED chiefs up to five years||The tenures of Directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) can now be up to a maximum of five years from the present two years, according to two ordinances brought in by the government on Sunday. The Directors of CBI and ED enjoy a fixed tenure of two years from the date of their appointment in the wake of the directives of the Supreme Court in the famous Vineet Narain case. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance comes barely three days ahead of the retirement of incumbent Enforcement Directorate Chief SK Mishra, a 1984-batch IRS officer. The government had given him an extension of one year in 2020 after the completion of his two years fixed term. The matter was heard by the Supreme Court this year which did not quash the extension but told the government not to give any further extension to Mishra beyond November 17. However, with the promulgation of the ordinance it remains to be seen whether Mishra would continue as the ED chief or not, officials said. The ordinance promulgated by President Ram Nath Kovind that comes into effect "at once" states: Provided that the period for which the Director of Enforcement holds the office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under clause(a) and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time: "Provided further that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment," it states. The ED Director is appointed by the central government on the recommendation of a committee chaired by the Central Vigilance Commissioner and members comprising of Vigilance Commissioners, Home Secretary, Secretary DOPT and Revenue Secretary. The government has also brought in Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 which is also effective "at once". The ordinance inserts the provision in DSPE Act that "Provided that the period for which the Director holds the office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under sub-section (1) of section 4A and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time: "Provided further that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment," it states. The Director CBI is selected on the basis of the recommendation of a committee consisting of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Justice of India and the Leader of Opposition. The fixed term of two years was aimed at ensuring the chiefs of CBI and ED work free from government interference without worrying about any adverse action for the probes carried out by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||North East||Manipur attack: Mortal remains of Col Tripathi, his family and 4 army personnel to head to their homes||The mortal remains of Col Viplav Tripathi, his family and the Assam rifles personnel, who lost their lives in a terror attack in Manipur, will be flown to their hometowns on Sunday, official sources said.  A special flight from the Imphal airport will fly the mortal remains, and is scheduled to reach the Guwahati airport in Assam at first, following which it will fly to Panagarh airbase in West Bengal, they said.  From there, the flight will head to Raipur in Chhattisgarh and then to Jaipur in Rajasthan. The special plane is scheduled to land at the Jaipur airport at 11 pm, they added.  Col Tripathi, the Commanding Officer of Khuga Battalion of Assam Rifles, his wife Anuja and son Abeer, besides four personnel of the country's oldest paramilitary force were killed on Saturday in a welter of IED blasts and burst of gunfire in Manipur's Churachandpur district.  The four Assam Rifles personnel killed in the attack were Rfn Shyamal Das, Rfn Suman Swargiary, Rfn RP Meena and Rfn Khatnei Konyak.  Col Tripathi was a resident of Raigarh in Chattisgarh. Rfn Das was a resident of Murshidabad in West Bengal and Rfn Swargiary belonged to Baksa district in Assam. Rfn Konyak was from Mon district in Nagaland, while Rfn Meena was a resident of Dausa district in Rajasthan.  The mortal remains of Rfn Konyak will be sent by helicopter to his native place in Nagaland, official sources said.  The militants ambushed their convoy at the India-Myanmar border village of Sehken on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||Withdraw Kangana's Padma Shri: DCW chief writes to President||Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday urging him to withdraw the Padma Shri, India's fourth highest civilian award, bestowed on actor Kangana Ranaut for her remarks allegedly belittling the country's Independence.  Ranaut on Thursday had kicked off a row by saying India attained "real freedom" in 2014, apparently referring to the Narendra Modi-led government assuming power, and describing the country's Independence in 1947 as "bheek" (alms). Maliwal, in her letter, said the actor had "made certain outrageous statements disgracing the great freedom fighters of the country".  The DCW chief also demanded sedition charges against the Queen actor.  "These statements reflect her hatred for our great freedom fighters like Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and countless others who laid down their lives for the nation! We all know that our nation got its Independence from British rule through ultimate sacrifices and martyrdom of our great freedom fighters," she wrote.  Highlighting that Ranaut's statements have hurt the sentiments of millions of Indians and are "seditious" in nature, she urged the president to "kindly take cognizance of the matter and withdraw the Padma Shri honour bestowed upon Ms Ranaut".  "I also request you to kindly ensure that an FIR is registered against her on charges of sedition. I hope that you will uphold the sentiments of crores of Indians and do the needful in the matter," Maliwal stressed.  The DCW chief said Ranaut, "through her insensitive and thoughtless lies", had demeaned and belittled "the sacrifices of millions of Indians who participated" in various movements such as the revolt of 1857, the Champaran Satyagrah, the Khilafat Movement, the Quit India Movement, the Dandi March and the Non Cooperation Movement among several others.  "How can we forget the thousands who had assembled at the Jallianwala Bagh to protest against British rule and the massacre that followed? Are these chapters in our history a 'bheek'?" Maliwal sought to know.  She also pointed out that it was not a stray incident by the actor and that "Ranaut appears to not be of sound mind".  "She habitually spews venom against people of her own country and has repeatedly used vile language to attack those she does not agree with. Her behaviour is in no way befitting of the recipient of the highest award in the country and is also an insult to the stalwarts who received the award with and before her," Maliwal added.  Ranaut was recently awarded the Padma Shri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||Lawyers call transfer of ‘fearless’ Madras High Court Chief Justice a ‘travesty’||A legal storm has erupted over the transfer of Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to the considerably smaller Meghalaya High Court with lawyers demanding why to know why a “fearless judge” who was seeking to check corruption in the judiciary is being moved after less than a year in the job. More than 200 lawyers have signed a 12-page petition opposing the transfer and asking Chief Justice N. V. Ramana to “reconsider in the public interest its decision”. The petition calls the transfer plan a “punitive” action and describes the judge as “competent (and) fearless. And an efficient administrator”.  A second petition, making the same demand, has been signed by 23 senior Madras High Court lawyers. The senior lawyers are calling for the Supreme Court Collegium -- which recommends transfers and promotions -- to give an explanation of why Banerjee is being transferred after just 10 months in the post. Senior lawyers also point out that the Collegium made its decision to transfer Banerjee on September 16 but did not make it public till very recently. “The public has a right to know the reasons for this transfer. Until that is done, the only conclusion that can be drawn is that a judge is being rebuked for discharging his duties without fear or favour,” the lawyers said. They warned that lack of a satisfactory explanation could “erode the (public) faith” in the justice system. Banerjee was reportedly working to root out corruption and strengthen the judiciary in Tamil Nadu, the petition said. “It is known in legal circles in Tamil Nadu that in order to ensure a totally free and independent judiciary, inquiries were afoot under the tenure of Chief Justice Banerjee to check corruption in the judiciary. His intolerance for corruption and inefficiency is well known and widely appreciated, the petition stated. “The instant transfer would quell any such effort to strengthen the judiciary in the State", the document said. The transfer is “a travesty. He is a bold and good judge,” said one lawyer who has appeared before Banerjee regularly. The petitions say that Banerjee has been rigorous in demanding accountability from authorities in carrying out their statutory duties. Says another senior lawyer: “My experience of him is utmost integrity with a sharp judicial intellect coupled with practical intelligence and completely impartial.” The petition noted there has been a tendency in the past for judges who demand accountability from authorities to be shifted to “less important” locations. The Madras High Court deals with some 35,000 cases a year while in Meghalaya the number of court cases in a month totals around 70 to 75, “Such "punishment transfers", as they came to be known during the infamous Emergency, send out an alarming signal that honest and fearless judges are subjected to political retribution and independence of the judiciary is under threat,” the advocates said. There are also contrary voices within the legal profession and petitions supporting Banerjee’s transfer. One petition accuses Banerjee of rude behaviour and of not giving plaintiffs a fair hearing. “Rebuking, insulting and threatening of Litigants and Lawyers have become so common that arguing of cases on merits by genuine litigants and Advocates have become almost impossible,” says the petition by a lawyer who has filed several public interest cases and says he did not get a fair hearing from Justice Banerjee. “Orders are being passed, without perusing the pleadings and other documents or due hearing of the parties and based purely on perceptions and unpredictable, impulsive mood of Mr Justice Sanjib Banerjee,” says the aggrieved lawyer. Another lawyer agrees that Banerjee can be impatient. He says: “His problem is that he was an extremely competent commercial lawyer. He comes with huge commercial knowledge. So when lawyers are arguing, you need to be right on the ball.” Adds another lawyer: “When somebody makes a fundamental mistake, he can be a bit abrasive.” However, the representation by 23 senior lawyers who have appeared regularly before the high court points out that Banerjee has managed very well during the pandemic. The petition says: “During his term, he (Justice Banerjee) has discharged his functions both in the administrative and the judicial side to the best of his capabilities, bringing honour to the office he held. He has been a good administrator and in the judicial side disposed of a few thousand cases even during the devastating covid pandemic.” The petition adds: “We are unable to fathom the reasons for his sudden transfer to another court.” In a recent ruling, Banerjee stated, “There has to be a time when the prejudice and vendetta have to be shed particularly when it comes to practising religion. This is a secular country and secularism implies tolerance for the other religion." He has also passed an order to guard media freedom and free speech. The senior advocates also point out that Banerjee took over in January 2021 and all hearings since he took over have been virtual.  “He managed it so well. The kind of disposals the Madras High Court has shown during the last 10 months, it really didn’t matter whether you were physical or virtual,” says one lawyer, who says he only met Banerjee in person during an annual Judges Vs Lawyers cricket match. Taking another line of argument, the senior advocates point out that, “It takes at least a year for a chief justice after assuming charge as the head of the state judiciary, to understand the administration, composition and challenges of the institution.” The Madras High Court lawyers also point out that since 2017 there have been three chief justices (not counting Sanjib Banerjee) who have stayed for barely over a year Indira Banerjee was promoted to the Supreme Court after a 16-month term. Vijaya Tahilramani was also transferred abruptly to the Meghalaya High Court after just 13 months in Chennai. Tahilramani did not take up the assignment and resigned. When she was a Bombay High Court judge, Justice Tahilramani had upheld the conviction of 11 people in the controversial Bilkis Bano case. After her, Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Prasad Sahi had a 13-month term before he retired. “Short tenures and abrupt transfers stand in the way of a cohesive leadership and meaningful administrative reforms,” the lawyers noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||No point raising Pegasus; Opposition should not link Parliament session with polls: Union minister Naqvi||With the Congress set to raise the Pegasus snooping allegations in Parliament again, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday said what is the point of disrupting the House over issues that are "not based on facts", and also asserted that the Opposition should avoid linking the upcoming Winter session with assembly polls.  The deputy leader of Rajya Sabha said the government is ready to discuss and debate all issues on the basis of the decision of the chair in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. In an interview with PTI, Naqvi also took a dig at the Congress over disruptions in previous parliamentary sessions, saying that in the last seven years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has established that "democracy delivers" and "dynasty disturbs".  Asked about the Opposition unity during the last session of Parliament, he said the BJP and Prime Minister Modi believe that there should be a "mazboot (strong)" not "majboor (helpless)" Opposition, but unfortunately in their scramble to lead the Opposition, the influence of such parties is getting diminished.  "They should unite on issues. Last time they united just to disrupt," he said. The Cabinet Committee on Parliament Affairs has recommended that the Winter session of Parliament be held from November 29 to December 23, according to sources.  Asked about the Congress' assertion that it will raise the Pegasus snooping allegations in Parliament again, Naqvi said what they have decided is not important, whatever is decided with unanimity, the government will stand by that. "Till when will they drag their stories and tales about spying. There is no point of raising it. These are issues that are not based on facts or logic. So, if you want to disrupt the House over illogical issues, it is up to you," the Minority Affairs Minister said.  Hitting out at the Congress, Naqvi said, "We were ready to discuss price rise last time, we also fixed the time. Pegasus has been discussed many times and they have been exposed every time."  The Supreme Court has given its verdict and also other agencies have made their stand clear but the problem with the Congress is that it is "the James Bond of spying", the minister said.  When in Opposition, the Congress creates a "hullabaloo" over spying and when in power it spreads a "web of surveillance", Naqvi alleged. The Congress' history is such that they have even spied on their own home minister and finance minister, he claimed.  "So, all this is fake and fabricated but despite that whatever the chair decides, will be discussed," he added. Last month, after the Supreme Court order appointing a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the Pegasus snooping allegations, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had asserted at a press conference that the party will raise the issue again and will try to have a debate in Parliament.  Naqvi stressed that the government maintains a constant line of communication open with the Opposition for the smooth functioning of the House. Asserting that in the previous sessions the Opposition has been found linking the Parliament session with assembly polls, he said if this continues justice will not be done to parliamentary responsibilities.  "What we have seen traditionally is that Opposition raises issues, there is an all-party meeting and there is a business advisory committee meeting on it to decide, but unfortunately even last time, Parliament session happened close to assembly polls and this time also it is closer to 4-5 assembly polls. If we see the session by linking it to polls we will not be able to do justice to our parliamentary duties," he said.  Naqvi hoped that the discussions would take place on all important issues and the upcoming Winter session would be productive. He alleged that till now it has been seen that the Opposition sees parliamentary sessions by linking it with polls.  "Problem is that they do not have support on the ground and that is why they create a furore inside the House," he said, hitting out at the Opposition. On the unruly scenes witnessed in Rajya Sabha on the last day of the Monsoon session, the Rajya Sabha deputy leader said the issue is before the chair and will be decided by it.  "Our appeal is that our Parliament and parliamentary democracy are the strongest in the world and we should not do anything that harms it," Naqvi said. Asked about the farmers' protests and the announcement that they would march to Parliament during the Winter session, Naqvi said the government was always open to dialogue and had never put a "no talks" board for the farmers.  "We appeal to (farmer leaders) to listen, till when will you keep getting exploited. The political parties that are exploiting you are not for your or for farmers welfare," he said. Naqvi said that in the name of farmers, some people for their own benefit have "hijacked this agitation".  He said there were three main farmers' issues, which have been "resolved". "The government has talked about the guarantee of MSP a 1,000 times, both inside and outside Parliament. Then there was the issue of protection of 'Mandis'. 'Mandis' were, are and will remain protected and are flourishing. And, finally the protection of the farmers' land has been guaranteed in the farm laws. These issues have been resolved," Naqvi said.  "Some people want to create confusion, spread fear and misinformation. The government has played its role both inside and outside Parliament (on the farmers' issues)," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||BJP stands for lie, arrogance, inflation: Akhilesh Yadav hits back at Amit Shah's jibe||Responding to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's jibe against his party, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday attacked the BJP saying it stands for arrogance, lies, and inflation.  Akhilesh's response came a day after Shah's speech in Azamgarh, in which he termed the SP as a party that stands for Jinnah, Azam Khan and Mukhtar (Ansari) , giving it the acronym JAM'.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has in past used JAM' as a shorthand to publicise his vision of getting a Jan Dhan Bank account, Aadhaar, and Mobile phone' to every person in the country.  On Sunday, Akhilesh used the same acronym to attack the BJP.  "For BJP, J' stands for Jhooth' (lie), A' stands for Ahankaar(arrogance), and M' stands for Mahangaai' (inflation), he said addressing a press conference in Kushinagar.  In his address, Akhilesh criticized the BJP for rising prices of petrol and diesel across the country.  He alleged the BJP is pandering to the poor only because election is around the corner in Uttar Pradesh.  If the BJP stays in power, it (fuel price) will touch Rs 150. They are not increasing the price as election is round the corner," he said.  "The poor are being given food grains only till the elections. They (BJP) are saying that it has been extended from Holi to Diwali, he said, adding that if his party comes to power, food will be available round the year.  Addressing a rally in the SP bastion of Azamgarh on Saturday, Shah had said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has rid the Purvanchal region of "mosquitoes and mafia".  He claimed that while Modi strived to give a corruption-free government, SP was inducting in its fold people like Mukhtar Ansari, a don-turned-politician.  "You should tell me whether you want BJP's JAM or SP's JAM. These people can never work for the welfare of Uttar Pradesh. They indulge in dividing people on the basis of caste, causing riots, appeasement, and vote-bank politics," Shah had said.  He attacked the SP chief yet again for naming Muhammad Ali Jinnah -- the founder of Pakistan -- among other freedom fighters.  "There are so many people from the minority community here. Is there anyone here who sees greatness in Jinnah," Shah had said.  In an address in Hardoi on October 31, Akhilesh kicked up a controversy when he said Jinnah got his barristership from the same place as did Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, and Jawaharlal Nehru, people who got India freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||Four Indians killed as vehicle crashes into pond in Nepal||Four Indians have died after the vehicle they were travelling in crashed into a pond in southern Nepal's Rautahat district near the border with India, according to a media report on Sunday. The driver and the other occupants of the vehicle are suspected to have been "under influence", The Himalayan Times reported quoting police sources.  The deceased were all natives of Bihar, identified as Dinanath Sah (25), Arun Sah (30), Dilip Mahato (28) and Amit Mahato (27). The driver lost control of the car on the Gaur-Chandrapur Road Section in Yamunamai Rural Municipality, swerving into a pond, Superintendent of Police, Rautahat District, Binod Ghimire told The Himalayan Times.  Security personnel tried rescue attempts, shattering the windshield but the victims were dead by then, he said. The victims were identified based on the Aadhaar Cards found on them. Rautahat Police has contacted the Indian Police. The kin of the deceased arrived on Sunday morning and confirmed the identities, Ghimire said.  The vehicle has been lifted out of the pond using a crane, further investigation is underway, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||20 Indian fishermen released from Pak jail: Official||Twenty Indian fishermen were released from the Landhi district jail here on Sunday after completing their four-year prison terms for allegedly fishing illegally in Pakistani waters and will be handed over to the Indian authorities at the Wagah border on Monday, a senior prison official said. Landhi jail Superintendent Irshad Shah said the fishermen, mostly belonging to Gujarat, were released as a goodwill gesture after the Indian authorities confirmed their nationalities.  "They had served four years in jail and have been released today as a goodwill gesture by our government," Shah said. The Edhi Trust Foundation, a non-profit social welfare organisation, made arrangements to transport the fishermen to the Wagah border in Lahore from where they will be handed over to the Indian authorities on Monday.  "We have handed them over to the Edhi Foundation which is taking care of all their travel and other expenses. They will travel to Lahore by Allama Iqbal Express train, Shah said. The officer said there were 588 more Indian nationals, the majority of them fishermen, who are still languishing in Landhi jail.  We release them once we get approval from the Sindh Home Department as we got yesterday to release these 20 Indian fishermen, he added. The fishermen were arrested by the Pakistan Maritime Security Force (PMSF) and handed over to the dock police for allegedly fishing illegally in Pakistani waters.  The Pakistan government had also released 20 Indian fishermen early last year and another batch of 100 Indian fishermen in April 2019 as a goodwill gesture. Fishermen from Pakistan and India usually end up in jails after they are arrested for fishing illegally in each other's territorial waters.  A senior official of the NGO Pakistan Fishermen Forum said that due to the absence of a clear demarcation line in the coastal area of the Arabian Sea between the two countries, these fishermen who do not possess the modern-day navigation equipment mistakenly cross the red lines and ended up in jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||Sonu Sood's sister Malvika to join politics, to contest 2022 Punjab Assembly polls||Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood on Sunday said his sister Malvika is joining politics, but added he has no such plans for himself.  Malvika later said she will contest the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls from Moga.  Sood, who is from Moga district, said his sister has done a lot of amazing work in the past.  "We today officially want to say that Malvika will certainly come to serve Punjab," the actor said, addressing the media at his residence in the district.  Asked about joining any political party, Sood said no decision has yet been taken in this regard.  "We have not yet taken a call about the party. Whenever the time comes, we will make sure that we let you know," he said.  When asked whether he would enter politics, Sood said he has not thought about it.  "It is a very big decision in life. I think Malvika is strongly rooted in Moga For me (joining politics), I have not thought of it," he said.  Asked about his recent meetings with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, Sood said both of them are good people.  On SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sood said he would meet him too, adding that Badal has vast experience in politics.  About the ongoing farmers' protest, the actor said it was necessary that the farmers get their rights, asserting that their issues should be resolved so that they can return to their fields.  "What we are eating is because of them. It is important they should be happy," he said.  He also emphasized on improving the healthcare system in the state.  "There are several dispensaries in villages in Punjab where nobody is there (for patients). Sometimes in government hospitals, doctors and medicines were not available. These things should be set right," Sood said.  To a question on income tax raids on his premises in September, he said he had faced many difficulties in the past but he continued his fight for the people.  Replying to another query, Sood said unemployment was the biggest issue in Punjab.  "The biggest problem of Punjab is unemployment, and when people do not get jobs, they take to drugs. We are already working on it," he said.  He stressed that the IT industry should be promoted in the state in a big way for generating employment opportunities.  Sood also announced a dialysis service for needy patients free of charge.  Later talking to reporters, Malvika said she had been working towards addressing issues related to healthcare and education.  The Punjab assembly polls are due early next year.  Sood grabbed the national spotlight for helping migrants reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||Kashmir reels under sub-zero ||Kashmir reeled under sub-zero night temperature as the mercury went below the freezing point in Srinagar for the first time this season, setting-in the wintry conditions in the valley, officials said on Sunday.  Several areas in Kashmir were engulfed by a layer of fog on Sunday morning as the mercury went below the freezing point across the valley, they said. It is for the first time this season that all the weather stations in the Kashmir Valley recorded the sub-zero night temperature, the officials said.  Srinagar recorded a low of minus 0.9 degrees Celsius last night -- down from 0.1 degrees Celsius the previous night. The city recorded its coldest night this season, the officials said, adding that it was also for the first time this season that the mercury slipped below the freezing point in the city.  They said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of minus 3.5 degrees Celsius. Pahalgam was the coldest recorded place in Kashmir. Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 1.8 degrees Celsius.  The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 1.3 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag town in the south recorded a low of minus 0.3 degrees Celsius.  The wintry conditions in Kashmir have set-in much ahead of the beginning of extreme harsh weather conditions, which usually start around the third week of December. 'Chillai Kalan', the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir, begins on December 21 every year. The Meteorological (MeT) Department has said the weather is most likely to remain dry till November 20.  However, there is a possibility of very light snow at one or two places in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir over the next 24 hours, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
14-11-2021||India||Visionary who laid foundations of modern India: Congress hails Nehru on his birth anniversary||Several Congress leaders on Sunday paid rich tributes to Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary, with the party hailing the country's first prime minister as a visionary who laid the foundations of modern India.  Congress president Sonia Gandhi offered floral tributes at Shanti Vana in New Delhi, while several party leaders paid glowing tributes on social media to the Congress stalwart.  Born in 1889, the Congress stalwart remains the country's longest serving prime minister.  Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi posted a quote of Nehru -- "What we need is a generation of peace" -- and said remembering India's first prime minister who greatly valued truth, unity and peace. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also paid a tribute to Nehru and hailed the contribution of farmers, soldiers and labourers while remembering India's first prime minister. The party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala hailed Nehru's contribution and said he played a major role in making India a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic republic. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal paid a tribute to Nehru, saying, "We are the children of our Republic he cherished and nourished. He built institutions of the future. He celebrated diversity that is our strength." "We should worry that what he stood for is slowly being demolished!" he said. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, paid rich tributes to Nehru. "A hero of our freedom movement, a visionary who laid the foundations of modern India, a nationalist who stood fearlessly to protect India's interests, an inspirational human who transformed the thought of generations, Pandit Nehru was a true son of Bharat Mata," the party said.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to the country's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary. "Tributes to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his birth anniversary," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality improves to 'very poor' from 'severe' category||The air quality of Delhi has improved to 'very poor' from the 'severe' category on Sunday, with the AQI being recorded at 338. The air quality index of neighbouring areas of Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida was recorded at 312, 368, 301 and 357, respectively.  The overall air quality index of Delhi was recorded at 338 at 9.05 am. In Delhi, the air quality index of Lodhi Road, Pusa Road, Chandni Chowk and Delhi airport was recorded at 295, 313, 352 and 321 respectively, according to the Sameer app.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday had announced various emergency measures, including closure of schools for one week, ban on construction activities work from home at government offices, to deal with the pollution crisis faced by the city.  Kejriwal after an emergency meeting told reporters that his government would also present a plan of lockdown before the Supreme Court.  Authorities on Friday had advised people to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30 per cent as air quality in Delhi-NCR inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions.  A sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) said meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18 and agencies concerned must be fully ready to implement measures under "emergency" category.  Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.1, three notches below the season's average, on Sunday.  The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 83 per cent.  The weather office has predicted a mainly clear sky with moderate fog in the morning with a maximum temperature expected to be around 26 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Milind Teltumbde among 26 Naxals killed in Maharashtra, confirm police||Top Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde was among the 26 Naxals killed in an encounter with police in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district, a senior police official said on Sunday.  The gun-battle took place on Saturday at Korchi in Mardintola forest area of the district, located over 900 km from Mumbai, when a C-60 police commando team was conducting a search operation, police earlier said.  The C-60 commandos, an elite wing of the police, had recovered bodies of 26 Naxals during a search after the encounter and Teltumbde, one of the wanted accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was suspected to be among the dead.  "Teltumbde was among the 26 dead Naxals," a senior state police official confirmed on Sunday.  The police also recovered 29 firearms from the spot, including nine 12 bore weapons, nine SLRs (self-loading rifles) and five AK-47 guns, another police official said.  The dead rebels included 20 males and six females.  A male and a female bodyguard of Teltumbde were also among those killed in the encounter, police said.  Milind Teltumbde, the brother of activist and scholar Anand Teltumbde, was carrying a reward of Rs 50 lakh on his head for his alleged involvement in violent activities against the state.  Anand Teltumbde had been arrested earlier in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case and is currently lodged at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai.  As per a charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad case, Milind Teltumbde was named as the 'dreaded Maoist', a top operative of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), and declared as absconding.  He was allegedly involvement in the Naxal movement since 1996 and was on the radar of central and state security agencies for the last few years in the wake of his activities.  A witness of the NIA in the Elgar Parishad case in a statement claimed that Milind Teltumbde had lived in Dhammadeep Nagar at Ita Bhatti Chowk in Maharashtra's Nagpur district.  The witness had claimed that Milind Teltumbde bought a property worth Rs 7 lakh under the name of an associate and stayed there between January 2017 and April 2018.  According to the NIA, Milind Teltumbde used several alias names like 'Anil', 'Deepak', 'Sahyadri' and 'Comrade M' while on the run.  On Saturday, four police personnel were also seriously injured in the action against Naxals in Gadchiroli, which lies on the border of Chhattisgarh, and were taken to Nagpur by a helicopter for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||India records 11,271 fresh Covid-19 cases, 285 deaths||With 11,271 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's infection tally rose to 3,44,37,307 on Sunday, while the active cases came down to 1,35,918, the lowest in 522 days (17 months), according to the Union Health Ministry's data.  The death toll reached 4,63,530 with 285 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new Covid infections has been below 20,000 for 37 straight days and less than 50,000 daily for 140 consecutive days now.  The active cases now comprise 0.39 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020.  The average recovery rate for the country stands currently at 98.26 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said.  A decrease of 390 cases has been recorded in the active Covid cases in the last 24 hours.  The daily positivity rate was recorded to be 0.90 per cent --less than two per cent in the last 41 days.  The weekly positivity rate was recorded to be 1.01 per cent, which has been below 2 per cent for the last 51 days, according to the health ministry.  The number of people who have recovered from the disease increased to 3,38,37,859, while the fatality rate stood at 1.35 per cent.  The number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 112.01 crore.  India's Covid tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, and 50 lakh on September 16.  It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 285 new fatalities include 174 from Kerala and 49 from Maharashtra.  Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the last few days, hence the death tally of the state is high.  A total of 4,63,530 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,565 from Maharashtra, 38,143 from Karnataka, 36,273 from Tamil Nadu, 35,685 from Kerala, 25,093 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,307 from West Bengal.  The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath’s new project: Azamgarh to Aryamgarh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath indicated in the presence of Amit Shah on Saturday that Azamgarh district could be rechristened Aryamgarh, in keeping with the BJP’s penchant for airbrushing names with Muslim associations. “Nobody should have any doubt that the foundation stone for the university we are laying here today will convert Azamgarh into Aryamgarh,” Adityanath said at the event to flag off the state varsity. The foundation stone for Suheldev University was laid by Shah, the Union home minister. Adityanath left no doubt about the BJP’s intention to play its pet communal card in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year. “Remember, it is the same Azamgarh were I was attacked in 2007. We had arrived here at that time because Ajit Rai was killed at Shibli National College. He was a worker of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and had advocated the singing of Vande Mataram on Republic Day,” the chief minister said. “Brothers and sisters, he was killed on the college campus near the office of the principal and an FIR was not registered for a month. Can anybody today dare to kill someone in full public view?” Adityanath added. Rai, a student leader, had been killed at the gate of Shibli National College in 2007 during union elections. Although the BJP had claimed that he was murdered for supporting the recital of Vande Mataram on Republic Day, both police and the college had denied this. The police had said Rai’s death was the fallout of the political rivalry between two groups of students. Adityanath, who was then the Gorakhpur MP, had visited Azamgarh and held a meeting. On his way back, some unidentified people had pelted his convoy with stones. Adityanath said the upcoming university would start functioning from the next academic session. Around 400 colleges of Azamgarh and Mau districts will be affiliated to it and about two lakh students studying in these institutions would get their degrees from the new university. The BJP has been claiming for many decades that Azamgarh, with a substantial Muslim population, is “a nursery of terrorists”. The communal campaign had got shriller after the death of two youths from Azamgarh in the encounter at Batla House in Delhi’s Jamia Nagar on September 19, 2008. Many youths from Azamgarh had been arrested from different parts of the country in the aftermath of the encounter. The then UPA government had said the youths were Pakistan-trained terrorists. While many of the youths arrested during that time still languish in jail, the terrorism charges are yet to be proved. Many Muslims in Azamgarh believe that governments in general have been vindictive towards them because their family members work in the Gulf and earn enough to send money back home for a decent life and higher education for children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Delhi pollution: Supreme Court raps bid to ‘bash farmers’||The Supreme Court on Saturday directed the Centre to ramp up emergency measures, including considering a two-day lockdown and restricting vehicle movement, to combat Delhi’s alarming pollution levels, pointing out that it had become a “fashion” among governments to blame farmers. A special bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant gave time till Monday to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, to submit an action plan to tackle pollution, for which the government had sought to blame stubble burning by farmers. The air quality index (AQI) in the national capital has shot up to nearly 500, which indicates “severe” levels of pollution, as Delhi-NCR has remained shrouded in a thick canopy of smog after Diwali. AQI below 50 is considered “good”, less than 100 “satisfactory”, below 300 “poor”, 301-400 “very poor” and 401-500 “severe”. Severe AQI triggers respiratory ailments. “Now it has become a fashion to bash the farmers, whether it is the Delhi government or someone else. There was a ban on firecrackers, what happened with that? See what’s happening in the last seven days. What is the Delhi police doing?” Justice Surya Kant told senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government. The judge added: “I am a farmer, the CJI is also from a farmer’s family, we know it.” The bench was livid with the argument of the Centre and the Arvind Kejriwal government that the high levels of pollution were a fallout of stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana. CJI Ramana also expressed displeasure when Mehta pointed to the farmers. “You are projecting as if farmers are responsible for this pollution. What about the Delhi people? What about the steps taken to regulate firecrackers, vehicular emissions?” Justice Ramana asked. The solicitor-general had said: “Over the past few days, there has been a spurt in stubble burning in Punjab, the result of which we are seeing. Punjab needs to buckle up. I am not making this adversarial.” Mehta requested CJI Ramana not to interpret his comments as an effort to blame farmers alone. Justice Ramana said: “We have been forced to wear masks at home also, the situation is very serious.” Mehta replied: “I am not even remotely suggesting that farmers are only responsible.” “Your Lordship knows the potential of this statement. Please don’t take it that the government, whether the state or the Centre, is putting this on farmers. There’s not a remote intention suggesting that,” he said. The court was dealing with a PIL PIL filed by Aditya Dubey, a resident, last year seeking adequate remedial measures to deal with the pollution problem in the Delhi-NCR region every winter. Justice Chandrachud said the problem was not with enforcement but incentivisation. “If you give the incentives then why won’t a farmer switch (to other modes of disposing of crop stubble)? You cannot enforce these things,” Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Surya Kant said stubble, instead of being burnt, could be used as fodder for goats and other livestock during winter. Justice Chandrachud wanted the government to explore if the stubble could be used in thermal power plants, and whether the farmers could be paid to ferry them from the fields. CJI Ramana said the court was at the moment more concerned with emergency measures so that the pollution level could be brought down over the next two days. The court will thereafter explore the other directives necessary for long-term measures. “You have to look at this issue beyond politics and government,” Justice Ramana said. Mehta replied: “We realise it is a matter of joint responsibility. We never said farmers are responsible.” CJI Ramana said the Centre should ask the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to ensure there was no stubble burning for the next two days. Justice Surya Kant said: “You have to answer the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India’s query as to how 80 per cent of the pollution in Delhi is due to causes apart from stubble burning.” Justice Ramana said that while stubble burning was one of the causes, the others were crackers, industries and dust. “You have to tell how we can immediately reduce the AQI by 200 points. If required, think of two days’ lockdown or something. You can reduce the number of vehicles on the roads. Otherwise, how will people live?” the CJI said. Justice Chandrachud told Mehra, the Delhi government counsel: “You know that the government has recently allowed reopening of schools. Post-pandemic, schools have opened. We are exposing these little children to this pollution at 7 in the morning. Dr (Randeep) Guleria (AIIMS director) has said we are exposing them to pollution, pandemic and dengue.” The judge added: “You (the Delhi government) have opened all schools and now you are (exposing) children and their lungs to the pollutants. This is not the central government’s but your jurisdiction. What is happening on that front?” Mehra agreed that the pollution level was alarming and quoted statistics to say that it was akin to a citizen smoking 20 cigarettes a day. CJI Ramana said the Centre must take steps to impose some strict measures so that the city could breathe better in the next two days. “Why don’t you ask Punjab and Haryana to put on hold stubble burning?” he asked. Mehta sought time till Monday to place an affidavit detailing the steps taken by the government. The court adjourned the matter till then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Eloquent rulings of Madras HC chief justice tipped for transfer||Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the Madras High Court chief justice who has been earmarked for transfer to Meghalaya in a decision that has prompted a protest by several lawyers, has delivered key judgments upholding constitutional rights, values of free speech and secularism. The lawyers protesting the move to transfer him have asked whether this is a “punishment transfer” for an “honest and fearless” judge. The Supreme Court collegium has recommended the transfer of Justice Banerjee who has, during his 10 months as Madras High Court chief justice, castigated the poll panel for allowing large campaign rallies amid the pandemic, directed the Centre to more widely implement OBC quotas in MBBS seats, upheld media freedom and rapped a BJP unit over questionable electoral practices. He also prevented a move to curb Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin’s powers over the management of the state’s temples, excoriating “prejudice and vendetta” over religion and stressing “this is a secular country”. In an open memorandum to the apex court collegium, a group of 237 advocates practising at Madras High Court have urged a reconsideration of Justice Banerjee’s proposed transfer to Meghalaya High Court. The “lack of stated criteria” (for the transfer recommendation) has spawned a perception of “arbitrariness”, the memorandum says. Until members of the Bar and the public know the reasons for the transfer, “the only conclusion that can be drawn is that a judge is being rebuked for discharging his duties without fear or favour”, the memorandum says. It says Justice Banerjee’s transfer from a high court with a sanctioned strength of 75 judges to a younger and smaller high court, set up only in 2013 and with a current strength of just two judges, is “raising disconcerting questions”. Justice Banerjee, a former Calcutta High Court judge, was appointed chief justice of Madras High Court on January 4 this year and is due to retire on November 1, 2023. The memorandum flags several judgments that benches headed by Justice Banerjee have delivered over the past 10 months and says these may have earned him the “ire of those in power”. It says these judgments upheld “constitutional rights, values of free speech, secularism, free and fair elections, right to health and state accountability”. Some of these judgments were: ⚫ Dismissal of a public interest litigation (PIL) plea that sought to prevent Stalin from chairing the state-level advisory committee under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) Act until he had taken a pledge of allegiance to a Hindu deity at a temple. Justice Banerjee’s order said: “There has to be a time when the prejudice and vendetta have to be shed particularly when it comes to practising religion. This is a secular country and secularism implies tolerance for the other religion.” ⚫ Dismissal of a PIL in July that sought the reopening of all temples in Tamil Nadu amid the pandemic. Justice Banerjee ruled that citizens’ right to practise their religion was “subservient to their right to life”. ⚫ Interim stay on provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, in the interests of media freedom and free speech. ⚫ In April, Justice Banerjee had, while hearing a case on the enforcement of Covid norms, orally observed that Election Commission of India officials “should be probably booked for murder” for allowing large campaign rallies (for Assembly elections, including one in Bengal) amid a deadly second wave of the pandemic. ⚫ A directive to the Centre in July to implement OBC reservation in MBBS seats under the all-India quota at state-run medical and dental colleges. ⚫ Justice Banerjee came down heavily on the Puducherry unit of the BJP while hearing a PIL that alleged misuse of voters’ Aadhaar details to boost the party’s Assembly election campaign. ⚫ A bench headed by Justice Banerjee asked uncomfortable questions to the central government on Covid vaccine pricing. The memorandum says the transfer recommendation may have sent out an “alarming signal that honest and fearless judges are subjected to political retribution and the independence of the judiciary is under threat”. “While transfers for better administration of justice may be necessary in principle, members of the Bar have a right to know why a competent, fearless judge and an efficient administrator of a large high court where more than 35,000 cases were filed this year should be transferred to a court where the total number of cases instituted in a month is on an average 70-75,” the memorandum says. The memorandum cites how the collegium had recommended Justice Banerjee’s appointment as Madras High Court chief justice less than a year ago in December 2020, obviously after considering his competence and experience as a Calcutta High Court judge. “It is therefore inexplicable that in ten months, the collegium should revise its opinion and recommend that such a person should be transferred to a court where any avenue for utilising his vast experience would be severely limited,” it says. Justice Banerjee “is known to be impartial, open to suggestions from all quarters for improving the functioning of the justice system and has taken proactive measures to strengthen the judiciary”, the memorandum says. According to the signatories, it’s well known in Tamil Nadu legal circles that inquiries have been under way on Justice Banerjee’s watch to check corruption in the judiciary. The memorandum says his intolerance for corruption and inefficiency is widely appreciated, and his transfer would quell the efforts to strengthen the judiciary in the state. “This representation ought not to be seen as espousing the cause of an individual but as an earnest request to protect the institution and the independence of the judiciary,” the memorandum says. It adds that “short tenures and abrupt transfers” hardly do any good to the judicial administration. A similar controversy had struck Madras High Court in 2019 when then Chief Justice V.K. Tahilramani — a woman judge from Maharashtra with a reputation for impartiality and competence — was suddenly transferred to Meghalaya High Court. The judge felt so humiliated that she resigned without accepting the transfer. Justice Banerjee specialised in corporate and intellectual property law and was appointed a permanent judge at Calcutta High Court on June 22, 2006.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Puri: Jagannath temple receives Rs 28 lakh in cash in Hundi ||The Jagannath temple in Puri, Odisha, received a record Rs 28 lakh in cash in the Hundi — a secret donation chamber in the 12th-century shrine, an official said on Saturday. Total Rs 28,10,691 in cash, 550mg gold and 61.70gm of silver were found in the Hundi, set up inside the temple according to the Hundi Act, 1975, on Friday, the official of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) said. Friday was Anala Navami, a major festival dedicated to Lord Vishnu. “This is the highest donation received in nearly two years, since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic. The amount was high because of the belief to make donations at the temple on the auspicious Anala Navami,” the official said. On usual days, Rs 2.5-3 lakh in cash is received in the Hundi, he said. It took five hours for five people to count the notes and coins, he added. Devotees show greater enthusiasm for making donations through the Hundi, the official said. As more devotees are visiting the temple from across the country, the Hundi has recorded a remarkable growth rate, he pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||RTI activist killed in Madhubani ||RTI activist and journalist Buddhinath Jha, aka Avinash Jha, was killed in Benipatti in Bihar’s Madhubani district on Friday. The killers had tried to burn his body to hide his identity. Jha, who was spearheading a crusade against malpractices by private hospitals in his area, was abducted on November 9. His family had registered an FIR with the local police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Congress cries bitcoin scandal cover-up in Karnataka||The Congress on Saturday demanded a special investigation team probe monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge into a bitcoin scandal in Karnataka, claiming international ramifications and alleging a cover-up by the state’s BJP government. State Congress leaders have already alleged the involvement of BJP leaders in the controversy, which involves the alleged theft of bitcoins, a cryptocurrency not recognised as legal tender in India. Now the Congress central leadership has given the issue a wider dimension, asking why Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief minister Basavaraj Bommai not to worry despite this being an “international crime” involving huge sums. “We are told that (America’s) Federal Bureau of Investigation showed documents related to this scam to Prime Minister Modi during his latest visit to the US,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “He (Modi) was deeply embarrassed. But the Karnataka chief minister himself told the media that he wanted to discuss the bitcoin issue with the Prime Minister but he said not to worry much about it. “Basavaraj Bommai was the (Karnataka) home minister when the crime was committed. Shouldn’t he be punished? Why is the Prime Minister saying not to worry?” Surjewala continued: “The silence of the Prime Minister and home minister Amit Shah in the wake of ‘Operation Cover-up, Deception and Intrigue’ is shocking. They should answer these questions: Who are the actors in the bitcoin scam and cover-up? Why were the National Investigation Agency, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) not informed by the Karnataka BJP government? “Now we want a probe by an SIT which can include Interpol representatives, RBI officials and financial experts. The SIT probe should be monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge.” Karnataka police had arrested a man named Sri Krishna and an alleged associate, Robin Khandelwal, on November 14 last year on the charge of stealing bitcoins from several countries through hacking. The police kept Sri Krishna in their custody for months, repeatedly arresting him in connection with at least five criminal cases, registered one after another. He was released on bail on April 17 this year. Sri Krishna had reportedly made a voluntary statement before the metropolitan magistrate, Bangalore, in December 2020 admitting to the theft. Surjewala asked why the Karnataka police had informed Interpol only five months after the arrest. “Even ED/CBI/SFIO were not informed. The ED enqui­red about the incident on February 15, 2021, and (the) Karnataka government responded only on March 3, 2021.” Bitfinex, a cryptocurrency exchange registered in the tax haven of the British Virgin Islands, had reported the theft of 120,000 bitcoins in 2016. One bitcoin now costs Rs 51 lakh. Surjewala also said Whale Alert, a Twitter alert that reflects the transfer of bitcoins worldwide, had reported the transfer of 14,682.731 bitcoins worth Rs 5,240 crore from the Bitfinex Bitcoin Exchange. “Intriguingly, Whale Alert reflected that transfer on December 1, 2020, and on April 14, 2021. This was the time when Sri Krishna was in police custody. Were the stolen bitcoins transferred from Sri Krishna’s wallet?” he said. “How many bitcoins and of what value? How do the Bangalore police then suggest that the 31 & 186 bitcoins allegedly transferred to the police wallet were lost or were found to be fake transactions?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
14-11-2021||India||Students cry for physical classes at Delhi University||Most students of IIT Delhi are set to return to classrooms in January. Their peers at Delhi University, however, have been on a dharna for six days to demand the resumption of physical classes. Ayush Mondal from Bengal’s Bankura district is one of the 30-odd students who are protesting near the arts faculty of DU seeking the reopening of the campus for in-person classes, access to the library and the conduct of examinations in the traditional pen-and-paper mode. “Classes are still being conducted online. When I was in Bankura, I was attending over phone. The Internet was poor and I had a real struggle. I came back hoping that physical classes would resume, now that malls and markets have opened. Schools too are reopening in Delhi. IIT Delhi is set to reopen. But DU is closed,” Mondal said. Mondal, an undergraduate student of political science at Ram Lal Anand College affiliated to DU, said the biggest problem with online classes was that there was little scope for discussion and debate with teachers and other students. “Online teaching can be dull. Also, many students face problems in attending classes because of lack of device and patchy Internet,” he said. Mondal pointed out that the semester exams are to begin later this month in the online mode. He said online exams compromised the sanctity of the process. The DU authorities are yet to take a decision on resuming in-person classes because of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines that allow not more than 50 per cent occupancy in classrooms. “The problem is how to ensure 50 per cent occupancy. We cannot hold classes twice. It is difficult to allow some students to come to class while the others participate online,” said Vikas Gupta, the DU registrar. IIT Delhi on Friday announced that classes for most courses would be held face-to-face from January. For classes of large size, the tech school will make the students sit in two rooms. While the teacher will take the class in one room, the other room will have a projector and a screen where he or she will be beamed live. “The requirement of 50 per cent occupancy means we will not allow more than that in a classroom. We have many big classrooms. Students of certain courses can be accommodated in a single room by adhering to the 50 per cent requirement. Some classes will be held in two rooms while some others will continue to be held online,” said Prof. Shantanu Roy, dean of academics at IIT Delhi. DU colleges, however, have comparatively smaller classroom, and screens and projectors are not available. Neha, an Ambedkar University alumna, said libraries were essential. “Students need to use the library for reading. The college libraries are only issuing books, not allowing students to sit there and read,” she said. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has decided to reopen in phases. The PhD and Master’s students are back on campus while undergraduate students are yet to be allowed. Jamia Millia Islamia University is yet to reopen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
14-11-2021||India||Kerala: No dress code for women in educational institutions, says Bindu||The Kerala government has come to the aid of teachers battling sartorial policing by education institutions that insist on women wearing saris, that too at a time when the state is discussing gender-neutral uniforms for students. Higher education minister R. Bindu has clarified there is no dress code in Kerala’s educational institutions, responding to a complaint. She has also got her department to re-issue an order stating that teachers are free to wear any clothes of their choice. While the first such order was issued in 2008, the second came in 2013 as teachers continued to complain about dress cops in their institutions. The trigger for the latest controversy over dress code was a complaint by an unnamed lady teacher in Kodungallur, Thrissur. The teacher who had turned up in kurta and leggings had allegedly been told by the management to either change to sari or quit. “Four or five days ago a young lady teacher spoke to me regarding this. She had called to share her experience at a reputed institution in Kodungallur. It is understood that the institution insisted on wearing sari as a condition to remain employed,” minister Bindu wrote on Facebook. “The imposition of sari does not befit the progressive outlook of Kerala…. Dressing style is one’s personal matter and no one has the right to interfere with that,” the education minister added. “Teachers in Kerala have the right to wear what they are comfortable in,” said Bindu, who used to wear churidars when she taught at Kerala Varma College in Thrissur. Higher secondary Malayalam teacher Lisa Pulparambil, who recently turned up in the traditional Kerala male clothing of mundu (dhoti) and shirt at her school in Palakkad as a gender statement against misogyny, said a large number of schools and colleges still wanted their lady teachers to wear sari. “In some institutions like mine, they also allow churidars but with a shawl. Anything different is frowned upon. So this is a malaise affecting our education system,” Lisa told The Telegraph on Saturday. She has been defying diktats by wearing long pants and kurta, braving jeers and smirks from many of her colleagues. “It is really unfortunate that we are faced with dress codes at a time when many are discussing gender-neutral uniforms for students,” Lisa added. A 106-year-old government lower primary school in Valayanchirangara, Ernakulam, has been winning laurels in Kerala for implementing gender-neutral uniform of three-quarter pants and shirts. Prior to the switch in 2019, girls wore skirts and shirts and boys, shorts and shirts. The unisex uniform came back into focus with minister for general education V. Sivankutty recently citing it as an example of gender equality that needed to be embraced by all. A higher secondary teacher at a private school in Kannur told this newspaper that she had to wear sari on all working days. “We have no option other than saris, irrespective of peak summer or monsoon, that too without exposing any part of the body,” she said, asked about the order against dress codes. Several people who reacted to Bindu’s Facebook comment in Malayalam highlighted the prevalence of dress codes in many institutions in the state in spite of the repeated government orders against it. A woman named Bindulekha Bijo cited instances of BEd colleges insisting on female students wearing shawl over churidars. “A BEd college in Kozhikode insists girls wear shawls. Even girls in seventh standard have been asked to wear shawls in a Kannur school.” Divya Palamittam commented on the minister’s social media page that a lady teacher had to resign over dress code. “I know a teacher who had to resign due to harassment for posting a WhatsApp status against dress code. There was no action against the harassers even after complaining to the department of education in Thrissur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
