15-11-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan  accuses Centre of encroaching upon powers of states||Accusing the Centre of continuously encroaching upon the powers of the states, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the development and welfare activities undertaken by the states were affected due to the union government limiting their rights over the country's general economic resources. The Chief Minister, while addressing the MPs from the state in the run up to the the winter session of Parliament, claimed that the states ruled by the BJP have complaints on such matters. "Centre is continuously encroaching upon the powers of the states. It does not consider the interests of the state. The Centre also limits the right of the states to the general economic resources of the country, hindering their development and welfare activities. Even states ruled by the Centre's ruling party are raising such issues," Mr Vijayan said. Urging MPs to intervene in such a way that the development and welfare activities of the state can be carried forward in a good manner, the Chief Minister claimed that the Union Government took the responsibility of GST arrears and vaccination as a result of "our joint efforts" and accused the Centre of not considering the interest of Kerala on the issue of food grains, rubber price, coastal protection and expatriate rehabilitation -- the areas directly responsible to the Centre. He said the states should be provided with GST compensation after July 2022 and for the next five years. Mr Vijayan also urged the MPs to intervene to get Kerala the ₹ 2,412 crore as Sectoral Specific Grant and ₹ 1,100 crore as State Specific Grant recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. He said the co-operation of the Centre and the state in development activities, especially in the field of infrastructure, is very important. "There is cooperation in some areas. The MPs should try to expand it", Mr Vijayan said and sought the support of MPs for pushing the state government's ambitious highspeed Silverline rail project connecting Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram. Claiming it was an important indispensable project for the future of the state, the Chief Minister said the doubts of some people regarding the project, which will play an important role in the development of the state, will be removed. The Congress-led opposition has termed as "unscientific and impractical" the project and said it will put a huge financial burden of around 1.24 lakh crores on the state. The project is expected to reduce travel time from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod to around four hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
15-11-2021||India||CBSE Term 1: Class 12 examinations begin from Tuesday||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will start the Term 1 examination 2021 for Class 12 students from Tuesday, 16 November. The exams will start with minor subjects for Class 12 on 16 November, and Class 10 on 17 November. Exams will be held from 11.30 am to 1.00 pm, as per the official schedule, with the first paper for Class 12 exams being on entrepreneurship and beauty and wellness. For Class 10, the first exam will be of painting. Those candidates who will participate in the international olympiads or national or international sporting events and might miss their Term 1 board exam will have to take a special exam conducted by the CBSE later. The final result for candidates who test positive for Covid-19 during the examination will be declared based on their Term 2 examination. The CBSE exams will be conducted according to the schedule, even though classes are suspended in Delhi till 20 November. Recently, students of CBSE and Council for the Indian School Certificate Exam (CISCE) had filed a plea asking for the Term 1 examination to be held in hybrid mode, a mix of online and offline modes, rather than the offline-only mode for Classes 10 and 12 Term 1 exams. CBSE also released the admit cards for the Term 1 examination on 9 November. The CBSE will conduct Class 12 board exams for 114 subjects and Class 10 exams for 75 subjects. Practical examinations are supposed to be conducted by 23 December. For the Term 1 exams, CBSE will use OMR sheets this year for Classes 10 and 12. The OMR sheets will have details of the respective candidate. As per CBSE, students are only required to mark their responses on the sheet with a blue or black point ball pen. The board had also released a rationalised syllabus for students taking the Term 1 exams this year. The exams will be based on 50 percent of the syllabus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
15-11-2021||India||India allows Quarantine-free entry to travellers from 99 countries||India on Monday resumed quarantine-free entry for foreign travellers from 99 countries, which have agreed to a mutual recognition of COVID-19 vaccination certificates with it, almost 20 months after restrictions were imposed due to COVID-19. Travellers from these 99 countries, including the US, the UK, France, Germany, Australia, the Netherlands and Russia, which have been listed under "Category A", have to submit a self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal (newdelhiairport.in) before the scheduled travel, apart from uploading a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report, according to the revised Guidelines for International Arrivals released by the Union health ministry on November 11. There are countries that have agreements with India on a mutual recognition of vaccination certificates of nationally-recognised or World Health Organization-recognised vaccines. Similarly, there are countries that do not have such an agreement with India, but they exempt the Indian citizens who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 with nationally-recognised or WHO-recognised vaccines, the guidelines stated. On the basis of reciprocity, the travellers from all such countries that provide quarantine-free entry to Indians ("Category A" countries) are allowed certain relaxations on arrival, the guidelines read. Some of the countries currently considered to be "at risk" by India, which means the travellers from where would need to follow additional measures on arrival including testing, are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and Singapore. "As India opened its doors to fully-vaccinated international tourists from all over the world beginning Monday, India tourism Mumbai accorded a warm welcome to the first set of international tourists who landed at Mumbai International Airport by Air France flight AF218," the Union Ministry of Tourism said in a tweet. According to the guidelines, if fully-vaccinated travellers are coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO-approved COVID-19 vaccines, they shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine. They shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post arrival. If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures, including submission of samples for post-arrival Covid test at the point of arrival, after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantined for seven days, a re-test would be conducted on the eighth day of arrival and if the results are negative, they have to further self-monitor their health for seven days. "Fifteen days must have elapsed since completion of COVID-19 vaccination schedule," the guidelines said. Travellers from countries excluding those "at risk" will be allowed to leave the airport and they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post arrival. This is applicable to travellers from all countries, including those with which reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO-approved vaccines exist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
15-11-2021||India||SC to hear Centre's plea in Alapan Bandyopadhyay case on Nov 22||The Supreme Court on Monday posted for November 22 an appeal of the central government against the Calcutta High Court order which had set aside the order of the Principal Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) transferring a case filed by former West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay from Kolkata to Delhi. After a brief hearing, a Bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar posted the matter for next Monday. The central government has moved Supreme Court challenging the October 29 Calcutta High Court order quashing CAT decision to uphold the transfer of case against Mr Badhopadhyay out of Bengal to New Delhi. The Centre claimed that the High Court lacked jurisdiction to pass the order contending that cause of action has arisen entirely in New Delhi and therefore, jurisdiction would lie with the Principal Bench, New Delhi since charge sheet was issued from here. Further, any challenge to the CAT order would lie before the Delhi High Court, and not the Calcutta High Court, Centre added. In May 2021, Bandyopadhyay was serving as Chief Secretary when the Centre decided to cut short his tenure with the West Bengal government and asked him to report to New Delhi. On May 31, Bandyopadhyay superannuated. Subsequently, an inquiry was initiated against him by the Centre for not attending a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister on May 28, 2021 for assessing the loss of life and property caused by the cyclonic storm Yaas. After the inquiry order, Bandyopadhyay moved CAT's Kolkata Bench challenging it. Thereafter, the Centre moved the Principal Bench for transferring the case here and on October 22 order was passed allowing the transfer petition. Bandyopadhyay then moved the High Court against CAT, New Delhi order. The High Court on October 29, took strong objection to the manner in which the CAT Principal Bench favoured the Central government in transferring Bandyopadhyay's case to itself and quashed CAT’s order. Now, the Centre has approached the Supreme Court against High Court order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
15-11-2021||India||Parliamentary panel discusses crypto finance||A parliamentary panel, chaired by BJP leader Jayant Sinha, on Monday discussed the pros and cons of crypto finance with various stakeholders, and several members were in favour of regulating crypto currency exchanges rather than imposing an outright ban on new-age currencies, according to sources. The meeting took place against the backdrop of rising concerns in various quarters about crypto currencies and the possible risks emanating from trading in them, especially when there is a growing interest in such assets worldwide. Currently, there are neither specific regulations nor an outright ban on the use of crypto currencies in the country. Heads of crypto currency exchanges and members of Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council attended the meeting. Representatives of industry bodies, including CII, and other stakeholders were also present. They made their submissions on crypto finance to the panel. During the meeting, members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance cautioned the representatives present that crypto currencies, which are attracting more investors, should not go the way of ponzi schemes, the sources said. Ponzi schemes lure people into investing in fraudulent money pooling activities by promising high returns. Showing a full page advertisement of a crypto exchange in a national daily, a panel member from an opposition party said that crypto currency players should not give misleading advertisements to lure easy money from youngsters. The sources said that there was a broad understanding at the meeting that crypto currencies cannot be left unchecked and some kind of regulation was required. However, several members were not keen on imposing an outright ban on such currencies, they added. From the industry side, Naveen Surya, Chairman of Fintech Convergence Council, Ashish Singhal, CEO of Coinswitch Kuber and Sumit Gupta, CEO of CoinDCX, were among those who participated in the meeting. Industry representatives were in favour of regulations but there was no clarity on whether RBI, Sebi, or any other new institution should regulate the crypto currency industry, the sources said. Several MPs in the meeting pointed that crypto currency is gaining attraction like Ponzi schemes did in their earlier days and suggested that it should not go the same way, sources said. Some Congress members in the panel told PTI that there are significant challenges in banning crypto currencies. The broad view of the panel was that a Chinese wall should be put in place on crypto currencies' fungibility in the real world and its interface with the real world should be regulated, they added. Currency is a domain of the sovereign whereby its value is fixed in assured manner and crypto currency is a computer programme managed in distributed format on internet. Its value is only discovered by a buyer and user on an exchange which itself is illegal, they noted. One of the members even wondered how crypto currencies are going to be regulated when even regulating the internet remains difficult. Members also expressed concerns about the possibility of crypto currencies being used for financing terror activities. In the morning, panel Chairman Sinha said the meeting on crypto finance will discuss the opportunities and challenges this fast evolving industry presents to the regulators and policy makers. "We have called stakeholders from across the industry, including operators of major exchanges, members of CII as well as academics from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad, who have done a very thorough study on the crypto finance," Sinha told. Further, he said the panel has called representatives from the India Internet and Mobile Association of India, which comprise various tech-related industry bodies including BACC, a specific body that deals with crypto finance players. After the meeting, Sinha said, "We heard from them about their views on the right regulatory framework for this industry as it continues to develop and evolve. The idea was to listen to their perspective," he said. This was the first meeting on the subject that was convened by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance. The panel is chaired by Sinha, who is also a former Minister of State for Finance. On March 4, 2020, the Supreme Court set aside an RBI circular of April 6, 2018, prohibiting banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies. On February 5, 2021, the central bank instituted an internal panel to suggest a model for the central bank's digital currency. The RBI had announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency amid proliferation of crypto currencies about which the central bank has concerns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||Vandals target Salman Khurshid’s Nainital home||Congress leader Salman Khurshid's house in Uttarakhand's Nainital was vandalised on Monday amid the row over his recent book in which he draws a comparison between Hindutva and terror outfits like the ISIS. According to initial reports, some people damaged windowpanes and set fire to a door at the house in Bowali police station area, Nainital (City) Superintendent of Police Jagdish Chandra said. Nobody was hurt in the house where only caretakers stay, the SP said. Khurshid posted video clips on social media in which some people appear to be burning his effigy and shouting derogatory slogans against him and the Muslim community. One slogan said the traitors should be shot. Another said the country did not belong to the mullahs but to Veer Shivaji . The mob was also heard shouting, "Jai Jai Veer Bajrangi Jai, Jai Shri Ram." The attack came days after the former Union minister launched his new book, Sunrise over Ajodhya: Nationalism in Our Times , drawing much criticism from the BJP and right-wing organisations. "I hoped to open these doors to my friends who have left this calling card. Am I still wrong to say this cannot be Hinduism," he asked on Facebook while posting pictures of arson at his Nainital home. "So such is debate now. Shame is too ineffective a word. Besides I still hope that we can reason together one day and agree to disagree if not more," he said in another post. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor called the attack disgraceful . Salman Khurshid is a statesman who has done India proud in international forums and always articulated a moderate, centrist, inclusive vision of the country domestically. The mounting levels of intolerance in our politics should be denounced by those in power," he tweeted. Apart from the BJP, Khurshid faced criticism from his own party leader and former Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad for comparing Hindutva with terror groups. "The comparison is factually incorrect and an exaggeration," Azad had said. But, addressing a party workers' training programme in Wardha on November 12, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi argued that Hinduism and Hindutva are different. Can these be the same thing? Why do you use the word Hinduism, why not just use Hindutva if they are the same thing? They are obviously different things, Gandhi said, without mentioning the book. Is Hinduism about beating a Sikh or a Muslim? he said, suggesting that Hindutva may advocate violence but Hinduism doesn't.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||It should be made fun of: Nitish trashes Kangana's remark on Independence||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday rubbished actor Kangana Ranaut's remark about India getting Independence in 2014, saying, one should not even take notice of such things.  Talking to reporters on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme 'Janata Ke Darbaar Mein Mukhyamantri', Kumar said he does not pay attention to people who make such statements for publicity.  "How can anyone publish this? We should not even take notice of it. Should we even pay attention to it? One should not give importance to such statements. In fact, it should be made fun of," he said.  The actor had, in a recent interview, remarked that India got its freedom in 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power and what it got in 1947 was "bheekh (alms or handout). Her comments sparked outrage among politicians and common citizens alike. Many said she had insulted the country's freedom fighters and their sacrifice, while some demanded that the government withdraw the Padma Shri award conferred on her recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||Centre allows Serum Institute to export 5 crore Covovax doses to Indonesia||The Indian government has permitted export of 5 crore doses of Covovax, a COVID-19 vaccine domestically produced here by the Serum Institute of India (SII), as the jab has not yet been approved for emergency use in the country, official sources said on Monday.  The drug major SII has been allowed to export 50 lakh vials, equivalent to 5 crore doses, of Covovax to Indonesia, they said.  According to the sources, the SII submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking grant of emergency use authorisation for Covovax on May 21 and it is still awaiting approval from the drug regulator.  Recently, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, wrote to the DCGI seeking no objection certification to export 50 lakh vials. He also stated that one crore vaccine doses manufactured by the company will expire in December this year, the official sources said.  "M/s PT Indofarma Tbk, Indonesia wants to purchase these quantities and they have already issued a purchase order of 50 lakh vials to us. If we are not able to export this quantity, then it will be an international wastage of much needed life-saving COVID-19 vaccine during the pandemic," an official source quoted Singh as having stated in the application.  The expiry date of approximately one crore doses of the Covovax vaccine is December 2021, he said.  This export will not affect COVID-19 vaccine supplies to India as a huge stock of Covishield is available to meet requirements of the country, Singh is learnt to have conveyed.  The DCGI had referred the matter to the Union Health Ministry for approval and after the ministry's intervention, the DCGI granted export NOC to SII without Indian EUA, the source said.  The DCGI office had granted SII permission to manufacture and stock Covovax on May 17 following which the Pune-based firm manufactured and stockpiled the vaccine doses.  In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with the SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||Uphaar cinema fire: Victims urge court not to suspend 7-year jail terms to Ansals||The Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) on Monday urged a Delhi court not to suspend 7-year jail terms awarded to real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal for tampering with evidence in the 1997 case of Uphaar cinema fire which had claimed 59 lives. The counsel for the association made the submission before Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil in response to the pleas moved by Ansals challenging the jail term awarded to them by a magisterial court on November 8. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for the association, told the court that the offence of tampering was extremely serious in nature as it affects the entire criminal justice system. It is direct interference in the administration of justice and thus requires serious consideration while suspending the sentence of seven years and fine of 2.25 crore each to both the brothers, he said. He added that the judgement passed by the magisterial court was well reasoned and the court had dealt with each and every argument of the defence and finally had come to a conclusion that it was a case of conspiracy which was established by the prosecution. The case is related to tampering with the evidence in the main fire tragedy case in which the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to 2-year jail term by the Supreme Court. The apex court however released them taking into account the prison time they had done on the condition that they pay Rs 30 crore fine each, to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital. Pahwa further added, Ansal brothers misused the liberty granted to them in the main Uphaar case and tampered with the evidence after hatching criminal conspiracy with the court staff. The conspiracy in this case was to tamper with the evidence collected by CBI against them in order to seek acquittal in the Main Uphaar case. Even the Supreme Court took this offence very seriously and cancelled the regular bail granted them after conviction, he said. This is a case which shatters the confidence of the public at large in the criminal justice system. If the sentence given to these rich and powerful people is suspended at such initial stage, the confidence of an ordinary men will be shattered who's appeal and bails are pending in the court for months and years, Pahwa said. Besides challenging their conviction and jail term awarded by the magisterial court, Ansals have also urged the court to suspend their punishment while the pendency of the appeal. The magisterial court also awarded 7-year-jail term each to former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma and two others -- P P Batra and Anoop Singh -- and a fine of Rs 3 lakh each on the them. The tampering was detected for the first time on July 20, 2002, and when it was unearthed, a departmental enquiry was initiated against Sharma and he was suspended. Later, an enquiry was conducted and he was terminated from services on June 25, 2004. The prosecution said that after the termination, the Ansal brothers helped Sharma get employment on a monthly salary of Rs 15,000. When the case was registered, the documents of the company, where Sharma was employed post suspension, were further tampered with by its chairperson Anoop Singh. According to the charge sheet, the documents alleged to have been tampered with included a police memo giving details of recoveries immediately after the incident, Delhi Fire Service records pertaining to repair of transformer installed inside Uphaar, minutes of Managing Director's meetings, and four cheques. Out of the six sets of documents, a cheque of Rs 50 lakh, issued by Sushil Ansal to self, and minutes of the MD's meetings, proved beyond doubt that the two brothers were handling the day-to-day affairs of the theater at the relevant time, the charge sheet had said. The fire had broken out at the Uphaar cinema during the screening of the Hindi film 'Border' on June 13, 1997, claiming 59 lives. The case was lodged on the direction of the Delhi High Court while hearing a petition by AVUT chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||SC to hear plea on hybrid option in ensuing board exam on Nov 18||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear on November 18 a plea seeking directions to the CBSE and the CISCE to issue a revised circular for conducting the ensuing class 10 and 12 board examinations in hybrid mode instead of offline mode only amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The plea, filed by six students who would be appearing in the ensuing board examinations, came up for hearing before a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar. The bench said the plea would be heard along with a pending petition on November 18. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for the petitioners, told the bench that the matter requires urgent consideration as board examinations would commence from Tuesday. The bench, which observed that the pending petition was listed for hearing in January next year, took note of the submissions and said it would prepone the hearing on that plea and both the matters would be taken up this week. When the counsel appearing for the petitioners said the plea pending in the apex court has raised some different issues, the bench said, We will see that on Thursday (November 18). If the issue is same, it will be heard together . The top court granted liberty to the petitioners to serve an advance copy of the plea to the respondents, including the standing counsel for the CBSE. The bench also heard a separate petition which has raised the issue related to the results in improvement examination conducted by the CBSE. The court asked the counsel appearing for the petitioners to serve the advance copy of the plea to the standing counsel for the CBSE as well as the central agency and posted the matter for hearing on November 22. The plea, seeking a hybrid option in the ensuing board examination, has claimed that the entire exercise of the boards in conducting the term one or semester one examinations in offline mode only is patently unreasonable . As per the date sheet announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the term one board exams would commence from November 16. Semester one of the board examination of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) would commence from November 22. The plea, filed through advocate Sumanth Nookala, said that the ensuing exams be conducted in hybrid mode with an option to choose between offline and online examinations. Consent assumes significance as exams directly relate to the mental health of the petitioners requiring a conducive and voluntary atmosphere to ensure a fair assessment. It is common knowledge that the third wave of COVID pandemic is predicted, it said. The petition claimed that the proposed current system of offline examination is fraught with bad planning and lack of application of mind which will further adversely prejudice the students. Even if the respondents (boards and others) wanted to conduct the examinations on the said dates, it had sufficient time and resources to plan it carefully and consider the concerns raised in the present petition, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||Tripura: Two journalists arrested over social media post granted bail ||Two women journalists, arrested by Tripura police over their writings on the recent communal incidents which allegedly created a "sense of hatred between communities", were granted bail by a magistrate's court on Monday.  Samriddhi Sakunia and Swarna Jha, journalists with HW News Network, were produced before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) of Gomati district Shubhra Nath, who granted them bail on bail bonds of Rs 7,500. They have been asked to mark their attendance at Kakrabon police station of the district on Tuesday before leaving the state.  Presenting his arguments for bail, their advocate Pijush Biswas asserted there was no evidence that they spread communal hatred. "The charges made against the journalists are completely baseless. Police filed the case with mala fide intention, he insisted.  Biswas said his clients will move the Supreme Court for quashing the case.  An FIR was filed against the journalists at Fatikroy police station on Sunday on a complaint by a VHP supporter alleging that they had maligned the image of the Tripura government with their reporting, according to a statement issued by their employer.  The duo was detained by Assam police in Karimganj district on Sunday, when they were on way to Silchar airport, at the request of Tripura police, and kept at a government-run shelter home for women.  They were arrested by Tripura police on Monday morning and produced before the CJM's court in Gomati district.  A senior Tripura police official had claimed the journalists planned to fly outside the state. Officials asked them to meet some police officers before leaving. The duo then started for Silchar in Assam without informing the authorities, prompting Tripura police to request their Assam counterparts to detain them.  The official said the journalists had posted on social media that a mosque was burnt in Gomati district and a copy of the Quran was damaged. Police suspect that the videos uploaded by her (Sakunia) were doctored and police want to know if the videos are fake or true by interrogating them," he added.  In a tweet on November 11, Sakunia had written, #Tripuraviolence Darga Bazaar: On 19th October at around 2:30 am, some unidentified people burnt down the mosque in Darga Bazaar area. People in the neighborhood are very upset with the fact that now they don't have any place nearby to go and pray.  A press release issued by the office of Tripura police chief V S Yadav had claimed that Sakunia's posts were not true and promoted a sense of hatred between communities.  In this social media post, she posted a video of her visit to the half burned prayer hall damaged by mischievous fire in the house of one Rahamat Ali of Hurijala, PS Kakraban on 11/11/2021 to claim that one holy Quran was burned in the incident occurred on the night of 19/10/2021 which refers to Kakraban PS Case No. 74/2021 U/S 436 IPC.  "This is contrary to the findings so far revealed in course of investigation as presence of no such damaged books/documents was brought to the notice of investigating officer and fire service staff who extinguished the fire, the police statement said.  The statement added that a team of lawyers, which visited the state earlier, had made a similar claim with a questionable photograph . It added that people with vested interests were trying to flare up communal tension in the state.  Tripura police had registered a case against the four Supreme Court lawyers under the stringent anti-terror law-the Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act- and various sections of IPC for allegedly promoting communal disharmony with their social media posts.  On November 6, it booked 102 social media account holders under the UAPA, besides criminal conspiracy and forgery charges, and served notices to the authorities of Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and inform it about their particulars.  The actions of the police establishment drew criticism from various human rights and free speech advocacy groups.  After the two journalists were detained in Assam, the Editors Guild of India had condemned police action against them and demanded their immediate release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||Delhi reports highest number of dengue cases in 6 years||The number of dengue cases in Delhi this season has crossed 5,270, the highest in the national capital in a year since 2015, according to a civic report released on Monday.  Nearly 2,570 fresh cases of the vector-borne disease were logged in the city in the last one week. However, no fresh fatality was reported.  According to the report on vector-borne diseases, a total of 5,277 dengue cases were recorded this year till November 13.  In the previous years, the total count of dengue cases was -- 4,431 (2016), 4,726 (2017), 2,798 (2018), 2,036 (2019) and 1,072 (2020), according to the report.  In 2015, the city had witnessed a massive outbreak of dengue, during which the number of reported cases crossed 10,600 in October alone, making it the worst outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the national capital since 1996.  Of the dengue cases in Delhi this year, 3,740 were reported in the first 13 days of November. In October, 1,196 cases were reported.  The total number of cases this year till November 6 stood at 2,708 and the official death toll due to dengue was nine.  In September, 217 cases were logged, the highest count for the month in three years.  This is also the highest number of fatalities due to dengue recorded in a year in the national capital since 2017, when the officially reported death count was 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||TMC moves statutory resolutions in RS against ordinances to extend tenure of ED, CBI chiefs||The TMC on Monday moved statutory resolutions in the Rajya Sabha objecting to the ordinances by the government to extend the tenure of CBI and ED chiefs, sources said.  On Sunday, President Ram Nath Kovind had signed two ordinances promulgated by the Ministry of Law and Justice which state that after the two year term of an Enforcement Directorate (ED) or Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chief ends, the Union government may extend his or her tenure by a year for three consecutive years.  The ordinances amend the Delhi Police Special Establishment Act, which is the parent law for the CBI, and the Central Vigilance Act, which covers the appointment of the ED director. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) had raised objection to the ordinances route for the extension of the tenures questioning the government's hurry at a time when the winter session of Parliament was barely two weeks away.  On Monday, the party moved two separate statutory resolutions for the two laws the government has amended through the ordinances to extend the tenure of ED and CBI chiefs. "Two brazen Ordinances extend ED and CBI Director terms from 2 to 5 years #Parliament Winter Session begins two weeks from now. Be rest assured, Opposition parties will do all it takes to stop India from turning into an elected autocracy," tweeted TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien.  Sources indicate that such resolutions will be filed by other opposition parties in the run-up to the winter session of parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||Modi targets Congress over plight of tribals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday targeted Congress for ignoring the welfare of tribals, adding efforts are underway to ensure the development of regions that remained backward during the "previous" regimes. Tribals were not given their dues by the earlier governments and were deprived of basic facilities, Modi said, addressing the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas celebrations here. The Central government is celebrating November 15, the birth anniversary of revered tribal icon Birsa Munda as Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas. "Like Ambedkar Jayanti, Gandhi Jayanti and other similar days, the jayanti (birth anniversary) of Bhagwan Birsa Munda will be celebrated every year on November 15," Modi said. Development is now taking place in 100 aspirational districts which remained backwards during the earlier (Congress) regimes, Modi said. Modi said India is celebrating the first Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas after Independence, adding the tribals' art and culture, and their contribution to the freedom struggle and nation-building is being remembered with pride. "The country cannot forget the bravery of Gond queen Durgawati or the sacrifice of Rani Kamlapati, he said. The struggle of Veer Maharana Pratap cannot be imagined without the brave Bhil tribe who fought shoulder to shoulder and made sacrifices," Modi said. "The previous regimes have committed a crime by ignoring the tribal icons and their contribution. The contribution of the tribal society was either not told to the country and even if told, very limited information was given," he said. Modi launched multiple initiatives for the welfare of the janjatiya community, including the Ration Aapke Gram' scheme in Madhya Pradesh. The scheme is aimed at delivering the monthly quota of PDS Ration to beneficiaries from janjatiya community in their own villages every month, so that they don't have to travel to the Fair Price Shop to collect their ration. Modi also handed over genetic counselling cards to beneficiaries, marking the launch of the Madhya Pradesh Sickle Cell (Hemoglobinopathy) Mission. The Mission has been developed to screen and manage patients suffering from sickle cell anaemia, thalassemia and other hemoglobinopathies and to increase public awareness about these diseases, whose impact is seen to be more profound on the janjatiya community of Madhya Pradesh. The PM also laid the foundation stone of 50 Eklavya Model Residential Schools across various states and UTs including Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tripura and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. He said the plan was to have 750 such schools all over the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
15-11-2021||India||'Immense disgust', says Court; raps lawyer for calling Delhi riots handiwork of political party||A Delhi court expressed "immense disgust" while coming down heavily on a lawyer for alleging that the 2020 riots here were the handiwork of a political party and criminal cases were fastened upon the members of the Muslim community alone, calling his statements highly irresponsible and patently false.  These submissions of the Counsel are certainly not in good taste. These are noted with immense disgust, repugnance and strong disapproval, Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Virender Bhat stated in an order dated November 11.  Advocate Mehmood Pracha had submitted before the court that the riots were not actually communal and took place at the instance of certain political vested interests to derail the peaceful protest against CAA-NRC, as per the court's order copy.  The lawyer made the submission while arguing for the bail of Arif who is accused of allegedly murdering one Alok Tiwari. He had sustained several blunt and sharp injuries during the riots. The advocate argued that only those belonging to the Muslim community were targeted by the police in the aftermath of the riots and were arraigned in false criminal cases, as per the order. Expressing disapproval with the submissions, the ASJ said: The counsel did not point out any material on record to substantiate his claim that the riots were not communal in nature or were the handiwork of any political party.  It is the Counsel himself, who is now painting the entire Delhi Police with a communal brush by saying that the criminal cases related to the riots have been fastened upon the members of Muslim Community alone. The statement of Counsel is not only highly irresponsible but also patently false.  ASJ Bhat said that he, while dealing with the cases related to the riots, has noticed that members of both the communities have been arraigned as an accused and have been charge sheeted by the police. In some cases, it has been observed that there are witnesses belonging to Hindu community cited against the accused belonging to the same community and witnesses belonging to Muslim community cited against the accused belonging to the same community, he said.  The police appears to have done its job with utmost integrity and certainly not on communal lines, he said, adding that some lapses have occurred during the probe but even they do not give slightest indication that the investigation was not fair and impartial or that it was on communal lines.  The judge advised advocate Pracha to desist from making irresponsible, uncalled for, and patently false submissions.  He said that riots cases are very serious and sensitive in nature and require to be dealt with in a professional manner and without any communal taint.  The judge also rejected the bail application of Arif, noting that there is every likelihood that he may approach or intimidate the only eye witness or may try to abscond if released.  Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Kerala receives 105 per cent excess rainfall this month||Heavy rains continue to lash parts of Kerala on Monday affecting Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kottayam districts the most resulting in death of three people and widespread damage to property. The India Meteorological Department has issued an Orange alert on Monday for the districts of Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts of Kerala. The state Disaster Management Authority informed that in the last 24 hours, the districts of Kollam, Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki and Thrissur were affected the most. In rainfall-related incidents across the state, one house was fully damaged while 28 were partially damaged, SDMA said adding that three lives, including that of two toddlers were lost in the last 24 hours. Yesterday, two toddlers lost their lives in two different incidents n Kannur and Thrissur districts. A driver was killed in a mudslide incident that happened in Ernakulam district. As per the weatherman, Kerala has received 833.8 mm rain during the period of October 1 to 15 while the normal average rainfall was 407.2 mm. There is a departure of 105 per cent. Pathanamthitta district received 194 per cent extra rain during this period, followed by Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode districts showing 127, 116 and 111 per cent large excess departure. On Sunday, the eastern part of Kollam district received heavy rainfall with the weather station at Punalur recording 11.7 cm rain in the last 24 hours. This resulted in swelling of major rivers and streams in the region affecting the areas of Pathanamthitta and Kollam district downstream towards the west. Many varsities in the state have postponed the exams scheduled for Monday and Tuesday due to the incessant rain while collectors of seven south central districts have declared holiday for all educational institutions including professional colleges on Monday. "The cyclonic circulation over east central and adjoining southeast Arabian sea off Karnataka, north Kerala coasts extending up to mid tropospheric level persists," the IMD said. The authorities also warned the fishermen not to venture into the sea as strong wind with speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is likely to prevail over Kerala coast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Court sends Anil Deshmukh in judicial custody as ED did not seek further remand||A special PMLA court here on Monday sent former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in 14-day judicial custody as the Enforcement Directorate did not seek his remand further in connection with a multi-crore money laundering case.  Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on November 1 after questioning in the case, under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).  At the end of his ED custody on Monday, the NCP leader was produced before special judge H S Sathbhai.  The court sent Deshmukh in judicial custody as no further remand was sought by the probe agency.  After Deshmukh (71) was remanded to judicial custody, his legal team moved a plea before the court, seeking that he be allowed to have home food and medicines, considering his age and medical history.  Deshmukh's lawyers also sought a bed for the former minister, saying he has severe lower backache and he would not be able to sleep on the floor.  The court directed the jail authorities to provide him a bed. It also said he can take medicines as prescribed by doctor.  However, the court kept his home food plea pending.  It said if there is any complaint about food after a few days, he can approach the court.  The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed its FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position.  The money laundering case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.  The ED's case is that Deshmukh, while serving as the state's home minister, misused his official position and through dismissed police officer Sachin Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai.  Deshmukh had refuted these allegations earlier and said the agency's whole case was based on malicious statements made by a tainted cop (Waze).  The ED had earlier also arrested his two aides- Sanjeev Palande (additional collector rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant) - in connection with the case.  They are currently in judicial custody.  The agency had also submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur: UP agrees to SC suggestion on monitoring of SIT probe by ex-judge||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday agreed to the Supreme Court suggestion that a former judge of its choice may be appointed to supervise the state SIT's probe on a day-to-day basis into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people including four farmers were killed on October 3. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana also raised the issue of low-rank police officers being engaged in the SIT probe and sought names of the IPS officers who are of the UP cadre but not natives of the state, for being included in the investigation team. The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said that it will have to take the consent of the judge concerned and will consider names of even former apex court and high court judges for monitoring the probe in the sensational case and pronounce the same on Wednesday. While consenting, senior advocate Harish Salve said that the state has no issues with the apex court appointing a former judge of its choice to monitor the probe, but the point that he should not be a native of Uttar Pradesh should not bear in the mind as the person concerned is a relevant factor. The apex court, on November 8, had expressed dissatisfaction over the probe and suggested that to infuse "independence, impartiality and fairness in the ongoing investigation, a former judge of a different high court should monitor it on day-to-day basis. The bench had also said that it has no confidence and does not want the one-member judicial commission appointed by the state to continue probe into the case. Retired Allahabad High Court judge Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava was named by the state government to enquire into the eruption of violence on Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||JNU sees violent clashes between ABVP and Left student parties, several injured||The JNU on Monday said the students' activity centre, over which a row erupted in the campus the previous day, is a common facility for all the students, while underlining that violence has no place in an academic institution and the administration condemns it.  Members of the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) allegedly got into an argument over occupying the student union hall in the university campus here, police said on Monday.  The ABVP and the JNUSU accused each other of attacking their members and injuring other students on Sunday night.  The JNUSU said the venue was pre-booked by an organisation for a programme and the ABVP members tried to occupy the room where it was supposed to take place, while the right-wing outfit accused the students' union of bringing out a decree that only the JNUSU president can give permission for using the student union room, also called the "Teflas".  "It has come to the notice of the JNU administration that last night, some scuffle between two groups of students occurred at the Students Activity Centre in the campus. The students are aware that this venue in the JNU campus is a common activity or facility centre for all the students of the university without discrimination, and every student is entitled and free to use the place adhering to the rules of the university," the statement issued by the JNU said.  The statement by the chief proctor of the university went on to state that violence and unruly behaviour have no place in an academic institution and the "JNU administration would strongly disapprove of any kind of violence and disorderly conduct in the campus".  "The students are advised to use the common facilities available for them in JNU with a sense of cordiality and responsibility, and in harmony with each other. Nobody should be allowed to disturb the peaceful existence and functioning of others," it said.  The university administration urged the students not to go by any rumours that may affect the peaceful academic atmosphere in the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Birsa Munda a symbol of patriotism, valour, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday paid tributes to revered tribal icon Birsa Munda on his birth anniversary, describing him as a symbol of patriotism and valour. Shah also congratulated the people of Jharkhand on the occasion of the state's foundation day and said the Modi government is continuously working for the development of this "sacred land" of Munda. "Birsa Munda ji, a symbol of patriotism, valour and the devout, gave a new direction to the society by starting the 'Ulgulan' movement against foreign rule for the protection of tribal identity and rights. His struggle and dedication for the protection of 'Swadharma' and 'Swadesh' is commendable," Shah said in a series of tweets in Hindi. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given due respect to the contribution of tribal heroes by celebrating the birth anniversary of 'Dharti Aaba' Birsa Munda as 'Janjatiya Gaurav Divas' to make the glorious history and cultural heritage of the tribal community memorable. He also wished everyone on the occasion of 'Janjatiya Gaurav Divas'. Jharkhand was formed on Munda's birth anniversary in 2000. Born in the tribal belt of the undivided Bihar in 1875, Munda rallied tribals against the British colonial rule and conversion activities and died in 1900 in Ranchi jail. The 'Ulgulan' was a movement started by Munda against the exploitation and discrimination against tribals by the then British authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||SC directs Centre to hold emergency meeting to control air pollution||"Hue and cry" over farmers' stubble burning is without any scientific and factual basis, the Supreme Court said on Monday while noting that it contributes only 10 per cent to air pollution in Delhi-NCR, and directed the Centre to call an emergency meeting on Tuesday to tackle pollution. Ahead of the hearing on air pollution in Delhi-NCR, the AAP government has told the Supreme Court that it was ready to take steps like complete lockdown to control air pollution. The Delhi government has told the top court that such a step, however, would be meaningful if it is implemented across the NCR areas in neighbouring states. Pointing to construction, industry, transport, power and vehicular traffic as the major culprits in causing pollution, the apex court asked the Centre to take measures like stopping non-essential activities and implementing work from home. "Even though some decisions were taken by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act it has not indicated precisely what steps they are going to take to control factors that are causing air pollution," a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. "In view of that, we direct the government of India to call for an emergency meeting tomorrow and discuss the areas which we indicated and what orders they can pass to effectively control air pollution. "So far, as stubble burning is concerned, broadly affidavits state that their contribution is not so much except for two months. However, at present a good amount of stubble burning is taking place in Haryana and Punjab," the bench said. It directed the Centre and the NCR states to examine introducing work from home for employees. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, informed the bench about several measures contemplated in an emergency meeting held between the Secretaries of the Union Government, and Delhi, Punjab and Haryana. "We have come to the conclusion that stubble burning is not the major cause of pollution and it contributes to only 10 per cent of the air pollution," Mehta said. Reacting on his submission, the bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, said, "Are you agreeing that stubble burning is not the main cause? That hue and cry has no scientific or factual basis?" Referring to the affidavit filed by the Centre, the apex court said 75 per cent of the air pollution is due to three factors -- industry, dust and transport. "In the last hearing (on Saturday), we mentioned stubble burning is not a major issue, city related issues are there. So if you take steps on them, the situation will improve", the bench said. "In fact now the cat is out of the bag, the farmers' stubble burning contributes to only 4 per cent of the pollution as per the chart. So we are targeting something which is totally insignificant," the bench said. The top court also expressed displeasure over the earlier emergency meeting and said: "This is not the way we expected an executive emergency meeting will be held. It is unfortunate that we have to set the agenda. The sum and substance is construction, power, transport, dust and stubble burning are the issues. Ask the committee created and decide how to implement the action plan by tomorrow evening." At the outset, senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that he wanted to make some suggestions and submitted that construction should be regulated rather than being banned. He said the Centre was not willing to take strong measures in view of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab. The Solicitor General opposed him saying, "My friend has a different agenda". The apex court intervened and said, "You want to fight or you want to argue .We are not concerned with elections and politics." "Last day also we had clarified we are not concerned with politics, we only want pollution to come down..why bring up elections..We are in the middle of a crisis situation," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Birsa Munda museum will become a living venue of our tribal culture full of diversity: Modi  ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, inaugurated the Bhagwan Birsa Munda Memorial Udyan and the Freedom Fighter Museum at Ranchi’s old jail campus on the occasion of the legendary freedom fighter’s birth anniversary. The day also marked the 21st foundation day of Jharkhand. Modi inaugurated the museum virtually from Bhopal also to mark Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas, which the union government has announced to celebrate on November 15 every year as a tribute to Birsa Munda's contributions in the country’s freedom struggle. Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister said, “In this Amrit Kaal (pious period) of independence, it has been decided that the country will give a more meaningful and grand identity to the tribal traditions of India and its valor stories. For this, a historic decision has been taken that from today every year the country will celebrate November 15 i.e. the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Birsa Munda as ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’.” Governor Ramesh Bais, chief minister Hemant Soren, union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda were among other dignitaries who were present at the ceremony. The Prime Minister also paid tributes to late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “It was Atal ji who was the first to form a separate tribal ministry in the Union government and linked the tribal interests with the policies of the country. Jharkhand too was formed during his leadership,” Modi added. On the Bhagwan Birsa Munda Memorial Udyan cum Freedom Fighter Museum, he said, “This museum will become a living venue of our tribal culture full of diversity, depicting the contribution of tribal heroes and heroines in the freedom struggle.” He also hailed the contributions of Birsa Munda stating that Dharti Aaba was also against the thinking that wanted to erase the identity of India's tribal society. “Bhagwan  Birsa lived for the society, sacrificed his life for his culture and his country. Therefore, he is still present in our faith, in our spirit as our God. ‘Dharti Aaba did not stay on this earth for very long. But he wrote an entire history for the country in that short span of life and gave direction to the generations of India,” PM added. The museum, which is built at an old jail complex is where Birsa Munda had breathed his last in captivity on June 9, 1900 during the British rule. The museum is designed on the theme of Cellular jail in Andaman and Nicobar islands and is made at a cost of Rs 35 crore. It has a giant statue of Birsa Munda and about dozen other freedom fighters of the state. Birsa’s statue is put in the room where he was kept imprisoned and another a 30-feet-high statue of him, built by ace sculptor Ram Sutar is been installed on the entrance of the jail campus. Birsa’s native village Ulihatu in Khunti district has also been recreated at the museum. “At the rear end of the museum campus, there will also be a provision of laser show where life and times of Birsa and other tribal freedom fighters will be exhibited to visitors,” said an official. Earlier, the prime minister launched 'Bhagwan Birsa Munda Smriti Udhyan Sah Swatantrata Sangrahalaya' in Ranchi virtually. The Sangrahalaya has been built in association with the Jharkhand government at the Old Central Jail in Ranchi, where the tribal freedom fighter had sacrificed his life. The museum will also highlight other tribal freedom fighters associated with different movements such as Shahid Budhu Bhagat, Sidhu-Kanhu, Nilambar-Pitambar, Diwa-Kisun, Telanga Khadiya, Gaya Munda, Jatra Bhagat, Poto H, Bhagirath Manjhi and Ganga Narayan Singh. The museum will have a 25-foot statue of Munda and nine-foot statues of other freedom fighters of the region as well. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs has so far sanctioned the construction of 10 tribal freedom fighter museums. Born in the tribal belt of the undivided Bihar in 1875, Munda rallied tribals against the British colonial rule and conversion activities and died in 1900 in Ranchi jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind to visit Bangladesh on December 16 to attend Victory Day celebrations||President Ram Nath Kovind will travel to Dhaka on December 16 to attend the golden jubilee celebration of Bangladesh's 1971 independence from Pakistan following a nine-month long Liberation War, officials said on Monday.  President Kovind would travel to the neighbouring country on December 16 on a two-day visit at the invitation of his Bangladesh counterpart Abdul Hamid.  "We expect the Indian President to arrive (in Dhaka) on December 16 on a two-day visit to join our golden jubilee celebrations," a spokesman of Bangladesh's foreign ministry said.  His comments came a day after Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen told reporters that President Kovind would join the Victory Day celebrations, which would also coincide with the wrapping up ceremony of Bangladesh's founder Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's birth centenary celebrations.  This will be President Kovind's first Dhaka visit and it comes eight months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bangladesh to join the opening of the birth centenary and golden jubilee celebrations in March.  Bangladesh and India are jointly organising a "Logo and Backdrop" designing competition, marking the Maitri Diwas on December 6.  According to a report in the Dhaka Tribune, Bangladesh and India are working together eyeing two mega events next month - Maitri Diwas and Victory Day of Bangladesh - on December 6 and December 16 respectively with exchange of high-level visits.  Apart from the Victory Day celebrations, the president will also take part in other key engagements, it said.  Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties.  The Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971 broke after the sudden crackdown at midnight on March 25, 1971 in the erstwhile East Pakistan by the Pakistani troops and ended on December 16.  Pakistan conceded defeat and unconditionally surrendered in Dhaka to the allied forces comprising the freedom fighters and the Indian soldiers.  India had recognised Bangladesh as a sovereign country on December 6 while it extended all out support to Bangladesh's freedom fighters.  Officially three million people were killed during the nine-month long war.  The two countries decided to commemorate December 6 as Maitri Diwas (Friendship Day), the day when India recognised Bangladesh in 1971, the report said.  During his visit to Bangladesh in March, Prime Minister Modi met with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina and they reviewed the full range of bilateral ties and discussed ways to deepen the economic and cultural linkages in the times to come.  During the visit, the two sides signed five MoUs covering areas such as connectivity, commerce, information technology and sports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||India logs over 10,000 fresh Covid cases, 125 casualties in a day||India's Covid tally rose to 3,44,47,536 with 10,229 more people testing positive for coronavirus, while the active cases have declined to 1,34,096, the lowest in 523 days, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll reached 4,63,655 after 125 new fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 38 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 141 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 1,34, 096 comprising 0.39 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.26 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. A decrease of 1,822 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.12 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 42 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.99 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 52 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,49,785, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 112.34 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 125 new fatalities include 65 from Kerala and 18 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,63,655 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,583 from Maharashtra, 38,145 from Karnataka, 36,284 from Tamil Nadu, 35,750 from Kerala, 25,094 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,314 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
15-11-2021||India||Narendra Modi government extends tenures of CBI, ED chiefs||The Centre on Sunday promulgated two ordinances allowing three consecutive one-year tenure extensions to the CBI and Enforcement Directorate chiefs, triggering accusations that this was meant to facilitate misuse of these investigative agencies to target Opposition politicians. Officials said the ordinances would allow the government to bypass a Supreme Court order that forbade any further extension to ED chief Sanjay Mishra, a perceived government favourite who was to demit office on November 19 this year. Currently, the chiefs of both the ED and the CBI have tenures of two years, with a possibility of extension that is conventionally capped at one year. The ordinances virtually allow these two bureaucrats tenures of five years — if the government is happy with them. “The two ordinances speak volumes about the Centre’s intentions. The chiefs of these two agencies can now go to any length to please their political masters and obtain an extension,” a former CBI director told The Telegraph. Opposition parties have long accused the Narendra Modi government of unleashing its investigative agencies, especially the ED and the CBI, to intimidate or settle scores with them. The ED under Mishra has been probing several cases with political implications. The former CBI director wondered why the government was “in such a hurry” to issue the ordinances — legislative measures that will need parliamentary ratification — just days before Parliament’s winter session, which is likely to begin on November 29. Bringing the ordinances now, however, makes Mishra  their “first beneficiary”, a serving official said, requesting anonymity. According to the ordinances, the chiefs of the two agencies can be given extensions every year for up to three years after they complete their two-year term. After five years, no further extension can be granted. The CBI is headed by IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, who was appointed in May this year. Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi tweeted: “Double whammy re 5 yr tenures for misused agency heads. Ordinance Raj, the favourite route of the Modi govt, bypasses parl (Parliament) scrutiny 14 days before parl meets.” He added: “Extensions per se frowned upon by apex Court. Fresh new appts nt (not) extns under new Parl Act not Ordinance shd hv been done.” Both ordinances carry the sentence: “Whereas Parliament is not in session and the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action.” An official said that when the government had last year given Mishra a year’s extension, it was challenged in the Supreme Court. In September this year, a bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao had upheld the extension but said that no further extension could be given to him. It added that a reasonable period of extension can be granted to an official to facilitate the completion of investigations, but only after recording the reasons. “Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of director of ED after attaining age of superannuation should be for a short period,” the top court said. The government will have to table the ordinance before Parliament during the winter session in the form of a bill. Parliament can approve it, with or without modifications, or reject it. Mishra, an Indian Revenue Service officer believed to be close to the political leadership, is supervising probes in high-profile cases such as the National Herald newspaper case that involves members of the Nehru-Gandhi family. The ED is also probing money-laundering allegations against several Opposition leaders. It is investigating a money-laundering angle to terror-funding cases registered in Kashmir by the National Investigation Agency, and has attached and seized properties of some people. Further, the ED is investigating the UPA government’s scrapped AgustaWestland chopper deal, the INX Media and Aircel-Maxis cases in which senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram and his son Karti are accused, and the Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya money-laundering cases. Among Congress politicians the CBI and the ED have raided or arrested in corruption cases over the past two years are Chidambaram and Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar. Shivakumar had overseen an operation to prevent the BJP poaching on Congress MLAs in Gujarat ahead of a Rajya Sabha election that the late Congress leader Ahmed Patel eventually won. In 2017, the CBI and the ED had raided properties owned by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family members, including his son and then Bihar deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav. The action led to the collapse of the grand alliance government in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
15-11-2021||India||Judiciary must uphold Constitution, says Justice Ramana||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday said the judiciary can live up to people’s expectations only by upholding the Constitution and ensuring free legal aid, and recalled Jawaharlal Nehru’s remark that there can be no real freedom without economic freedom. Speaking on the birth anniversary of the former Prime Minister, Justice Ramana said the constitutional courts’ ability to function with absolute independence and boldness in the face of adversity was what primarily defined the judiciary as an institution. “Our ability to uphold the Constitution sustains our impeccable character. There is no other way to live up to the faith of our people,” he told the valedictory ceremony of a Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign at Vigyan Bhavan. Justice Ramana regretted that independent India had inherited a deeply unequal society from its colonial past. “Considering the same, Pandit Nehru had once said, ‘there could be no real freedom without economic freedom’ and that ‘to call a starving man free is but to mock him’. The stark divide between the haves and have-nots is still a reality. No matter how many cherished declarations we successfully arrive at, in the face of poverty, inequity and deprivations, it will all seem pointless,” the Chief Justice said. “Despite our being a part of a welfare state, the benefits are not trickling down to the intended beneficiaries at the desired levels. People’s aspirations about leading a dignified life are often met with challenges, one of them, primarily, being poverty.” Justice Ramana said the National Legal Services Authority’s (Nalsa) was serving Indian democracy by providing free legal aid to the poor, and that its initiatives probably provided the only access to justice for certain segments of Indian society. He stressed the importance of every level of the judiciary down to the “grass-root level”. “Without a robust justice delivery system at the grass-root level, we cannot imagine a healthy judiciary.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
15-11-2021||India||NSA Ajit Doval says civil society is 'new frontier of war'||Veteran security officials and rights defenders have chided national security adviser Ajit Doval for saying civil society is the “new frontier of war”, arguing this amounts to a warning to dissenters and reflects the Narendra Modi government’s tendency to consider all criticism as enemy action. “The new frontier of war, what you call the fourth-generation warfare, is civil society... that can be… manipulated to hurt the interest of a nation,” Doval said at an IPS passing-out parade at the National Police Academy, Hyderabad, on Friday. He said conventional wars had “ceased to become an effective instrument to achieve political or military objectives” since they are “too expensive, unaffordable and there is uncertainty about their outcome”. “It’s civil society that can be subverted, suborned, divided and manipulated to hurt the interest of a nation. You are there to see this land is fully protected,” Doval said. A former Intelligence Bureau director said Doval’s statement was “shocking” and unbecoming of a national security adviser. “He is, in effect, asking trainee IPS officers to act against civil society groups and crush dissent. (Doval) seems to have forgotten that India is still a democracy and not a police state,” he told The Telegraph. Civil rights activist Shabnam Hashmi said: “I strongly condemn Ajit Doval’s statement. It’s a shame that those in power are leaving no stone unturned to destroy this nation. I demand he withdraw his statement and apologise.” A retired CRPF deputy inspector-general said Doval’s statement was alarming. “He wants to send a message across the police and law-enforcing agencies that dissenters and civil rights groups should be treated as internal enemies of the state,” he said. “Doval is echoing the Modi government’s line. We need to see his remarks in the context of the government’s authoritarian bent.” Doval, an alumnus of the National Police Academy, said: “The quintessence of democracy does not lie in the ballot box. It lies in the laws which are made by the people who are elected through those ballot boxes.” He told the new IPS graduates: “You are the ones who are the enforcers of the law….” The success of democracy lies in law enforcement, and people cannot feel safe if the law enforcers are weak, corrupt or partisan, he said. An IPS officer attached to the Union home ministry declined to comment on Doval’s remarks but aired a view of democracy contrary to his, saying: “It is disagreement that alone marks the health of a democracy.” A former security official who had served in the Union home ministry said Doval’s statement sounded “a warning” to those who disagree with government policies. A Delhi University professor and civil rights activist said the current government was making it clear it saw any form of dissent as criminal. A retired IPS officer  cited how the government was “handing out enemy-like treatment” to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. In a sign of the times, all the half-dozen rights activists and retired officials who spoke to this newspaper declined to be identified, except for Hashmi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
15-11-2021||India||Death of Milind Teltumbde a huge blow to CPI Maoist ||The death of Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde in Saturday’s encounter with security forces that killed 25 rebels in Gadchiroli district of eastern Maharashtra is a huge blow to the banned CPI Maoist in the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh zone, police said. Teltumbde, 57, who carried a bounty of Rs 50 lakh on his head, had in the past 20 years given momentum to the Maoist movement and built it in Maharashtra, DIG (Gadchiroli Range) Sandip Patil said. “He was the only future of that movement and there was no other leader in Maharashtra,” the officer said. “Considering his contribution to the Naxal movement and his influence among some parts of the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and urban areas, he was a very important and key cadre. We were searching for him for a very long time.” Teltumbde was wanted in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. He was the brother of activist and scholar Anand Teltumbde, arrested earlier in the case. “The killing of Milind Teltumbde will affect the Naxal movement very badly not only in Maharashtra but across India,” Gadchiroli superintendent of police Ankit Goyal said. An official said Teltumbde, the rebels’ Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh zone secretary and the only member from Maharashtra in the Maoists’ central committee, had the assignment of diverting the Centre’s attention from the hilly areas to the MMC zone. He said Teltumbde had strong connections with both the urban and jungle-based Maoist movements. Teltumbde and his wife Angela Sontakke used to run an “urban network” (of rebels) in Maharashtra, he added. Teltumbde, a former electrician who had gradually climbed the Maoist hierarchy, was a ruthless commander launching deadly operations against the security forces, police said. He had been involved in 42 encounters apart from the murders of 7 civilians, arson, dacoity and other offences, they added. He was known by aliases such as Jiva, Deepak, Praveen, Sudhir, Sahyadri. “He was involved in 63 major offences registered in Gadchiroli district. Key incidents among them are the Jambhulkheda blast on May 1, 2019, in which 15 police personnel were killed. In the Koparshi encounter on May 17, 2020, two police personnel were killed during the encounter in the forest,” a police release said. Teltumbde was from Rajur village in Yawatmal district. After clearing his Class X exams, he got admitted to an Industrial Training Institute. He later worked as an electrician in the Padmapur open-cast coal mines where he came into contact with labour leader Sujan Abraham. He gradually became influenced by the Maoist ideology, police said. In 2004-2005, he became a member of the Maoists’ Maharashtra state committee, and was elevated to the central committee in April 2013. When the MMC zone was formed in 2016-17, he was appointed its leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
15-11-2021||India||Three-time  IIT chief to head Banaras Hindu University||Sudhir Kumar Jain, whom the Narendra Modi government had given a rare third term as IIT Gandhinagar director, has been appointed vice-chancellor of Banaras Hindu University. An education ministry order said President Ram Nath Kovind had as Visitor of the university appointed Jain for three years. BHU has not had a regular VC since Rakesh Bhatnagar completed his three-year tenure in March. Jain, 62, was in the middle of his third term as IIT Gandhinagar director, a post to which he was appointed in June 2009 when the UPA government opened six new IITs. He was given two more five-year terms after Modi became Prime Minister in 2014. No other academic got a third term as director of any IIT in the past three or four decades at least, a senior IIT Kanpur teacher said. As a member of a minority community, Jain might be able to help bring down temperatures at a university where decisions by a series of dominant-caste VCs have sparked resentment and controversy, said Vishwanath Pandey, former officer on special duty, BHU. He added that Jain had been a non-controversial administrator. “The university has witnessed caste-based turmoil over recruitment, promotions and so on,” Pandey said. Jain, a former civil engineering professor at IIT Kanpur, is known for his teaching and research in earthquake engineering. He received a Padma Shri in 2020. He told The Telegraph he would handle his new responsibility with an open mind. “As a teacher and administrator, I advise my students to be ready for any challenge and handle problems with an open mind. The same principle applies to me too,” he said. “I shall try to build aspirations among faculty members and students to give their best,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
15-11-2021||India||Cong highlights soaring prices of essential commodities under Modi||“Bhool jao yaar (forget it, man),” a middle-aged shopkeeper declared contemptuously when asked if her earnings had increased. “I barely manage Rs 4,000 now compared to Rs 10,000 a few years ago,” she added. Countless such videos were posted by the Congress on Sunday as thousands of party workers and leaders marched on foot across the country to create awareness about the savage increase in prices of essential commodities under Narendra Modi. This is probably the first time in decades that the Congress has reached out to people in every state in such a massive coordinated exercise. Under the Jan Jagran Abhiyan, social media platforms are being used only to supplement the in-person campaign so that the message is adequately amplified. The sense the Congress workers are getting on the streets — the real experiences of the masses — is being posted on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. The party workers had been asked to make videos, distribute pamphlets and explain the real situation to the people, who are being “misled on the true reasons” behind the price rise. The Congress leaflets pose questions about vital concerns and try to answer them in simple language. The party has also put out a toll-free number — 1800212000011 — through which the people can join the campaign digitally. The videos shared by the Congress capture a wide spectrum of miseries caused by soaring prices and falling incomes. “Who says incomes have increased, who…?” a man questions angrily in a video shot in a Delhi market. “Money is only with the big players, not with small businesses. Those who were earning Rs 15,000 are now getting Rs 6,000 a month.” While women complained about edible oil being sold for more than Rs 200 a litre, men reported job losses, nose-diving incomes, depleted sales and, invariably, the menacingly high prices of petrol and diesel. The Congress got overwhelming responses in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Karnataka as senior leaders, ministers, MPs and MLAs joined party workers in the marches that would continue till November 29. People poured out their hearts on their struggle to manage households and the rising unemployment, alleging that Modi had spared none and extracted more that what he had given. “Pahle se kharab ho gaya (things have got worse),” was the general complaint from the poor who had been sold dreams of “achchhe din (better days)” by the Prime Minister. The Congress campaign with the catchphrase “Together, let’s protect India’s interest” is meant to be interactive between the party and the people. Leaders have been asked to reach out to people, talk to them and spend the night with them in every district to ensure longer conversations. The leaflets draw attention to the problems through simple questions instead of deploying lofty rhetoric. Sample these: “Prices are increasing or decreasing? Has the slogan — ‘bahut hui mahngai ki maar/abki baar Modi sarkar’ – proved to be a jumla (rhetoric)? Is the Modi government torturing the people by selling petrol for more than Rs 100 a litre? Is the Modi government rubbing salt into the wounds inflicted by corona and falling incomes by increasing prices?” The millions of leaflets to be distributed over the next 15 days seek to give specific information such as the hike in the price of an LPG cylinder by Rs 205 in 2021 alone. Explaining how a cylinder costing Rs 450 during Congress rule was now being sold for Rs 900, the leaflet said: “The central excise on petrol was Rs 9.48 per litre under the Congress government, which has jumped to Rs 32.90 now. On diesel, the central excise has been hiked from Rs 3.56 per litre to Rs 31.80.” The leaflets also give details of prices of eatables, which have seen over 100 per cent increase. The Congress, often criticised for its perceived disconnect with the masses, plans to run similar campaigns on unemployment, the sale of national assets and the problems being faced by farmers and labourers. Party office-bearers feel the Congress workers will feel motivated and the support base will expand substantially if they can sustain the mass contact programme till 2024. Sources say the campaign will receive a massive boost next year when the Congress organisational elections are complete and the party mounts a fresh challenge to Modi under a new president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
15-11-2021||India||Bihar: Tejashwi Yadav corners Nitish Kumar over corruption||Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav cornered Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday over rampant murders, rapes, hooch tragedies and corruption in the state. He also demanded the resignation of food and consumer protection minister Leshi Singh. Leshi is a member of Nitish’s Janata Dal United and an MLA from the Dhamdaha constituency in Purnea district. Purnea zila parishad member Anulika Singh has accused her of conspiring to get her husband Vishwajit Singh alias Rintu Singh killed on Friday as he was emerging as a challenge to her (Lesi) in the area. “Bihar is witnessing ‘maha jungle raj’. There is the fearsome noise of rape, loot, and murder everywhere in the state. Corruption is at its zenith due to the administrative anarchy here. Rintu Singh had submitted a written complaint to the police that his life was in danger due to Leshi Singh and her nephew, but no FIR was registered nor any security was provided to him. She should resign from her post,” Tejashwi said. The younger son of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad was speaking while interacting with the media at the party headquarters in Patna. He said that over 65 people have died in hooch tragedies in the past 15 days, while more than 500 businessmen have been killed in the state in the past one year. Tejashwi attacked the very foundation of Nitish, who came to power in 2005 riding an overwhelming mandate by the public in favour of restoring law and order in the state. The RJD leader also focused on the murder of independent journalist and RTI activist Buddhinath Jha a.k.a. Avinash Jha at Benipatti in Madhubani district for raising voice against the wrongdoings of private hospitals in the area. “Everybody believes that Jha has been killed by people having connections in the government for raising his voice against the hospital mafia. Similarly, a nephew of former Bihar minister Raghunath Jha was shot dead four days ago. A girl student died in police custody in Motihari in East Champaran district. A 23-year-old was gangraped during the Chhath Puja in Nitish’s native Nalanda district,” Tejashwi added. Continuing, Tejashwi, who had a brief stint as a deputy chief minister in the Nitish-led Grand Alliance government between 2015 and 2017, pointed out how West Champaran zila parishad member Dayanand Verma was killed and his wife has been accusing JDU MLA from Valmikinagar constituency Dhirendra Pratap Singh without any action by the police. She even went to Nitish’s ‘Janata Durbar’ but nothing happened. “Another JDU MLA from Kuchaikot constituency, Amarendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey and his brother have murdered many people. Nitish Kumar specialises in patronising history-sheeters. If he cannot keep his murderous MLAs and ministers in control, then how will Bihar police control crime and liquor mafia,” Tejashwi asked. The RJD leader also asked Nitish to understand that he and his government have been elected by the people to serve, provide security and ensure developmental works instead of shirking the responsibilities and indulging in the luxury of power. Reacting to Tejashwi’s charges, JDU national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh a.k.a Lalan Singh said that he was the leader of Opposition and his work was to keep accusing the government for everything. “Rule of the law is enforced in Bihar. The police are investigating all the cases. Nobody is saved or implicated by Nitish Kumar’s government. It used to be done during the regime of Tejashwi’s parents — Lalu and Rabri Devi,” Lalan said. Meanwhile, Leshi came out to defend herself in the light of Tejashwi’s statements. “The police in Bihar are independent. I will be punished if I am involved in any crime. My name is being maligned by vested interests,” Leshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
