16-11-2021||India||Life of Top Influencer: Viraj Patil Gives a Sneak Peek into His Daily Routine||When we see successful people, we assume naturally that they spend their days indulged in luxuries that are brought upon them by their mounting success. Rich people dont work, that is a common notion. We don't even realise that they also have family, they also have a life prior to success and alongside with it. Viraj Patil is a top influencer who manages both his lifestyle, family and work throughout the day. Known professionally as a growth catalyst and performance improvement strategist, he is a renowned consultant. Born and raised in Mumbai, India,  Viraj is 28 years old and has studied civil engineering. He always aimed for great things for himself and through his hard work and inquisitive mindset, he has been able to achieve all his dreams. As for his business career, he has worked with companies across 12 countries providing his skills as a consultant and risk management. As an influencer he is achieving a new milestone every single day by impacting people across social media and encouraging them to discover their potential and work on themselves to make great things possible. Viraj believes that the purpose of our lives is to be happy. So whatever we do, we must be fulfilling this purpose. His daily routine comprises healthy food, exercise, work and quality time spent with the family. He believes in maintaining balance between all aspects of life. You can't work the whole time and call yourself sane. Unwinding and relaxing your mind, body and soul is one way to get through difficult days. Viraj also loves to travel. His recent escapades took him to the Maldives which was a long due trip after working tirelessly for days. He shares with his followers the gorgeous beaches he had been to and the amazing sea life he encountered while scuba diving. Viraj considers himself very fortunate to be able to live his life to the fullest while incorporating his career into his daily life. As a motivating influencer, he is not answerable to anyone. He is his own boss and he makes his own rules. That is what he teaches his followers too. Through his page, he is on a constant struggle to enlighten his followers, empowering them to live their life their own way by doing what they love. To follow Viraj in his travels, head over to his Instagram page. It features dozens of quotes and motivating material that is bound to help you in your life. He wants to show others that work-life balance is not just possible, but you can also enjoy your life in the best possible way while working!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
16-11-2021||India||NSHM brings Aangan Utsav to break the pandemic fatigue with performing arts||NSHM’s Centre of Creative and Performing Arts (CCPA) created the first freelance online student engagement program called the Aangan Utsav to encourage students and showcase their creativity and innovativeness in October 2020. The program revolved around the concept of DASHABHUJA and witnessed participation of distinguished guests from Kolkata and other parts of India, performing in harmony with the students and faculty members of NSHM. Prominent personalities like Rudraprasad Sengupta, Theatre Director & Scholar; Tanusree Shankar, Dancer & Choreographer; Ashoke Viswanathan, Dean, SRFTI & Film Director; Pandit Bickram Ghosh, Percussionist and Composer and Mir Afsar Ali, RJ Radio Mirchi have been associated as expert advisors to Aangan. Since its inception, over the year the Centre has offered online classes from November 2020 as part of extended learning. Recognising the need to actively involve students the Centre began careful planning of offline events where the students were encouraged to learn to speak and perform on camera, write scripts, sing, dance, act, recite poems, showcasing their talents and create visually appealing recorded programs for NSHM online platforms. All the offline events were conducted with strict adherence to Covid Protocols. The Centre has made several succesful programs including Zinda Dil, Rang Utsav, Baishakher Adda, Summer Fest, Rythmn in Rains and live performances of Aangan Band. With an aim to deliver superior content than before, the creative get-together of students offered them a refuge in performing arts and provided them opportunities to rehearse, jam, innovate, perform and learn together. Ms. Rina Mitra, Head – Aangan, NSHM Knowledge Campus said, “Engaging in any form of art is incredibly therapeutic as it distracts one’s mind from temporal trials and tribulations and helps them focus on enhancing creativity. On the threshold of adulthood and career, the young students were particularly the worst hit by the pandemic, without access to their friends and college campus life. Challenged with an empty college and an online platform, the CCPA team worked towards strategizing and mobilizing resources to engage students creatively through various activities and performing arts.” NSHM undergraduate and postgraduate students have the opportunity to undergo both Traditional and Contemporary training programmes, urban and folk pursuits in the field of creative arts and performing arts, under the Aangan initiative. Every semester, they can be trained across various creative disciplines like theatre, dance, fine arts, music and more. To know more, please visit - https://bit.ly/317lsfN||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
16-11-2021||India||NSHM Kolkata’s special AV Production Van aid students produce over 200 projects||NSHM’s School of Media and Communication (NSMC) is the only Indian institute with a state-of-the-art Audio-Visual Production Van (AV Production Van) to enable students to participate in live audio-video productions across diverse locations. The AV Production van is equipped with the latest high definition 4K cameras, gadgets, and gear for video work which will help media students to stream HD content live and on demand. With this van, NSMC's students can participate in outdoor-based live projects. With the introduction of location-based learning at NSMC, students will be entering into a new phase of learning. Up til now, over 200 projects have been framed which will be implemented soon by students of NSHM with the aid of AV Production van. Apart from being students’ showreel, these projects will be streamed on Y-TV, NSMC's upcoming Web TV channel and provide a platform for students to put their classroom learning to practice. The Audio-Visual Production van is a small production control room that can be moved to different locations where events or video production can be filmed. These are used for outside broadcasts, remote broadcasts and electronic field productions. AV Production van is useful for capturing live events that are too large to fit inside or take place in a purpose-built television studio, such as shooting unique locations. AV Production van facilitates live streaming of sports events, live functions, indoor concerts and performances. As opposed to studio work, where the director can retake a shot if necessary, AV Production Vans are live, edge-of-the-seat productions. The entire event is streamed live, including visuals, audio, special effects, graphics, commentary and recorded on Hard Disk as it occurs. NSMC’s AV Production van includes a host of state of the art gadgets to offer a holistic production experience to students: 1. 3 SONY PXW Z190 4K Video Cameras, connected with 70 ft long SDI and HDMI cables, LED lights, Tripods and accessories 2. 1 SONY HVR-Z7P HDV video camera 3. 3 SONY DSR PD-170 DVCAM Video cameras 4. BlackMagic Atem Television Pro-HD 8 Cam Live Production Switcher 5. BlackMagic HyperDeck Studio Recorder for Playback/Record formats including 4K and full 6. HD on hard disc 7. Apple Mac system for AV &amp; Graphics playout 8. 4 Sennheiser G4 cordless lapels for broadcast quality Live sound recording. 9. 2 Rode Boom Microphones for capturing Live sound 10. Zoom L12 Track digital audio console for digital sound recording 11. LiveU Solo for full HD Live Streaming 12. 4 Walky Talky for long range wireless communication 13. Supported with heavy duty generator and cables. NSMC students have been able to produce several projects with the AV Production van facility thanks to the guidance of Professors and Technical Team members. The first project called "IVF-Boon to Infertility" was a interview featuring legendary Dr. Baidyanath Chakravarty, Father of 4000 Test Tube Babies and was held in the Institute of Reproductive Medicine, Salt Lake City, Kolkata where selected PG students interviewed the renowned doctor; and the second project was called “Lockdown Impact On Fishermen’s Livelihood” a narrative on the daily livelihood of the fishermen and a panel discussion involving them. It was held in Canning (South 24 Parganas –West Bengal) executed by selected PG and UG Journalism students specializing in Electronic Media. Both the projects enabled students to implement the tenets of journalism to practice and participate in Outdoor Students’ Journalism Project. Another project titled, “Zinda Dil” an all-day live video production of "Aangan" was organized by the in-house performing arts portal at NSHM, in which NSHM students contributed songs and shared their experiences with the pandemic. The inaugural event featured a panel discussion amongst eminent personalities on 'Education during Covid-19 and beyond’ which was live streamed from the AV Production van. To know more about it, visit: https://bit.ly/2ZzHpUl||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
16-11-2021||India||Cumulative Covid jab given in India cross 113.61 cr: Health ministry||The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 113.61 crore on Wednesday, the Union health ministry said. A total of 61,21,626 vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Taran Singh ; An Ace Entrepreneur & The Founder of Melvano||The journey to founding his startup started in the second year of his insti life, when he began tutoring students as a part of the Acad Buddy program. Taran Singh, an alumnus of the 2019 batch of the dual degree program of the Aerospace Department, tells us his story on founding Melvano. Besides Acad Buddy, Taran had begun to home tutor students nearby, who were preparing for JEE, and realized his passion for teaching. He understood the core problems faced by students who were preparing for competitive exams by distance learning programs or even those who went to coaching centers. These learning programs have a very structured approach, which isn’t tweaked for the requirements of their students. If they needed more attention than these programs provided, they would have to pay for a personal tutor. “There was a lack of personalization, a lack of continuous feedback to assess loopholes, no hand-holding, and no mapping out of the learning journey. There’s only so much time students can spend researching on resources and understanding their weak areas on their own and so, the idea of Melvano was born”, Taran says. He wasn’t very entrepreneurial in his initial insti years, “ I was quite popular in my first and second year. I experimented with almost all the extracurriculars that IITM had to offer. Melvano was an idea I developed with a group of my friends in my third year. By my fourth year, a lot of them left because they weren’t into the idea of entrepreneurship or risks. It was this year that I met my tech co-partner and started working on the product that came to be Melvano.” Melvano comes from Tamil word Malivana, which means affordable since it aligned with our  vision. Essentially, Melvano is a learning assistant that takes a diagnostic test, which is able to assess the weak areas of the aspirant and creates modules to help them fill these holes in their preparation. After completing the modules, the final matrix, which is handled by AI at its core, is shared with the aspirant. “ Being from an IIT, content creation for Melvano wasn’t a big problem. We had over 200 tutors from IITs assisting us with the content for JEE prep.” There were days of planning and iteration, and sometimes they would have to scrap everything and start from scratch. “ We wanted to develop a solution to the problems with the current preparation system. The client wouldn’t pay if he sees the IITian tag; they would pay for the solution. It’s this solution that becomes a brand.”, says Taran. The first win for Melvano was in 2018, when it got funding at a networking event in the idea stage itself, ensuring cashflows. After this, it went on to win HedNxt 2018 as the most innovative startup. By January 2019, Melvano had crossed one lakh users. “The worst thing that can happen is a failure, so why wait to start on your idea or your passion? Starting from scratch is not a bad thing. All it needs is sincere effort and some dedication from our side and we are bound to arrive at some conclusion. There has always been a path to walk on, but I believe the future lies in creating it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan soon, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the cabinet reshuffle in the state will take place soon, amid the clamour to accommodate supporters of his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who had rebelled against the CM last year. On Thursday last week, Gehlot had met Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the long-pending demand. After the meeting, he had said the party's top leadership will decide on it. "The cabinet reshuffle will take place soon, Gehlot said while addressing the oath ceremony of the Secretariat Employees' Union. The clamour for the cabinet reshuffle has been increasing for the last several months with the demanded to accommodate Pilot's supporters. Apart from the Congress MLAs, independents who support the government and those who defected from the BSP to the Congress also having expectations from the exercise. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including the chief minister. There can be a maximum of 30 members in the council of ministers in the state, where the number of MLAs is 200.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Arjun Pratap Singh Bajwa: An multi-faceted professional showering his magic across diverse fields||To set an benchmark of one’s work in their respective field is the most tricky task today. But few young talented individuals have enthralled and excelled their fields with their astonishing work ethics. With cut-throat competition increasing day by day across all domains and sectors of the society, it has become an mandate and imperative for professionals to constantly raise the bar for performance and deliver unique and desired results at an faster rate and in relatively shorter time. Well, this has been an daunting task for many but among millions, but there are few selected driven and passionate professionals who leave no stone unturned in making their presence and name felt yet delivering highest standards of quality work. We came across one such young budding talent, who is recognized for his efficient work in the field of entertainment and political world - Arjun Pratap Singh Bajwa. Arjun Pratap Singh Bajwa is an extremely talented professional and multi-tasker proving his prowess as an successful campaigner across many different sectors like the entertainment industry, politics and fitness domains. He is also an supermodel who has walked the ramp for many prominent designers and brands. Born and brought up in Sanawar, Himachal Pradesh, Arjun belonged to an political family, but he created his own path of success in the entertainment industry without any Godfather and also remained an active member in politics. He represents the Congress political party and serves as an youngest member of Punjab's district council. Spearheading in the entertainment industry, Arjun as an supermodel has walked the ramp for designers like Varun Bahl and Rohit Bal. Being an ace professional, Arjun has also worked with Prabhudeva for his film “Singh is Bling” as the assistant director. Arjun grabbed one of the best opportunity when in 2020 he made his Bollywood debut in the film Band of Maharajas which was directed by the Oscar-nominated director Girish Malik. Being an pro fitness man and emphasizing more on health and fitness, Arjun has also trained in gymnastics and MMA. In addition to this Arjun also made headlines when he featured in the men's health magazine cover in 2013. Do follow him on Instagram @bajwaarjun for more details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Mehbooba demands judicial probe into Hyderpora encounter||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe into the Hyderpora encounter, expressing concern over the killing of a house owner and a doctor.  "It pains to see that you (police) have started targeting civilians while fighting militants," she said, demanding a probe. Four persons, including a Pakistani militant and his accomplice, were killed in a gunfight in Hyderpora locality of Srinagar late Monday evening. The dead also included the house owner and a doctor, whom police dubbed as terror associates . Their family members, however, have denied the police charge.  Using innocent civilians as human shields, getting them killed in cross firing & then conveniently labelling them as OGWs (Over Ground Workers) is part of GOIs (Government of India's) rulebook now, Mehbooba wrote on Twitter, responding to a video of a teenaged daughter of one of the deceased, Altaf Bhat, shared by a user.  "Imperative that a credible judicial enquiry is done to bring out the truth & put an end to this rampant culture of impunity," she added.  Addressing a group of youths earlier at her party office here, Mehbooba said, "I came across a news about an encounter in Hyderpora. Militants getting killed is understandable but there are allegations by the family that the house owner was used as a human shield and was killed along with a young doctor."  "I do not know which category they (house owner and the doctor) will be put into but the heart aches. It pains to see that you have started targeting civilians while fighting militants. That is wrong," she added.  Mehbooba, who is on a five-day tour of Jammu, accused the BJP of polarising the country with an eye on the next year's assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.  "Earlier, governments used to seek votes on their achievements like how many bridges have been built, employment avenues generated and jobs given to the youth," she said. "But they (BJP) have nothing to show to the people except making Hindus and Muslims fight each other to garner votes," she added.  Asking youths of Jammu to remain cautious, the former chief minister said attempts are being made to poison the society here as well.  "The youth is faced with the biggest problem of unemployment and they (government) have no answer to that. They have no answer to the issue of farmers who are on the roads for the past one year. They have only one machine and only one factor and that is to polarise the society for political gains in the run-up to the UP elections," she said, also referring to the alleged communal tension in Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in the recent past.  The PDP leader said she grew up in Jammu in the house of local resident Krishan Dev Sethi and never felt any difference between a Hindu and a Muslim.  "This is the brotherhood of Jammu which is one of the places in the country where secularism is alive and Hindu, Muslims and Sikhs are living like brothers but they want to poison the society here as well," she alleged.  "You should not fall in their trap. You have to take an account from them and ask how many locals have got jobs in power projects and factories set up here. After abrogation of Article 370, how many locals and non-locals got jobs in Jammu and Kashmir?" Mehbooba asked.  She claimed that wine dealers lost their trade to outsiders, while local shopkeepers and those dealing with minor minerals are also facing the heat and losing their businesses to outsiders. Referring to the move for 75 and 80 per cent job reservations in the private sector in Haryana and Punjab by local governments, Mehbooba asked why such a reservation, enjoyed by Jammu and Kashmir prior to the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019, was revoked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Farmers shouldn't be blamed for air pollution: Tikait||Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday said farmers or stubble burning should not be blamed for air pollution, citing a Supreme Court observation. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson, who has been one of the most prominent faces of the protests at Delhi borders against the Centre's farm laws, also demanded an apology from those holding the farming community responsible for pollution woes. "Those labelling farmers as villains for air pollution due to stubble burning must apologise to farmers. The Supreme Court has also said it is not right to hold farmers responsible because only 10 per cent of the pollution is caused by stubble and that too for one-and-a-half to two months," Tikait tweeted in Hindi. Hue and cry" over farmers' stubble burning is without any scientific and factual basis, the Supreme Court said on Monday while noting that it contributes only 10 per cent to air pollution in Delhi-NCR, and directed the Centre to call an emergency meeting on Tuesday to tackle pollution. "So far, as stubble burning is concerned, broadly affidavits state that their contribution is not so much except for two months. However, at present a good amount of stubble burning is taking place in Haryana and Punjab," the bench said. Ahead of the hearing on air pollution in Delhi-NCR, the AAP government had told the Supreme Court that it was ready to take steps like complete lockdown to control air pollution. The Delhi government has told the top court that such a step, however, would be meaningful if it is implemented across the NCR areas in neighbouring states. Tikait's BKU is part of farmers' collective Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the protests against three central farm laws at Delhi's borders since November 2020, demanding their withdrawal and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops. Air quality in parts of north India, particularly Delhi NCR, deteriorates to levels that impact human health. Farm fires for stubble burning are considered among other contributors like industrial and vehicular emissions and fire crackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||'Racist' comments against Assam participant on TV show spark outrage ||Purported racist comments by a host of a television reality show against a participant from Assam has sparked outrage, with Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday calling it a "shameful" incident and asserting that racism has no place in the country. In a video clip that has gone viral, Raghav Juyal, host of 'Dance Deewane' show aired on Colors channel, was seen introducing a young participant from Guwahati in a "Chinese" gibberish, using words like 'momo' and 'chowmein'. Judges of the show, including actor Madhuri Dixit and choreographer Remo D'Souza, along with the audience were seen laughing at this. Juyal, however, later shared another video on Twitter where the participant, Gunjan Sinha, was seen telling Dixit that she likes to speak Chinese and then the host shares some light moments with the participant by conversing with her in the gibberish. "This is what happened actually," Juyal said in the post. Reacting to the controversy, Sarma tweeted, "It has come to my notice that a popular reality show host has used racist rhetoric against a young participant from Guwahati. This is shameful and totally unacceptable. Racism has no place in our country and we should all condemn it unequivocally." TIPRA chairman Pradyot Bikram Manikya Deb Barma also condemned the incident and tweeted, "A third rate comedian - making an insensitive audience laugh! Then these people justify and question us Northeastern people why we don't feel like we are part of mainstream India?" He said the fact that the audience laughed and clapped at this "terrible joke" is more saddening. Assam Police Special Director General L R Bishnoi has also urged the cyber cell of the state police to take cognisance. "HQ Cyber Cell team @assampolice pls look into it! Sheer ignorance on the part of those involved!" Bishnoi tweeted. All Assam Students' Union (AASU) chief advisor Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharjya also expressed his anguish and tweeted, "We have time & again been treated as objects of ridicule for not looking 'Indian' enough. Discrimination based on racial profiling is tormenting." "NE is not a repository of rich resources or exotic culture alone.@ColorsTV & @TheRaghav_Juyal's racist slurs are condemned & punishable," he added. Netizens have condemned the incident and demanded an unconditional apology as well as police action against the show and the host.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Media has key role to play in vibrant democracy of India: Anurag Thakur on National Press Day||Media is a watchdog and has a key role to play in the vibrant democracy of India, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said on Tuesday. In his audio-visual message on the occasion of National Press Day, Thakur called on the media to curb the menace of fake news. "National Press Day is a day to reflect upon the role of media and the press in raising the issues that matter to the citizens of India. The media is a watchdog and has a key role to play in the vibrant democracy of India. "On this day, I call upon my friends from media to make all efforts to curb the menace of fake news and fake narratives. The government on its part has taken measures like establishment of fact check unit at Press Information Bureau which has gained popularity," Thakur said. Greeting the media fraternity, Thakur said the government has focused on citizen centric communication in a language they understand through various platforms they access, be it TV news, radio, social media or online digital media. "It is our collective responsibility to work against fake news and fake narratives. As we mark the 75 years of India's independence and look towards the next 25 years, let us work together in realising the dreams of every Indian," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Malik claims NCB trying to save cruise party organiser Kashif Khan||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday sought to know why the Narcotics Control Bureau was saving Kashif Khan, one of the organisers of the cruise party where the NCB conducted a raid last month, and what was his relationship with the anti-drugs agency officer Sameer Wankhede. He claimed that Khan and NCB's Mumbai zonal director Wankhede have a "strong relationship."  Malik also tweeted purported chats of NCB witness K P Gosavi and an informer from Delhi, which, he said, "shows they were planning to trap people who were going to attend the party on the Cordelia Cruise. This is Sameer Wankhede's private army, therefore he has a lot to answer," the NCP leader said.  Gosavi is the NCB's witness in the cruise drugs case in which at least 20 people, including actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, were arrested following the raid on October 2. Gosavi was last month arrested by the Maharashtra Police for alleged forgery.  According to Malik, the Delhi-based "informer" had told Gosavi about Kashif and one White Dubey. "Why is Kashif Khan not being questioned? What is the relationship between Kashif Khan and Sameer Wankhede?" the minister asked.  He said it is a known fact that the drugs business exists in Goa through the Russian mafia. Goa is also under the jurisdiction of NCB's Mumbai office, he noted. "There is no action in Goa because the drug racket thrives through Kashif Khan," Malik alleged.  He claimed there were several cases of alleged forgery against Kashif, and wondered why the NCB was trying to save him. Last week, Congress minister Aslam Shaikh said he was invited by Kashif Khan to the cruise party on October 2. Malik had also said that Kashif tried hard to get Shaikh and children of top ministers of the state government to come to the party.  Malik has dubbed the cruise party raid as "fake" and accused the NCB and Wankhede of framing people. Wankhede had earlier denied the allegations levelled against him.  Earlier this year, Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in an alleged drugs case and was later released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Modi slams previous UP govts, says the eastern part of the state was reduced to  'mafiawaad' & poverty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a blistering attack on opposition parties and said the previous governments in Uttar Pradesh led by them reduced the state's vital eastern part to "mafiawaad" and poverty, but the BJP government is now writing a new chapter of development. The prime minister was addressing a rally in Sultanpur after inaugurating the 341-km long Purvanchal Express. He said that development under previous chief ministers was limited to places where they had homes and families, but the present regime is giving fruits of developments to the eastern region as good as to the western part of Uttar Pradesh. The previous governments reduced the vital eastern part of the state to "mafiawaad" and poverty, but the BJP government is now writing a new chapter of development, he said. The prime minister said the six-lane expressway will serve as the lifeline of the eastern region and give a big push to economic development of the region and the state. The state goes to assembly polls early next year. The 341-km expressway links state capital Lucknow with Ghazipur and has been constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 22,500 crore. Modi landed on the Purvanchal Expressway airstrip in a military transport aircraft. The 3.2-km airstrip has been constructed on the expressway to facilitate emergency landing of fighter aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
16-11-2021||India||Modi inaugurates Purvanchal Expressway in UP after landing on its airstrip in IAF plane||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the 341-km Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar Pradesh after landing on the highway airstrip in an IAF C-130 Hercules plane. Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath received the prime minister at the airstrip. The 3.2-km airstrip has been constructed on the expressway to facilitate emergency landing of fighter aircraft. The 341-km expressway links state capital Lucknow with Ghazipur and has been constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 22,500 crore. From the airstrip venue, the prime minister will witness an air show by different aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||Delhi pollution: 'Red Light On, Gaddi Off' campaign extended by 15 days||The Delhi government has decided to extend the "Red Light On, Gaddi Off" campaign by 15 days in view of the rising pollution levels in the national capital, Environment Minister Gopal Rai announced on Tuesday. The "Red Light On, Gaadi Off" initiative -- turning off a car's engine at a red signal -- was supposed to end on November 18. "The government has taken a decision to extend the campaign by 15 days, from November 19 to December 3," Rai said. Nearly 2,500 civil defence volunteers are deployed at 100 crossings to make people aware of the significance of turning off their car engine when they are waiting at the traffic signal. The volunteers are deployed from 8 am to 2 pm and 2 pm to 8 pm in two shifts. "People are working from home but still cars are out there on the streets. While driving a person, on an average, crosses 10-12 crossings and for 30 minutes, fuel burning happens without any reason. We can take steps to reduce this," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||CBI conducts searches in 14 states in child sexual abuse case||The CBI on Tuesday started a coordinated search operation at 76 locations in 14 states against 83 people allegedly involved in sexual abuse of children and posting and circulating abuse material on the web space, officials said.  "The central agency registered 23 separate cases on November 14 against 83 people allegedly involved in online child sexual abuse and exploitation," they said.  Searches are being conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||'Do not travel to India-Pak border'; exercise caution due to crime and terrorism: US updates travel advisory ||The US has issued a level two and three travel advisories for India and Pakistan, saying while American citizens are urged to reconsider travel to Pakistan due to terrorism and sectarian violence, those going to India must exercise increased caution due to crime and terrorism.  In its advisory issued on Monday for India, the US State Department urged US citizens not to travel to Jammu and Kashmir due to terrorism and civil unrest, and also within 10 kilometres of the India-Pakistan border due to the potential for armed conflict.  "Indian authorities report rape is one of the fastest-growing crimes in India. Violent crimes, such as sexual assault, has occurred at tourist sites and in other locations," it said.  Terrorists may attack with little or no warning, targeting tourist locations, transportation hubs, markets/shopping malls, and government facilities, it said.  The US government has limited ability to provide emergency services to US citizens in rural areas from eastern Maharashtra and northern Telangana through western West Bengal as US government employees must obtain special authorisation to travel to these areas, the notice said.  The department in its advisory for Pakistan urged US citizens not to travel to Balochistan province and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) province, including the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), due to terrorism and kidnapping, and also in the immediate vicinity of the Line of Control due to terrorism and the potential for armed conflict.  "Terrorist groups continue plotting attacks in Pakistan. A local history of terrorism and ongoing ideological aspirations of violence by extremist elements have led to indiscriminate attacks on civilians as well as local military and police targets," it said.  "Terrorists may attack with little or no warning, targeting transportation hubs, markets, shopping malls, military installations, airports, universities, tourist locations, schools, hospitals, places of worship, and government facilities," it said.  Terrorists have targeted US diplomats and diplomatic facilities in the past, the advisory on Pakistan said. Pakistan's security environment has improved since 2014 when Pakistani security forces undertook concerted counter-terrorist and counter militant operations. There are greater security resources and infrastructure in the major cities, particularly Islamabad, and security forces in these areas may be more readily able to respond to an emergency compared to other areas of the country. While threats still exist, terrorist attacks are rare in Islamabad, the advisory said.  The US government has limited ability to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens in Pakistan due to the security environment, it said. Indo-Pak relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August 2019. The move angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||Ban on Islamic Research Foundation founded by fugitive Islamic preacher Zakir Naik extended for five years||The ban imposed on Islamic Research Foundation (IRF), set up by Zakir Naik who was accused of inciting Muslim youths in India and abroad to commit terror acts, has been extended by the Indian government for another five years. Naik, who was born in Mumbai but fled India in the wake of the 2016 Dhaka bombing, is accused of spreading hatred among different communities through his Peace TV and social media networks where he has over 20 million followers, and is currently living in Malaysia.  In a late night notification, the Union Home Ministry said that the IRF has been indulging in activities which are prejudicial to the security of the country and have the potential of disturbing peace and communal harmony and disrupting the secular fabric of the country and hence declared unlawful under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA.  The IRF was first banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (37 of 1967) by the central government on November 17, 2016. Naik fled India after the July 1, 2016 bombing at a cafe in Dhaka where terrorists killed over 20 people, including 17 foreigners.  One of the bombers of the Bangladesh capital had said that he was inspired by Naik's speeches. Two of the many Kerala youths, who joined the Islamic State, had said that they were attracted to the Middle-East's deadliest terror group after meeting the controversial preacher. Naik denied having any role in any of these incidents.  Zahran Hashim, the leader of National Thowheeth Jama'ath, the group which claimed the Easter bombings in Sri Lanka, had praised Naik and asked Sri Lankan Muslims what they could do for him. Over 250 people, including 45 children and 40 foreign nationals, were killed in the deadly explosions in Sri Lanka on April 21, 2019, the Easter Sunday.  In its notification, the home ministry said it is of the opinion that the IRF and its members, particularly founder and president Zakir Abdul Karim Naik alias Zakir Naik, have been encouraging and aiding its followers to promote or attempt to promote, on grounds of religion, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious communities and groups which are prejudicial to the integrity and security of the country, it said.  The home ministry said the statements and speeches made by Naik are objectionable and subversive and through them he has been promoting enmity and hatred among religious groups and inciting youths of a particular religion in India and abroad to commit terrorist acts.  Naik also makes radical statements and speeches to millions of people worldwide through international satellite TV network, Internet, print and social media, it said.  The central government is further of the opinion that if the unlawful activities of the IRF are not curbed and controlled immediately, it will take the opportunity to continue its subversive activities and re-organise its activists who are still absconding, it said.  The ministry said Naik's activities will disrupt the secular fabric of the country by polluting the minds of the people by creating communal disharmony, propagate anti-national sentiments, escalate secessionism by supporting militancy and some people may undertake activities which are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. The notification said that the central government is also of the opinion that with regard to the activities of the IRF, it is necessary to declare it an unlawful association with immediate effect.  Considering all these aspects, the Home Ministry said, it has decided to extend the ban imposed on the IRF under the UAPA for another five years. India has been pursuing with Malaysia its request for extradition of the fugitive evangelist without any success. He has permanent residency of Malaysia, which gave him shelter after countries like Britain and Canada denied him visas.  Naik's hardline interpretation of Islam earned him a distinct following but he attracted attention of security agencies as well. There are multiple cases filed by the National Investigation Agency and the Enforcement Directorate against Naik. After his Peace TV English, he had also launched the Urdu and Bangla versions of the channel and these were banned in many countries over allegations of radical views and hate campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||IREO's Lalit Goyal arrested by ED in money-laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested the vice-chairman and managing director of real estate group IREO, Lalit Goyal, in connection with a money-laundering probe against him, officials said on Tuesday. The businessman has been taken into custody under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the federal probe agency in Chandigarh and will be produced before a local court for seeking his remand, they said. Goyal was stopped by immigration authorities last Thursday at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport here on the basis of an ED look out circular against him. He was supposed to take a flight to the US. Goyal was questioned at the airport and detained by the agency following which he was being questioned in Chandigarh. Officials said as he was "evasive" while replying to the questions of the investigators, he was arrested. The businessman, whose sister is married to BJP leader Sudhanshu Mittal, is being probed in relation with a money laundering case linked to alleged diversion of estimated USD 77 million (one million is equal to 10 lakhs) of home buyers' funds, investments and shareholdings to some offshore entities. Goyal's name also figured in the 'Pandora Papers' global leak of offshore funds. The businessman and his legal team had earlier denied any illegalities on their part and have said no funds were diverted abroad in violation of laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||Drop a pin on Google Maps for CBI officer to know your location: Court to accused on bail||Share your location with the CBI investigation officer by dropping a "pin on the Google Maps" on your phone within seven days of release on bail, a special court has directed an accused in the JEE (Main) manipulation case, making it possibly the first such order in CBI cases.  The special court accepted the bail application of Ajinkya Narhari Patil, an employee at the Pune office of Affinity Education Pvt. Ltd. who allegedly lured aspiring candidates by promising to arrange their admission in engineering courses through the JEE (Main) for a fee.  The CBI, which had busted the racket on September 2 this year, has alleged that the accused owners and executives of Affinity Education compromised the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) by solving question papers through remote access and sometimes by providing answer keys to aspirants who bought their illicit services.  The central probe agency has alleged that the accused bribed the supervisors of some examination centres in the National Capital Region (NCR), roping them in the conspiracy to provide unfair means to the aspiring candidates to secure admission in reputed engineering institutions for huge payments.  Patil was "knowingly" making tele-calls to the parents and aspiring candidates luring them to give huge money for admission in IITs and NITs by using unfair means in the JEE (Main), the CBI has alleged. Patil who was arrested on September 3 contested the allegations saying he was a "mere employee" of Affinity Education primarily involved in making tele-callls to students interested in taking admission in medical colleges in foreign countries.  The court allowed the bail of Patil on a bond of Rs 50,000 with conditions that he would share his phone number with the investigating officer within seven days of his release on bail. Special Judge Harish Kumar also directed that his phone number shall "always remain open at all times dropping a pin on the Google Maps" to ensure that his location is available to the investigating officer.  "The CBI had arrested seven persons linked to Affinity Education, including its two directors Siddharth Krishna and Vishwambhar Mani Tripathi and four employees Ritik Singh, Anjum Dawoodani, Animesh Kumar Singh and Ajinkya Narhari Patil, the officials said. Another person Ranjit Singh Thakur was arrested from Jamshedpur," they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||Data will dictate history, says Modi at Audit Diwas event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said data is information and it will dictate history in the future as he exhorted for strong and scientific audits to make systems strong and transparent. Speaking at the Audit Diwas event of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), he said in the past information was transmitted in form of stories. "History was written through stories. But in the 21st century, data is information and in coming times our history will be looked through and understood using data. In the future, data will be dictating the history," he said. He went on to list reforms such as contactless customs, automatic renewals, faceless assessments and online applications for service delivery, that have ended unnecessary government interventions. "When transparency is brought in the system, results are visible," he said adding India is the world's third-largest ecosystem for startups and already has 50 unicorns. He said documents, data and files sought by the national auditor, CAG should be provided by government departments. Strong, scientific audits will make the system strong and transparent, he said adding his government has taken CAG's concerns on fiscal deficit and state expenditure in the right spirit. Appreciating CAG's new practice of sharing preliminary findings with government departments before the beginning field audits, he said the combination of the two will give better results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||TMC MP says ordinances 'overused' since 2014; minister retorts that these are very part of democracy||A war of words erupted between Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien over the use of ordinances by successive governments, after the opposition leader accused the Centre of promulgating ordinances to mock Parliament.  A series of tweets from Joshi on Monday night drew a sharp reaction from O'Brien who had earlier posted a tweet hitting out at the government over the ordinances to extend the tenure of the ED and CBI chiefs. He also posted a graphic that showed that in the 17th Lok Sabha, almost four ordinances were brought in for every 10 bills and how it had been misused since 2014.  Joshi in his response highlighted how the previous Congress governments used ordinances. He said that during the Congress regime, a total of 524 ordinances have so far been issued. He said that during the 5th Lok Sabha alone, 96 ordinances were issued.  "Will Mr. Derek O'Brien care to explain above numbers?" he asked. "Ordinances are very part of a democracy. No one expects TMC to understand this because we have seen what happens to the democratic rights of other parties in West Bengal. We have seen Hon'ble High Court's observation and that how many sessions have been conducted in WB's assembly.  "Also, it is not too late for Mr. O'Brien to learn and acknowledge that the Congress party, supported by his own TMC party, is the most undemocratic party. Does he need to be reminded that Congress has used Article 356 to dismiss State Governments a whopping 93 times?" Joshi added.  In his reply, O'Brien said that he stood by his data. "Mr Modi and Mr Shah, I posted this graphic showing how ordinances have been overused since 2014 #Parliament. Some boys in your Cabinet have made some gurgling sounds. No substance. Reposting graphic. I stand by each of these numbers. Could you request your boys to try again," O'Brien said.  Opposition parties have vowed to counter in Parliament the government's move of extending the tenure of the CBI and ED chiefs, alleging it was bypassing the House, distorting the Constitution and resorting to Ordinance Raj to "misuse" the agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh govt spending public money to get crowds for PM's rallies, says Priyanka||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of spending public money to get crowds for rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, and asserted that everyone in the state has understood the BJP's politics of "jumlas" (rhetoric). The Congress general secretary shared clippings of media reports on Twitter that claimed that public funds were being sought by officials to gather crowds for rallies. "During the lockdown, when lakhs of labourers were returning from Delhi to their villages in Uttar Pradesh on foot, the BJP government did not provide buses to them," Gandhi charged in a tweet in Hindi. "But the government is spending crores of public's hard earned money to bring crowds to the rallies of the PM and Home Minister," she alleged. Gandhi claimed that there is deep resentment towards the BJP in every village of Uttar Pradesh. Everyone has understood the BJP's politics of "jumlon ki dukaan, pheeke pakwaan (politics of rhetoric, low on substance)", she said. Therefore, effort is being made to save face by investing crores, Gandhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
16-11-2021||India||Daily Covid cases in country lowest in 287 days||India logged 8,865 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 287 days, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,44,56,401, while the active cases settled at 1,30,793, the lowest in 525 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,63,852 with 197 fresh fatalities, including 127 from Kerala and 19 from Maharashtra, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the last few days. The ministry said the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 39 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 142 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.38 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.27 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,303 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.80 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 43 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.97 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 53 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,61,756, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 112.97 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,63,852 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,602 from Maharashtra, 38,146 from Karnataka, 36,296 from Tamil Nadu, 35,877 from Kerala, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,319 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' category for third consecutive day||Delhi's air quality remained in the 'very poor' category for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, with the air quality index being recorded at 396. The air quality index in neighbouring cities stood as follows -- Ghaziabad (349), Greater Noida (359), Gurgaon (363) and Noida (382) -- in the morning. In Delhi, the AQI was recorded in the 'very poor' category at most of the stations, at few places like Dwarka Sector-8 and Patparganj, Alipur, Shadipur, DTU and Panjabi Bagh, it had crossed the 400-mark, going into the 'severe' category, according to data shown in SAMEER app. The average AQI of Delhi stood at 396, data from CPCB showed. A visible improvement in Delhi's air quality was recorded on Sunday although it was in the 'very poor' category. The national capital had recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 330 on Sunday as against 473 the previous day as emissions from farm fires in Haryana and Punjab had dropped significantly. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday had said that his department had issued a notification for effective implementation of the emergency measures announced by the city government to tackle air pollution. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning. The relative humidity stood at 88 per cent at 8.30 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||18-year-old girl dies after Covid jab, gifts organs to four||An 18-year-old girl who developed a rare blood clotting disorder after her first Covishield dose and slipped into brain death has become India’s first deceased organ donor after a Covid-19 vaccine-linked adverse event. Doctors in Hyderabad have successfully transplanted the girl’s kidneys, liver, heart and lungs into four recipients through a set of operations performed after consent from her family and consultations with state health and Central vaccination authorities. The girl’s heart and lung went to a 26-year-old girl suffering from heart and lung failure and waiting for transplants since June 2018. A 64-year-old woman with liver failure received the deceased donor’s liver. One kidney went to a 31-year-old woman on a waiting list for three years, diagnosed with end-stage kidney disease and on maintenance dialysis for over four years. The second kidney went to a 22-year-old man who had also been on dialysis for four years. “Organ retrieval from brain dead donors always occurs in tragic circumstances -- in this instance, it was after a rare vaccine-associated adverse event,” said Swarnalatha Guditi, additional professor of nephrology at the Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad. Brain death is an irreversible condition in which the body permanently loses its capacity for consciousness and breathing. Brain dead persons whose blood flow and heart functions are maintained with machines are potential sources of organs for transplantation. Transplantation surgeons say brain dead head injury victims are among the most common potential sources of organs, but the demand for organs far exceeds the counts of available deceased donors. The girl was brought to the hospital with complaints of headache, fever, vomiting, unsteady gait, and one seizure episode, about 10 days after she had received her first Covishield dose. She had no history of any significant, chronic health disorder. Her doctors conducted tests and diagnosed her with vaccine-induced thrombosis and  thromobocytopenia (VITT), an extremely rare adverse event observed after certain Covid-19 vaccines, including Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. The doctors began treating the girl for the clotting disorder, but her condition worsened and she was diagnosed as having suffered from brain death on June 19 this year, about 20 days after she had received the dose. Guditi and her colleagues were in uncharted terrain. “There was no legal and no medical precedent to this situation -- her death was most unfortunate, but her brain dead condition made her a potential organ donor,” Guditi told The Telegraph. The girl’s parents were counselled and they agreed to donating her organs. The doctors then consulted state health and Central vaccination authorities and prepared the documentation required for the transplantation. “All four recipients had normal graft (organ) functions without any thrombotic (clotting) complications after 16 weeks of transplantation,” Guditi and her colleagues said describing the case report in the journal Transplantation Proceedings. The researchers said their experience bolsters evidence for the viability of organs from donors with VITT. Although the girl was India’s first deceased donor who had been diagnosed with VITT, similar organ transplantations have occurred in other countries. Doctors in the UK have reported 18 deceased donors with proven or probable VITT. Vaccination data from other countries have indicated that VITT occurs in one in 1,00,000 to one in 127,000 vaccine doses. India has administered over 998 million doses of Covishield but documented only a few cases of VITT, the extremely rare incidence establishing the benefits of the vaccine over the tiny risk, a vaccine policy advisor in India said. India’s Covid-19 vaccination guidelines urge recipients to look out for symptoms such as headache, vision changes, nausea or vomiting, seizures, abdominal pain, chest pain, shortness of breath or blood in stools after receiving doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||Nitish Kumar rubbishes Kangana’s ‘bheekh’ remark on Independence as ‘useless’||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday termed movie actor Kangana Ranaut’s remarks about India getting Independence in bheekh (alms) in 1947 as “useless” and asserted that statements of such persons should not be given importance. “This is useless. I am surprised how anybody published the comments of such a person. Is there any meaning or importance of such talk? Should we take notice of such things or pay attention to them,” Nitish reacted when asked about Kangana’s statements on the sidelines of his ‘janata durbar’ in Patna. “Who does not know when we achieved freedom? Anybody has anything else in her mind has no meaning. Such remarks should not have been given any importance. They should have been made fun of completely. I don’t pay attention or take notice of such people.” Kangana, an actor with right-wing opinions and a self-proclaimed ‘bhakta’ (devotee or fan) of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had recently claimed in an interview to a news channel that the country achieved Independence in 2014 (the year he became the Prime Minister) and what it got in 1947 was bheekh (alms). The comments sparked a huge outcry across the country with various sections of the society demanding that she should be booked for her anti-national comments and insulting the freedom fighters. Nitish also asserted that prohibition will continue in Bihar and the government will make all the arrangements for its more intensive and extensive implementation, including campaigns to spread awareness against liquor and action on those conniving to flout it. “We cannot tolerate any compromise in the implementation of prohibition. We will make arrangements for its intensive and extensive implementation, awareness campaign against liquor and action against those compromising the ban. We need to publicise that if you will die if you drink,” Nitish said. The chief minister iterated that he would review the implementation of prohibition on Tuesday at a high-level meeting with all the ministers, senior officials, district magistrates and superintendents of police. Nitish imposed prohibition in April 2016, though the flow of liquor never stopped in the state. He had been reviewing the steps to enforce it every year, but has been forced to do so after around 50 deaths in half a dozen hooch tragedies in various districts. “We have earlier held several meetings on prohibition. This time we will discuss what happened to the steps that we had decided to take, how people are drinking, how spurious liquor is being available and why people are dying,” Nitish said. He also refused to accept that the incidence of crime in the state has increased in recent times despite prohibition. He countered by asserting that such incidents and road accidents have decreased after liquor was banned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||SC frowns on composition of SIT probing Lakhimpur massacre||The Supreme Court on Monday frowned on the composition of the special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to enlist senior cops, including an IPS officer from outside the state, to ensure an impartial investigation. A week earlier, the court had said the probe was “not going the way we expected”, feared “one particular accused is sought to be given benefit” and suggested appointing a retired judge to monitor the investigation and inject “independence, impartiality and fairness”. On Monday, the bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli underlined that the present SIT was made up mostly of sub-inspectors from the Lakhimpur region. It said the team needed more senior officers and a senior IPS officer from outside the state. “Most officers are from Lakhimpur only,” Justice Kant said. “You have to upgrade the task force (SIT). They have to be higher officers,” Justice Ramana told senior advocate Harish Salve, who was representing the state government. “Submit the names (of the senior police officers) by tomorrow evening so that we can incorporate it in our order, which we will pass on Wednesday.” On Wednesday, the bench is expected to choose a retired judge to monitor the probe, a decision it reserved on Monday. The SIT is probing allegations that Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, had led a convoy in mowing down four protesting farmers and a journalist on October 3. A driver and two BJP workers were then allegedly lynched by other farmers. A week ago, the apex court had suggested appointing either Justice Rakesh Jain or Justice Ranjit Singh, both former Punjab and Haryana High Court judges, as the monitor and sought feedback from the Uttar Pradesh government. On Monday, Salve said the state was fine with the idea and would leave it to the apex court to pick the judge. “Since we are considering either Rakesh Jain or some other judge, we need time to talk to the judge for their consent,” Justice Ramana said. Salve implied the court need not necessarily exclude retired judges from Allahabad High Court for the task, saying: “It’s the person who matters; Your Lordship may appoint any judge regardless of the state.” Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, appearing for the wife of alleged lynching victim Shyam Sundar Nishad, said a retired Supreme Court judge could be appointed too. Justice Ramana said he would look into the suggestion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||Post-mortems allowed after sunsets by health ministry||The health ministry has notified a new protocol that allows hospitals with required infrastructure to conduct post-mortems after sunsets that it said would benefit those mourning the deceased and those waiting for organ transplants. The new protocol could shorten the waiting periods for friends and relatives of the deceased and increase the number of organs that could be harvested for transplants within stipulated time windows after the procedure. The health ministry said a technical committee of the directorate general of health services had examined multiple representations it had received on the issue. “In view of rapid advancement and improvement in technology, especially availability of required lighting and infrastructure for post-mortem, performing night-time post-mortem is now feasible,” the health ministry said. The protocol stipulates that post-mortem for organ donation should be taken up on priority and be conducted even after sunset in hospitals that have such infrastructure. The ministry said the committee has ascertained that some institutions that have infrastructure are already conducting night-time post-mortems. The hospital-in-charge would be responsible for ensuring the fitness and adequacy of infrastructure and the facility should be equipped with video-recording of the procedure and preserved for any required future legal purposes. But exceptions to night-time post-mortems persist. Cases under categories such as homicide, suicide, rape, decomposed bodies, or suspected foul play should not be subject to night-time post-mortem unless there is a law-and-order situation, the ministry said. “The new protocol would primarily help in the quick handover of the body to the next of kin,” said B. Suresh Shetty, professor of forensic medicine at the Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore. “If organs need to be harvested, that is always done in an operation theatre before the post-mortem exam.” Shetty said keeping homicide, suicide, rape among other categories out of the night-time protocols is appropriate because in such cases doctors involved in the autopsies might be subject to questions in courts. “Night-time autopsies would certainly benefit some categories, but they are not appropriate in all cases,” he said. “Lawyers might raise questions about the way the procedures were conducted under poor light during the night.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||House of arts and culture a halt for Hindu deities and other artefacts||Will the National Gallery of Modern Art be turned into a temporary shelter for Hindu deities and other artefacts that the Prime Minister has brought back from his recent trip to the US with much fanfare? Current happenings suggest that the institution, opened in 1954 and located in the elegant Jaipur House in Lutyens Delhi, may well become one. Those in charge seem to have forgotten that the NGMA is a repository of the country’s cultural ethos and showcases the changing art forms in the field of visual and plastic arts through the last 160 years, starting from about 1857. And what is the aesthetic and cultural worth of these objects brought back from abroad? Art historian Pratapaditya Pal has said in a recent interview: “Take, for instance, the recent repatriation of artworks from the US to India. I have only seen the photos of the hundreds of objects that were handed over by the US government to the Prime Minister of India, most of which were not worth the freight charges for their repatriation.” According to a Press Information Bureau report of November 11, Union culture minister G. Kishan Reddy had that day handed over to the Uttar Pradesh government, in the presence of several Union and state ministers, an idol of Goddess Annapurna retrieved from Canada. The idea was that after a century since its theft, the 18th-century ritual object could return to its original seat at the Vishwanath temple in Varanasi. This was one of the 157 artefacts, antiquities and figurines related to Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism recently handed over to India during Modi’s recent visit to the US, thanks to the Prime Minister’s “sustained efforts”. With the elections in Uttar Pradesh round the corner, Reddy did not miss the opportunity to invoke Annapurna Devi and the Indian farmers the BJP has bullied so far, crediting both with producing surplus food grain that guided the Prime Minister’s Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana during the pandemic. The reception of the ritual object of little aesthetic merit took place in the precincts of the NGMA in Delhi, which is under the ministry of culture. The Facebook page of the NGMA displays photographs of the ceremony with the accompanying text declaring: “Celebrating homecoming of Mata Annapurna at NGMA, Delhi.” It was posted by the director-general of the NGMA, Adwaita Gadanayak, who is seen in the photographs wearing a red kurta and paying obeisance to the idol, attired in a ceremonial ghaghra choli. Vivan Sundaram is not surprised. He described it as the “new norm” and of a piece with the bhoomi pujan by the Prime Minister for the new Parliament last December. “It signals the growing trend of bringing religion into culture,” he said. Gadanayak told this correspondent over the phone on Saturday that the goddess had left on her journey on a rath through Uttar Pradesh. Although no formal puja was held, the paraphernalia and auspicious colours of a religious ceremony could not be missed in the photographs. Jogen Chowdhury’s only question was: “Does the government have any plan to return the sculptures of the Hindu deities (from) the Indian Museum and the National Museum in Delhi to their original locations?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||Amazon joins probe into alleged marijuana sale on its platform||E-commerce major Amazon India on Monday said it is investigating an allegation that its platform was used to source marijuana. On Saturday, an online marijuana sale racket was busted by Bhind police in Madhya Pradesh, leading to the arrest of two people and seizure of 20kg of the contraband, an official said. Bhind superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar Singh said on a tip-off, Kallu Pawaiya, 30, and dhaba owner Brijendra Tomar, 35, were arrested from Bhind Gwalior Road on Saturday and 20kg of marijuana was found. “Kallu used to source the marijuana from Vishakhapatnam through a reputed international e-commerce firm to Gwalior, Bhopal, Kota, Agra and other areas of the country. Brijendra helped him in the business,” he had said. Kallu has so far sold one tonne of the contraband and transacted business worth Rs 1.1 crore, the SP had said. “Kallu ran his company under a fake name with PAN and GST number etc. The e-commerce firm got 66.66 per cent of profit from the illicit business. We are collecting evidence to prosecute the e-commerce company under section 29 (part of criminal conspiracy) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act,” Singh had stated. An Amazon spokesperson said: “The issue was notified to us, and we are currently investigating it. We assure full co-operation and support required to investigating authorities and law enforcement agencies with ongoing investigations to resolve the issue at the earliest.” Traders’ body CAIT (Confederation of All India Traders) on Monday said the marijuana racket incident is a serious offence and the Narcotics Control Bureau should also take up the issue besides Madhya Pradesh police. CAIT has also urged Union home minister Amit Shah and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shri Shivraj Singh Chauhan to ensure that the issue should not go into the air.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||Congress spies ‘leash’ in extensions to CBI and ED chiefs||The Congress on Monday said the ordinances allowing three consecutive one-year extensions to the CBI and Enforcement Directorate chiefs reflected not “public interest” but the government’s eagerness to facilitate misuse of these investigating agencies for “personal and political” interests. Betraying its contempt for such criticism, the government on Monday issued a gazette notification that cited “public interest” to sanction up to two years’ extensions for holders of four other posts: defence secretary, home secretary, Intelligence Bureau director and Research and Analysis Wing secretary. “The decision (to promulgate Sunday’s ordinances) was driven by the dangerous cocktail of greed and fear. There is no public interest. It is personal interest. It is the interest of the establishment,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said. “The Prime Minister wants to control the agencies to protect secrets, to save friends and to torment the Opposition. They are creating security for themselves instead of creating security for the nation.” The CBI and ED heads, who have two-year tenures, could till now hope for a year’s extension at best. Singhvi said the “crucial word” in the ordinances was “extension”. “A guaranteed tenure of five years could possibly be touted as an index of independence, giving you security of tenure in which you can’t be touched. This ordinance does just the opposite. It gives the government the power to give one-year extensions till five years,” he said. “This ordinance says, ‘I will keep you on probation, I will keep you on a leash, in a master-servant relationship. I will ask you every six months, nine months — look, your next extension is due. Have you behaved? Have you done the master’s bidding? If you have, I may consider an extension. If you haven’t, tough luck, go home’.” Opposition parties have been accusing the Narendra Modi government of using investigative agencies like the CBI and the ED to intimidate or settle scores with them. Officials said the ordinances would allow the Centre to bypass a Supreme Court order that forbade any further extension to ED chief Sanjay Mishra, a perceived government favourite who was to demit office on November 19 this year. “They (the government) have used subterfuge, coercion and brute majority in Parliament to undermine all institutions. They have contemptuously rejected the Supreme Court’s directives,” Singhvi said. “We beseech every stakeholder in this country and all authorities who care for the future of India not to take this lying down.” Monday’s notification on two-year extensions for four posts — whose holders have two-year tenures — was issued by the department of personnel and training after amending the Fundamental Rules. “The BJP is consistently, deliberately, consciously engaged in undermining and sabotaging institutions,” Singhvi said. The Congress is expected to create an uproar over the ordinances in the upcoming session of Parliament but the government has the numbers to push them through in the form of bills. The Congress hopes these decisions would have a negative political impact and the Supreme Court too might look at them unfavourably. Singhvi said a campaign to have fixed tenures had started in 1997 and mentioned in this context how then CBI head Alok Verma was shunted out in a midnight operation in 2019, allegedly over suspicion that he meant to probe the Rafale aircraft deal. “You know how much it was emphasised to ensure complete insulation of the office of the CBI director from all kinds of extraneous influences… so that the director may function without fear and favour,” Singhvi said. He quoted the Supreme Court as saying, in reference to sections of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act dealing with a CBI director’s appointment and tenure, that “the clear legislative intent in bringing the aforesaid provisions to the statute book are for the purpose of ensuring complete insulation of the office of the director, CBI, from all kinds of extraneous influences, as may be, as well as for upholding the integrity and independence of the institution of the CBI as a whole”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||Karnataka: Bitcoin heat on Basavaraj Bommai||A year-old case related to hacking cryptocurrency exchanges, online poker websites and the state government’s e-procurement portal has come back to bite the BJP government with the Opposition waiting for answers to its questions that boxed chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in a tight corner. While only the hacking of the state e-procurement portal that allegedly compromised bid processes supposed to be held in total secrecy is directly related to Karnataka, the rest of the digital exploits of the hacker and his friends span several locations from The Netherlands to some global tax havens. The ‘Bitcoin scam’ dates back to November 2020 when a city-based techie Sri Krishna, now 26, was arrested along with his friend Robin Khandelwal for hacking the e-procurement portal. His subsequent confessions about hacking cryptocurrency exchanges and online gaming sites led to four more cases in which he was arrested. He was released on bail in April 2021 after spending some 100 days in custody. Congress lawmaker and former IT minister Priyank Kharge took the lead in seeking a detailed investigation in the matter alleging serious discrepancies in the investigation. “The police have contradicted themselves by first saying in January that Bitcoins worth Rs 9 crore were seized from the accused and now saying they have not recovered any,” Kharge told The Telegraph on Monday. “It looks like the case is being botched up and the investigation is not headed to uncover, but to cover up the truth. Suddenly there seems to be no crime at all,” he said, urging Bommai to explain since he was home minister when the alleged crime unfolded. “The government must explain why the case was not referred to the ED, CBI, or Interpol soon after the arrest,” he said. “It was the ED that took the initiative to seek details of the case based on media reports in February. The police replied the following month, while the commissioner of police then wrote to the Interpol liaison officer in April. All this smacks of a cover-up,” said Kharge. The issue had made Rahul Gandhi tweet: “Bitcoin scam is big. But the Bitcoin scam cover-up is much bigger. Because it has to cover up someone’s fake big ego.” Kharge noted how the accused had confessed to hacking the state’s e-procurement portal that seems to have compromised the bid process, apart from hacking international cryptocurrency exchanges and online gaming platforms. In his voluntary statement made before the metropolitan magistrate in December, Krishna — known to his friends as Sriki — confessed to having been an active participant in the ‘dark web.’ Dark web or deep web is a collection of hidden websites accessible only with special web browsers aimed at keeping online activities extremely private. This can be used for legal or illegal activities. Krishna stated that he hacked the e-procurement site in 2019 and made three transfers to two accounts(presumably bank accounts) given to him by one Hemanth Mudappa. He transferred Rs 18 crore to one and Rs 28 crore to another. “Hemanth claimed he collected 2 crores cash from an entity called Ayub whom I do not know.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
16-11-2021||India||JNU: Scuffle breaks out between ABVP members, student groups  ||A scuffle broke out between members of the ABVP and other student groups at JNU on Sunday night, causing no major injuries but stoking memories of last year’s violence that had left students’ union president and SFI leader Aishe Ghosh and others severely injured. Sunday’s campus fight took place over the use of the students’ union office. The Hundred Flowers Group (HFG) — a Far Left society on the campus – regularly holds a Marxist study circle at the Students Activity Centre in the union office. When members of the group arrived to read and discuss Engels’s essay, “Socialism: Utopian and Scientific”, at the office on Sunday night, they found that ABVP members had gathered there for their own meeting. An argument led to fisticuffs, in which students from other groups joined in. An FIR has been registered at Vasant Kunj (North) police station on a complaint from ABVP member Abhishek Kumar which accuses Ghosh and others of assault. The FIR makes no mention of a complaint lodged by a student from a Left group which the police acknowledged receiving. The police have not named any accused in the FIR, registered under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). The offences are cumulatively punishable by up to 13 months in jail. Both the Left-led students’ union (JNUSU) and the ABVP held protest marches on Monday. The HFG said: “This incident of hooliganism by ABVP goons is not a one-off incident…. The JNUSU office that ABVP was laying its claim (to) was recently vandalised by these same goons and the portraits of Bhagat Singh and Che Guevara were desecrated.” It said the “horror of 5th January incident is still fresh”. On January 5 last year, Ghosh was leading a campus agitation against a hike in hostel fees when she was assaulted with steel rods by alleged ABVP cadres who wore masks. She needed 16 stitches on her forehead. No one was arrested. The police accused Ghosh of leading a mob but are yet to chargesheet her. In a purported sting, India Today TV recorded Akshat Awasthi, a fresher BA student of French who had previously been seen at ABVP protests, claiming he was part of an effort to mobilise around 20 JNU students and an equal number from outside to attack Left supporters. The ABVP said in a statement after midnight: “JNUSU and Left parties in their trance of the dictatorial powers of communism in USSR have brought out the decree that only JNUSU president can give permissions for using the Student Activities Centre. And to impose this they resorted to collective violence on ABVP activists having a peaceful gathering in the Teflas.” Teflas is the building in which the Students Activity Centre is located. In a statement on Monday, the students’ union said: “…The union office room remains booked on 14th nov for a reading session and the organisation has also campaigned for the same. ABVP not only refused to vacate the union office but unabashedly resorted to intimidating tactics…. Aishe Ghosh was heckled as she tried to intervene….” The statement accused ABVP members of using chairs and rods in the fight --- purported videos of which were shared --- and named them. DCP (Southwest) Gaurav Sharma told reporters: “Police swiftly responded to the call. However, no quarrel was found taking place on the spot…. Both the sides are levelling allegations against each other…. Enquiry is on and legal action will be taken accordingly.” Chief proctor Rajnish Mishra issued a statement condemning “violence and unruly behaviour” of any kind on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
16-11-2021||India||Ex-bureaucrats and diplomats urge to protect statute rights||A group of retired bureaucrats and diplomats on Monday cited India’s backslide on yardsticks of human development and democracy and urged a “vigorous pushback” to help reclaim the “life and liberty of the poor and disadvantaged” and the hard-won constitutional rights. “India has not done well with respect to levels of education, life expectancy, the status of girls/ women and per capita income,” says an open letter from the retired bureaucrats and diplomats who formed the collective Constitutional Conduct a few years ago. “Hunger and malnutrition stalk the land. Moreover, democracy, freedom of speech, the right to protest and secularism, all basic features of the Indian Constitution, are in grave danger. “There has to be a vigorous pushback. These challenges have to be met head on by a vigilant civil society, the media, political opposition, people’s movements and revitalised constitutional institutions like the Election Commission and the judiciary. What is at stake is no less than the life and liberty of the poor and the disadvantaged and the hard-won rights of the people of India under the Constitution.” The letter says the fall in India’s ranking on various indices is a worry not just because it reflects a worsening of the socio-economic situation but also because it marks a slow extinguishing of the things that make India an important democracy. “Sadly, the Government of India (GoI), instead of expressing concern at such a decline and attempting to stop the deterioration, has been more concerned with attacking the reports and surveys and stating that they are wrong or deliberately misleading,” it adds. The open letter cites several global rankings, including some key reports that talk about democracy and the freedom of religion: the Democracy Report of the Swedish V-Dem Institute, the Democracy Index of the Economist Intelligence Unit and the United States Commission for International Religious Freedom. “India has become known internationally for criminalising dissent and using laws relating to sedition and terrorism against those activists, media persons and Opposition politicians who stand up against the ruling dispensation,” the letter says. “Human rights violations continue apace and constitutional institutions like the Election Commission and the judiciary are undermined and eviscerated by all manner of means including the lure of post-retirement sinecures, intimidation and threats.” The letter refers to how the Narendra Modi government challenged the Global Hunger Index after it ranked India below countries such as Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. It underlines that the government’s own data from the National Family Health Survey as well as the findings of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, a private research group, and academic studies broadly confirm the GHI’s statistics. The signatories to the letter include former national security adviser Shiv Shankar Menon, former home secretary G.K. Pillai, former health secretary K. Sujatha Rao, former high commissioner to Bangladesh Dev Mukharji, and the former special secretary in the cabinet secretariat, Anand Arni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
16-11-2021||India||Delhi air pollution: SC asks states to consider work from home||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the National Capital Region states to ensure their employees work from home and to consider a series of steps to combat air pollution. The Centre was directed to convene an emergency meeting of the chief secretaries of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana to take immediate measures, including possibly the temporary closure of or restrictions on power plants, non-essential construction and vehicle movement. Work from home, which gained acceptance during the worst weeks of the Covid-19 pandemic, has been suggested to reduce the use of public and private transport. A special bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant issued the directives and adjourned the matter till Wednesday, by when a plan of action has to be formulated by the Centre for the court’s consideration. The directives were passed after the Centre opposed any “drastic” measures, such as the two-day lockdown suggested by the bench on Saturday. The Union government conceded that only 4 per cent of the pollution was attributable to stubble burning by farmers. Other factors like dust, industries and vehicles were cited as the main drivers of pollution. “In fact, the cat is out of the bag. The farmers’ stubble burning contributes to only four per cent of the pollution, as per the chart given to us by the Union government. So we are targeting something which is totally insignificant,” Justice Chandrachud said during the hearing. Both the Centre and the Delhi government had been claiming that the present pollution owed to stubble burning. The court asked Haryana and Punjab to persuade farmers to stop burning the crop stubble for two weeks. “Please decide which industries can be stopped, which are the vehicles that can be prevented from plying and which power plants can be stopped and how you can provide alternative power by then,” Chief Justice Ramana told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, and senior advocate Rahul Mehra, counsel for the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi. The Chief Justice made it clear that the court would not pass any specific directive on the list of industries or sectors that have to be closed or their activities restricted. It is for the governments concerned to take the requisite steps and inform the court for its appraisal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
16-11-2021||India||Uphold independence and integrity of judiciary, CJAR asks SC collegium||The Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on Monday sought immediate recall of the decision to transfer Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to Meghalaya High Court, asking the Supreme Court collegium to uphold the “independence and integrity of the judiciary”. The civil society body had issued its statement hours before the Centre notified the transfer on Monday night. Praising the judge for “his commitment to constitutional values”, the CJAR expressed “deep disappointment” that the transfer “adheres to a recent pattern where the collegium’s decisions have conformed to the wishes of the Union government”. The CJAR said the collegium should from now on pass a resolution stating the reasons for a transfer within 24 hours of the recommendation to avoid misgivings and adverse inferences among the public. Members of the CJAR include well-known advocates such as Shanti Bhushan and Prashant Bhushan and activists such as Anjali Bhardwaj and Arundhati Roy. Advocates of Madras High Court have already sent two representations to the collegium, asking whether this was a “punishment transfer” for an “honest and fearless” judge and urging a rethink, and held a silent protest outside the high court. The CJAR, in a statement issued through its secretary, advocate Cheryl D’Souza, said Justice Banerjee’s record as chief justice of Madras High Court has been exemplary. “Not only has he upheld the highest traditions of impartiality and neutrality to adjudication, he has shown his commitment to constitutional values in numerous cases relating to the management of Covid, free speech on the internet, secularism and free and fair elections in the state of Tamil Nadu,” the CJAR said. “We note the representation made by the advocates of the Madras High Court to the collegium as a sign of the respect Justice Banerjee enjoyed with the Tamil Nadu Bar and as a certificate of his unimpeachable integrity as a judge. CJAR also expresses its deep disappointment that the transfer of Justice Banerjee adheres to a recent pattern where the collegium’s decisions have conformed to the wishes of the Union government.” The CJAR recalled how Justice Akil Kureshi’s recommended transfer in 2018 to Madhya Pradesh High Court, which has a sanctioned strength of 40 judges, was withdrawn after the Centre raised objections. Justice Kureshi was later transferred to Tripura High Court, which has a sanctioned strength of just four judges. “Whether it is in the refusal to nominate Justice Akil Kureshi, the acquiescence of the Union government’s pick-and-choose policy for appointment of high court judges or the lack of strong backing given to nominees who are being rejected without reasons by the Union government…. We therefore call upon the collegium to: Recall its resolution to transfer Justice Banerjee from the Madras High Court to the Meghalaya High Court,” the CJAR said. “Place on record the material and the basis for the decision to transfer Justice Banerjee from the Madras High Court to the Meghalaya High Court. Uphold the independence and integrity of the judiciary in the manner in which it participates in the judicial appointment process.” Justice Kureshi, one of the senior-most high court chief justices in the country, had remanded current Union home minister Amit Shah in police custody over a decade ago. He was last month shifted from Tripura to Rajasthan High Court only after the present collegium, headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, insisted on his transfer to a bigger high court. The CJAR also expressed concern that while the resolution to transfer Justice Banerjee was dated September 16, it was announced on the apex court website only on November 9. “The absence of a timely reasoned decision made available on the Supreme Court website is an unsavoury practice that gives rise to insinuations that the resolution was backdated, and should forthwith be stopped by the Supreme Court,” the statement said. “We call upon the collegium to upload its reasoned resolutions within 24 hours of the meeting, keeping in mind the right of the public to know the important decisions regarding appointments and transfers and to bring in greater transparency and accountability in the functioning of the collegium system.” The CJAR noted that while every high court was equal before the Constitution and enjoyed the same powers, the transfer of a judge from a larger and well-established high court to a smaller one was inevitably perceived as a punishment. While this may not have been the collegium’s intention, the absence of any stated material justification for the transfer made an inference likely to be drawn that Justice Banerjee was being “punished” for some reason, the CJAR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
16-11-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium approves first gay judge||For the first time, the Supreme Court collegium has officially recommended an avowed gay candidate for elevation as a high court or apex court judge, despite the Centre having objected to him four times before during initial enquiries. Saurabh Kirpal, recommended for appointment as Delhi High Court judge, had seen his candidature deferred four times since 2018 during the tenures of then Chief Justices of India Ranjan Gogoi and S.A. Bobde, sources said. The sources said the Centre’s objection was that his having a foreign partner — a Swiss human rights activist —constituted a potential conflict of interest and threat to national security. The apex court had on September 6, 2018, decriminalised homosexual acts conducted in private between consenting adults. Kirpal is an active member of the Naz Foundation, which successfully fought a decade-long battle in Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court, which culminated in the September 2018 verdict. The Delhi High Court collegium, headed by then acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal, had in 2017 first recommended Kirpal to the apex court collegium, the sources said. When the apex court collegium sought inputs on his antecedents from the Centre, the government communicated the objections of the Intelligence Bureau, which annexed some of Kirpal’s Facebook posts with his foreign partner, the sources added. Three more times did the collegium consult the government on Kirpal — after reiterations by the high court or consultations between the two collegiums — and each time the government cited IB reports to advise against his candidature. Sources said Chief Justice N.V. Ramana eventually decided to recommend Kirpal in consultation with the two other senior-most judges, Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar. “The Supreme Court collegium in its meeting held on 11th November, 2021, has approved the proposal for elevation of Shri Saurabh Kirpal, advocate, as judge in the Delhi High Court,” a resolution uploaded on the official apex court website said. Kirpal is the son of former Chief Justice of India B.N. Kirpal and had been a junior to former attorney-general Mukul Rohatgi. He has vast expertise and knowledge of commercial law. In April this year, then CJI Bobde is understood to have written to then Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad seeking clarifications on the IB’s reservations on Kirpal. Justice Bobde then retired on April 23, leaving the task to his successor, Justice Ramana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
16-11-2021||India||Centre notifies transfer of Justice Sanjib Banerjee to Meghalaya||The Centre notified on Monday evening the transfer of Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to Meghalaya, ignoring appeals for a rethink that gained more voices, including that of a highly respected former judge whose real-life story has inspired a film that is now making waves in the over-the-top space. “In exercise of the power conferred by clause (I) of Article 222 of the Constitution of India, the President, after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, is pleased to transfer Shri Justice Sanjib Banerjee, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, as the Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court,” the notification cleared by the Union law ministry said. Earlier in the day, a silent protest was held outside Chennai High Court. Besides, a representation was made to the Supreme Court collegium by 31 designated senior counsel. Some 237 advocates practising at the high court had already written an open memorandum to the collegium on Thursday, asking whether this was a “punishment transfer” for an “honest and fearless” judge who had delivered a series of landmark verdicts. Justice K. Chandru, a retired Madras High Court judge, spoke of the brevity of Justice Banerjee’s 10-month stint in Madras and the impartiality, efficiency and speed with which he had disposed of cases through virtual hearings. Justice Chandru had hit the headlines in the past few weeks, particularly in southern India, after Jai Bhim, an acclaimed movie depicting his legal battle in a custody death case when he was a lawyer, was released on an OTT platform. The movie is based on a true incident in which a tribal person was tortured to death in custody and his wife fought a legal battle, backed by lawyer Chandru, against daunting odds. On Monday, Justice Chandru asked why it had taken the collegium such a long time to make its decision public. While the transfer recommendation was made on September 16, the decision was made known only on November 9 night. The memorandum from the 237 lawyers had questioned the “secrecy” and highlighted the absence of stated reasons for the transfer recommendation. Justice Chandru referred to the apex court collegium’s recommendation to transfer Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari from Allahabad High Court to Madras High Court and wondered whether the authorities wanted to appoint him chief justice of Madras High Court. On Monday, more lawyers and the Madras Bar Association voiced concern at the transfer proposal and urged a rethink. Outside the high court, lawyers held up placards that read “Recall the unfair transfer of our Chief Justice” and “We demand the withdrawal of the transfer RPT the transfer of our Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee”. Veteran lawyer N.G.R. Prasad, who led the silent protest outside the high court, later told reporters that Justice Banerjee’s transfer recommendation was a “very serious issue”. He said too frequent transfers of a judge invited the inference that “they are being victimised for delivering fair and impartial judgments”. Prasad said that if such a trend of transfers continued, “judges will be there but the judiciary will be undermined”. The 31 designated senior counsel who sent the joint email representation to the collegium include P.S. Raman, V. Prakash, Nalini Chidambaram, Arvind P. Datar, Hema Sampath, Vijay Narayan, Ajmal Khan, Ravi Kumar Paul, N.R. Elango, P.H. Arvindh Pandian, A. Sirajudeen, J. Raja Kalifulla and S. Subbiah. Their representation said Justice Banerjee had completed only 10 months at Madras High Court and had “discharged his functions, both in the administrative side and judicial side, to the best of his capabilities”. They said Justice Banerjee had disposed of a few thousand cases even during the devastating second wave of Covid-19. “We are unable to fathom the reasons for his sudden transfer to another court,” they said. It takes any new chief justice coming from another state at least a year to “understand the administration, composition and challenges of an institution, apart from understanding the culture, language and local practices of a state”, the senior counsel emphasised. They suggested that the chief justice of Madras High Court should have at least a two-year term. Justice Banerjee had been transferred from Calcutta High Court to Madras High Court only in January this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
