17-11-2021||India||Cancelling any old FIR related to stubble burning against farmers: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday promised farmers to drop old cases of stubble burning against them but asked them not to set the paddy straw on fire in future.  The chief minister also promised to cancel all FIRs against farmers, registered in the state during their protests against the Centre's three farm laws.  He also announced his government decision to raise the compensation for the loss of the cotton crop to Rs 17,000 per acre from Rs 12,000 per acre.  Channi made these promises during a meeting with the representatives of Punjab's 32 farm bodies here.  Addressing the media after the meeting, Channi, while acceding to farmers' demands, said his government will cancel all FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against farmers protesting against farm laws in the state.  With this, we want that no farmer should set stubble on fire in future and the government will act strictly against the violation, he said.  But if any old FIR related to the stubble burning is there against anyone, we are cancelling it, he added.  But it is my request to farmers that they should not set the straw on fire as it causes pollution, Channi reiterated.  Channi's statement comes amid rising incidents of stubble burning with Punjab recording over 69,000 such incidents this season.  Stubble burning is banned but many farmers continue to flout it. Delhi and Haryana have taken several emergency measures including the closure of schools (in four districts in Haryana) and a ban on construction work to curb air pollution.  Later while speaking on the issue of stubble burning, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said he told the CM that the decision of the National Green Tribunal should be implemented in which farmers having less than 2.50 acres of land should be given farm machinery for the management of crop residue free of cost.  Farmers were being fined but no machinery was given to them, he said, adding he also asked the state government why the central funds of Rs 375 crore for giving subsidy on the machinery has not been released.  He asserted that the number of farm fire incidents were less this season.  On the relief related to cotton crop loss due to pink bollworm attack, Channi announced a hike in the compensation amount from Rs 12,000 to Rs 17,000 per acre, besides a 10 per cent of the relief to farm labourers engaged for the picking of cotton.  Channi said giving higher compensation would cost nearly Rs 200 crore more to the state government over the already approved sum of Rs 416.18 crore for it at the rate of Rs 12,000 per acre.  He also told farmer leaders that he would personally take up the matter with the Punjab governor to withdraw the cases against the farmers who participated in the protest march towards Punjab Raj Bhawan against farm laws.  Taking a serious note of the supply of "spurious quality" paddy seeds to farmers in Moga, Channi asked the agriculture minister to take stern action against the fraudulent seed company and ordered due compensation to affected farmers.  On the "meagre compensation" to farmers for their land acquired for the Delhi-Katra-Amritsar expressway, Channi said he would personally convene a meeting of all divisional and deputy commissioners to rationalise the rates of compensation.  Referring to the demand for waiving the outstanding farm loans, Channi said he would have a separate meeting with them after detailed deliberations with the state's Finance Department.  Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, who lost their breadwinners during farmers' agitation, the chief minister said the state government has already provided government jobs to 152 victim families, besides giving a financial aid of Rs 5 lakh to each of them.  Talking to reporters later, farmer leader Rajewal said they also raised the issue of pension for farmers and farm labourers.  He also said the farm bodies in Punjab were against Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni who was trying to implement his political agenda in the state with his Mission Punjab .  Chaduni had earlier asked farmer outfits in Punjab to contest the upcoming state assembly polls.  Meanwhile, before the meeting with the chief minister, several farmer leaders held a protest outside the meeting venue, claiming that they were allegedly pushed by the security men when they were trying to enter the Punjab Bhawan.  They threatened not to attend the meeting till the CM tenders apology for the same.  Punjab Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha came out to pacify them and later Channi met them to placate them.  Though a few pacified farmer leaders went inside with Nabha and Channi, some farmer leaders refused to attend the meeting.  Then Nabha came out again and urged farmer leaders to join the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti's brother in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti's brother Tassaduq Hussain Mufti for questioning in a money laundering case, officials said on Wednesday. They said Tassaduq has been asked to appear before the investigating officer of the case here on Thursday and get his statement recorded under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The investigation, they said, pertains to some funds allegedly received by him in his accounts from some Kashmir-based businesses. Mehbooba Mufti has herself been questioned by the ED in the past in connection with another money laundering case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||India ramps up logistics support capability in eastern Ladakh||India has carried out a mega airlift exercise displaying its capability to transport military equipment and provide logistics support to the troops deployed in the high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh in the harsh winter months against the backdrop of the lingering border standoff with China. The joint airlift exercise codenamed 'Operation Hercules' was undertaken by the Indian Air Force and Indian Army on Monday, officials said. ''The aim of the high-intensity airlift was to strengthen the logistics supply in the Northern sector and to augment winter stocking in the operational areas,'' the defence ministry said in a statement. The Indian Air Force deployed its C-17 Globemaster III heavy-lift aircraft, IL-76 aircraft and An-32 planes in the exercise. The ministry said the exercise was a real-time demonstration of the inherent heavy-lift capability of the Indian Air Force, which has played a major role in ensuring the ability to quickly respond to any contingency in the past. The Army has already sent essential winter supplies to high-altitude areas in eastern Ladakh to maintain its combat readiness through the treacherous winter. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The tension escalated following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February and in the Gogra area in August. The last round of military talks on October 10 ended in a stalemate following which both sides blamed each other for the impasse. In a strong statement after the 13th round of talks, the Indian Army said the ''constructive suggestions'' made by it at the negotiations were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor could Beijing provide any ''forward-looking'' proposals. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||Hindu Mahasabha threatens to install Krishna idol in Mathura mosque, says it's deity's birthplace||The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha has announced that it will install an idol of Lord Krishna at the deity's actual birthplace , which it claims is in the mosque close to a prominent temple here.  Hindu Mahasabha leader Rajyashri Choudhary said the idol will be installed after a maha jalabhishek on December 6 to purify the place.  The date picked by the right-wing organisation marks the demolition in 1992 of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, the site of a temple-mosque dispute.  The Mahasabha threat to perform the ritual inside the Shahi Idgah comes at a time when the local courts are hearing a series of petitions seeking the removal" of the 17th century mosque, close to the Katra Keshav Dev temple.  Hindu Mahasabha leader Rajyashri Choudhary, however, denied there was any link between the 1992 event and organisation's Mathura plan.  "Water from the holy rivers will be brought for the "maha jalabhishek," she said.  "We so far have got political freedom, but spiritual, economic and cultural freedom is yet to be achieved, Choudhary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||Attack on Salman Khurshid's house: Raids intensified to arrest suspects||Some of the suspects who attacked senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid's house in this district of Uttarakhand were identified on Wednesday, following which raids were intensified to apprehend them, a senior police officer said. Eight shells and a live cartridge of 32 bore gun, which is used primarily to scare away animals, were also recovered from the premises by a forensic team, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Nilesh Anand Bharne said. CCTV footage recovered from the spot led to the identification of some of the attackers and we have intensified our raids to nab them, he said. Teams of Bhowali, Bhimtal and Mukteshwar police formed under Circle Officer Bhupendra Singh Dhoni are continuously conducting raids in order to arrest the suspects, Bharne said. No arrests have been made yet, he added. Khurshid's house in Satkol, about 15 kilometres from Nainital, was vandalised on Monday amid the ongoing controversy over his book Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood In Our Times in which he draws a comparison between Hindutva and terror outfits like ISIS. Shouting pro-Hindutva slogans, the attackers burnt an effigy of the Congress leader outside his house under the Bhowali police station besides damaging some glass doors and setting one wooden door on fire of the structure. The family of caretaker Sunder Lal was also threatened. Later, an FIR was registered against one named and 20 unidentified people on the basis of a complaint by Lal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||Pakistan gives Kulbhushan Jadhav right to file review appeal against his conviction||Pakistan's Parliament in its joint sitting on Wednesday enacted a law to give Indian death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav the right to file a review appeal against his conviction by a military court. Jadhav, a 51-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence After hearing both sides, the Hague-based ICJ issued a verdict in July, 2019, asking Pakistan to give India consular access to Jadhav and also ensure review of his conviction. On Wednesday, the joint sitting comprising members of the Senate and the National Assembly was called to pass a set of laws which were passed by the latter in June this year, including one to enable Jadhav to appeal against his conviction, but those laws failed to get the nod of the upper house. The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill, 2021 aimed to fulfill the obligation under the verdict of the ICJ and was presented by Law Minister Farogh Nasim and was passed by the joint sitting of the House through voice vote. The law allowed Jadhav to challenge his conviction in the high court through a review process which was a requirement of the ICJ verdict. The joint sitting is called when the differences between the National Assembly and Senate are unbridgeable. The current impasse was due to the fact that the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf and allied parties enjoy majority in the National Assembly but are in minority in the Senate or the upper house. Earlier, the ICJ (Review and Re-consideration) Bill, 2020 was among the 21 bills passed by the National Assembly in June, but the Senate refused to pass them. The government had also tried to enforce the ICJ verdict through promulgation of a special ordinance in 2019 in the wake of the ICJ verdict. When the government promulgated an ordinance to let Jadhav file a review, he refused. Later, the Pakistan government through its defence secretary filed a case in the Islamabad High Court (IHC) in 2020 to appoint a defence counsel for Jadhav. The IHC formed a three-member larger bench in August 2020 which has repeatedly asked India to nominate a lawyer from Pakistan for Jadhav but New Delhi so far refused by insisting that it should be given a chance to appoint an Indian lawyer. The last hearing was on October 5, 2021 and the IHC once again asked the government to ask India to appoint the counsel before the next hearing scheduled for December 9. Among other laws passed in the joint sitting include a key bill to grant right of vote to overseas Pakistan through internet and use of Electronic Voting Machines. Advisor on Law Babar Awan presented the bill to amend the Elections Act, 2017 [The Elections (Amendment) Bill, 2021] and the lawmakers present in the session voted in favour of the bill to table it in the Assembly. The Opposition vociferously opposed it but it was enacted through a voice vote, prompting them to stage the boycott of the proceedings. Earlier, opposition and treasury members almost came to blows when the opposition lawmakers tried to stop the proceedings of the joint house session. The Senate comprises 100 and the National Assembly 342 lawmakers but both houses are short of one member each, hence the total strength was reduced to 440. Later, main Opposition leader and Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) chief Shehbaz Sharif accused the government of bulldozing the legislation while Pakistan People's Party chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari announced to challenge the new laws in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: SC directs police not to take any coercive steps against three civil society members||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Tripura police not to take any coercive action against the three civil society members, including a journalist, in connection with an FIR lodged under the harsh UAPA provisions against them for allegedly bringing facts through social media posts about targeted violence against the minority community in the state.  A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant also issued a notice to the Agartala police on the plea filed by advocates, Mukesh and Ansarul Haq, and journalist Shyam Meera Singh against lodging of the FIR.  The three persons, who were part of a fact finding committee, have also challenged the Constitutional validity of some provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 on the grounds that the definition of unlawful activities is vague and wide; moreover, the statute makes grant of bail to accused very difficult.  The FIR took note of a tweet of one of the members of the civil society which had stated that "Tripura is burning".  Recently, the north-eastern state witnessed incidents of arson, looting and violence after reports emerged from Bangladesh that the Hindu minorities there had been attacked during Durga Puja' on allegations of blasphemy.  On November 11, the top court had taken note of the submissions of advocate Prashant Bhushan and agreed to hear the plea seeking quashing of the FIR lodged against the three civil society members.  Bhushan had said that the two lawyers and the scribe have been proceeded against by the Tripura police under the UAPA for their social media posts and an FIR has been lodged and a notice under the CrPC has been issued to them.  The plea alleged targeted political violence against Muslim minorities in Tripura in October as also the subsequent efforts by the state to monopolise the flow of information and facts emanating from the affected areas by invoking UAPA provisions against members of civil society including advocates and journalists who have made the effort to bring facts in relation to the targeted violence in the public domain.  The three persons have been accused in the FIR lodged at the West Agartala Police Station under the IPC and the UAPA provisions for allegedly disseminating information about communal violence in the state.  If the state is allowed to criminalise the very act of fact finding and reporting -- and that too under the stringent provisions of the UAPA in which anticipatory bail is barred and the idea of bail is a remote possibility -- then the only facts that will come in the public domain are those that are convenient to the state due to the chilling effect' on the freedom of speech and expression of members of civil society. If the quest for truth and reporting thereof itself is criminalised then the victim in the process is the idea of justice, the plea said.  It said that around October 14, reports emerged from Bangladesh about the violence against Hindu minorities during Durga Puja on allegations of blasphemy and in a perverse counterblast, political right wing forces in the state of Tripura started fomenting religious passions against the Muslim minorities .  Processions by right wing political forces were led ostensibly to protest against the violence in Bangladesh but that led to violence against Muslim minorities in the state, the plea said.  In a targeted and orchestrated manner, there were incidents of arson, looting, and violence on the establishments of Muslim citizens and attacks and burning of mosques at various places in Tripura. There was major violence during a rally by right wing forces such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on October 26. News of the ensuing violence that followed have been widely reported in international media.., it said.  Later, a four member fact finding team of advocates went to Tripura and on the basis of their interaction with the persons affected by the violence, they put in the public domain a fact finding report titled as Humanity Under Attack in Tripura #Muslim Lives Matter .  This has led to the registration of the FIR and the petitioners have been asked to delete their posts and take part in criminal investigation.  This is ex facie an attempt to curb the free flow of information from the riot affected areas given that there is nothing in the report which even remotely supports any secessional activity, or questions the sovereignty or territorial integrity of India, or causes any disaffection against the State of India. The ingredients of the definition of unlawful activities' under section 2(1)(o) of UAPA are not even remotely made out, it said.  The report does not exaggerate any of the facts and accurately documents what was learnt and seen by the fact finding team, it said, adding that there were no deaths; therefore no deaths were reported.  It only corroborates with further specifics and in greater detail what has also been broadly reported by national and international media. The report and contents thereof do not fall within any of the restrictions on freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(2) of the Constitution and is covered by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, the plea said.  "The absurdity is further compounded by the fact that though the FIR refers to 102 social media posts which are alleged to have intended to cause communal disharmony and intended to cause disaffection against the State; and the notice under Section 41(a) calls upon the Petitioners No. 1 & 2 to delete the offensive posts -no post actually referred to in the FIR have in fact been made by the Petitioners No. 1 & 2 (advocates), it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||CBI to HC: Maha govt trying shamelessly to frustrate probe against Deshmukh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that the Maharashtra government is trying "shamelessly" to frustrate an ongoing corruption probe against former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and that it does not deserve any relief in the matter.  The central agency urged the HC to not grant any relief to the Maharashtra government, which is seeking quashing of CBI summons issued to chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and current DGP Sanjay Pandey related to its ongoing probe against Deshmukh.  Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, who appeared for the CBI, told a bench led by Justice Nitin Jamdar that the state government failed to initiate a probe into allegations of misconduct and corruption made against Deshmukh earlier this year by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.  Lekhi said the state government was bound by law to initiate a probe.  However, it chose not to do so, and instead, approached the HC seeking, amongst other things, that some portions of the CBI's FIR against Deshmukh be expunged (these related to now dismissed cop Sachin Waze's reinstatement in 2020 and transfers and postings of officers), he said.  "An investigation that was the mandate of law did not take place and that's why the HC had to pass April 5 order," Lekhi said, referring to a previous order of the high court directing the CBI to initiate a preliminary inquiry into the allegations made against the NCP leader.  The 71-year-old politician is currently in jail under judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case.  "Because of its incompetence and its conduct, the state of Maharashtra is not deserving of any relief from this court. Maharashtra is persistently and rather shamelessly continuing with its endeavor to frustrate (the ongoing probe) and to ensure investigation doesn't take place," he said.  Lekhi also opposed the argument made by the state government last month, through senior counsel Darius Khambata, that since, the current CBI director Subodh Jaiswal was the Maharashtra Director General of Police when Deshmukh was home minister, he, too, was a potential subject of the ongoing probe.  Khambata had told the HC last month that between 2019 and 2020, when Jaiswal was the DGP, he was a part of the Police Establishment Board and thus, a party to several of the transfers and postings of state police officers that are now being probed by the CBI.  The recommendations for the said transfers and postings were approved by Jaiswal, who was the DGP during Deshmukh's tenure as Maharashtra Home minister, Khambata had said. However, on Wednesday, Lekhi pointed out that in August 2020, while Jaiswal was the Maharashtra DGP, he had written to the state government seeking a CID probe into alleged irregularities in the transfers and postings of state police officers.  "The CBI director, who was then the DGP, wrote to the state of Maharashtra seeking a probe. He did what was appropriate and what was expected of an ethical police officer," Lekhi said. "If he were guilty, why would he write this letter?" he asked.  The CBI counsel questioned the Maharashtra government's locus standi or, its right to approach the court, seeking the present relief.  Khambata however, said the CBI's probe was affecting the entire state police force, and therefore, the government had a "parens patriae" (power to protect persons who are unable to act on their own behalf) jurisdiction to approach the HC.  "The state of Maharashtra has no intention of delaying, or, scuttling the probe. But the CBI is heavily compromised and the citizens of the country deserve a free and fair probe into the case," Khambata said.  Following an order of the high court issued on April 5 this year, the CBI conducted a preliminary inquiry into the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh.  The central agency subsequently registered an FIR against the former minister who resigned from the cabinet after the HC order.  In September this year, the CBI summoned chief secretary Kunte and DGP Pandey, asking them to report to its office in Delhi for answering questions related to Deshmukh.  The Maharashtra government, however, approached the HC challenging the summons issued to the two senior bureaucrats. The HC will hear the plea further on November 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||Security forces fight militants in J&K's Kulgam district ||Gunfight broke out between militants and security forces at Pombay and Goplapora in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. Security forces had launched cordon and search operations in the two areas of Kulgam after receiving information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. The search operations turned into encounters after militants fired upon the security forces and they who retaliated, he said. The encounters in both places are going on and further details are underway, the official said. This is a breaking news. More details are awaited. Please keep refreshing the page for more updates||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||Justice Sanjib Banerjee skips farewell tea, pens a gracious thank you letter ||Sanjib Banerjee, the outgoing chief justice of the Madras High Court, has stepped down from his post after penning a gracious letter to the lawyers, judges and the court officers who had worked with him during his brief 11-month tenure. Banerjee has been ordered transferred by the Supreme Court to the much smaller Meghalaya court in a move that has stirred widespread protests from lawyers at the Madras High Court. Banerjee heaped praise upon the Madras High Court’s lawyers, saying, “You are amongst the best in the country,” and thanked them for putting up with “a talkative and sometimes grumpy old judge with more patience, respect and understanding than I may have deserved.” Banerjee had made strenuous efforts to shake up the court’s registry and introduce more transparency and accountability in its functioning.” He acknowledged that it was a work in process, saying: “I am sorry for the long hours you have had to keep for me. My regret is that I could not completely demolish the feudal culture in which you serve.” Banerjee’s transfer after just 11 months as the Madras High Court chief justice to Meghalaya has caused an uproar. One group of 237 lawyers wrote last week to the Chief Justice of India N. V. Ramana protesting at the transfer. A second group of 23 Madras High Court senior lawyers also wrote a strong letter to the Chief Justice of India. The outgoing chief justice addressed his letter to, “My dear family at the Madras High Court.” The Madras High Court is the fourth-largest in the country with a sanctioned strength of 75 judges. The Meghalaya High Court, by contrast, is one of the country’s smallest with a strength of four judges. Banerjee’s transfer is widely seen in legal circles as a punishment posting for his secular judgements and efforts to crack down on corruption. Banerjee’s letter was in lieu of the farewell tea party that is customary on such occasions. Banerjee started his letter by apologising to his fellow judges. “To my colleagues at the Bench: I apologise. First, for being unable to last the distance and second, for not saying goodbye to you in person.” He threw in an additional apology, saying: “To the few of you who may have felt offended by any of my actions, please know that they were never personal: I perceived those actions as necessary for the institution.” The outgoing chief justice ended his letter saying that he and his wife, Ranee, “remain forever indebted to everyone in this beautiful and glorious state we had the privilege of calling our own for the last eleven months and for the kindness and warmth with which we were greeted during the entire tenure.” Banerjee signed off with the Tamil words: "Nandri. Vanakkam", meaning Thank you and Namaste||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
17-11-2021||India||UP Assembly polls: Akhilesh Yadav senses 'wave of change'||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said he sensed a "wave of change" in Uttar Pradesh that will "wipe out" the BJP in the 2022 Assembly polls as he held a 'Vijay Rath Yatra' on the Purvanchal Expressway inaugurated a day ago by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He claimed the 341-km-long expressway was initiated by the Samajwadi Party when it was in power in the state. He also alleged that the Purvanchal Expressway is still "incomplete". In a dig at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Samajwadi Party president claimed that it was "bulls and bulldozers that were moving around in the state" and asked the people would not they "wipe out bulls and bulldozers". Yadav was referring to the problem of stray cattle in the state and the chief minister's claim of bulldozers demolishing unauthorised properties. "I see a wave of change in the state... the BJP will be wiped out. I can assure you that in the coming days, Uttar Pradesh will see a change and that will be for peace. There will definitely be a change in 2022 (assembly polls)." "It was the Samajwadi Party's dream of building the Purvanchal Expressway to reduce travelling time between Lucknow and Delhi. It was to be an expressway of prosperity." Attacking the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, he said that petrol and diesel have become costlier under the current dispensation. "These are the very people who had said that poor with slippers will travel by air. But the way the prices of diesel and petrol have gone up, riding a motorcycle has become difficult." Referring to the promises the BJP made to the people, Yadav said, "Unemployed youths waited for jobs for five years. Where are the jobs? Will the youth not bring a change? All sections of the society, be it farmers, labourers and youths, are ready to bring a change in the state." Buoyed by the surging crowd, the Samajwadi Party chief said, "This is the beginning, the BJP will be wiped out. A historical rally will be held here soon." Referring to the different shades of flags of his alliance partners in the crowds, Yadav said, "I can see red, yellow, green and blue. It is a rainbow of all colours. The Samajwadi Party takes all the colours along." He took a dig at the ruling party, accusing it of being "of one hue and they cannot take the state on the path of prosperity." In an ostensible reference to a video on social media where PM Modi is seen in a four-wheeler surrounded by his security personnel in Sultanpur and Adityanath walking, Yadav said, "It was for the people to bring them on the road, but they themselves have started trodding down that path." "We have to take this expressway to Ballia and connect it with Bihar. When the Samajwadi Party forms government, it will provide a better road, mandis and employment opportunities for the youth," the Samajwadi Party chief said. His alliance partner, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar said "the government will not change till we all fight together against it" and asked people not to rest till the BJP is voted out of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Maharashtra Congress chief seeks legal view on Kangana's 'bheek' comments||The Congress is seeking a legal opinion on recent comments made by Kangana Ranaut and a party leader had already requested the police to register a complaint against her, Maharashtra party unit president Nana Patole said on Wednesday and dubbed the Bollywood actor's remarks "anti-national". Speaking to reporters here, Patole said Congress will take a firm stand against such "coordinated" attacks. Days after her India's independence in 1947 was "bheek" remarks triggered a row, Ranaut on Tuesday claimed Subhas Chandra Bose and Bhagat Singh got no support from Mahatma Gandhi and went on to mock his mantra of ahimsa by saying that offering another cheek gets you "bheek" not freedom. She had described India's Independence as "bheek", or alms, and declared that freedom came in 2014 when the Narendra Modi-led government came to power. In a series of posts on Instagram, Ranaut this time targeted Mahatma Gandhi and said "choose your heroes wisely". "There are some Hindi film actors who are given some awards and being used to distort the historical facts. We are seeking a legal opinion on the matter. Once we arrive at a decision, the party will take its next firm stand regarding such coordinated attacks," Patole said when asked about comments made by Ranaut. He said Congress leader Naseem Khan, a former minister, has already requested the police to file a complaint against Ranaut. Patole said such distortion of facts is an "anti-national act" but the ruling dispensation is encouraging such comments. Speaking on the violence that had erupted in Amaravati, Malegaon and Nanded cities in Maharashtra last week, Patole alleged the BJP is playing a communal card in Maharashtra to polarise voters ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. "The police investigation will bring out the truth behind such incidents," he said. The Congress is one of the constituents in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. On Friday, stone-pelting was witnessed in Amravati, Malegaon and some other cities during rallies taken out by Muslim organisations protesting against alleged communal violence in Tripura. On Saturday, a mob hurled stones at shops in Amravati's Rajkamal Chowk area during a bandh (shut-down) called by the BJP, prompting the police to impose a curfew for four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||PDP chief stages protest, demands handover of bodies of civilians killed in Hyderpora encounter||PDP President Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday led a strong protest here against the civilian killings by security forces, and demanded handing over of bodies of the deceased to their families.  The former chief minister said since the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) has been in force, there has been no accountability for the killings of the innocents.  Four people, including two civilians, were killed in a gunfight by security forces on Monday evening during an anti-terror operation.  According to the police, Haider, a Pakistani terrorist, and his local associate Mohammad Amir, along with two civilians - Altaf Bhat and Mudassir Gul - were killed in the encounter in Hyderpora locality, where an illegal call centre and a terror hideout were allegedly being run.  Inspector-General of Police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar claimed that Gul was an active associate of militants and was running the call centre on premises owned by Bhat, who was killed in cross-firing with the terrorists.  He expressed regret over Bhat's death but said he would be counted among the "harbourers" of militants. Mohammad Amir's father Latief Magray, a resident of Gool area of Ramban district, has refuted the official claim that his son was a militant.  Holding a placard that read Stop killing us, probe Hyderpora killings, end impunity and handover bodies to families , Mehbooba, along with party activists and leaders, staged a protest against these killings outside the party's Gandhi Nagar headquarters.  A strong posse of policemen stopped the protesters from moving towards the main road.  Mehbooba told reporters that the families of the slain civilians are holding protests in Srinagar and demanding handover of their bodies.  This cruel government is not even handing over the bodies after killing people. They (BJP) want to convert this nation of Gandhi, Nehru, and Ambedkar into a country of Godse. What else can I say? the PDP leader said.  Asked about the IGP's claim of there being digital evidence against those killed, she said: If they had prior evidence, why the police did not arrest them, as they have been doing on a daily basis.  Whenever anybody gets killed in their firing, they dub him an Over Ground worker, and that is wrong.  Since the AFSPA has been in force, there has been no accountability and no one's been answerable, she said.  They are innocent civilians and their families are denied even performing of their last rites, she added.  Referring to a previous incident of fake encounter in which three youths were killed, she said the security agencies made the claim of having digital evidence even then, but the reality is that they have no evidence.  Three orchard labourers were killed in a staged encounter in Amshipora village of Shopian on July 18, 2020.  In another incident this January, Athar Mushtaq, a class 11 student, was killed along with two other youths in Lawaypora, Srinagar. Mushtaq's father disputed the claim that his son was a militant and demanded an SIT probe into the matter.  Mehbooba is scheduled to return to Srinagar later in the day after completing her five-day tour of Jammu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||BJP slams Kejriwal for advertising more, doing 'little' to tackle pollution||The BJP on Wednesday slammed Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for his handling of severe pollution in the national capital as it cited figures to allege that the city government spent 4,000 times more on advertising its promotion of a bio-decomposer, which destroys farm stubble without causing air pollution, than it did on purchase of the chemical. Citing an RTI reply and also an answer provided by the city government in the assembly, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation had spent Rs 40,000 on purchasing the decomposer from Pusa and 310 farmers in the national capital benefitted from it. In addition, Rs 35,780 was spent on jaggery and besan, which was mixed with the chemical, Rs 13.20 lakh on hiring tractors and Rs 9.64 lakh on tentage for the work, Patra said sarcastically. The Kejriwal government also spent over Rs 15.80 crore to "educate" farmers across the country about the product through advertisements, the BJP leader said, noting that the vast sum was over 4,000 times more than the money spent on procuring it. The money would have been much better spent in curbing pollution in Delhi than educating farmers about its benefits in states like Kerala, he said, slamming Kejriwal for blaming other states for the problem while doing little. "Advertisement everywhere but no work," he said, attacking the chief minister. Patra wondered if farmers of Punjab and Haryana were most responsible for air pollution in Delhi, then these two states should also have been more polluted. He noted that the Supreme Court in a hearing on the pollution in Delhi had also pulled up the government for its attempt to blame municipal bodies, which are run by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta accused Kejriwal of dealing with the crisis "casually" and noted that most of the promises he had made to tackle the issue remain unfulfilled. The local party unit will present a cheque of Rs 40,000 to Kejriwal to "join" his fight against pollution, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Covid lockdown in India didn't cut air pollution as much as thought, finds study||Air quality in India did not improve as much during the first COVID-19 lockdown as originally thought, according to a study that found that ozone levels increased even as other pollutants decreased. The researchers at York University in Canada noted that observational data shows air pollution in India decreased drastically in the first COVID-19 lockdown last year when emissions from vehicles naturally declined. However, they noted that blue skies and an absence of visible smog can be deceiving and hide pollutants that could potentially cause health issues. The study, published in the journal Environmental Science: Processes & Impacts, found that some air pollutants didn't drop nearly as much as first thought and even more surprising was that ozone levels increased even as other pollutants decreased. The air looked much cleaner, but that allowed more sunshine to get through, creating conditions for ozone (O3) to increase up to 30 per cent, according to the researchers. "Our research shows the decline in local emissions had less influence on the decrease in air pollutants than first thought," said Leigh Crilley, a postdoctoral researcher at York University. "To accurately quantify the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on air pollutant levels, meteorology and atmospheric chemistry needs to be considered in addition to emissions," Crilley said. The study focussed on nitrogen oxides (NOx), fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and O3, as well as meteorological factors within two cities in India -- Delhi and Hyderabad -- during the start of the first lockdown, from March 24 to April 24, 2020. Air pollution is a known health risk and India has some of the worst air pollution globally resulting in a disproportionally high level of mortality and disease, the researchers said. It is estimated that air pollution exposure, particularly PM2.5, resulted in the premature death of 1.27 million people in 2017, they said. The researchers used hourly data from air quality monitoring stations for levels of PM2.5, NOx and O3, and hourly meteorological and visibility data. They compared that data to the same dates from the previous three years to evaluate changes due to the lockdown. When only taking observational data into account, NOx and PM2.5 levels fell by up to 57 per cent and 75 per cent respectively, the researchers said. However, when meteorology was factored in, those percentages fell to less than 8 per cent for PM2.5 and between five and 30 per cent in both cities, while O3 increased, they said. The researchers found that local sources of emissions, such as vehicles and the burning of fuels, had less influence on air pollution levels than regional emissions sources, while weather events and atmospheric chemical processes contributed independently to air pollutant levels. "We demonstrate that regional sources, such as rural and agriculturally based emissions, that may have been less affected by the lockdown, have a significant influence on PM2.5 levels in Delhi and Hyderabad after weather-normalisation," said Cora Young, Associate Professor at York University. "This indicates that future PM2.5 mitigation strategies should focus on national-scale, as well as local sources," Young said. The study highlights the impact of emissions, meteorology and chemistry on air pollution and that all three should be considered when assessing the effects of any short-term intervention on air pollutants, the researchers said. The team also found that ozone production in Delhi is likely influenced by volatile organic compounds (VOC) and, as such, attempts to mitigate it should focus on dominant VOC sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Sibal, Tharoor back Vir Das for 'Two Indias' monologue, Singhvi differs||Under attack for his monologue I come from two Indias, stand-up comic Vir Das has found backing in Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor but criticism from their party colleague Abhishek Manu Singhvi for vilifying the nation .  As the issue gathered steam, senior Congress leader Sibal on Wednesday tweeted that none can doubt that there are two Indias. Just that we don't want an Indian to tell the world about it. We are intolerant and hypocritical," he tweeted.  In a tweet Tuesday night, Tharoor praised Das as a stand-up comedian who knows that the real meaning of the term "stand up" is not physical but moral.  Das spoke for millions in the six-minute take on the 'Two Indias' he hails from and stands up for, he said.  Tagging a tweet by a person who said he has filed a complaint against Das with Mumbai police, Tharoor tweeted, "We know which India this comes from."  However, Singhvi hit out at Das, saying that "generalising the evils of a few individuals and vilifying the nation as a whole in front of the world is just not done".  "The people who painted India in front of the west as a nation of saperas and luteras during the colonial rule have not ceased to exist," the Rajya Sabha MP said on Twitter using the hashtag VirDas .  Das, who is currently in the US, on Monday uploaded a video on YouTube. The six-minute video titled "I come from two Indias" is part of his recent performance at the John F Kennedy Centre in Washington DC.  The well-known artiste, who has also dabbled in cinema, touched on various topics in the clip, including the farm protests, the battle against Covid, the duality in response to women, particularly rape, and the crackdown on comedians.  A day later, he issued a statement clarifying that his comments weren't intended to insult the country.  A section on Twitter posted clips and pictures from his monologue, many picking on what he said about women -- "I come from an India where we worship women during the day and gang-rape them during the night."  "Please do not be fooled by edited snippets. People cheer for India with hope, not hate. People clap for India with respect, not malice. You cannot sell tickets, earn applause, or represent a great people with negativity, only with pride. I take pride in my country, and I carry that pride across the world," Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Several Congress leaders in J-K resign, attack state unit chief Mir||In trouble for the Congress in Jammu and Kashmir, four former ministers and three legislators have sent a joint resignation letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi saying they have not been provided an opportunity to be heard on party affairs in the union territory.  The leaders, who have quit, are close to senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and the resignations come days after his visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the sources said without giving the names of all those who have resigned.  According to sources in the state Congress, besides Gandhi, the resignation letter has been sent to Rahul Gandhi and in-charge Secretary, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajni Patil.  The leaders charged in the letter that the "hostile attitude" of the party leadership compelled them to resign from all party posts and also trained their guns at state unit chief G A Mir. However, some other leaders in the party close to Azad, including former Deputy chief minister Tara Chand, have distanced themselves from these leaders, the sources added.  In the letter, the leaders have said that they tried to draw the attention of the party high command towards their issues but no time was given.  The leaders said they have been seeking appointment from the party leadership for the last about one year through the medium of memorandum and by way of personal requests too during the visit of Rahul Gandhi to Srinagar and Jammu in August 2021 but they were not given time.  Attacking Mir, they charged that the party is heading towards a "disastrous" situation under him and that a large number of Congress leaders have resigned from the Congress and joined other parties while some of them have chosen to remain silent.  They also charged that some leaders have captured and hijacked the functioning of Congress party in Jammu and Kashmir.  Noting that assembly polls may be announced anytime, they said the party high command is not ready to hear their genuine grievances.  The sources said the Congress high command has already made it clear that any grievance should be redressed through the party mechanism and not through the media.  "They are likely to face disciplinary action as they have raised the bogey against the party high command for not being heard," a senior leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||It's curtains down on centuries-old ban on Dalit entry in this temple on Kerala border||Three years ago, Krishna Mohana, a Dalit resident of a small village in the northernmost district of Kasaragod in Kerala, did something that was considered unthinkable for a person of his caste.  During the annual festival of Jatadhari 'Devasthanam' a temple at Swarga in Enmakaje panchayat bordering Karanataka, Mohana climbed the 18 holy steps forbidden steps in his case and entered the temple complex, a centuries-old right reserved for the upper castes' in the village.  A commotion followed, the police intervened and reached a compromise of sorts it was decided that Dalits would be allowed into the temple. In a strange twist that followed, the temple administrators claimed to have lost the keys to the temple, effectively shutting it down for everyone in the village.  Few days ago, a group of Dalits, led by Pattikajathi Kshema Samithi (PKS) from the district, entered the temple and climbed the very 18 steps that Mohana dared to traverse.  In doing so, they effectively declared an end to the age-old custom that had been prevailing in the village, despite the historic Temple Entry Proclamation, which came into effect in the region in 1947, that abolished the ban on avarnas entering temples.  The temple entry proclamation in the princely state of Travancore, now part of Kerala, that abolished the ban on avarnas entering temples was passed in 1936. The same came into effect in Kasaragod area which was under Malabar region in 1947.  "It's not just the ban on entry through the holy 18 steps, but Dalits are not even allowed to watch the Theyyam performance up close. They need to stand at a distance. Even to offer dakshina to the deity, the Dalits need to hand it over to a higher caste person, who in turn will deposit it before the deity," B M Pradeep, the district secretary of PKS told PTI.  He said PKS wants to put an end to the blatant discrimination.  Talking to PTI, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, K Radhakrishnan admitted that such evil practices are being followed by some still in our society and a government order alone will not be enough to end such practices. He said societal intervention is required to end this menace.  Pradeep said the worst part is the food, which is considered as the prasadam of the deity an incarnation of Lord Shiva, being served separately.  "The temple authorities call out the names of the 'lower castes' to distribute the prasadam and Dalits are not allowed to consume the food near the temple while those of other castes can," he said.  Our parents and forefathers faced the worst kind of discrimination and we also continue to battle the same, Mohana (45), a former state-level Badminton player and father of two, said.  "We are treated in an utmost disgusting manner. Think of our children. During the festival season, children from higher castes can play along the steps or inside the temple premises while our children can't. If this continues, what will I tell my children? When they ask what I have done against such discriminatory practices, I need to answer them," Mohana said.  Even though the members of the scheduled caste in the locality are concerned and disgusted by the discriminatory practice, most of them are not ready to openly challenge it. While some fear that it will 'provoke' the deity, others fear the local residents.  "We want them to consider us at least as humans," a member of the Dalit community told PTI on condition of anonymity.  "Now that the festival has been stopped for the last three years, some people go around and say that it was due to Mohana. As a person from a lower caste, I want to openly talk against it but I can't. If I do so, the elders in my family will get hurt and worry that the deity will curse our family," he said.  Only the members of Brahmins, Konkani-speaking Brahmins, Bunts, Tulu Gowda, Nair, Marathi, which is officially a Scheduled Tribe, Maniyani (Yadavs), Vishwakarma, Paatali, and Agasa -- the last four being other backward classes (OBC) are allowed to take the steps which lead directly to the front of the Sanctum Sanctorum.  Scheduled Castes such Nalkadaya (Kopala), the caste which performs the ritual of Jatadhari Theyyam, Mugera and Baira, Scheduled Tribes such as Koraga and Mayila; and OBCs such as Tulu-speaking Billava (equivalent to the Malayalam-speaking Thiyyas) are prohibited from using the steps.  For the 'untouchables', there is a separate route outside the boundary wall that takes them to the back of the temple.  Though the temple is owned by four Brahmin families, it is established as a trust and funds are collected from the public for its day-to-day functioning.  Radhakrishnan, who is also the Devaswom minister of the state, said despite the passing of temple entry proclamation in 1936 and the country attaining freedom in 1947, the society is yet to disentangle itself from the social evils that were practised for long.  "A government order alone will not be enough to end such practices. We have taken steps to create awareness among the people against such social evils. Even though we have necessary laws in place, people are yet to disentangle themselves from such practices. It may take time but we will end such evil practices," Radhakrishnan said.  He said the government has made all possible interventions in the matter.  "There are certain limitations for the government as it's a private temple and not government-run. However, the matter has already been discussed with the Malabar Devaswom Board and we will intervene if needed," Minister said.  Shreenivasa Naik, a Left follower, helped Mohana to file the complaint with the Special Mobile Squad (SMS), a wing of Kerala Police to probe complaints under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in 2018.  "We were summoned for an open discussion chaired by the then DySP and the temple authorities agreed to end the discriminatory practices. However, they decided to keep it closed citing frivolous reasons," Naik said.  Naik, who is from a caste that enjoys the privilege, said such a discrimination cannot be accepted as the deity does not belong to a particular person or family.  He said while distributing the food for devotees which is the Prasadham of the deity, the practice of calling out the caste name cannot be accepted.  "We wanted all such discriminatory practices to end. But they simply closed the temple so that they don't have to end the practice," Naik said.  The temple has three main festivals. The first is in the Malayalam month of Chingam and the next is during Deepavali . The third special day is during the Tulu festival of offerings to earth.  During these days, food will be served from 2.30 PM. Distribution will begin for the higher caste first. Then they will call out for the castes in descending order. The Dalits will have to wait as they are in the bottom part of the hierarchy.  The PKS has raised three demands including direct access to all devotees, irrespective of their caste and tribe, to the temple be allowed; allow all devotees to directly offer money in the temple and stop the practice of the calling out the names of castes while distributing food and introduce a buffet system for the feast.  The Kshema Samithi has filed a complaint in this regard to Minister Radhakrishnan.  The temple authorities, when contacted for a response to the PKS marking an end to the discriminatory practice of the temple, refused to comment.' PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur: SC appoints ex-judge Rakesh Kumar Jain of Punjab and Haryana HC to monitor SIT probe||The Supreme Court Wednesday appointed Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, to supervise the Uttar Pradesh SIT's probe on day-to-day basis into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people including four farmers were killed on October 3. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli also took note of the names of the IPS officers provided by the state government, and appointed three officials as part of the state SIT. The CJI said that a detailed order will be passed shortly. The top court said it would hear the case again after the SIT concludes its probe and files the status report and the charge sheet in the case. The Uttar Pradesh government on November 15 had agreed to the apex court's suggestion that a former judge of its choice may be appointed to supervise the state SIT's probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Grenade attack in Baramulla, three injured including a civilian||Two CRPF personnel and a civilian were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. "At about 11:15 am, terrorists hurled a grenade near Palhallan Chowk in Pattan area of the north Kashmir district," a police official said. This is a breaking news. More details are awaited. Please keep refreshing the page for more updates||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
17-11-2021||India||Centre lists slew of measures in SC to reduce air pollution in Delhi-NCR||The Centre on Wednesday proposed a slew of measures in the Supreme Court including a ban on entry of all trucks in the national capital except vehicles carrying essential goods, shutting of schools and 50 per cent attendance in offices of GNCTD to reduce air pollution in Delhi-NCR. Taking note of the Centre's submissions, the Supreme Court directed Delhi and NCR states to comply with these decisions which were taken at Tuesday's meeting to curb air pollution. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana posted the matter for hearing on November 24 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that various steps are being taken and urged the top court not to pass any extreme orders. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana that a meeting of chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi along with others was held on Tuesday. The issue regarding work from home for central government officers was considered but the total vehicles used for central government officers are not huge. "So rather than implementing work from home we have issued an advisory for pooling and sharing of vehicles," Mehta told the bench also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant. The Centre suggested 50 per cent attendance in offices of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD). Citing prevailing air pollution levels, the Centre has also asked all its employees posted in the National Capital Region (NCR) to use public transport as far as possible while going to offices, a Personnel Ministry order said. In case employees are using private or government vehicles, it is advisable that the vehicles are pooled in order to reduce their number on road, it said in the order issued to all the central government departments. The Personnel Ministry also asked all employees to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and wear masks at all times and avoid non-essential travel. "In view of the prevailing pollution levels in the National Capital Region (NCR), all central government employees posted in the central government offices located in NCR while attending offices, are advised to use public transport, as far as possible," it said. PTI AKV Delhi-NCR recorded its air quality in the very poor category on Wednesday morning and no major improvement is likely until Sunday, authorities said. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Conduct of lawmakers should be in line with Indian values, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that doing one's duty should be the mantra for the country for the next 25 years as India heads towards centenary of its Independence, and this message should go out from its Parliament and state legislatures. Addressing the inaugural session of the 82nd All India Presiding Officers' Conference on Wednesday via video conferencing, he also asserted that it is our legislatures' responsibility to be vigilant about any discordant voice about the country's unity and integrity. It is our unity that preserves our diversity, he added. The prime minister also pushed the idea of having a separate time for quality and healthy debates in legislatures which should be serious, dignified and devoid of political potshots at others. With Parliament often witnessing disruptions over a variety of issues, Modi said conduct of lawmakers should be in line with Indian values. Democracy is not merely a system in India but it is its nature, he added. The All India Presiding Officers' Conference (AIPOC), the apex body of the Legislatures in India, is celebrating its 100th year in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Delhi pollution: Gopal Rai to chair meeting over CAQM's latest directions||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will chair a high-level meeting of departments concerned with regard to the latest directions issued by the Commission of Air Quality Management to contain air pollution, officials said on Wednesday. Ahead of a Supreme Court hearing on the air pollution issue, the CAQM late Tuesday night directed that schools, colleges and educational institutions in the National Capital Region will remain closed until further orders, allowing only online mode of education. It also said that only five of the 11 thermal power plants located within 300 km radius of Delhi -- NTPC, Jhajjar; Mahatma Gandhi TPS, CLP Jhajjar; Panipat TPS, HPGCL; Nabha Power Ltd. TPS, Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo TPS, Mansa -- will remain operational till November 30. "The minister has called a high-level meeting at 12 noon to discuss the latest CAQM directions with senior officials of the environment department, public works department, municipal corporations, NDMC and education department," an official said. The commission directed Delhi and the NCR states to stop construction and demolition activities in the region till November 21, barring railway services/railway stations, metro rail corporation services, including stations, airports and inter-state bus terminals (ISBTS) and national security/defence-related activities/ projects of national importance subject to strict compliance of the C&D Waste Management Rules and dust control norms. NCR state governments have been directed to allow work from home (WFH) for at least 50 percent of their staff in offices in NCR till Sunday and encourage private establishments to follow suit. Trucks carrying non-essential items have been banned from entering Delhi till Sunday. The Delhi government on Saturday had announced closure of physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions for a week from Monday. All government offices, agencies and autonomous bodies, except those involved in essential services, were asked to work from home. No construction and demolition activity was allowed in the capital till November 17, it had announced in a desperate effort to contain the spiralling air pollution levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||India slams Pakistan at UNSC after Islamabad's envoy rakes up Kashmir issue||Terrorists enjoy free pass in Pakistan, which has an established history and policy of actively supporting them and holds the ignoble record of hosting the largest number of militants proscribed by the UN Security Council, India has said, slamming Islamabad at the UN Security Council. "I'm constrained to take the floor once again to respond to some frivolous remarks made by the representative of Pakistan earlier today," Counsellor in India's Permanent Mission to the UN Kajal Bhat said in the UN Security Council on Tuesday. "This is not the first time the representative of Pakistan has misused platforms provided by the UN to propagate false and malicious propaganda against my country and seeking in vain to divert the world's attention from the sad state of his country where terrorists enjoy a free pass while the lives of ordinary people, especially those belonging to the minority communities are turned upside down," she said. India's Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador R Ravindra had already delivered the national statement at the UNSC open debate on Maintenance of International Peace and Security Through Preventive Diplomacy'. Bhat took the floor to make a second statement in the Council after Pakistan's Ambassador to the UN Munir Akram raked the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in his remarks at the open debate. India desires normal neighbourly relations with all countries including Pakistan, and is committed to addressing outstanding issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully in accordance with the Simla agreement and the Lahore declaration. "However, any meaningful dialogue can be held only in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence. The onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere. Till then India will continue to take firm and decisive steps to respond to cross-border terrorism," she said. Bhat, who hails from Jammu and Kashmir, said in her remarks that UN member states are aware that Pakistan has an "established history and policy of harbouring, aiding and actively supporting terrorists. "This is a country that has been globally recognised as one openly supporting, training, financing and arming terrorists as a matter of state policy. It holds the ignoble record of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council," she said. Categorically stating India's position, Bhat said the entire Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India. "This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. India called upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Mohit Mangwani On Foreseeing Digital Marketing As The Future||With the rapid advancement of technology, it is no news that Digital Marketing is among those few professions which are going to be the future. Mohit Mangwani, the renowned Entrepreneur and prominent Digital Marketer had already visioned this before any of us. While others envisioned social media platforms as an entertainment medium, Mohit on the other hand, looked at the opportunities it can provide for professional development. At the age of 19, Mohit has set an example that your vision can turn into your reality only if you are passionate about it. When asked about it, Mohit says, " I noticed the reach social media can provide & that is something which can boost the marketing industry. I seized the opportunity and strived hard for it. " Today, Mohit is known among Entrepreneurs for his excellent plan of action and its proper execution. He along with his team are always on their client's beck and call to ensure unique service. He says, " As an Entrepreneur, client's requirements are our topmost priority. We ensure that with the power of social media, we will be able to uplift everyone's business." Currently, Mohit is all set to expand his business by building his own social media agency from scratch. He plans to build a worldwide base that will eventually help him to uplift his client's businesses and strengthen his network. When asked about this upcoming plan he said, " I have been in this line of work for 3 years. With the knowledge and the experience I have gained over the years, I believe it's high time I put it to use and level up my game." Setting up his agency and taking it to the heights it deserves will be challenging. Aware of the competition which is growing exponentially, he is still trying to gain knowledge from every possible way to be the best in the field. His confidence already adds up to his personality which will benefit him in the long run. In the coming years, we all know that Digital Marketing is going to rule the charts in terms of professional growth and we all know that Mohit Mangwani will also achieve everything he deserves with his hard work and dedication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||India logs over 10,000 fresh Covid cases, 301 casualties in a day||India's Covid tally rose to 3,44,66,598 on Wednesday with 10,197 fresh cases, while the active cases have declined to 1,28,555, the lowest in 527 days, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll climbed to 4,64,153 after 301 more fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 40 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 143 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 1,28,555 comprising 0.37 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.28 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. A decrease of 2,238 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.82 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 44 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.96 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 54 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,73,890, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 113.68 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 301 new fatalities include 210 from Kerala and 34 from Maharashtra. Of the 210 deaths, 39 were reported over the last few days and 171 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the Supreme Court directions, a Kerala government statement had said on Tuesday. A total of 4,64,153 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,636 from Maharashtra, 38,153 from Karnataka, 36,311 from Tamil Nadu, 36,087 from Kerala, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,333 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Pollution: Education institutions around Delhi to remain closed, orders air quality board||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) late on Tuesday night directed that schools, colleges and educational institutions in the National Capital Region will remain closed until further orders, allowing only online mode of education. It also said that only five of the 11 thermal power plants located within 300 km radius of Delhi NTPC, Jhajjar; Mahatma Gandhi TPS, CLP Jhajjar; Panipat TPS, HPGCL; Nabha Power Ltd. TPS, Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo TPS, Mansa will remain operational till November 30. The commission directed Delhi and the NCR states to stop construction and demolition activities in the region till November 21, barring railway services/railway stations, metro rail corporation services, including stations, airports and inter-state bus terminals (ISBTS) and national security/defence-related activities/ projects of national importance subject to strict compliance of the C&D Waste Management Rules and dust control norms. Trucks carrying non-essential items have been banned from entering Delhi till Sunday in a bid to contain the spiralling air pollution levels. The commission had held a meeting on Tuesday with senior officials of Delhi and NCR states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan in connection with the severe air pollution in the region ahead of a Supreme Court hearing on the matter. All public and private schools, colleges and educational institutions in NCR shall remain closed until further orders allowing only online mode of education, the CAQM directions read. NCR state governments have been directed to allow work from home (WFH) for at least 50 percent of their staff in offices in NCR till Sunday and encourage private establishments to follow suit. All industries in NCR still using unapproved fuels shall be closed by respective governments with immediate effect... NCR States and GNCTD shall enforce a strict ban on use of DG sets, except for emergency services, the panel said. Authorities in NCR have been ordered to ensure that no diesel and petrol vehicles older than 10 years and 15 years, respectively, are found plying on road. The Delhi government has been directed to expeditiously procure and put on road adequate number of CNG buses at the earliest. Chief Secretaries of Delhi and NCR states have been directed to monitor the implementation of the directions on a regular basis and file a compliance report before the commission on Monday. The Delhi government had ordered the closure of physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions for a week from Monday. All government offices, agencies and autonomous bodies, except those involved in essential services, have been asked to work from home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Srinagar: Families of businessmen killed in gunfight slam police||The families of two businessmen gunned down in Srinagar on Monday evening have disputed the police version, said they had nothing do with insurgency and alleged that one of the dead was used as a human shield. The police initially said militant bullets had felled Mudassir Gul, a dental surgeon who became an entrepreneur, and Mohammad Altaf Bhat but later suggested that they might have died in a crossfire. The police refused to hand over the bodies to their families for burial as part of the policy to prevent civilian protests against disputed killings. Gul and Bhat were buried in the far-off Handwara graveyard that is reserved for militants. According to the police, Gul was an overground worker (OGW) for militants while Bhat was a civilian. They alleged that Gul was sheltering two militants at the call centre he used to run in a building owned by Bhat. The police said the gunfight broke out in Srinagar’s upscale Hyderpora locality on Monday evening, during which two militants, “OGW Gul” and civilian Altaf, were killed. While Gul was a father of two small children, Bhat had three school-going children. Their families took to the streets on Tuesday, contesting the police’s account and demanding their bodies. “My son was not a terrorist but a doctor,” cried a woman outside Srinagar’s Press Colony, breaking down. “This is proof of how they are killing innocent people…. All we want is his body back.” Gul’s family said he had been running a business in the rented accommodation at the shopping complex and would spend most of his time in Delhi on work. Bhat’s niece Saima, a journalist, took to Twitter to accuse the police of using her uncle as a human shield before killing him. “You killed my innocent uncle Mohammad Altaf Bhat in cold blood in Hyderpora. You used him as a human shield. Return his body to us.” Bhat’s minor daughter said her father was taken upstairs thrice to the rooms where the police claimed the militants were hiding. “My cousin, who is an eyewitness, told me he saw him (Bhat) being taken upstairs thrice. Twice they spared him but the third time he was killed,” she said. “When I asked them (on Monday night) what had they done and why they thought my father was with them (the militants), they (the forces) started laughing. They laughed shamelessly,” the girl said. Bhat’s family denied there was any gunfight in the area and claimed that the two were killed in cold blood. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said Gul was an OGW but added that Bhat was a civilian. Kumar said both were killed by bullets fired by “two pistol-wielding militants”. He identified the slain insurgents as “foreign militant” Haider and his accomplice. The fourth person killed in the incident has been identified as Aamir Ahmad, a resident of Jammu’s Banihal. Residents said he worked as an assistant to Gul but the police claimed he too was an OGW. No security force personnel has suffered any injury in the alleged shootout. Kumar said Gul had provided shelter to Haider and Aamir at his rented accommodation in the building owned by Bhat. “On the top floor, there are three rooms. Since we did not know the exact location, we called the house owner and the one doing business there…. Both knocked at the door, but the militants did not open,” Kumar told reporters. “They were again told to knock. The militants opened indiscriminate fire with pistols. In self-defence, we also fired. Then, we stopped the encounter and tried to extricate the civilian. But they were at a place from where it was difficult to bring them out. They were injured in militants’ pistol fire and died.” Kumar later claimed he had never said Bhat died in firing by militants. “I didn’t say that militants killed him or we (did). When there is an encounter, an investigation will reveal (how he got killed). If he has a wound from a pistol bullet, then he was 100 per cent killed by the militants. If he has an AK (47) bullet (wound), we will say he was hit by our fire. We will check that when the post-mortem report comes,” the Valley police chief said. Kumar claimed to be in possession of “technical and digital intelligence” to prove Gul was linked to militants but refused to share it for now, saying it would jeopardise the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Government's attitude towards free community kitchens draws SC fire||The first responsibility of every welfare state is to provide food to people dying of hunger, the Supreme Court reminded the Narendra Modi government on Tuesday and frowned upon the practice of assigning relatively junior officials to file affidavits on such matters. The observations came while the court was going through the Centre’s response to a demand for free community kitchens at a time the pandemic has robbed  many Indians of their livelihood. The Centre’s affidavit desisted from making any commitment on the community kitchens but merely said the scheme was under process as it was still collecting information from states and Union Territories. “We are concerned about hunger and people. See, if you want to take care of hunger, no Constitution or law will say ‘no’ to it. This is the first principle. Every welfare state’s first responsibility is to provide food to people dying of hunger,” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during the hearing of a PIL, filed in 2019, seeking community kitchens. “We can’t leave the people in the lurch and say everything is fine. We are not happy with the affidavit filed by the under-secretary of the Government of India,” Justice Ramana, heading a three-judge bench, said while warning that this was the last time the court would say affidavits should be filed by a senior official of the rank of secretary. The apex court directed the Centre to convene a meeting with the states and the Union Territories to chalk out a coordinated approach and come up with a solution within three weeks. It made it clear that the affidavit on the action taken must be filed by a secretary of the Union government. Social activist Anun Dhawan and two others had filed the petition seeking free community kitchens across the country to provide food to lakhs of people facing starvation and hunger, particularly those who did not have access to the public distribution system. The apex court had earlier issued notice to the Centre and the states for evolving a common strategy to address the concerns raised by the petitioners. The Centre had been entrusted with the task of evolving a suitable policy in consultation with the states. When the matter came up for hearing on Tuesday, the bench expressed disappointment with AG Venugopal and additional solicitor-general Madhavi Divan over the 17-page affidavit filed by an under-secretary-level official of the Centre that failed to shed light on the measures initiated so far. “The issue is (to) now make a comprehensive scheme. Identify areas where there is immediate need so that it can be uniformly implemented…. My suggestion again is already we are delaying, so further adjournments won’t help. We will give you final time of two weeks, please hold the meeting,” Justice Ramana told the AG. The CJI, sitting with Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli, clarified that the court was concerned with addressing the problem of hunger, which should not be confused with malnutrition. “Don’t think this issue is connected with malnutrition. This is regarding hunger. People are dying due to hunger. Don’t mix these two issues,” Justice Ramana said. Excerpts from the written order: “…At the outset, we are not happy with the fact that the affidavit in this matter has been filed by the Under Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, New Delhi. “We direct that in future some responsible Officer of the rank of Secretary shall file the affidavits in this matter. Ms Madhvi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General, has drawn our attention to the letters dated 29-10-2021 & 3-11-2021 sent by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution (NFSA Division) to the Principal Secretary/ Secretary, Department of Food & Civil Supplies, and all the States/ Union Territories seeking information from them. “…We find that the proposed Community Kitchens Scheme is still under process and they are obtaining the suggestions/views of the States/ Union Territories in the matter. In view of the above, finally three weeks’ time from today is granted to the Union of India to come up with a model Community Kitchens Scheme agreeable to the States/ Union Territories. In case some of the States/ Union Territories have any objection with the Scheme to be formulated by the Union of India, we will consider the same on the next date of hearing. “We direct all the State Governments/ Union Territories to attend the meeting to be arranged/ organised by the Union of India and cooperate with them in coming up with the said Scheme, which can be made uniformly applicable to all the States/Union Territories. “Ms (Ashima) Mandla, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners, has brought to our notice the ‘issues note’ filed by them on 9-11-2021. We have perused the said ‘issues note’. We direct the Union of India to take into consideration the ‘issues note’ filed by the petitioners while formulating the Scheme of Community Kitchens. List the matter after three weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Decline in active Covid-19 cases in line with shrinking epidemic||India’s near-steady decline in active Covid-19 patients is in line with expectations of a continually shrinking epidemic despite some state and city-specific blips, including a doubling of new cases in Jammu and Kashmir, health experts said. The nationwide count of Covid-19 patients has declined every day — except for minor increases on four days — over the past month to fall from around 201,000 patients on October 15 to 130,000 on November 15, the lowest in 17 months. The Union health ministry on Tuesday documented 8,865 new lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases detected over the past 24 hours, the lowest count in nine months. The country’s seven-day average daily new infections has remained below 16,000 for a month, preceded by three weeks during which daily new infection counts remained below 30,000, and eight weeks with daily new counts below 50,000. “We’re seeing a steady and protracted decline. This is exactly what the end of the epidemic phase and the start of the endemic phase looks like,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. The endemic phase is typically marked by a relative trickle of infections that continue to emerge after the epidemic phase has ended. India had recorded over 400,000 daily new infections during the peak of its second wave in early May this year, driven by the highly infectious delta coronavirus variant. Despite the decline, localised spikes in daily new infections in some states, including Jammu and Kashmir, and several large cities such as Bangalore, Calcutta, Chennai and Pune over the past week suggest the virus continues to infect susceptible people. The weekly average of daily new infections — a more reliable indicator of a trend than simple daily averages — in Jammu and Kashmir has doubled from 76 on October 15 to 157 on November 15. In some states and cities, the virus has spread faster over the past week than during the previous week, said Sitabhra Sinha, a researcher at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, whose team has been tracking the epidemic since early-2020. Jammu and Kashmir has had a particularly high R value — a measure of how fast an infection is spreading in a community — of 1.23 between November 1 and November 14. The analysis by Sinha and his colleagues has also shown that three other states — Bengal, Mizoram and Telangana — had R values slightly greater than 1.0 over the past week. An R value greater than 1.0 implies an exponentially growing epidemic. Through the week that ended on November 14, the R value was greater than 1.0 in Bangalore (1.04), Calcutta (1.02), Chennai (1.05), Mumbai (1.02), and Pune (1.09), but 0.90 in Delhi. John and other public health experts believe these localised spikes in new cases are primarily driven by the intermingling and crowding of people that gives the virus an opportunity to infect those susceptible. They have predicted for over two months that the proportion of people in India with immunity against Covid-19 either through natural infections or from vaccinations is so large that a fresh large nationwide surge of the epidemic will not occur unless the coronavirus mutates dramatically. Some infections among fully vaccinated people should not be a surprise because the vaccines are designed to be far more effective in protecting them from severe disease and hospitalisation than from the infection itself, a public health specialist said. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign had until Tuesday administered first doses to nearly 758 million (80 per cent) and fully immunised 380 million (40 per cent) of India’s estimated 944 million adults. “Vaccination has made a huge difference in the infection profile,” said Viny Kantroo, a respiratory medicine specialist treating Covid-19 patients at the Apollo Indraprastha Hospital, New Delhi. “We do see infections, but the vast majority don’t progress to severe disease.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
17-11-2021||India||Pfizer to facilitate low-cost sales of anti-Covid oral drug in India||India is among 95 countries where the US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer will facilitate low-cost sales of its promising anti-Covid-19 candidate oral drug called Paxlovid through generic production, the company announced on Tuesday. Pfizer and the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP), a United Nations-backed public health agency, announced a voluntary licensing pact for Paxlovid, which in combination with the drug ritonavir has shown 89 per cent efficacy in protecting Covid-19 patients from hospitalisation and death. The company said the agreement would enable MPP to facilitate additional production and distribution of the drug, pending regulatory authorisation and approval, by granting sublicenses to qualified generic medicine manufacturers to enable greater access to populations. “We believe oral antiviral treatments can play a vital role in reducing the severity of Covid-19 infections, decreasing the strain on our healthcare systems and saving lives,” Albert Bourla, chairman and chief executive officer of Pfizer said in a statement. Pfizer had earlier this month said that its novel antiviral treatment that combines Paxlovid with the antiviral ritonavir reduced the risk of hospitalisation and death in Covid-19 patients by 89 per cent when started soon after the onset of symptoms. “The voluntary licensing agreement is important because, if authorised and approved, this oral drug is particularly well-suited for low and middle-income countries and could play a critical role in saving lives,” Charles Gore, executive director of MPP said in a media statement. The new drug for Covid-19, which is yet to be approved by regulatory authorities, is to be taken with ritonavir, an HIV medicine used for many years. We will be working with generic companies to ensure there is enough supply for both Covid-19 and HIV,” Gore said. Under the agreement between Pfizer and MPP, qualified generic producers granted sublicenses will be able to supply the drug in combination with ritonavir to 95 countries, including India, covering 53 per cent of the world’s population. The list includes all low and lower-middle income countries and some upper middle-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and countries that have transitioned from lower-middle to upper-middle income status in the past five years. Pfizer said it would not receive royalties on sales in low-income countries and would further waive royalties on sales in all countries covered by the agreement while Covid-19 remains classified as a public health emergency by the World Health Organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
17-11-2021||India||CBI searches across 14 states in connection with online child abuse||The CBI on Tuesday carried out a coordinated search at 76 locations across 14 states and Union Territories in connection with allegations of online child sexual abuse. The agency had filed 23 cases against 83 people over allegations linked to online child sexual abuse and exploitation. All of them have been accused of posting and circulating objectionable content online. A CBI official said 80 teams began the raids and search operations on Tuesday at premises linked to the accused and suspects. The searches were conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Sources said that during the investigation a WhatsApp group had come under the scanner and its 30 members had been named as accused. The accused shared materials linked to child sexual abuse, which had been further circulated online by others. The CBI has been receiving references related to the dissemination of child sexual abuse material from Interpol and other international and national organisations. “The agency has been coordinating with international law-enforcement agencies to detect and investigate sexual abuse of minors, especially in the cyber space,” a CBI spokesperson said. In January, the CBI had arrested two men, including a BTech engineer identified as Neeraj Kumar Yadav, for the alleged sale and purchase of child pornography videos through Instagram and other social media platforms. According to an official, the accused had been advertising sale of objectionable material, including child pornography, on Instagram against payments to be made through digital applications such as Paytm and Google Pay. Last year, the CBI had arrested an engineer from Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh on the charge of sexually exploiting 50 minors, recording videos of the crime and circulating them on the dark web. In 2019, the CBI had set up an online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention Unit in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
17-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Punish the guilty, Zakia Jafri tells Supreme Court||Zakia Jafri, wife of slain Congress leader Ehsan Jafri, has told the Supreme Court that those responsible for the 2002 post-Godhra riots must be punished even if the incident is nearly two decades old, accusing the public prosecutors and defence lawyers of “collaborating” to ensure a clean chit for many of the accused. Continuing his arguments for the fifth day, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Zakia, told a bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar that the accused cannot be allowed to go scot free merely because of passage of time. Sibal assailed the apex court-appointed special investigation team’s alleged failure to act on evidence, including that presented by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). “No democracy can accept it. No court can countenance it. The message has to go (out), even if it is after a long time. Otherwise, it will send a message that whatever we do… anything we want, nothing will happen to us,” Sibal told the bench that included Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Kumar. The court was dealing with a special leave petition filed by Zakia challenging the clean chit given to then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and others by the R.K. Raghavan-headed SIT in the Gulbarg Society massacre in which Ehsan Jafri died. The SIT had filed a closure report dated February 8, 2012, before the 11th metropolitan magistrate of Ahmedabad, which was accepted by the trial court on December 26, 2013. The trial court’s order was upheld by Gujarat High Court, after which Zakia moved the Supreme Court. Sibal referred to purported taped conversations of Dilip Trivedi, a special public prosecutor in many Gujarat riots-related matters, boasting about “managing the cases”. Sibal alleged that the prosecution had collaborated with the defence and the accused, as a result of which hundreds of accused had got acquitted. “If the defence collaborated with the PP, then why have a prosecution? When I said collaborated, it was in this sense. He (Trivedi) is a PP and he is telling the accused whom to engage. He is getting lawyers for the accused, coordinating with other PPs. This is a farce of an investigation and what was the SIT doing?” Sibal asked. “There was glaring evidence of collaboration. The political class became collaborators. This is the startling story of collaboration with the accused,” he submitted. However, Justice Khanwilkar pointed out that there were a number of cases where the accused had been convicted on the basis of the investigations conducted by the SIT. “You are attacking the manner of investigation done by the SIT. It is the same SIT that had filed chargesheets in other cases and they were convicted. No such grievance in those proceedings. If it was an allegation against the police personnel then one can understand…. How can you say such things about the SIT appointed by court? Collaboration is a strong term for an SIT constituted by court,” the bench said. Sibal argued that the SIT had knowledge of the Tehelka sting tapes and their authentication by the CBI, which was upheld by Gujarat High Court. Yet the trial court did not rely on the tapes in the Gulbarg Society case, he said. The senior counsel said the SIT did not record the statements of the NHRC or its members despite the commission expressing grave concern over the violence in Gujarat. The NHRC had also given a sealed-cover report relating to the communal strife, which too was ignored by the SIT, according to Sibal. He said mobs carrying mobile phones had moved around in hordes, singling out houses for attacks. Yet the SIT did not seize even a single cellphone and those arrested were immediately released on bail, Sibal alleged. “Even when complaints were made, the names of the offenders were not noted. This shows collaboration of the various machineries of the state…. In almost all cases, copies of FIRs were not given. In some cases, FIRs were not recorded and victims were harassed. These are grave matters not to be forgiven or forgotten,” Sibal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
17-11-2021||India||Government allows meals on all domestic flights||The civil aviation ministry on Tuesday said it had allowed airlines to serve meals on all domestic flights. The carriers had not been allowed to serve meals in flights that have a duration of less than two hours since April 15 because of the pandemic. “The airlines operating flights on domestic sectors may provide meal services on board without restriction on duration of the flight,” the ministry’s order said on Tuesday. The decision has been taken as “Covid caseload” has reduced because of “proper implementation of appropriate Covid behaviour protocol”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
17-11-2021||India||Centre reopens Kartarpur corridor ahead of Guru Purab||A week after Pakistan urged India to open the Kartarpur corridor from the Indian side, the Narendra Modi government on Tuesday gave in to the demand for its reopening from across the political spectrum in Punjab and allowed the pilgrimage from Wednesday ahead of Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary on Friday. Union home minister Amit Shah announced its opening with a tweet: “In a major decision, that will benefit large numbers of Sikh pilgrims, PM @Narendramodi govt has decided to re-open the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from tomorrow, Nov 17. This decision reflects the immense reverence of Modi govt towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and our Sikh community.’’ He further said: “The nation is all set to celebrate the Prakash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji on 19th of November and I am sure that PM @NarendraModi govt’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country’’. These tweets were also posted in Gurmukhi. According to a statement issued by the home ministry, the pilgrimage will be conducted according to the existing procedures and with Covid protocols. The decision was welcomed by all political parties and Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced that the entire state cabinet will undertake the pilgrimage on Thursday. Inaugurated in November 2019, the Kartarpur corridor was closed for pilgrimage in March 2020 owing to the pandemic. Over the past few weeks, there has been growing pressure from all political parties with a stake in election-bound Punjab’s polity on the Modi government to allow the pilgrimage via the corridor. The pilgrimage links Gurdwara Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib that is 4.1km away in the Narowal district of Pakistan. Kartarpur Sahib is the final resting place of Guru Nanakand having such a pilgrim’s corridor has been a long-standing demand of the Sikh community. According to the bilateral agreement signed between India and Pakistan in 2019, Indians of all faiths and persons of Indian origin can use the corridor for visa-free pilgrimage through the year except on specified days which is informed in advance. The pilgrimage has to be conducted in a day and all pilgrims have to return the same day. The Pakistan High Commission had earlier issued visas to 3,000 Sikh pilgrims to visit gurdwaras in the country, including Kartarpur Sahib, between November 17 and 26 in view of Guru Purab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
17-11-2021||India||Centre asks states to include millets once a week in school meal||The Centre has asked the states to introduce millet-based recipes in the meals served at government and aided schools to children up to Class VIII. School education secretary Anita Karwal and agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal have issued a joint letter to the chief secretaries of the states and Union Territories to serve millet-based items once a week to begin with. The major varieties grown in India are sorghum (jowar), pearl millet (bajra), finger millet (ragi or modua), foxtail (kanganni), kodo, barnyard (sanwa), little millet (kutki), buck wheat (kuttu) and amaranth (chaulai). Millets are rich in dietary fibres, both soluble and insoluble, that improve the digestive system and protects the heart and the kidneys. The menu of the erstwhile midday meal scheme, now renamed PM Poshan, includes rice, wheat and vegetables. The states are free to add items. While eastern and southern states have added non-vegetarian recipes, some of the northern states have introduced milk and fruits. But millet is not part of the menu anywhere. In their letter on October 28, the two secretaries highlighted that the National Family Health Survey-IV had found that 38 per cent of children under five years were stunted and 59 per cent were anaemic. “Among one of the series of initiatives, the government of India is laying emphasis on consumption of millet,” the letter says. The letter also asks the states to tell the schools to discuss in class the health benefits of millets. Ashok Rao, a social activist associated with the NGO Swami Sivananda Memorial Institute that supplies food to anganwadi centres in Delhi, said the government should have decentralised the operation of the scheme from the beginning with freedom to locals on procurement of ingredients and preparation of food in keeping with their respective eating habits. The midday meal scheme was started in 2001 following a direction from the Supreme Court. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) provides rice and wheat under the scheme. “For administrative convenience, rice and wheat have remained in the MDM (midday meal) menu throughout the country. It is because the FCI only procures paddy and wheat. This has changed the food habits of children in many areas where people consume a lot of millets and fish. It is good that they have now included millets,” Rao said. He said Brazil had enacted a law making it binding on food programmes to procure local items. “Now there is little connect between the large food programmes like the MDM and the Integrated Child Development Scheme and the local farmers. The government should allow freedom to the schools, anganwadi centres and villagers to procure all ingredients locally,” Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
17-11-2021||India||Odisha EC raises expenditure limit for Panchayat polls||The State Election Commission of Odisha has enhanced the expenditure limit of candidates contesting the upcoming panchayat polls. The limit has been increased taking a pragmatic approach to the requirements of the candidates and considering the rise in petrol and diesel prices and other election-related expenses like purchase of campaign materials, official sources said. The poll expenditure limit for zilla parishad members has been hiked from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh, while a candidate contesting for samiti member and sarpanch now can spend up to Rs 2 lakh. Earlier, the poll expenditure limit for the sarpanch and samiti member candidates was Rs 80,000. The State Election Commission issued a notification to this effect on Monday. A candidate contesting for the zilla parishad can use five jeeps or cars and 10 two-wheelers for campaigning. Candidates contesting for panchayat samiti member and sarpanch are allowed to use two jeeps or cars and five motorcycles for electioneering. The expenditure on the use of vehicles will be incorporated in the panchayat poll expenses. A candidate contesting for zilla parishad member will submit details of vehicles to the sub-collector and a candidate in the fray for panchayat samiti member and sarpanch will have to submit expenditure details to the block development officer (BDO). Panchayat polls are likely to be held in the first quarter of next year. The notification of the dates for polls is yet to be published. The polling time for the forthcoming panchayat elections has been increased by one hour. The voting will be held from 7am to 1pm. Earlier, the polling was conducted from 7am to 12pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
