18-11-2021||India||Don’t mess up with education,  says SC, discourages hybrid mode||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the board not to “mess up with the education system" while refusing to direct the CBSE and the CISCE to provide option of hybrid mode, instead of only offline mode, to the students for appearing in class 10 and 12 board examinations amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The apex court also noted that this “last-minute” business should be discouraged, and said it would not be appropriate to intervene and disturb the entire examination process at this stage. The top court also observed that term one board exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have already commenced from November 16, while semester one of the board exams of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) are to commence from November 22. “This eleventh hour changing and giving hope to the students, we discourage this,” a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the CBSE, told the bench that all precautions have been taken for conducting the board exams in offline mode and the number of examination centres have been increased from 6,500 to 15,000. The top court was hearing a plea by six students seeking directions to the CBSE and the CISCE to issue a revised circular for conducting the ensuing class 10 and 12 board exams in the hybrid mode, instead of the offline mode only, amid the pandemic. The bench told senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, who was appearing for the petitioners, that it was too late now and the examinations cannot be rescheduled at this stage. Hegde told the top court that today there is a state of uncertainty and the students should be given the option of hybrid mode to appear in the examinations. “Don’t mess up with the education system. Let the authorities continue to do their job,” the bench said, adding that there would be “chaotic situation” as nearly 34 lakh students would be appearing in these examinations across the country. Hegde told the court that COVID-19 is an evolving situation and several aspects, including the possibility of conducting online exams, were deliberated upon earlier. “This we could have tested if you had come early. This last-minute business should be discouraged,” the bench said. At the outset, Hegde told the bench that this is not adversarial and they are only requesting that option of hybrid mode be also provided to the students to appear in the board examinations. Mehta said there are around 34 lakh students who would be appearing in the classes 10 and 12 board examinations. “The exams (of CBSE) have already started on November 16,” Mehta said, adding that the authorities have taken care of the concern raised about the possibility of spread of the virus. “Let us be very practical about it. The examinations have already started. How can it be made online now,” the bench observed. It said that as the exams have already commenced, it would not be appropriate to intervene at this stage. The bench noted Mehta's submissions that only 12 students per class will be there during the examination, which was earlier 40 per class room, and the number of examination centers have been increased from 6,500 to 15,000. It also noted that the exam time has also been reduced from three hours to 90 minutes and these measures have been taken to ensure that the students appearing in the examinations and other duty holders are not exposed to any untoward situation. The bench observed that besides these broad measures, the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and other protocols will be followed at all the examination centres. “Suffice is to observe that at such belated stage, it is not possible to intervene in exercise of writ jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution of India,” the bench said, while disposing of the petition. “We hope and trust that the authorities will take all precaution and measures to ensure that the student community appearing in the examinations and the duty holders are not exposed to untoward situation, as has been assured across the bar by the Solicitor General,” it said. The plea, seeking a hybrid option in the ensuing board examination, had claimed that the entire exercise of the boards in conducting the term one or semester one examinations in offline mode only is “patently unreasonable”. The petition, filed through advocate Sumanth Nookala, had said that the board exams be conducted in hybrid mode with an option to choose between offline and online examinations. “Consent assumes significance as exams directly relate to the mental health of the petitioners requiring a conducive and voluntary atmosphere to ensure a fair assessment. It is common knowledge that the third wave of COVID pandemic is predicted,” it had said. The petition had claimed that the proposed current system of offline examination is “fraught with bad planning and lack of application of mind” which will further adversely prejudice the students. “Even if the respondents (boards and others) wanted to conduct the examinations on the said dates, it had sufficient time and resources to plan it carefully and consider the concerns raised in the present petition,” it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||Delhi may implement odd-even scheme as smog chokes capital||Delhi will consider restricting private vehicles to driving on alternate days from next week if severe air pollution continues to plague the national capital, its environment minister told Reuters on Thursday. As choking smog enveloped the city of 20 million people this month, the state government initiated a clutch of measures such as shutting down schools, banning construction and garbage burning, allowing people to work from home, and launching various dust-control steps such as using fire trucks to spray water. "If air pollution levels stay high, we will look at new measures like the odd-even (vehicle) system," Gopal Rai, Delhi's Minister for Environment, Forest and Wildlife Development, said in the interview. Under the odd-even system, private vehicles can be driven only on alternating days, depending on the last digit of their number plate. "We'll see if there's a need for a complete lockdown to tackle pollution. But these measures will not work if Delhi's neighbouring cities do not reciprocate," Mr Rai said. More children are in hospital with breathing problems due to dangerously heavy smog in New Delhi, doctors warned on Wednesday, and the government shut five power stations and extended school closures to try to contain the crisis. Citing a new study by the Centre for Science and Environment research body, Rai said only 30% of pollutants in Delhi's air stem from the city itself, with the rest coming from the vast urban sprawl around it where tens of thousands of big and small industries operate. "Even if we take more measures in Delhi, air quality will not improve if our neighbouring states do not ensure that pollution levels come down in the cities that surround Delhi." Rai said the federal government should call a meeting of Delhi and the state governments of neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to prepare "a joint action plan" to deal with air pollution. "Once the joint action plan is ready, there should be an independent panel to monitor the progress on the ground." Neither the Bharatiya Janata Party, nor the main opposition Congress is in power in the capital, giving them little incentive to cooperate with the city government run by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||Ahead of organisational elections, Congress revives disciplinary panel||The Congress party, which has been busy tackling in-house rebels and issues related to discipline, revived its disciplinary committee on Thursday ahead of organisational elections. Party veteran AK Antony continues to head the panel while Ambika Soni, Tariq Anwar, JP Agarwal and G Parameswar are its other members. A senior party functionary added that G Parameswar, former Karnataka PCC chief and former deputy CM has been given a central post in a balancing act since the state leadership is now tightly in control of DK Shivkumar and Siddaramaiah. While Ambika Soni remains one of the most trusted lieutenants of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Tariq Anwar has been brought in to be given additional responsibilities. The veteran leader re-joined the Congress from NCP a few years ago. Former Delhi PCC chief JP Aggarwal has been included in the committee that handles all issues related to indiscipline and can recommend action to the Congress president. While the party has other such state-level panels, this central disciplinary panel handles cases at the AICC level. The circular, signed by general secretary organization KC Venugopal, mentioned that the appointments have come into force with immediate effect. The AICC also appointed seven national coordinators in the data analytics panel led by Praveen Chakravarthy. A second party leader added that in view of the membership drive related to the organisational polls, there is a lot of data related work to be done as the party also goes online to invite people to join the Congress party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||Veteran football commentator Novy Kapadia dies at 67||Considered an authority on Indian football, veteran commentator and former Delhi University professor Novy Kapadia died here on Thursday after a prolonged illness. He was 67. Kapadia is not survived by any immediate family member after the death of his sister. The soft-spoken Kapadia, who has covered nine FIFA World Cups, was on ventilator for the last month. The eminent football expert and author had been suffering from a motor neurone disease, a rare condition that causes the nerves in the spine and brain to lose function over time. Rendered immobile because of the condition, he was confined to his house for the last two years. Kapadia was left bed-ridden for the last couple of years and was most recently in the news due to issues with his pension, prompting former Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju to intervene and provide a financial aid of Rs 4 lakh. The versatile Kapadia was involved in commentary for decades and it was not just restricted to football. He has been a part of the Olympics, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and other multi-sport events. Kapadia, who founded the Ashoka Club and played active football in the local league, was held in high esteem by the players, officials, scribes and everyone else associated with Indian football and beyond. He was sought after for his knowledge and experience in the sport and it is encapsulated in his seminal book, 'Barefoot To Boots, The Many Lives Of Indian Football'. He also authored The Football Fanatic's Essential Guide Book in 2014. Besides his involvement in sports, Kapadia was also a former professor at SGTB Khasla College, Delhi University. He was Deputy Proctor of the university from 2003-2010. The Indian football fraternity was devastated by the news of his death. "We are saddened by the demise of Novy Kapadia, eminent journalist, commentator, and football pundit. May his contribution shine through everyone he has touched through his coverage of Indian Football," the All India Football Federation tweeted. Top clubs such as Bengaluru FC, ATK Mohun Bagan and Kerala Blasters too expressed their shock and sadness, calling it a massive loss for Indian football. Football Delhi too mourned the death of Kapadia who was often referred to as the "voice of Indian football". "Novy Kapadia made an unparallel contribution to football in Delhi, he represented Delhi State Team in the Junior National Championship and played in the Delhi league for many years," Football Delhi president Shaji Prabhakaran said in a statement. "Novy was a legend in many respect, his passion and dedication for football can't be expressed in words. Indian football has lost a legend, who was married to football and his connection with football was very deep rooted. "I haven't come across a second person in Indian football who commanded such an authority and respect. Novy was our inspiration, his writing, commenting, expert opinions, etc were greatly inspiring to each of us in Indian football. His departure is a big loss for Delhi football in particular." In Kapadia's memory, Football Delhi will hold a prayer meeting at the Ambedkar Stadium on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||Democracies need to discuss cryptocurrency rules, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called on democratic nations to ensure that cryptocurrency does not end up in the "wrong hands", and cautioned that new-age technologies have the potential to be used as instruments of conflict and domination. In a virtual address at the Sydney Dialogue, he said India has created a robust framework of data protection, uses data as a source of empowerment of people and has unmatched experience in doing this in a democratic framework with strong guarantees of individual rights. Modi said the democracies must invest together in the research and development of future technology, create trusted manufacturing base and supply chains and work for preventing "manipulation" of public opinions. He said technology and data are becoming "new weapons" and whether all the "wonderful powers" of technology will be instruments of "cooperation or conflict", "coercion or choice" and "domination or development" will depend on choices the nations make. The Sydney Dialogue is a forum focused on emerging, critical and cyber technologies. Modi said the biggest strength of democracy is its openness and a few vested interests should not be allowed to misuse it, noting that the digital age has redefined politics, economies and societies besides raising new questions on sovereignty, governance, ethics, rights and security. He said the like-minded countries should develop technical and governance standards and norms consistent with their democratic values and create standards and norms for data governance. "It should also recognise national rights and, at the same time, promote trade, investment and larger public good. Take crypto-currency or bitcoin for example," he said. "It is important that all democratic nations work together on this and ensure it does not end up in wrong hands, which can spoil our youth," he added. There have been concerns in India over misleading claims of huge returns on cryptocurrency investment and its possible use for money laundering and terror financing. Last week, Modi chaired a meeting on the way forward on cryptocurrency or bitcoin. Giving an overview of India's approach to new technologies, Modi said the country is investing in developing indigenous capabilities in diverse areas including in 5G and 6G for the telecom sector and is one of the leading nations in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, especially in "human-centred" and ethical use of AI. He said technology has already become a major instrument of global competition and key to shaping the future international order. "We are at a historic moment of choice. Whether all the wonderful powers of technology of our age will be instruments of cooperation or conflict, coercion or choice, domination or development, oppression or opportunity," Modi said. "India, Australia and our partners in the Indo Pacific region and beyond hear the call of our times. And, we are prepared to rise to fulfil our responsibilities," he added. The prime minister said the digital age has helped in ushering in a new era of opportunities for progress and prosperity but at the same time, it brings new challenges. "We are in a time of change that happens once in an era. The digital age is changing everything around us. It has redefined politics, economy and society," he said. "It is raising new questions on sovereignty, governance, ethics, law, rights and security. It is reshaping international competition, power and leadership," Modi said. He listed India's achievements in the digital sector and said the use of technology by a nation is linked to its values and vision. "It is, therefore, essential for democracies to work together: to invest together in research and development in future technology; to develop trusted manufacturing base and trusted supply chains; to deepen intelligence and operational cooperation on cyber security, protect critical information infrastructure," he said. Modi said it is important to prevent "manipulation of public opinions; to develop technical and governance standards and norms consistent with our democratic values; and, to create standards and norms for data governance and for cross-border flow that protect and secure data." He said India's digital revolution is rooted in its democracy, our demography, and the scale of its economy, adding it is powered by enterprise and innovation of the youth. Modi said India is turning the challenges of the past into an opportunity to take a leap into the future. There are five important transitions taking place in India. "The greatest product of technology today is data In India, we have created a robust framework of data protection, privacy and security. And, at the same time, we use data as a source of empowerment of people," he said. "India has unmatched experience in doing this in a democratic framework with strong guarantees of individual rights," Modi said. Highlighting India's achievements, he said India is building the world's most extensive public information infrastructure and that over 1.3 billion Indians have a unique digital identity. "We are on our way to connect 600,000 villages with broadband. We have built the world's most efficient payment infrastructure, the UPI. Over 800 million Indians use the internet; 750 million are on smart-phones," he said. The prime minister said India is one of the largest consumers of data per capita and have one of the cheapest data in the world. He said the country is transforming the lives of the people by using digital technology for governance, inclusion, empowerment, connectivity, delivery of benefits and welfare. Everyone has heard of India's financial inclusion, banking and digital payment revolution. Modi said India's extensive experience with the use of technology and policy for the public good, inclusive development and social empowerment can be of great help to the developing world. "We can work together to empower nations and their people, and prepare them for the opportunities of this century," he remarked. Referring to the strategic cooperation between India and Australia, he said it is a force of good for region and world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||India, China agree to hold next round of military talks soon||India and China on Thursday agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the two sides had "candid and in-depth" discussions on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and reviewed the developments since the last military talks, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). "It was agreed that both sides should hold the next (14th) round of the Senior Commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols," the MEA said. The eastern Ladakh is officially referred to as Western Sector. In a statement, the MEA said it was agreed that both sides should in the interim also continue to ensure a stable ground situation and avoid any untoward incident. "The two sides recalled the agreement between the External Affairs Minister and the Foreign Minister of China during their meeting in September in Dushanbe that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh," it said. "Accordingly, the two sides had candid and in-depth discussions on the situation along the LAC in Western Sector of India-China border areas and also reviewed the developments since the last meeting of the Senior Commanders of both sides which was held on October 10," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||Vir Das won't be allowed to perform in Madhya Pradesh: Narottam Mishra||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday said comedian Vir Das, who is facing police complaints over his monologue 'I come from two Indias', would not be allowed to perform in the state, prompting the opposition parties and artists to slam the BJP leader as they asked why he was silent over actor Kangana Ranaut's recent controversial remarks. Das, who is in the US right now, had on Monday uploaded a six-minute video on YouTube titled 'I come from two Indias', which was a part of his recent performance at the John F Kennedy Centre in Washington DC. The Mumbai-based stand-up comic, who has also dabbled in cinema, had touched on various topics in the clip, including the farm protests, the battle against COVID-19, the duality in response to women, particularly rape, and the crackdown on comedians. "We won't allow such jesters to perform. If he tenders an apology, we are going to think over it," Mishra, who is also the MP government's spokesman, told reporters here when asked about the comedian's monologue. Reacting to his remarks, the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders and some artists asked why Mishra was not giving any statement on Ranaut over her recent remarks in which she said that India attained "real freedom" in 2014, when the Modi-led government came to power, and described the country's Independence in 1947 as "bheek" or alms. Das, who has issued a statement saying his comments weren't intended to insult the country, has found backing from TMC member Mahua Moitra as well as Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor. Mishra said there are some jesters who try to "defame" India, and they have some supporters like Kapil Sibal and other Congress people. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also defames India on foreign land. MP Congress chief Kamal Nath also does it," the minister alleged. "I call such people 'vidushak' (jester). He (Das) would not be allowed to perform in the state. If he apologises, we are going to think over it," he said. Slamming Narottam Mishra over his statement against Das, Madhya Pradesh Congress general secretary and media in-charge K K Mishra said that while the minister issues directives at the drop of a hat, he was mum over Ranaut's "bheek" remark. "She (Ranaut) has made an anti-national statement, but why is Mishra or the BJP government in MP not breaking silence over it? Why is Mishra not giving a statement against traitor Ranaut?" he asked. He should announce filing of a sedition case against Ranaut rather than pointing a finger at Das, the Congress leader said. "Will he announce a ban on Ranaut's entry into Madhya Pradesh?" he asked. CPI(M) state secretary Jaswinder Singh said the minister was making such statements to promote a particular ideology. "Mishra issues statements to promote the RSS ideology. His statement is not only a blow to the freedom of expression, but a conspiracy to promote a particular ideology and is aimed at crushing the opposition,'' he added. Singh said Mishra should express his views on Kangana's statement. Senior journalist and theatre artist from Madhya Pradesh Rakesh Dixit described the minister's "threat" to Das as unfortunate and added that the BJP leader's outrage was "selective" as he has "not spoken a word" on Ranaut's statement. Some other artists expressed similar views. Madhya Pradesh BJP spokesperson Neha Bagga, however, said Ranaut was neither a member of her party nor the party had supported the actor over her statement. "But it is very unfortunate that Congress leaders like Kapil Sibal are backing Das who has sullied the country's image in the US," she said. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi had criticised Das for "vilifying the nation" and actor Kangana Ranaut demanded strict action against the comedian. The Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE), a film body that claims to have over 2.5 lakh registered members, earlier said its members won't work with Das unless he issues a public apology. Last month, Narottam Mishra had issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw an advertisement with "objectionable and obscene" portrayal of 'mangalsutra' or else face statutory action. Prior to it, Dabur India Private Limited had withdrawn its Fem cream bleach advertisement, which showed same-sex couple celebrating Karva Chauth and watching each other through a sieve, after Mishra termed the ad as objectionable and warned that legal steps would be taken against it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
18-11-2021||India||India exports over 65 million Covid vaccines to nearly 100 nations this year||India exported more than 65 million doses of Covid vaccines to nearly 100 countries this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, asserting that the global trust earned by the Indian healthcare sector has led to the country being called the pharmacy of the world .  Speaking after inaugurating the first global innovation summit of the pharmaceutical sector, Modi said India's vision is to create an eco-system for innovation that will make the country a leader in drug discovery and innovative medical devices.  "Our policy interventions are being made based on wide consultations with all stakeholders," he said.  Noting that India has a large pool of scientists and technologists with a potential to take the industry to greater heights, Modi said this strength needs to be harnessed to discover and make in India .  "Today, when 1.3 billion people of India have taken it upon themselves to make India 'aatmanirbhar', we must think about ramping up domestic manufacturing of key ingredients for vaccines and medicines," he asserted.  This is one frontier that India has to conquer, he said.  "I invite you all to ideate in India, innovate in India, make in India and make for the world. Discover your true strength and serve the world," Modi said in his remarks at the summit.  He noted that whether it is lifestyle, or medicines, or medical technology, or vaccines, every aspect of healthcare has received global attention over the last two years. "In this context, the Indian pharmaceutical industry has also risen to the challenge," Modi said.  "The global trust earned by the Indian healthcare sector has led to India being called the pharmacy of the world in recent times," he said.  "We exported lifesaving medicines and medical equipment to over 150 countries during the initial phase of the pandemic," Modi said.  "We have also exported more than 65 million doses of Covid vaccines to nearly 100 countries this year," the prime minister said, adding that India will do much more as it ramps up its capacity.  He asserted that India's definition of well-ness is not limited by physical boundaries and it believes in the well-being of the entire humankind.  "And, we have shown this spirit to the whole world during the COVID-19 global pandemic," he added.  Employing nearly three million people and with a trade surplus of USD 13 billion, the pharma sector is a key driver of India's economic growth, Modi said.  "India's healthcare sector attracted foreign direct investment (FDI) of over USD 12 billion since 2014 and there is potential for much more," he said.  The two-day summit will have 12 sessions and over 40 national and international speakers deliberating on a range of subjects, including regulatory environment, funding for innovation, industry-academia collaboration and innovation infrastructure, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Govt denies sanction to prosecute former Air India CMD; CBI closes corruption case||The CBI has closed a case against former Air India CMD Arvind Jadhav and others over alleged corruption in the appointments of General Managers after the central government refused to grant its sanction to prosecute him, officials said.  The agency had booked Jadhav, then General Manager L P Nakhwa (now retired), and then Additional General Managers A Kathpalia, Amitabh Singh and Rohit Bhasin after a year-long preliminary enquiry, they said.  It was alleged that Jadhav had constituted illegal/irregular promotion panel to recommend suitable candidates for promotion to the post of General Manager (Operations), they said.  The CBI had approached the Civil Aviation Ministry on February 6, 2019 seeking sanction to prosecute Jadhav and Nakhwa in the case, which was denied by the then Chairman cum Managing Director (CMD) of Air India on April 16, 2019.  The Department of Personnel and Training had asked the CBI to send a fresh proposal for seeking sanction against Jadhav which was sent to it on December 19, 2019, officials said. The DoPT conveyed to the CBI on June 9, 2021 that the Civil Aviation Ministry has denied the sanction saying there seems to be a irregularity/administrative lapse in the constitution of selection committee, but that itself does not amount to offence under Sections of IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988."  "Further, there was no violation of rules in granting of vigilance clearance in respect of three candidates who were selected as GM (Operations), as vigilance clearance could not have (been) denied to them as per extant rules," it said while denying the sanction.  The CBI in its final report recommended the alleged offence cannot be investigated "in bits and pieces" because the accused in the FIR allegedly played their individual roles.  The agency said in the absence of permission to prosecute Jadhav and others it would not be possible to link the chain of evidence in fragmented manner by excluding the criminal act of the main executors, Jadhav and Nakhwa.  The CBI said it will not be justifiable to carry out the investigation in the instant matter against the remaining three accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Congress questions PM's silence on 'Chinese' villages coming up near Dokalam plateau||The Congress accused the BJP-led government on Thursday of compromising national security and India's territorial integrity, and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's silence on new Chinese villages coming up near the Dokalam plateau. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said latest satellite images show that China has built four villages in Bhutan, next to Dokalam, and has grabbed 100 square kilometres of land in the area through illegal incursions. "Why are we tolerating this all-round aggression from China and doing absolutely nothing about it? We urge the prime minister not to hide behind smokescreens and answer to the people," he said at a press conference here. "The Modi government's unpardonable, blatant and brazen compromise of national security and India's territorial integrity stands exposed once again. The prime minister and the defence minister have undermined the astounding valour and insurmountable grit of our armed forces, who faced the Chinese incursions and aggressions with indomitable courage and sacrifice," Vallabh said. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also shared the satellite images on Twitter and said, "100 Square KMs of 'land grab' and illegal incursion and setting four new villages by China in Bhutan, next to Doklam is a blow to India's national security. This happened between May-Nov 2021." "Why is PM 'mum'? Who will defend National Security?" he asked. Vallabh said the new satellite images on Chinese military development show the purported construction of Chinese villages in Bhutanese territory over the last year. These new villages lie near the Dokalam plateau where India and China had a face-off in 2017, after which the neighbouring country bypassed Indian defences to resume road construction activity in the region, he said. Vallabh said the new construction on Bhutanese soil is particularly worrying for India since the country has historically advised Bhutan on its external relations policy and continues to train its armed forces. "Why is the Modi government compromising our territorial integrity?" he asked. Pointing out that the Indian forces took on the illegal Chinese incursions into Indian territory, the Congress leader asked, "Why is the Modi government disrespecting and dishonouring the sacrifice of our brave soldiers? When will the Modi government respond to this verbal, geographic, military and strategic aggression of China?" He asked the prime minister to speak up on the issue and tell the nation when will he name China and take it on over its repeated incursions along the borders. Vallabh also alleged that over the last 18 months, the government has compromised India's security vis-a-vis the dominant positions of the armed forces in the Kailash ranges and undermined the country's territorial integrity by withdrawing the forces from Finger 4 to Finger 3 on the north bank of the Pangong lake. He talked about Chinese incursions in eastern Ladakh, including in the Depsang plains and in Gogra and Hot Springs, besides constructing a village in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Return to country: Modi to fugitive economic offenders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said his government is using all channels including diplomatic to bring back high-profile economic offenders, leaving them with no option but to return to the country.  Speaking at a symposium on credit flow and economic growth, he asked banks to support wealth and job creators with proactive lending while promising to stand by any loans given in right earnest.  "In our attempt to bring back fugitive (economic offenders), we relied on policies and law and also used diplomatic channels. The message is very clear -- return to your country. We are continuing these efforts," he said.  He, however, did not name or refer to any particular offender. India has in recent times stepped up efforts to extradite high-profile economic offenders such as Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, wanted in connection with bank frauds and money laundering cases.  "While Rs 5 lakh crore has been recovered from defaulters through proactive steps, the recently set up National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) would help resolve Rs 2 lakh crore of stressed assets, the Prime Minister said.  He also said the financial health of banks is now in a much-improved condition as his government has since 2014 found ways to address the problems they faced.  "Indian banks are strong enough to play a major role in imparting fresh energy to the country's economy, for giving a big push and making India self-reliant. This is a time for you to support wealth creators and job creators. It is the need of the hour that now the banks of India work proactively to bolster the wealth sheet of the country along with their balance sheets," he asserted.  Banks, Modi said, need to shed the culture of they being an approver and the customer being an applicant, and adopt the model of partnership.  "When the country is working so hard on financial inclusion, it is very important to unlock the productive potential of the citizens," he said.  Modi further said the reforms initiated by the government in the banking sector in the last six-seven years supported the banking sector in every way, due to which the sector is in a very strong position today.  "We addressed the problem of NPAs, recapitalised banks and increased their strength. We brought reforms like Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), reformed many laws and empowered Debt Recovery Tribunal," he said.  Modi also nudged bankers to offer "customised solutions" to businesses and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). "Don't wait for customers to come to banks. You have to go to them," he said, while assuring bankers that he will "stand by them like a wall" for every honest decision they take.  Asking banks to move ahead with a "big thinking and innovative approach", Modi said "we will become laggards if we delay adopting Fintech."  Setting a target for banks, he said by August 15, 2022, every bank branch should have at least 100 clients who conduct the entire business digitally.  "Banking sector has to understand this that in India it is time for investing in ideas. It is time to support startups. Startup is an idea, there is no asset, it is just an idea. You (banks) have no dearth of resources, data. The government will continue to do reforms, and you (banks) have moved forward along with the nation's commitment and target," he said.  The Prime Minister said steps taken in the recent years have created a strong capital base for the banks.  Banks have sufficient liquidity and no backlog for provisioning of bad loans, while non-performing assets (NPAs) in public sector banks are at the lowest in the last five years. This has led to the upgrading of the outlook for the Indian banks by international agencies, he pointed out.  The Prime Minister emphasised on the need to proactively serve the customers and asked banks to provide customised solutions to customers, companies and MSMEs after analysing their needs.  He also praised the banking sector for its enthusiasm in implementing the Jan Dhan Scheme.  The Prime Minister said banks should proactively get involved in the growth story. He gave the example of the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme where the government is doing the same by giving Indian manufacturers an incentive on production.  Under the PLI scheme, manufacturers have been incentivised to increase their capacity manifold and transform themselves into global companies. Banks can play a big role in making projects viable through their support and expertise, said Modi.  "Reforms in last six-seven years have led to the banking sector in a strong position today... We have addressed non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks, recapitalised banks, brought bankruptcy laws and strengthened debt recovery tribunal," Modi added.  He said with consolidation among public sector lenders, they are able to raise funds from market. With the reforms, banks have a huge and strong capital base, good liquidity and no NPA backlog.  "You are the main stakeholder in nation-building... Banks can play a big role in boosting the economy and making India aatmanirbhar," the Prime Minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Channi, ministers, visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with about 30 persons, including his Cabinet ministers, visited the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan using the visa-free Kartarpur corridor on Thursday on the second day of the reopening of the route which was suspended for some 20 months following the COVID-19 outbreak. The CM also tweeted his ecstasy over the visit.   Evacuee Trust Property Board spokesperson Amir Hashmi said that another delegation of BJP leaders also visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.  "Indian Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with about 30 persons, including his Cabinet ministers, today visited Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, by using Kartarpur Corridor," Hashmi told PTI.  Kartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit chief executive officer (CEO) Muhammad Latif, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee office bearers and Commissioner Gujranwala greeted the Indian guests who arrived here a day before the annual commemoration of the birth of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev.  The first batch of 28 Indian Sikhs, including women, visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan on Wednesday by using visa-free corridor on the first day of its reopening.  Latif said that over 100 Indian pilgrims were expected to visit the historic gurdwara on Thursday.  The corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, where Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev lived and died at the start of the 16th century, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. The 4 km-long corridor provides visa free access to Indian pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Indian government reopened the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from its side on Wednesday. In November 2019, Prime Minister Imran Khan had formally inaugurated the Kartarpur Corridor as part of the commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at a colourful ceremony, paving the way for Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit one of their religion's holiest sites in Pakistan without needing a visa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Surjewala moves SC challenging ordinances extending tenures of CBI, ED chiefs||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Thursday moved the Supreme Court challenging the Union government's ordinances extending the tenures of Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chiefs from two to up to five years. He has moved the plea against the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, of November 14 along with the Personnel Ministry's November 15 notification amending the fundamental rules which enable the government to extend the tenures of ED, CBI chiefs, as also of the defence, home and foreign secretaries. These ordinances empower the Government of India to provide "piecemeal extensions" of one year each to the tenures of the directors of ED and CBI following the conclusion of the fixed terms provided in their statutes, Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Surjewala claimed. "There are no criteria provided save for a vague reference to 'public interest' and is in fact, based on the subjective satisfaction of the respondents. This has the direct and clear impact of eroding the independence of the investigative bodies in question," he said in the petition. Surjewala also alleged that the extension of tenure in this "ad-hoc and episodic fashion" reaffirms the control of the Executive over investigative agencies and is "directly antithetical" to their independent functioning. The CBI and ED directors had a fixed tenure of two years but can now be given an extension each year as long as the cumulative extension is not beyond five years from the initial date of appointment, the Congress leader said. "It would thus mean that each permissible extension will be at the discretion and the subjective satisfaction of the appointing authority," he said. The Congress leader has also sought interim relief from the court alleging that the ordinances violate the court orders issued from time to time to ensure the independence of such institutions and it also reveals the clear abuse of power by the authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Will PM ever participate in debate in Parliament, Chidambaram asks ||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi mooted the idea of having a separate time in legislatures for quality debates, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday took a dig at him, saying the question is will the prime minister ever participate in a debate in Parliament.  Addressing the inaugural session of the 82nd All India Presiding Officers' Conference virtually, Modi asked lawmakers and legislatures to follow Indian values and send a message to citizens through their conduct about giving primacy to one's duties.  He also mooted the idea of having a separate time in legislatures for quality and healthy debates that should be serious, dignified and devoid of political potshots at others.  Taking a dig at Modi, Chidambaram tweeted, "Interesting to read that PM stressed the need for 'quality debates' in Parliament. He also suggested setting a separate time for quality debates. The question is 'Will PM ever participate in a debate in Parliament?"  The Congress has been alleging that the government is running away from debates on key issues in Parliament, a charge denied by the government which has stated that the Opposition has been disrupting the Houses and stalling legislative work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||TRF, Hizbul commanders among five terrorists killed in Kulgam encounter||District commanders of The Resistance Front (TRF) and Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) were among five terrorists killed in twin encounters with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam, police said on Thursday. The encounters took place in Goplapora and Pombay areas of the South Kashmir district on Wednesday. While three terrorists were killed in the Pombay operation, two were killed in the Goplapora gunfight. Top #terrorist & HM's district commander Shakir Nazar who was active since 2018 #killed along with two other terrorists (in Pombay encounter). A big #success, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said on Twitter. Police on Wednesday said TRF's District commander Aafaq Sikander was among the two terrorists killed in Gopalpora encounter. Security forces launched the twin operation in the south Kashmir district on Wednesday after inputs about the presence of terrorists in the villages of Pambay and Gopalpora. During both the operations, ample opportunities were given to the trapped terrorists to surrender, however they starting firing indiscriminately on the search teams which was retaliated leading to encounters, a police spokesman said. He said in the ensuing encounter at Gopalpora, two terrorists were killed and they were identified as Aafaq Sikander Lone (District commander TRF), resident of Raykapran Shopian, and Irfan Mushtaq Lone, resident of Shedcheck Aawneera, Shopian. An AK-47 rifle and a pistol were recovered from the site of the encounter, the spokesman said. As per police records, Sikandar was involved in many terror crime cases including in civilian atrocities and attacks on security forces. He was involved in killing of Police personnel Nissar Ahmad Wagay on August 7 at Pambay Crossing, killing of non-local labour Shankar Kumar Choudhary at Nehama Kulgam on September 9. Besides, he was also involved in grenade attacks on security forces including attack on 18Bn CRPF at Nehama. He also carried out an attack on SHO Manzgam in which four police personnel got injured, he said. In the encounter at Pambay, three terrorists were killed and two of them were identified as Shakir Najar, resident of Ponipora Kulgam and Sumair Najar, resident of Kanipora Shopian. Shakir Najar was affiliated with HM, while Sumair Najar with TRF, he added. The identification and affiliation of the third slain terrorist is being ascertained. The killed terrorists were involved in various terror crime cases including civilian atrocities. Pertinently terrorist Shakir Najar was active since April 2018, the spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||No protection, no hearing until we know where you are, SC tells Param Bir Singh||The Supreme Court Thursday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to disclose his location and said, "no protection, no hearing until we know where you are". The apex court asked his lawyer to inform about Singh's whereabouts and posted the matter for hearing on November 22. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul took exception that his plea seeking protection has been filed through power of attorney. "You are seeking protective orders; nobody knows where you are. Suppose you are sitting abroad and taking legal recourse through power of attorney then what happens. If that is so then you will come to India if the court rules in your favour, we don't know what you have in mind. No protection, no hearing until we know where you are," said the bench also comprising Justice M M Sundresh. It further said: "The petition has been filed through power of attorney. Where are you. Are you in this country or outside? In some state, where are you. We will come to the remaining, first we know where are you?" A magistrate's court in Bombay on Wednesday declared Singh a "proclaimed offender" in an extortion case registered against him and some other police officers in the city. Singh had last attended his office in May this year after which he went on leave. The state police had told the Bombay High Court last month that his whereabouts were not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||SC refuses to direct CBSE, CISCE to provide hybrid mode option for board exams||The Supreme Court Thursday refused to direct the CBSE and the CISCE to provide option of hybrid mode, instead of the offline mode only, for the class 10 and 12 board examinations, saying it would not be appropriate to disturb the process at this stage. The apex court noted that term one board exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have already commenced from November 16 while semester one of the board examination of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) are to commence from November 22. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the CBSE, that all precautions have been taken for conducting the board exams in offline mode and the examination centres have been increased from 6,500 to 15,000. The bench said it hopes and trusts that authorities will take all precautions and measures to ensure that no one is exposed to anything untoward in the examination process. The top court was hearing a plea, filed by six students who would be appearing in the board examinations, seeking directions to the CBSE and the CISCE to issue a revised circular for conducting the ensuing class 10 and 12 board exams in hybrid mode instead of offline mode only amid the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
18-11-2021||India||Delhi govt has prepared six-point action plan to clean Yamuna, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his government has prepared a six-point plan to clean the Yamuna river to bathing standards by February 2025. He said the government is constructing new sewage treatment plants and increasing the capacity of the existing ones as well as upgrading those. "This will increase our sewage treatment capacity from around 600 million gallons of waste water a day to 750 MGD-800 MGD," Kejriwal said. He said the wastewater from four major drains falling in the Yamuna -- Najafgarh, Badshahpur, Supplementary and Ghazipur -- is being treated in-situ. The government will shut down the industries discharging industrial waste into the Yamuna, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said. Waste water in "jhuggi jhopri" clusters flows through storm water drains into the Yamuna. These will be connected to the sewer network, the chief minister said. The government will provide household connections in areas that have a sewer network. Earlier, the consumers had to get the connection themselves. The city government has also started de-silting and rehabilitation of the sewer network. "Our engineers and officers are hopeful that we will be able to clean the Yamuna by February 2025 with the implementation of the six-point action plan. "Specific targets have been set for each action point and I will personally monitor the progress," Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||SC allows NGO to file appeal against HC order upholding Asthana's appointment as Delhi CP||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed an NGO to file an appeal against the Delhi High Court order which upheld the Centre's decision to appoint senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner four days before his superannuation on July 31. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna said that it will take up for hearing the writ petition filed by the NGO and the appeal to be filed by it on November 26. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the NGO, 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL), said that the court had on August 25 kept its plea against Asthana's appointment pending and asked the Delhi High Court to decide expeditiously a similar plea pending there. "Now that the high court has decided the plea pending there, this court has the benefit of the judgement. I request this court to decide our plea which is pending here challenging the appointment of Asthana," Bhushan said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, raised a preliminary objection on the technical ground that it is a writ petition and if Bhushan is aggrieved by the order of the high court, then he has to file an appeal with the permission of this court. The bench said there are precedents where, with court's permission, a party who is aggrieved with high court order can file an appeal. "We will grant you liberty to file an appeal and would take both the writ petition and the appeal together and decide it because we only asked you by our order of August 25 to move the High Court by way of impleadment," the bench said. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Asthana, said the court should not keep the writ petition pending if it is granting liberty to the petitioner NGO to file an appeal. The bench said it would look into that aspect on November 26. On October 12, the Delhi High Court upheld the Centre's decision to appoint Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner four days before his superannuation on July 31, saying there was no irregularity, illegality or infirmity in his selection. Dismissing a PIL challenging his selection, it had said the justification and reasons given by the Centre for appointing Asthana are plausible, calling for no interference in judicial review. The high court had said the Supreme Court's decision in the Prakash Singh case, which mandated a minimum tenure for certain police officials and the constitution of a UPSC panel before selection, was not applicable to the appointment of Police Commissioner for Delhi but were intended to apply only to the appointment of a State DGP. Asthana, a 1984-batch IPS officer, who was serving as the Director-General of Border Security Force, was appointed the Commissioner on July 27 after being shifted to the Union Territory cadre from Gujarat cadre for the tenure of one year. On August 25, the top court had asked the Delhi High Court to decide preferably within a period of two weeks the plea pending before it challenging the appointment of Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner. It had permitted the NGO to move the high court to intervene in the pending plea against Asthana's appointment. The NGO's petition has urged the top court to set aside the Centre's order to appoint Asthana after extending his service period. At the outset, the CJI had then expressed his inability to hear the PIL saying, I had expressed my views during the selection of CBI Director. The CJI in an earlier meeting of the high-powered selection panel, which also comprised the Prime Minister and the leader of opposition, had put forth the legal position which reportedly led to non-consideration of Asthana for being appointed as the CBI Director. The NGO have urged the apex court to direct the central government to produce its July 27 order approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre. It termed the extension of his tenure as well as appointment as illegal as he did not have a residual tenure of mandatory six months of service at the time of his appointment as Commissioner of Police since he was to retire within 4 days. It also claimed that the order violated the Fundamental Rule 56(d) which stipulates that no government servant shall be granted extension in service beyond the age of retirement of sixty years.' The central government did not have the power under Rule 3 of All India Services (Conditions of Service- Residuary Matters) Rules', to relax Rule 16(1) of the All India Services (Death-Cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, in order to give extension of service to Rakesh Asthana, the PIL claimed. The CPIL have further claimed that the Centre's order violated the policy regarding Inter-Cadre deputation of All India Service Officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: Lt. Governor orders magisterial probe ||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday ordered a magisterial probe into the Hyderpora encounter here, in which police claimed to have killed two terrorists and two terror associates.  "A magisterial inquiry by officer of ADM rank has been ordered in Hyderpora encounter. Govt will take suitable action as soon as report is submitted in a time-bound manner. JK admin reiterates commitment of protecting lives of innocent civilians & it will ensure there is no injustice," Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said in a tweet.  The magisterial probe was ordered amidst protests by the family members of three of the four persons killed in the encounter on Monday.  The family members of Mohammad Altaf Bhat (the building owner), Mudasir Gul (a tenant) and Amir Magray (Gul's office boy) have been protesting against the killings, which they have described as cold-blooded murder.  They have demanded that the bodies of the deceased be handed over to them for the last rites.  All the four persons killed in the encounter were buried in the Handwara area of Kupwara district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||Indian Institute of Hotel Management has crossed many milestones||It is has proved that when we talk about a job oriented institute they are among the top ranking colleges to exemplify the same. The core quality of any job oriented college is to complement its academics with streamlined training and suitable placement in places of repute and more importantly mentor them to stand out in a crowd. Indian Institute of Hotel Management has been able to provide the Hotel/ Hospitality industry with quality students not only throughput India but also across borders. If we talk about the format of education in this pandemic we have seen that the college has made all efforts to satisfy the needs of local and out station students. Practical classes are conducted in small batches so that the protocol of social distancing is maintained cautiously and at the same time the classes can be seen online for outstation students. Workshops, competitions, education excursions and an array of activities are designed in such a way that the students coming from various backgrounds, social circles and regions get an equal exposure to enhance their skills and communication. Priority is given to students from vernacular boards and a perfect hand holding is done for them so that they do not feel out of place or apprehensive about their choice of career. The effort taken to groom and discipline the students is commendable as poise, gesture, mannerisms and behavior is keenly monitored and enhanced to fit industry standards.  Students who want to pursue their professional career in Hotel/Hospitality and Hospital management should connect with the college admission cell at 9051475838 and the location of the college is very easy as it is well connected and centrally located in the heart of  Saltlake Sector Five EN 33, To know more about courses please visit - https://indianihm.com/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||Punjab BJP leaders leave for Kartarpur shrine in Pakistan||Several BJP leaders of Punjab on Thursday left for Gurdwara Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur in Pakistan through a visa-free corridor for offering prayers at the shrine dedicated to Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev.  The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.  A BJP delegation is going to pay obeisance at the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma told reporters before moving towards the integrated check post. Sharma, who was sporting a turban, said that they were thankful to the prime minister and the home minister for reopening the Kartarpur corridor to allow devotees to offer prayers ahead of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.  Among party leaders who were part of the BJP jatha (delegation) included Jeevan Gupta, Subhash Sharma and K D Bhandari. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and ministers will also visit the shrine on Thursday.  Twenty-eight devotees on Wednesday had visited the gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan through the Kartarpur corridor. Security men were deployed in strength in and around Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur on Thursday.  The Centre reopened the Kartarpur corridor from Wednesday ahead of Gurpurab, which marks the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, on November 19. Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||SC quashes skin-to-skin judgement of Bombay HC||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed the Bombay High Court verdict which had held that no offence of sexual assault under the POCSO Act is made out if there is no direct skin-to-skin contact between an accused and victim. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit set aside the high court judgement, and said the most important ingredient of constituting sexual assault is sexual intent and not skin-to-skin with the child. The purpose of the law cannot be to allow the offender to escape the meshes of the law, the apex court said. "We have held that when the legislature has expressed clear intention, the courts cannot create ambiguity in the provision. It is right that courts cannot be overzealous in creating ambiguity," the bench, also comprising Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, said. The top court, which was hearing separate appeals of Attorney General and the National Commission for women (NCW), had on January 27 stayed the order which had acquitted a man under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act saying groping a minor's breast without 'skin to skin contact' cannot be termed as sexual assault. The sessions court had sentenced the man to three years of imprisonment for the offences under the POCSO Act as also under IPC section 354. The sentences were to run concurrently. The high court, however, acquitted him under the POCSO Act while upholding his conviction under IPC section 354.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||India logs over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 470 casualties in a day||With 11,919 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 3,44,78,517, while the number of active cases has gone up to 1,28,762, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The death toll due to the viral disease has shot up to 4,64,623 with 470 more fatalities, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in the number of coronavirus cases has been below 20,000 for 41 straight days now and less than 50,000 fresh cases have been reported for 144 consecutive days. The number of active cases of the infection has gone up to 1,28,762, accounting for 0.37 per cent of the total caseload, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.28 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 207 cases in the active COVID-19 caseload was recorded in a span of 24 hours, it added. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.97 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for 45 consecutive days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.94 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 55 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 3,38,85,132, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The total number of vaccine doses administered in the country under the nationwide Covid inoculation drive has exceeded 114.46 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 470 fresh fatalities caused by Covid include 388 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. Of the 388 fatalities in Kerala, 61 were reported over the last few days and the remaining 327 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, according to a release issued by the state government. A total of 4,64,623 deaths due to the viral disease have so far been reported in the country, including 1,40,668 from Maharashtra, 38,161 from Karnataka, 36,475 from Kerala, 36,324 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,341 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||Digital age has redefined politics, says Modi at Sydney dialogue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged all democratic nations to work together to ensure that cryptocurrency does not end up in the wrong hands, cautioning that it can spoil the youth. In a virtual address at the Sydney Dialogue, he said the digital age is changing everything as it has redefined politics, economies and societies and has raised new questions on sovereignty, governance, ethics, rights and security. Giving an overview of India's approach to new technologies, Modi said the country is investing in developing indigenous capabilities in diverse areas including in 5G and 6G for the telecom sector. The prime minister said India uses data as a source of empowerment of people and that the country has unmatched experience in doing this in a democratic framework with strong guarantees of individual rights. "It is important that all democratic nations work together on this and ensure it does not end up in wrong hands, which can spoil our youth," he said referring to cryptocurrency. Modi said India is building the world's most extensive public information infrastructure and that over 1.3 billion Indians have a unique digital identity. "The greatest product of technology today is data. In India, we have created a robust framework of data protection, privacy and security. And, at the same time, we use data as a source of empowerment of people," he said. He said India is on its way to connecting 600,000 villages with broadband. Referring to the strategic cooperation between India and Australia, he said it is a force of good for region and world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||SC brake on Tripura crackdown on lawyers and journalist||The Supreme Court on Wednesday restrained the Tripura government from taking any “coercive steps including arrest” against a journalist and two advocates who have been booked under terror and criminal laws for their social media posts on the recent violence in the state. Issuing notices to the Centre and Tripura, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said: “In the meantime, no coercive steps including arrest shall be taken against the petitioners.” After Uttar Pradesh, Tripura has emerged as the new battleground for freedom of expression. The BJP is in power in both states. As many as 102 people have been booked under the UAPA in Tripura for sharing “objectionable news items/ statements” about the anti-Muslim violence that broke out after the VHP held a protest last month against the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. The Supreme Court bench, which included Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice Surya Kant, passed Wednesday’s order after briefly hearing advocate Prashant Bhushan for the three joint petitioners: Delhi-based advocates Mukesh Gaur and Ansarul Haq Ansari and journalist Shyam Meera Singh. Gaur and Ansari were in a team of four advocates who had visited Tripura on a fact-finding mission after hearing of anti-Muslim violence in the state. On November 2, the team published a report, “Humanity Under Attack in Tripura #Muslim Lives Matter”. The two of them also wrote social media posts on the violence. Journalist Singh too tweeted: “Tripura is burning.” The Tripura government has steadfastly denied the occurrence of widespread violence and accused “vested interests” of stoking communal tension. The petitioners underlined that if the State was allowed to criminalise the very act of fact-finding and reporting — and that too under the stringent provisions of the UAPA in which anticipatory bail is barred and chances of regular bail are remote — the only facts that would come out in the public domain would be those that are convenient to the State. Apart from seeking a quashing of the FIRs against them and protection from arrest, the petitioners have challenged the constitutional validity of the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which has been invoked against them along with several penal code sections. Justice Ramana said the validity of the UAPA would be taken up at a later stage as the court was at present concerned with the liberty of the petitioners. Bhushan agreed with the bench. The West Tripura police registered the case against the trio on November 3. The police also issued notices to the two lawyers asking them to delete “these fabricated and false” statements and appear before them by November 10 for questioning. Tripura advocate-general S.S. Dey told The Telegraph on Wednesday evening: “The state did not contemplate any coercive action and accordingly, the state police did not issue any warrant of arrest.” Two women journalists, who had visited Tripura to report on the violence, were detained in Assam, another BJP-run state, on Sunday and later arrested but released by a court on Monday. Initially on Wednesday, Justice Ramana said he had read in news reports that the three petitioners had been released on bail. But Bhushan clarified that the report was about certain other accused. Additional reporting by Umanand Jaiswal in Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||Police complaint filed against Vir Das for his US monologue||A BJP functionary and a lawyer have filed complaints with police against comedian Vir Das for his monologue in the US earlier this month in which he referred to the PM CARES Fund and the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage in which farmers were killed. The monologue, titled I come from two Indias, was delivered at the prestigious Kennedy Center in Washington DC on November 12. Das tweeted on Monday a six-minute clip of his performance peppered with several rounds of applause, which has been seen by over 1.6 million people on YouTube alone. After a barrage of criticism and calls for his prosecution, Das tweeted on Tuesday: “The video is a satire about the duality of two very separate Indias that do different things. Like any nation has light and dark, good and evil within it. None of this is a secret. The video appeals for us to never forget that we are great. To never stop focusing on what makes us great…. It ends in a gigantic patriotic round of applause for a country we all love, believe in, and are proud of. That there is more to our country than the headlines, a deep beauty. That’s the point of the video and the reason for the applause.” In the clip featuring his performance, Das is heard saying: “I come from an India where every time we get information, we are always available to care for the PM but we can’t seem to get any information on PM CARES…. I come from an India where we take pride in being vegetarians and yet run over the farmers who grow our vegetables.” At another point, he says: “I come from an India where we bleed blue every time we play green, but every time we lose to green, we turn orange all of a sudden.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Aditya Jha and Mumbai lawyer Ashutosh J. Dubey, who describes himself as a legal adviser to the party’s Palghar unit, filed a complaint each in both cities claiming that Das’s monologue was derogatory to women and inflammatory. During the performance, Das contrasts the way women are worshipped in India during the day and gang-raped at night. Dubey’s complaint suggests he is outraged by another element, too. In his complaint emailed to Mumbai police, he said: “It has been observed that aforesaid issues and wilfully spreading, inciting and a derogatory statement against the current Prime Minister of India is the biggest threat to Union of India that he did fraud regarding the PM Care Funds and he is not able to get information regarding the same.” (sic) Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Kapil Sibal tweeted in support of Das but their party colleague Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “Generalising the evils of a few individuals and vilifying the nation as a whole in front of the world is just not done!” Filmmaker Hansal Mehta tweeted: “I come from an India where it needs courage for a Vir Das to say this, I come from an India where many of us admire this courage, yet choose to remain silent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
18-11-2021||India||Justice Sanjib Banerjee’s farewell letter to Madras HC||Outgoing Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee has bid goodbye to “everyone in this beautiful and glorious state” of Tamil Nadu while regretting he “could not completely demolish the feudal culture” amid which court staff work. In a farewell message to fellow judges, the Bar, the court registry and staff, Justice Banerjee said he was “leaving with the happiest memories”. Lawyers had protested Justice Banerjee’s sudden transfer to Meghalaya High Court after just 10 months in Madras, during which he had earned praise for his administrative work as well as his landmark judgments that upheld constitutional values. Following is the text of the farewell letter: “My dear family at the Madras High Court, “To my colleagues at the Bench: I apologise. First, for being unable to last the distance and second, for not saying goodbye to you in person. Finally, to the few of you who may have felt offended by any of my actions, please know that they were never personal: I perceived those actions as necessary for the institution. “Ranee and I have been overwhelmed by the warmth and affection you have showered on us at all times. “To the members of the Bar: you are among the best in the country and have suffered a talkative and sometimes grumpy old judge with more patience, respect and understanding than I may have deserved. My sincere gratitude to you for all of your kind words. “To my registry: your efficiency made administration easy. I also acknowledge the sincerity that you have shown to improve and better the system and processes; please continue your endeavour to bring about transparency and accountability. “To all the staff: I am sorry for the long hours that you had to keep for me. I appreciate your fullest cooperation. My regret is that I could not completely demolish the feudal culture in which you serve. “Ranee and I remain forever indebted to everyone in this beautiful and glorious state we had the privilege of calling our own for the last eleven months and for the kindness and warmth with which we were greeted during the entire tenure. “We leave with the happiest memories. God bless and warm regards. “Nandri. Vanakkam.” (“Nandri” in Tamil means “thanks” and “vanakkam” stands for “namaste” or “namaskar”.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Covid income blow shows in school enrolments||Enrolment in private schools has fallen sharply since 2018 and the proportion of un-enrolled children has nearly doubled, says a sample survey that attributes the trend mainly to the pandemic’s effect on household incomes. The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021, released by the NGO Pratham on Wednesday, has recorded a drop of more than 8 percentage points in private school enrolment from 2018. This has been accompanied by a rise of 6 percentage points in government school enrolment and an 84 per cent jump in the proportion of un-enrolled children, from 2.5 to 4.6 per cent of all children aged 6 to 14. (See chart) Both before and after Covid, the proportion of girls enrolled in government schools has been higher than that of boys, according to the ASER report, based on a telephone survey of over 75,000 households from 581 districts. Rukmini Banerji, chief executive officer of Pratham, said the phone survey had covered 90 per cent of the same sample that a house-to-house survey had covered in 2018. “Nearly 10 per cent of the households surveyed in 2018 had no telephone. So, they could not be covered this time,” she said. “Had they been covered, the (proportion of) private enrolment would have been even less (because these families are likely to be poorer).” Banerji attributed the trend mainly to Covid hitting incomes. She suggested that the un-enrolled children were mostly very young children who were expected to enrol after the pandemic situation improved. Yagnamurthy Sreekanth, principal of the Regional Institute of Education, Mysore, attributed the latest enrolment trend to the incentives government schools offered and the opening of English-medium schools by certain state governments, apart from the financial problems faced by households. “Government schools offer incentives like free uniforms and textbooks — even free bicycle and gadgets (such as tablets) in some states. States like Andhra Pradesh have switched to English-medium education in government schools already,” Sreekanth said. The ASER report said enrolment in private schools had risen sharply between 2006 and 2014 to reach around 30 per cent of all enrolment before plateauing. The rise was driven by a mushrooming of budget private schools and an improving economy changing lifestyles and fanning parental aspirations for their children. Sreekanth said people working in the unorganised sector were the worst hit economically by the pandemic. It’s this segment that mostly sent its children to budget private schools, many of which have closed down in the past two years, he added. “All this has brought a positive vibe to government schools. The challenge now is to retain these children. The government schools have to provide quality education and leverage information communication technology for effective learning,” Sreekanth said. He said the immediate challenge was to address the “learning gaps” among the children caused by the prolonged pandemic-induced school closure. “Once the children are equipped, they should be taught the new concepts,” he said. From 30 per cent in 2018, the proportion of children taking private tuition has increased to 40 per cent, probably because of the school closure. The availability of smartphones has risen from 36.5 per cent in 2018 to 67.6 per cent in 2021, with the schools resorting to online education. Some 79 per cent private school students have a smartphone at home, compared with 63.7 per cent of their government school peers. The proportion of schoolchildren who received learning support from family members at home fell from 75 per cent in 2020 to 66 per cent in 2021. The closure of schools last year had necessitated parental guidance, and the job losses had given many parents time to devote to their children. The resumption of work this year has reduced the opportunity — and the increase in private tuition lowered the stark necessity — for parental help. The overall rise in government school enrolment has been driven by states such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. The 2020 survey too was done over the phone. While the survey has been a two-yearly exercise in recent years, it was repeated in 2021 because of a felt necessity to chart the effects of the pandemic on school education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Srinagar: Son of man who once killed a terrorist branded militant||Abdul Latief Magray once killed a militant with a stone. He is now wondering how the security forces, with whom he once fought insurgents shoulder to shoulder, could have shot his son and branded him a militant. “The tragedy is, we were staunch Indians but have been turned into (portrayed as) militants,” the grieving father in his 50s told The Telegraph. “If he was a militant, we don’t need his body. We are Indians. If my son did any such act, I don’t need him. But if he was innocent, why did they kill him? This is the regret. I know for sure he was innocent.” Magray, former member of an unofficial counter-insurgent militia who has lived for years under paramilitary security and currently serves the Indian Reserve Police, is now fighting to get the body of his son Aamir. The 23-year-old was killed with three others — Srinagar businessmen Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudassir Gul, and alleged Pakistani militant Haider — during what the security forces are calling a gunfight in a Srinagar building on Monday. The police claim Gul and Aamir were over-ground workers (OGWs) for the militants while Bhat was an innocent who died in the crossfire. They say Bhat and Gul had been asked to knock on the door of a room where Aamir and Haider were holed up. The families say the men were innocent and were killed in cold blood. Bhat’s family has alleged the forces used him as a human shield and then shot him. Protests have broken out. The police have refused to hand over any of the bodies to their families as part of a policy to pre-empt civilian protests against disputed killings. All four have been buried at a graveyard reserved for militants in far-off Handwara. Magray travelled 175km to Srinagar from his village of Sangaldan in Jammu’s Ramban district on Tuesday to seek his son’s body. Magray said: “Aamir worked as a peon at the office (where he was killed). There should be an investigation to find out who killed my son. Maybe some OGW (who was a double agent) got them killed for money.” “We met the police in Srinagar who told us my son was a militant and had been buried in Handwara. We returned home last night.” Local people in Ramban are asking that if Aamir was a militant, why had his family lived with official security for years? A police officer downplayed the CRPF security outside Magray’s house, saying the deployment was meant for an entire neighbourhood. Magray said his family had paid a heavy price for its involvement in anti-militancy operations. “In 2005, militants fired at us, killing my cousin Abdul Qayoom and injuring me. Despite suffering injuries, I killed a militant, Yasir Bhat, who was from Lashkar, with a stone. I was shifted to hospital and we had to flee to Udhampur to save our lives,” he said. “For the next five years, I worked with the army. My house in Ramban was turned into a security picket and I was twice awarded for my anti-militancy work. In 2011, I returned to my ancestral place and was given a job with the Indian Reserve Police.” In Srinagar, the families of Altaf Bhat and Gul staged separate protests and asked the government to return the bodies. Gul’s wife Humaira, who brought her two-year-old daughter to a protest, said the toddler had been crying and looking for her father. “She cries, ‘Baba, baba’ but I have no answers. I urge LG (lieutenant governor) Manoj Sinha to allow my daughter to see her father for the last time,” Humaira told reporters. “The police can kill me, too, if my husband can be proved to be an OGW.” Referring to the police admission about getting Gul and Bhat to knock on doors to flush out alleged militants, former chief minister Omar Abdullah wondered how the two men could be called militants in that case. “They were civilians because they were put in harm’s way,” Omar tweeted. “To vilify them as militants or OGWs is bad enough but to take the bodies away & forcibly bury them in north Kashmir is a crime against humanity. The bodies must be returned to the families so they can be buried. It’s the only just thing & it’s the only humanitarian thing to do.” On Wednesday, the Ramban administration banned assemblies of five or more people in parts of the district amid fears of anti-government protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Centre opposes SC suggestion of work from home in Delhi||The Centre on Wednesday opposed the Supreme Court’s suggestion that Union government employees work from home to combat the alarming pollution surge in Delhi and the National Capital Region. The Narendra Modi government argued that in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, the advantages of not passing work-from-home directions would “outweigh” those that would be gained from such a directive. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta made the submission before a special bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana. The bench, however, suggested that central government employees travel to office in environment-friendly CNG buses instead of using their official or private vehicles. Mehta told the bench, which also had Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant, that advisories had been issued to central government employees to opt for car-pooling over the next few days instead of travelling individually in vehicles in Delhi and the NCR regions of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. According to an affidavit filed by the Union ministry of environment and forests, an emergent meeting of the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Tuesday considered the court’s suggestion. It, however, concluded that in the recent past, several governmental programmes had suffered for prolonged periods because of the pandemic, which had pan-India ramifications. “The Central Government thus considered the number of vehicles used for Central Government business in NCR and after finding that the said number is not very significant, the Central Government decided that in view of the recent normalisation of functioning of Central Government offices post Covid-19 pandemic, the advantage of not passing work from home directions would outweigh the advantages which would be gained from work from home directions which would be limited to only less number of Central Government vehicles on road,” the affidavit said. “Instead, DoPT (department of personnel and training), Government of India, has issued an advisory for Central Government officers and staff for pooling and sharing of vehicles to the maximum extent possible so that number of Central Government vehicles plying for commuting of officers and staff are reduced substantially,” it added. Justice Chandrachud said that instead of using private vehicles, government employees could be asked to travel in CNG buses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Unite and create your own space: Priyanka taps woman power in UP ||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday appealed to the women of Uttar Pradesh to unite and create their “own space” in the Assembly elections next year through independent decision-making, stepping up political mobilisation along gender lines after promising to reserve 40 per cent seats for women. Speaking at an all-women programme in Chitrakoot — called Ladki Hun, Lad Sakti Hun Dialogue, or I am a girl and I can fight — Priyanka said: “Nobody will fight for you. A woman’s struggle is her own. You are half of the population. Unite and create your own space. Why support a government that doesn’t work for you? Blindly vote for women candidates wherever they are contesting.” Such a campaign is unique in Indian politics and even strong leaders like Indira Gandhi had not attempted it. Women leaders who have been hugely popular in their respective states, such as Mamata Banerjee, Jayalalithaa and Mayawati, have also never tried to create an exclusive constituency based on gender. Priyanka struck an emotional chord with women, exhorting them to take charge with these lines from a poem: “Suno Draupadi, shastra utha lo, ab Govind na aayenge (Listen Draupadi, take up arms, now Krishna will not come.)” She was referring to the Mahabharata in which Lord Krishna had intervened to save Draupadi when she was being disrobed on the orders of Dushasan. The message was that in this era women should be prepared to fight for themselves and not wait for Lord Krishna to arrive and save them. The Draupadi symbolism evoked a thunderous applause as Priyanka explained: “When I say, ‘ladki hun lad sakti hun’, that doesn’t mean you start fighting. Don’t go and fight with your husband. What I mean is that you learn to raise your voice. Create your own political space. “Only women’s participation in decision-making will ensure gender justice. Don’t expect help from those who exploit you, who are your oppressors. Whether women candidates win or lose, this election will carve out a space for them.” The Congress leader asserted that the next aim would be to reserve 50 per cent seats for women in elections to ensure equal participation. “This process started by the Congress cannot be reversed now. The next step will be 50 per cent — equal participation. Every political party will have to do this sooner or later. Women’s participation will also bring down violence and brutality in politics,” Priyanka said. “Haven’t you seen governments protecting the perpetrators of crimes, not the victims — as happened in the Lakhimpur massacre (of protesting farmers)? Haven’t you seen the exploiter getting the victim embroiled in legal cases? Rise and fight your own battles,” she said. Going beyond symbolism, Priyanka pledged a concrete deal for women should the Congress come to power. “Apart from scooties and smartphones for girl students, 40 per cent of government jobs will be reserved for women. In every district, there will be exclusive schools and vocational training centres for girls. For increasing women’s security, a law will be brought in for automatic suspension of police officers within 10 days if FIRs are not lodged on complaints,” the Congress leader said. Priyanka said that at least one-fourths of the staff at every police station would be women. “In every district, there will be a commission of former judges and activists to address the grievances of women. Widow pension will be hiked to Rs 1,000. Asha and anganwadi workers will get at least Rs 10,000 a month. All women will get free treatment up to Rs 10 lakh each for any disease.” While the thousands of women who attended the event welcomed the promises with enthusiasm, many who spoke at the conference highlighted how they had to struggle for livelihood and justice. An anganwadi worker, Mithilesh Shukla, said the BJP government had not increased their remuneration by even a rupee while tormenting them for protesting against the administration. She said anganwadi workers were often accused of being “thieves” by villagers because food distributed through them by the government for, say, 150 people was barely sufficient for 75. While Bharti, a lawyer, said the lives of women had become miserable under the BJP, pharmacy student Tanya Gupta complained about lack of educational and health facilities locally. Gupta said critical patients coming to the district hospitals were usually referred to Allahabad and many died on the way, puncturing the claims of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath that Uttar Pradesh was the best-governed state. Priyanka weighed in by pointing out how the BJP governments had done nothing when millions of migrants had to walk thousands of miles to return home during the pandemic while buses lined the streets for the Prime Minister’s election rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC appoints ex-judge to monitor SIT probe||The Supreme Court has appointed former Punjab and Haryana High Court judge, Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, to monitor the Special Investigation Team probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre in which a convoy led by Union minister Ajay Mishra’s SUV, with his son Ashish allegedly in it, ploughed through farmers returning from a protest on October 3. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, Justice Surya Kant and Justice Hima Kohli also reconstituted the SIT by appointing three IPS officers from outside Uttar Pradesh to it. The bench recalled an earlier judgment in Babubhai Jamnadas Patel v. State of Gujarat & Ors that the Supreme Court and high courts are the “sentinels of justice” that ensure that the rule of law and Constitutional guarantees of a fair and impartial investigation into alleged criminality are upheld. “While investigating such offences, justice must not only be done, but also be seen and perceived to be done. We thus deem it appropriate to reconstitute the SIT hereinafter to preserve the faith and trust of people in the criminal administration of the justice system. Further, to assure full and complete justice to the victims of crime, we are inclined to order that the ongoing investigation be monitored by a retired high court judge, who too may not have his roots in the state of Uttar Pradesh. “We, therefore, appoint Justice (Retd) Rakesh Kumar Jain, a former judge of the Punjab & Haryana High Court, to monitor the ongoing investigation so as to ensure transparency, fairness and absolute impartiality in the outcome of the investigation in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident which is to be conducted in a time­bound manner. “We are informed that the present SIT predominantly comprises of middle level/sub­ordinate level police officers posted in district Lakhimpur Kheri. It appears to us that in spite of their perceived commitment and sincerity in carrying out the investigation, there may still be a lurking suspicion in respect of the fairness and independence of such an investigation. We, therefore, deem it appropriate to direct re­constitution of the SIT infused with directly recruited IPS officers who do not hail from the State of UP though are allocated to UP Cadre.” The SIT will be headed by the ADG Intelligence HQ, S.B. Shiradkar, 1993 batch, and will include Padmaja Chauhan, IG, 1998 batch, and Dr. Preetinder Singh, DIG, 2004 batch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Kerala HC query to central govt on Covaxin impact on job||Kerala High Court has asked the Narendra Modi government if it is not its responsibility to ensure that citizens don’t lose their jobs due to complications arising out of non-acceptance of Covaxin by some countries. The single bench of Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan on Tuesday asked the Centre if it wasn’t duty-bound to redress the grievance of a petitioner who could lose his job since Saudi Arabia, where he is employed, does not recognise Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR. The court directed additional solicitor-general of India S. Manu to get specific details on the possibility of recognition of the vaccine by Saudi Arabia, the petitioner’s counsel Manas P. Hameed told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Although the World Health Organisation earlier this month granted emergency use approval to Covaxin, many countries including Saudi Arabia are yet to recognise it. “The honourable court observed that it is a violation of the petitioner’s fundamental rights to deny him an opportunity to go back to his workplace. So the court directed the government counsel to get specific information on whether they can get approval from Saudi Arabia for Covaxin and how much time it would take to do so,” Hameed said. The court will hear the case again on November 29. Petitioner Girikumar Thekkan Kunnumpurath, 50, from Kerala’s Kannur district who works as a welder in Dammam, had pleaded that he was unable to return to Saudi Arabia and resume his job since the Gulf country does not recognise Covaxin. Girikumar had moved the high court in August seeking judicial intervention to get Covishield jabs since he was unable to return to Saudi Arabia. He had come to India in January on his annual vacation but got stranded because the Covid pandemic that disrupted flights and foreign travel. When he was ready to leave after taking two shots of Covaxin, he realised that the Indian jab was not accepted anywhere abroad. His employer has since been extending his re-entry permit to enable him to return to his workplace whenever he manages to. Since all expats in that Gulf country require an exit permit to travel, a re-entry permit is also a must to return. When the government counsel pointed out that Covaxin was administered to save lives and the Centre could not wait for the WHO approval for the India rollout, the court observed that it was not blaming the government but added that the concern of the petitioner who was unable to return to his workplace must also be redressed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Duty should be the only mantra: Modi exhorts legislative bodies||Economic downturn, a killer Covid wave, massacre of farmers, attacks on minorities, Chinese incursions, job loss, unprecedented price rise, and targeting of those critical of the government: the jury is out on how the Prime Minister has discharged his duties in addressing the multiple problems blighting the nation, most of which he has met in public with silence. On Wednesday, however, Narendra Modi stressed on the supremacy of duty towards the nation over everything else. “Kartavya, kartavya, kartavya hi kartavya,” the Prime Minister told elected representatives, extolling the virtues of duty and laying out the path for the next 25 years to speed up the country’s development. Modi has christened the next 25 years leading up to the centenary year of Independence as “amrit kaal”, presumably a golden period, and has been repeatedly drawing attention to it to sharpen his nationalist agenda. Such an agenda has in the past few years often crossed over into the realms of vigilantism and targeting of those critical of the establishment. In his inaugural address to the 82nd Presiding Officers’ Conference, attended by the Speakers of the Lok Sabha and the Assemblies, the Prime Minister said the goals set for the next 25 years could be achieved if the mantra of “kartavya” or duty was followed by one and all. “Can’t we with full strength, devotion and responsibility realise one mantra?” Modi asked, addressing the conference in Shimla virtually from Delhi. “In my view that mantra is kartavya,” he said, chanting: “Kartavya, kartavya, kartavya hi kartavya.” The Prime Minister said that for the next 25 years the supremacy of “duty” should be reflected in every action of Parliament and state legislatures and that in turn would send out a message to the people across the country. “In discussions and debates in the House, the focus should be on duty. Duty should be reflected in decisions made by the House. Duty should figure in every debate,” Modi said. “For the next 25 years, in the working style of the Houses, the supremacy of duty should be evident,” he added. Modi’s government has often been accused of using its brute majority to pass legislation by steamrolling all objections, the most notable being the farm bills that were passed without proper discussions and have sparked a yearlong protest by farmers. There is also a perception that the Modi government does not set much store by discussions in decision-making, with power being centred around two figures. Modi gave the slogan of “one nation, one legislative platform”, calling for Parliament and the Assemblies to share resources on one digital platform. He spoke about his government’s schemes such as “one nation, one ration card”. The Prime Minister said a portal should be created to bring Parliament and the state legislatures on one platform and all records should be digitised to connect the democratic institutions. He also laid stress on enforcing order and discipline in the House. “Can we fix some time or day for a healthy and quality debate? It can be called a ‘healthy day’ and two hours, half a day or a full day can be allotted to debates in which no political barbs are allowed,” Modi said. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in his speech stressed on discipline and decorum in the House and said decisive steps would be taken to achieve it in consultation with the parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Odisha: CBI arrests one for alleged peddling of online child sexual exploitation material||The CBI on Wednesday arrested Surendra Nayak, the 24-year old youth from Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, for his alleged links with a pan-India child abuse racket. He was arrested for allegedly circulating and sharing pornographic content on various social media platforms for monetary gains. His arrest comes a day after a CBI team that gone to his residence for questioning as part of a nation-wide crackdown on child abuse through social media platforms, was attacked by a mob. The CBI had conducted simultaneous raids at different locations across 14 states, including Odisha. On Tuesday, Nayak had reportedly confessed of having created a group where he used to share links of adult contents. Nayak, who had earlier worked as a security guard, had joined the group two months ago after coming across a link on the internet. On Wednesday, the CBI conducted a raid on the house of another accused in Bhadrak. The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Wednesday said it would request the CBI and the Odisha Crime Branch to share their investigation findings with the commission. “We will initiate action to stop child pornography in the state with the help of various agencies,” OSCPRC chairperson Sandhyabati Pradhan told reporters here on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
18-11-2021||India||Bihar Human Rights Commission declares Covid doctors eligible for insurance||The Bihar Human Rights Commission has declared that the families of the doctors working in private hospitals, who died while rendering Covid-19 related services, are also eligible for Rs 50 lakh compensation under the Centre’s “insurance scheme for health workers fighting Covid-19”. The scheme is a part of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. The BHRC order came in a suo motu case instituted by it after taking cognizance of news reports on the death of doctors during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic this year. “Director-in-chief health services and additional secretary state health department submitted reports, which informed about medical and other personnel engaged in the work to curb and treat Covid-19 in government hospitals being covered under the ‘insurance scheme for health workers fighting Covid-19’. They will be given Rs 50 lakh by insurance companies if they die…,” BHRC chairperson, justice (retired) Vinod Kumar Sinha said in the order. Sinha in his order pointed out that a few private medical institutions have been asking whether their personnel would be covered under this scheme or not. “The eligibility criteria details mentioned by the ministry of health and family welfare make it clear that the doctors and other personnel of private hospitals from whom Covid-19 related services were taken are also eligible under the insurance scheme,” Sinha added. His order came on October 7, but it was conveyed to the Bihar branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday (November 17). The order brought cheer among the medical fraternity in the state. They hailed it because the state saw a large number of doctors — private and government — succumbing to Covid-19 pandemic. “Altogether 170 doctors died of Covid-19 since March 2020 while discharging their duty during the pandemic. “Of them, forty were from the government hospitals while the rest 130 were from private hospitals. Each of them should be provided Rs 50 lakh insurance amount as compensation,” IMA Bihar branch president Ajay Kumar said. Kumar pointed out that the state government has been dragging its feet in this matter and making excuses that the doctors working in private hospitals were not drafted by it to provide Covid-19 related services. “However, the Bihar government’s notification issued on March 17, 2020 made it mandatory for all government and private hospitals to have flu corners for screening of suspected cases of Covid-19. “It also asked all such institutions and private medical practitioners to notify such cases to the concerned district surveillance unit, and threatened with punishment under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code if they failed to do so,” Kumar said. The IMA Bihar branch president said that the BHRC order has come as a relief for the kin of the doctors who laid down their lives while working against Covid-19 in the state. “The BHRC has laid to rest any confusion in this regard. The state government should now quickly provide Rs 50 lakh compensation or insurance money to the kin of the each of the deceased doctors,” Kumar added. Kumar also said that the IMA would appeal to the BHRC and also move court if the government fails in providing the compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
