19-11-2021||India||Did worrying UP opinion polls prompt Modi's farm law U-turn?||It looks like it may have been some ominous opinion poll numbers that prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stage his stunning U-turn on the farm laws after standing firm against massive farmer protests for 14 months. One of the first opinion polls of the election season by ABP-CVoter showed the BJP losing more than 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh state election next year. According to the pollsters, the party would scrape through to form a government but only just. While the BJP holds 325 seats out of a total of 403 in the present assembly, that tally might plunge to between 213 and 221, said the survey. That would still give the party a majority but any slippage could make the outcome too close to call in the pivotal state whose loss would be a humiliation for the BJP and signal potentially the beginning of the end for Modi. Farmers in both western Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, where elections also loom, have been protesting against the law. So Modi took an unusual route for him that has shattered his image of invincibility. On the hugely significant day of Gurpurab, he reversed course and  humbly declared he was “apologising to the nation,” adding, “let’s make a fresh start” on the agricultural laws. Possibly the BJP had also been rattled by its crushing defeat in West Bengal last May. Surely though, Modi didn’t think for a moment that he could repeal the three agricultural farm laws after more than a year and just tiptoe away from the scene pretending nothing had happened? The prime minister has pulled off many amazing against-the-odds coups during his political career but he’s an ace political realist. The farmers have scored a knockout blow. In the event, the fallout has been loud and raucous. Congress supporters are posting videos of Rahul Gandhi predicting many months ago that Modi would have to back down on the farm laws. And the farmers are celebrating, though they say they won’t end their demonstrations until the legislation is formally repealed in Parliament. (Modi says he’ll act swiftly -- he wants the demonstrators out of the way before Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit next month).  In Punjab, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has declared that the government would build a monument to farmers who had died during the anti-farm law agitation. The Akali Dal meanwhile announced that it was pulling out of its electoral alliance with the BJP. However, the decision to junk the farm laws probably opens the road to an alliance in Punjab with former Congress Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Not surprisingly, Singh immediately praised Modi for the move saying: “I am sure the Central Govt will continue to work in tandem for the development of kisans.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh was clear why the government had suddenly backed down: “The Uttar Pradesh elections forced the U-turn.” Ramesh added: “First, bulldoze laws in Parliament. Then face unprecedented protests. Thereafter confront realities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab." Aam Aadmi Party Leader Arvind Kejriwal too pointed out how his party had backed the farmers and said: “The coming generations will remember how they sacrificed their lives to save farming and farmers.” But the BJP is making strenuous efforts to counter the Opposition jubilation and play down the about-turn. One party leader claimed the decision was “dedicated to the people of the country.” Others said it showed his strength as a “mass leader” and called the move a “masterstroke.” A story by news agency ANI Digital was headlined: “From Taapsee Pannu to Sonu Sood: celebrities hail PM Modi’s decision to repeal three farm laws.” But there were indications of discord even amongst staunch BJP supporters. One backer abandoned ship, saying: “Biggest let down by Narendra Modi. Even bigger disaster than demonetisation.” Modi, though, was reading the election writing on the wall. The farmers were showing they were ready to stage a second winter of protests camping outside the national capital. If the BJP loses ground in Western UP where the farm protest has been led by leader Rakesh Tikait, it could have a fatal impact on its chances in the state elections. In 2019 the BJP swept all except four of the 29 Lok Sabha seats in the region. Politically, the BJP knows it doesn’t have much chance of winning in Punjab even after dropping the farm laws. However, the way is now clear for a tie-up with Amarinder Singh. It remains to be seen whether after protesting through all of last winter and during the devastating second wave of Covid-19, being vilified by government ministers as Khalistani terrorists and traitors and the deaths of some 600 demonstrators from causes ranging from the weather to exhaustion, the farmers will be mollified by Modi’s biggest retreat during his seven years in power.  There’s also the matter of the eight people run over by the car linked to India’s junior home minister. So far, the mood among the farmers after their long struggle isn’t forgiving. There also may be blowback from the climbdown for the BJP in other parts of the country where many farmers of crops such as coffee, pepper, arecanut, oranges and apples liked the farm laws and aren’t happy about them being repealed. Says one south India plantation owner: “All three farm laws would have given us better market access, improved bargaining power, reduced price volatility and enhanced price realization.” Modi built up his strongman image so much that even the slightest retreat can impact it. That leaves us with the big question: has Modi’s Teflon political coating has been irreparably damaged?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
19-11-2021||India||Railways to resume serving cooked meals to passengers on trains||The Railway Board has issued an order to resume serving cooked meals to passengers on trains, a service that was discontinued due to COVID-19 restrictions.  The Railway Board, in a letter on Friday, asked the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) to resume the service.  Ready-to-eat meals will also continue to be served to passengers, the Railway board also said.  "In view of the restoration of normal train services, requirements of travelling passengers and easing of Covid lockdown restrictions in eateries, restaurants, hotels and such other places across the country, it has been decided by the Ministry of Railways to resume the services of cooked food in trains. Service of ready-to-eat meals will also continue," the letter stated.  Earlier this month, the Railways had announced the running of normal trains, withdrawing the special tag which had been in place for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
19-11-2021||India||Centre to form committee to make MSP more effective, transparent informs PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that a committee will be formed to make Minimum Support Price (MSP) system more effective and transparent as well as suggest ways to promote zero budgeting based-agriculture.  The committee will have representatives of the central government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists, and agricultural economists, Modi said as he also announced the decision to repeal the three farm laws.  Apart from repeal of the farm laws, a legal guarantee on MSP has been one of the major demands of the protesting farmer unions.  In his address to the nation in the morning, Modi said the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were the trigger for protests by farmers for the last one year.  "Today only, we have taken one more important decision related to agriculture sector. We will set up a committee to promote zero budget farming or natural farming, to change crop pattern in the scientific manner as per the changing needs of the country and to make MSP more effective and transparent," he said.  The Prime Minister said that many initiatives have been taken for the farmers to get the right price for their produce in return for their hard work. The country has strengthened its rural market infrastructure.  By linking more than 1,000 mandis through e-NAM (electronic-National Agriculture Market), Modi said the government has given a platform for farmers to sell their produce anywhere. Alongside, it has spent crores of rupees on modernising the mandi infrastructure.  "We not only increased the MSP but also created a record number of government procurement centres. The procurement of the produce made by our government has broken the records of the last several decades," he said.  Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the committee will submit the report, which will be beneficial to the farming community.  He highlighted that the government had decided to fix the MSP at least 1.5 times higher than the cost of production.  Tomar said the Centre has started procurement of pulses, oilseeds and coarse cereals apart from wheat and paddy at MSP rates.  Food Corporation of India, the nodal agency for procurement and distribution of food grains, has procured record wheat and paddy crops at MSPs during the last marketing years of kharif and rabi seasons.  Presently, the government decides the MSP based on the recommendation of the expert body the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP).  The factors considered by the CACP for fixing MSPs include cost of production, domestic and international prices, demand-supply conditions, inter-crop price parity, terms of trade between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors.  MSP is announced for the kharif crops of paddy, jowar, bajara, ragi, maize, arhar, moong, urad, cotton, groundnut, sunflower seed, soyabean and sesamum.  The rabi crops for which MSP is announced are wheat, barley, gram, masur, rapeseeds & mustard, safflower and toria.  Besides, MSP is announced for copra, de-husked coconut, jute and Fair Remunerative Prices (FRP) for sugarcane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
19-11-2021||India||Hyderpora clash: Mainstream parties, separatists demand Magray's body too be returned to bereaved family||After the bodies of two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter were returned to their families, the chorus for handing over the mortal remains of Amir Magray - the third person killed in the gunfight and whose kin claim he was innocent -- grew louder on Friday.  Cutting across the political spectrum, leaders from the mainstream as well as the separatist camp demanded that Magray's body be also returned to his family in the Ramban area of Jammu for last rites.  Aamir Magrey also killed in Hyderpora encounter is yet to be given a decent burial by his mourning family. The fact that these families are begging for mortal remains instead of asking for justice reflects their lack of faith in the system. His body must be returned immediately, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti wrote on Twitter.  National Conference leader Ruhullah Mehdi said in a tweet, "Is Amir Magray's body returned to his family? And if not, why? Does the administration and also we (the society) think he was child of a lesser mortal? And what about the identity and details of the 4th one killed? Or was there a 4th one? Was there even a combatant among them?"  Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also demanded Magray's mortal remains be handed to his family. "As a citizen of India - Amir Magray of Ramban enjoys the same rights (in life and in death) under Article 21 of the Constitution of India as Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul. Request @manojsinha_ Sahab that his mortal remains too should be handed over to his family for last rites," Mattu said on Twitter.  CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami also urged the government to return the body without any further delay. "It has been proven beyond any doubt that Magray is a civilian. His father Abdul Latief Magray is a state bravery award winner and now his son has been killed and falsely labelled as a militant which is highly unfortunate," Tarigami said.  The least the J-K administration could do is to return the body of Magray so that his family could perform his last rites, he said.  The government must ensure that those involved in the killing of unarmed civilians are brought to book and punished under law, the CPI(M) leader said.  Separatist Hurriyat Conference also called upon the authorities to return the body of Magray to his family. In a statement, the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat asked the authorities to desist from the criminal practice of ceasing bodies and denying their families the right to a proper burial .  It is abhorrently inhuman. The Hurriyat calls on the authorities to stop the wanton violence in Kashmir, it said.  Bodies of Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter, were handed over to their kin on Thursday night after they were exhumed following protests by family members that they were innocent and not linked to militancy as claimed by police.  Police had initially buried them in the Handwara area of north Kashmir's Kupwara district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
19-11-2021||India||Farmers' movement: Those who spearheaded the mission||A doctor, a retired teacher, an ex-army man, a former Delhi police constable... these are among the people who guided and shaped the nationwide movement against the three new agri laws which the government agreed to repeal on Friday after more than a year of protests.  Here are some of the key farmer leaders who fronted the protests:  RAKESH TIKAIT, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union: Once a Delhi Police constable, Tikait has played a key role in negotiations with the government. The 52-year-old tried his hand at electoral politics and has been a farmer leader with the BKU for years. He broke out of the confines of western Uttar Pradesh to find a space in the national spotlight during the farmers protest. The watershed moment came when he broke down while talking to reporters after the Republic Day violence in Delhi, striking a deep emotional chord and also pumping new energy into the protests.  DARSHAN PAL, member, working group, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee: An MBBS doctor by profession, 70-year-old Pal has been very active in talks with central and state leaders over the farm laws. He played a crucial role in bringing farmer unions together and performed the role of coordinator in the talks. He also played a pivotal role in taking the agitation beyond Punjab to farmers in other states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra.  JOGINDER SINGH UGRAHAN, president, BKU (Ugrahan): The ex-Army man, viewed as one of the more popular farm leaders, belongs to a farming family of Sunam. He has been a frontrunner in the movement with his team behind some aggressive aspects of the protests in Punjab, including the Rail Roko agitation and the 'gheraoing' of BJP leaders. While most farmer unions were protesting at Singhu border, his union almost single handedly held fort at the Tikri border.  BALBIR SINGH RAJEWAL, president, BKU: His skilful articulation of the farmers' viewpoint played a key role during talks with central ministers. The 78-year-old was one of the main leaders during the meetings of the 31 unions in planning and implementing their protests. He was also the brain behind preparing the protest's demand charter.  HANNAN MOLLAH, CPI(M) politburo member and general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha: The 75-year-old has been a constant voice demanding the repeal of the farm laws during the protests. He has maintained that the protests will continue till the laws are repealed through a process in Parliament. Mollah has also stood for enactment of legal entitlement for the farmers to sell at MSP and believes that the struggle will continue to achieve this goal.  GURNAM SINGH CHADUNI, president, BKU, Haryana: Credited with mobilising farmers before the three farm laws were passed, 65-year-old Chaduni led many successful agitations earlier and has adopted unique ways to protest, including shirtless marches and throwing potatoes on state highways. It was on Chaduni's call that protesters tried to make their way to a BJP event in Karnal, attended among others by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The crackdown that followed left several farmers injured and put the Khattar government on the backfoot.  SUKHDEV SINGH KOKRIKALAN, general secretary; BKU, Ugrahan: A retired school teacher, the now 71-year-old farmer leader Kokrikalan has been at the forefront against confrontation with police during the Delhi Chalo agitation.  The government and unions have held 11 rounds of talks, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26.  From the government's side, the negotiations with the farmers were led by three Union ministers:  UNION AGRICULTURE MINISTER NARENDRA SINGH TOMAR: He had been participating in talks with farmers and on several occasions appealed to them to withdraw their protests over the three farm laws, saying they are in favour of farmers.  COMMERCE AND CONSUMER AFFAIRS AND FOOD AND PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION MINISTER PIYUSH GOYAL: The Union minister was at the forefront of the talks and has described the laws as pro-farmers on several occasions and sought a resolution through dialogue.  SAD PRESIDENT SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL: The logjam over farm laws also turned one of BJP's oldest and closest allies Akali Dal against them. Badal announced from the floor of the Parliament that his wife Harsimrat Badal would resign against the farm bills, tabled in Parliament by the Centre for passage. In his speech during a discussion on two of the farm bills Badal said the proposed laws will "destroy" the 50 years of hard work put in by successive Punjab governments and farmers to build the agriculture sector.Soon after, Harsimrat Badal who held the post of Union Cabinet Minister of Food Processing Industries, quit in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed: Timeline of farmers' protest against three farm laws||The announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday to repeal the three contentious farm laws is expected to bring to an end the year-long confrontation between the government and the farmers, which has left more than 700 dead in its wake. The three laws raised concerns that this will lead to the abolishment of the minimum support price (MSP) guaranteed by the government on select crops and leave farmers at the mercy of big corporates. Since these laws were promulgated, thousands of farmers gathered at the Delhi's borders demanding their repeal, pushing the SAD to quit the NDA government at the Centre. The protests, which have generated huge public sentiment, also evoked responses from teen environmentalist, Greta Thunberg, singer-activist Rihanna and lawyer-author Meena Harris, niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris. Here's a timeline of events since the laws were introduced: June 5, 2020: The government promulgates three ordinances. September 14, 2020: Three farm bills brought to Parliament. September 17, 2020: The bills are passed in Lok Sabha. September 20, 2020: The bills are passed in Rajya Sabha by voice vote. September 24, 2020: Farmers in Punjab announce a three-day rail roko. September 25, 2020: Farmers across India come out in protest in response to a call by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). September 26, 2020: The Shiromani Akali Dal quits the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance over the farm bills. September 27, 2020: The farm bills are given presidential assent and notified in the Gazette of India and become farm laws. November 25, 2020: Farmers' unions in Punjab and Haryana give the call for a 'Delhi Chalo' movement; denied permission by Delhi Police due to Covid protocols. November 26, 2020: Farmers marching towards Delhi face water cannons, tear gas as police tried to disperse them at Haryana's Ambala district. November 28, 2020: Union Home Minister Amit Shah offers to hold talks with farmers as soon as they vacate Delhi's borders and move to the designated protest site in Burari. However, farmers rejected his offer. December 3, 2020: The government holds first round of talks with representatives of farmers but the meeting remains inconclusive. December 5, 2020: The second round of talks between farmers and the Centre also remains inconclusive. December 8, 2020: Farmers give a call for Bharat Bandh. Farmers from other states also gave their support to the call. December 9, 2020: Farmer leaders reject the Union government's proposal to amend the three contentious laws. December 11, 2020: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) moves the Supreme Court against the agri laws. December 13, 2020: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad allege hand of 'tukde tukde' gang in the farmers' protests. December 30, 2020: Sixth round of talks between government and farmer leaders see some headway. January 4, 2021: Seventh round of talks between the government and farmer leaders also remain inconclusive with the Centre not agreeing to repeal the farm laws. January 7, 2021: The SC agrees to hear petitions challenging the new laws and those against the protests on January 11. January 11, 2021: The SC raps the Centre for its handling of the farmers' protest. January 12, 2021: The SC stays implementation of the farm laws; sets up a four-member committee to make recommendations on the legislations. January 26, 2021: On Republic Day, thousands of protestors clash with police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions. At Red Fort, property is damaged. A protester dies in the chaos. January 29, 2021: The government proposes to suspend the farm laws for one-and-half years and sets up a joint committee to discuss the legislation. The farmers, reject the proposal. February 5, 2021: The Delhi Police's cybercrime cell registers an FIR against creators of a 'toolkit' on farmer protests, which was shared by teen environmentalist Greta Thunberg. February 6, 2021: Protesting farmers hold a nationwide 'Chakka Jam', or road blockade, for three hours from 12 noon to 3 pm. March 6, 2021: Farmers complete 100 days at Delhi's borders. March 8, 2021: Gunshots are fired near the Singhu border protest site. No one is injured. April 15, 2021: Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala writes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to resume talks with farmers. May 27, 2021: Farmers observe a 'black day' to mark six months of the agitation, and burn effigies of the government. June 5, 2021: Protesting farmers observe Sampoorn Krantikari Diwas (total revolution day) to mark the first year of the promulgation of the farm laws. June 26, 2021: Farmers march to Delhi to mark seven months of protest against the farm laws. July 22, 2021: About 200 protesting farmers start a parallel "Monsoon Session", Kisan Sansad, near the Parliament House. August 7, 2021: Leaders of 14 opposition parties meet at Parliament House and decide to visit Kisan Sansad at Delhi's Jantar Mantar. September 5, 2021: Months to go for the Uttar Pradesh election, challenging the BJP-led NDA, farmer leaders stage a major show of strength in Muzaffarnagar. October 22, 2021: The SC observes that it was not against people's right to protest even on matters that are sub judice, but makes it clear that such protesters cannot block public roads indefinitely. October 29, 2021: The Delhi Police starts removing barricades from the Ghazipur border where farmers have been protesting against the Centre's agri laws.  November 19, 2021: PM Narendra Modi announces the repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Pleas against farm laws in SC to become infructuous after Centre brings Bill in Parl to repeal them||A batch of petitions challenging the constitutionality of three controversial farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting for more than a year at Delhi borders, in the Supreme Court would become infructuous after the Centre either passes a law or brings an ordinance to repeal these statutes, said an expert.  "The petitions would become infructuous. But the thing is that the parliamentary laws have to be repealed either by an Ordinance or by an Act not by an oral statement. The pleas would be rendered infructuous after either the Ordinance is issued or in December, a law is enacted to repeal in Parliament, senior lawyer and constitutional law expert, Rakesh Dwivedi said.  He said that now the top court is not required to deal with the constitutionality of contentious provisions of the laws and the counsel for the parties would, on record, inform the bench when the matters would come up about the repeal of the statutes enabling the bench to pass an order to dismiss the pleas as withdrawn.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation on the auspicious occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti on Friday, announced that the government has decided to repeal the farm laws and appealed to the protesting farmers to return home.  The top court, which initially on October 12, 2020, had issued the notice to the Centre on pleas filed by RJD lawmaker from Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha and DMK Rajya Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi Siva, and one by Rakesh Vaishnav of Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress, later came down on the government for improper handling of farmers' stir.  On January 12, this year, a bench headed by the then Chief Justice S A Bobde (since retired) stayed the implementation of the farm laws till further orders rejecting the vehement opposition of the Centre that it was to be heard before the grant of stay, saying it may encourage the protesting farmers to come to the negotiating table in good faith and may assuage the hurt feelings.  It had also constituted a 4-member committee to listen to their grievances and also make recommendations to resolve the issue and the panel had, subsequently, submitted its report to the top court in March.  Besides petitions challenging the laws, there are also many pleas before the Supreme Court against the farmers blockading roads outside Delhi and they were filed by citizens whose commute to the national capital was affected due to the road blockade.  Now, these pleas may also become redundant and infructuous as the protesting farmers may go back leading to the removal of road blockade.  The three laws -- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27, last year after President Ram Nath Kovind's assent.  Many farmers had been protesting and were encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the laws be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Singapore's finance, health ministers||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday met Singapore's finance and health ministers and exchanged views with them on the growth prospects of bilateral ties and health security cooperation with the city-state. Jaishankar, who arrived here on Wednesday for a three-day visit, said that he was glad to meet Singapore's Minister for Finance Lawrence Wong with whom he discussed bilateral relationships. Glad to meet Finance Minister @LawrenceWongST. Interesting exchange of views on the growth prospects of our ties," Jaishankar tweeted. In a separate meeting, he held talks with Health Minister Ong Ye Kung and discussed COVID-19 experience and health security cooperation. A good meeting with Singapore's Health Minister Ong Ye Kung. Discussed Covid experiences and health security cooperation, Jaishankar said in another tweet. Earlier, he spoke on a panel "Greater Power Competition: The Emerging World Order" at the Bloomberg New Economic Forum. During the forum -- which was also attended by former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair -- the minister said that India and China are going through a "particularly bad patch" in their ties because Beijing has taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which it still doesn't have a "credible explanation" and it is for the Chinese leadership to answer where they want to take the bilateral relationship. Jaishankar's meeting with Singapore's finance and health ministers took place a day after he met senior ministers of Singapore, including his counterpart Vivian Balakrishnan and defence minister Ng Eng Hen, and discussed ways to strengthen the strategic partnership between India and the city-state. Earlier, Jaishankar also met Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Senior Minister and Coordinating Minister for Social Policies and Kasiviswanathan Shanmugam, Minister of Home Affairs and Law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws: BJP rejoices; Opposition congratulates farmers ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a rollback of the three agri laws at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year, a surprise concession warily welcomed by farmers, happy but holding out for an MSP guarantee, and also politicians across divides. Reactions have been pouring in from several political quarters. While the ruling BJP hopes the decision to repeal the three laws will cancel out the political headwinds it has encountered in Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, Opposition parties mainly the Congress has gone one step ahead in asking for the PM’s apology to the farmers for the "pain" inflicted on them. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also posed a set of five questions to the government, asking what is the roadmap and way forward for giving MSP to farmers, doubling farmers' income and of freeing them from debt. He said the "anti-farmer" BJP's powers and those of its capitalist friends have finally lost and today is the day of the defeat of Modi's "arrogance". Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday welcomed Modi's "statesman-like" decision to repeal the three farm laws, and said it reflects that there is no other thought except the welfare of each and every Indian for the PM. Shah tweeted, "PM @narendramodi's announcement relating to the farm laws is a welcome and statesmanlike move.As the Prime Minister pointed out in his address, the Government of India will keep serving our farmers and always support them in their endeavours." Karnataka Chief Minister and party leader Basavaraj Bommai said the decision to repeal the laws showed Modi's sensitivity. Rejecting the claim that the government had bowed down to the protesters, he said the laws were part of the liberalisation and globalisation process started in 1991-92 and were in line with the previous UPA government's agreement with the WTO. Several Opposition parties, on their part, congratulated the farmers for their triumph but also questioned the government's motives. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the Centre's decision as a "victory against injustice". "Country's 'annadatas' (food providers) have made arrogance bow its head through satyagraha," Gandhi added. "What cannot be achieved by democratic protests can be achieved by the fear of impending elections!" his party colleague P Chidambaram tweeted. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee sent her heartfelt congratulations to the farmers. "My heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which @BJP4India treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY!  My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight," she tweeted. The CPI(M) demanded that Prime Minister should apologise for the hardship and trouble caused by his "dictatorial step" of enacting the three farm laws. The quest for justice for those targeted by the government and its agencies through false cases will continue. The PM must apologise for the hardship and trouble caused by his dictatorial step of farm laws to benefit his crony business partners," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a tweet. ”Salutes to our farmers and their brave struggle which has led to the repeal of Modi's three black farm laws. We must not forget the sacrifice of more than 750 farmers who have lost their lives in this struggle, he said. Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin said Modi's announcement was a victory of the farmers' protest. "I wholeheartedly welcome Hon'ble @PMOIndia's decision to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. History teaches us that people's wishes shall prevail in a democracy. I congratulate all the farmers & bow down to their determination for having achieved this through Gandhian means," the Tamil Nadu chief minister said. In Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said anyone who believes the government repealed the farm laws out of the goodness of its heart was completely mistaken. “This government only responds to cold hard numbers - bypoll setback = fuel price reduction. Poor internal polls numbers for Western UP & Punjab = #Farmlawsrepealed, Abdullah wrote on Twitter.” In Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati's view, the sacrifices of the farmers had paid off with the government in the end withdrawing the three controversial laws but it was too late. "The demand for a national law to assure support price for farmers' produce is still pending. The BSP demands that it should be introduced in the Winter Session of Parliament. The government should accept this demand," she told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed: Celebrations at Ghazipur border, crowd expected to swell||Celebrations erupted Friday morning at Ghazipur - a landmark farm laws' protest site at Delhi's border - with the Centre's announcement that the contentious legislations will be repealed. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is leading the protest at Ghazipur, however, said the protest will not be withdrawn until the laws are repealed in Parliament. Hundreds of farmers were seen offering sweets to each other at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border to celebrate the "half victory" of their almost year-long protest. "We had two main demands. All three black farm laws be repealed and a legal guarantee ensured for minimum support price (MSP) for crops through a new law. Our protest will continue till both demands are met," BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay told PTI. Addressing the nation on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the three farm laws were for the benefit of farmers but "we couldn't convince a section of farmers despite best efforts". The goal of the three farm laws was to empower farmers, especially small farmers, he said. Sunil Pradhan, a BKU office-bearer from Gautam Buddh Nagar district, said the crowd at Ghazipur is expected to swell manifold later today. "Many people have gone to Garh Mukteshwar to attend the Kartik fair and would return after taking a dip in the Ganga," he said. "Celebrations have already begun here at Ghazipur. But this just half victory as other issues, including law on MSP is yet to be announced," he told PTI. The BKU says further decision on the protest would be taken by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). The BKU is part of the SKM, a farmers' collective which has been leading the protest at Delhi's borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws won't end farm agitation, won't help BJP politically: SC-appointed panel member||The government's decision to repeal three central farm laws is "very unfortunate" as this "political move" will not end the farmers' agitation and will not help the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, a key member of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the contentious agri-laws said on Friday.  Shetkari Sanghatana President Anil J Ghanwat said the agitators had planned the protest till the upcoming assembly elections. The Centre did not succumb when the protest was at its peak and now it has gone down to their knees.  The government should have adopted other policies to address the issue rather than repealing them. In fact, the laws could have survived had the government discussed them properly during the passage in Parliament and even agreed to refer to a parliamentary panel, he told PTI.  In a major move, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on Friday morning announced repealing of the three central farm laws.  It's been over a year now that farmers are protesting at Delhi border against the three central farm laws -- Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.  Expressing unhappiness over the government's decision, Ghanwat said this decision "won't end the agitation too. Because their demand to make minimum support price (MSP) legal will be there. And this decision won't help the BJP politically either."  He said, "this is a very unfortunate decision. Farmers were given some freedom, but now they will be exploited as they have been exploited since independence or since British rule."  Under the new farm laws, farmers were for the first time given some sort of "independence in marketing", but now they have to face restrictions like export ban and stock limits that were used to exploit the farmers to keep the farm produce rate low, he said.  Ghanwat said the government should have used some other policies to manage the agitation. "But now it has succumbed to the pressure of the agitators. We don't hope anything good will happen now."  Stating that it was a political decision, the panel member said, "they (the Centre) did not succumb when the agitation was at its peak. But now they have gone down to their knees because they want to win elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. To get their party elected once again in UP, they have decided to step back. This is not good."  Actually, agitators had designed the agitation to prolong till the upcoming assembly elections, he said.  On the status quo of some provisions of the new laws that are already being implemented, Ghanwat said the first two laws are being implemented in most of the states.  "For example, selling agri produce outside the APMC. This law is being implemented in 21 states now. Agriculture is a state subject and it is up to states to continue with the provision or not." he added.  According to Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) : "The government has decided to repeal the laws and it is its wish. The panel has submitted its report to the Supreme Court. The SC may have advised the government or whatever to repeal. It is good for farmers. They can sit back and relax now."  The upcoming polls were one of major considerations for repealing the farm laws, he said.  Besides Ghanwat and Gulati, agricultural economist Pramod Joshi is the third member of the SC-appointed committee that was formed after the apex court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws.  The committee submitted its report to the apex court on March 19, after studying the laws and consultation with the stakeholders. The report has not yet been made public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Priyanka takes dig at PM, says it is difficult to believe his intentions||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked him, saying that sensing defeat in the upcoming polls suddenly he has started realising the reality of the country that it has been built by farmers. Her remarks came after Prime Minister Modi, in an address to the nation this morning, announced that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year, and appealed to the protesting farmers to return home. Attacking the prime minister, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Six hundred farmers martyred, more than 350 days of struggle, Narendra Modi ji your minister's son crushed the farmers to death, you didn't care." "Your party leaders insulted the farmers and called them terrorists, traitors, goons, miscreants, you yourself called them 'andolanjeevi', beat them with sticks, arrested them," the Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh alleged. "Now, sensing defeat in polls, you have suddenly started to realise the reality of this country -- this country has been built by farmers, it is a country of farmers, they are the real protectors of the country and no government can run the country by trampling upon the interests of the farmers," Priyanka Gandhi said in her tweet in Hindi. "It's difficult to believe your intentions and your changing attitude," she said. The farmer will always be hailed, Priyanka Gandhi said and added, "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Bharat." Many farmers had been protesting and were encamped at Delhi's borders since last year with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for crops. The Centre, which has held many rounds of formal dialogue with the farmers, had maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claimed they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Protest will end when farm laws repealed in Parliament, says Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the ongoing anti-farm laws protest will be withdrawn only after the contentious legislations are repealed in Parliament. He also stressed that the government should talk to farmers over the issue of minimum support price (MSP) of crops and other matters. The BKU national spokesperson said this on Twitter soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced repealing the three farm laws, which were at the centre of the farmers' protest since November 26 last year. "The protest will not be withdrawn immediately, we will wait for the day when the farm laws are repealed in Parliament. Along with MSP, the government should talk to farmers on other issues too," Tikait tweeted in Hindi. Addressing the nation on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, the prime minister said the three farm laws were for the benefit of farmers but "we couldn't convince a section of farmers despite best efforts". The goal of the three farm laws was to empower farmers, especially small farmers, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Sidhu, Amarinder laud PM's decision to repeal three farm laws||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and the state's former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement of repealing the three farm laws. The former cricketer Sidhu dubbed the move as a "step in the right direction". He further said the "sacrifice of farmers has paid dividends". "Repealing of black laws a step in the right direction . Satyagrah of Kisan morcha gets historic success .You're sacrifice has paid dividends . Revival of farming in Punjab through a road map should be the top priority for the Pb govt .accolades," said Sidhu. Amarinder Singh took to twitter to thank PM Modi for 'acceding to the demands of every punjabi.' "Great news! Thankful to PM @narendramodi ji for acceding to the demands of every punjabi & repealing the 3 black laws on the pious occasion of #GuruNanakJayanti. I am sure the central govt will continue to work in tandem for the development of Kisani! #NoFarmers_NoFood @AmitShah," Singh said in a tweet. Hundreds of farmers have been camping at the three Delhi's borders since November 2020 with the demand that the government repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have also been demanding a new law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The Centre, which held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with farmers, had maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claimed that they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
19-11-2021||India||Farmers not fazed by cruelty with which BJP treated them, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday congratulated farmers for their relentless fight against three new farm laws and said they were not fazed by the "cruelty" of the BJP. Banerjee's comment came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year. "My heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which @BJP4India treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY! My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight. #FarmLaws," Banerjee wrote on Twitter. Many farmers had been protesting and were encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. TMC's national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said "farmers' long and arduous struggle, their grit and determination against all adversities has shown the BJP their true place". "More power to all our FARMERS! This is the real POWER OF DISSENT in a Democracy and I salute each and every farmer for their courage. #MyIndia," he said on Twitter. Senior TMC leader Sougata Roy said the Modi government was forced to withdraw the farm laws due to the relentless protests by the farmers and had to bow down before them. "The Centre showed arrogance and was adamant about the farm laws. It seems the government is feeling threatened by the public resentment over these acts. Maybe with an eye on assembly polls in some states next year, it decided to repeal these laws," he said. The West Bengal CPI(M) also congratulated farmers for their fight and said it was a victory of a united movement led by Samyukta Kisan Morcha. "CPI(M) congratulates and extends its warm greetings to SKM and lakhs of fighting Kisans. Huge victory for united Kisan movement led by SKM. The People United Shall Always Be Victorious," the party wrote on the microblogging site. CPI (M) state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra on Friday demanded that the West Bengal government should amend a law that was passed in the assembly a few years back. "We convey our congratulations to the SKM, AIKSCC and all the participants and supporters of the historic Kisan movement for their magnificent victory. We demand that the CM, WB must declare that similar anti-farmer provisions in the amended WB state act shall be removed," he tweeted. Addressing the nation on the auspicious occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, the prime minister insisted that the three farm laws were for the benefit of farmers and then apologised to people of the country while adding that the government could not convince a section of cultivators despite its clear heart and clean conscience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||India logs over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 459 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 11,106 new COVID-19 cases, taking the country's tally to 3,44,89,623, while the active cases have declined to 1,26,620, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,65,082 with 459 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 42 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 145 consecutive days now. The active cases have increased to 1,26,620 comprising 0.37 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.28 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 2,142 cases has been recorded in the active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.98 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 46 days. Weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.92 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 56 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,38,97,921 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 115.23 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 459 new fatalities include 372 from Kerala and 24 from Maharashtra. Of the 372 deaths, 51 were reported over the last few days and 321 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Thursday. A total of 4,65,082 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,692 from Maharashtra, 38,165 from Karnataka, 36,847 from Kerala, 36,336 from Tamil Nadu 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,355 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||Victory against injustice, says Rahul Gandhi on PM's announcement to repeal farm laws||The country's 'annadatas' have made "arrogance bow its head" through 'satyagraha', Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday and described the Centre's decision to repeal the farm laws as a "victory against injustice". His remarks came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation this morning, announced that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year. "Country's 'annadatas' (food providers) have made arrogance bow its head through satyagraha," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Congratulations on this victory against injustice!" the former Congress chief said. "'Jai Hind, Jai Hind ka Kisan'," he added. Many farmers had been protesting and were encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for crops. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the farmers, had maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claimed they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||Farm unions welcome govt's decision to repeal farm laws||Farm unions protesting the contentious farm laws for the past one year on Friday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement to repeal the three contentious farm laws. Bharatiyan Kisan Union's (BKU) Ugrahan faction and The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions also said that they will take note of all developments and will hold meeting soon and announce further decisions if any. In his address to the nation on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, Modi said the three farm laws will be repealed in the coming Winter session of Parliament. "It is a good move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of Gurupurab," Joginder Singh Ugrahan, the leader of BKU's Ugrahan faction, told PTI. On the prime minister's appeal to protesting farmers to return to their homes, Ugrahan said, "Farmers' unions will sit together and decide the future course of action." BKU(Ugrahan) is the largest among all protesting farmers unions and protesting at the Tikri border. Ugrahan faction of the BKU has sizeable presence across Punjab. The SKM on the other hand said the important demand of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce is still pending. "Samyukt Kisan Morcha welcomes this decision and will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures," the SKM said in a statement. "The agitation of farmers is not just against the repeal of the three black laws, but also for a statutory guarantee to remunerative prices for all agricultural produce and for all farmers. This important demand of farmers is still pending," it said. Various farmers unions have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since last year to demand repeal of three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||Govt to repeal three farm laws, says Modi in address to nation on Guru Nanak Jayanti ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year, and appealed to the protesting farmers to return home. Addressing the nation on the auspicious occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, Modi insisted that the laws were for the benefit of farmers and then apologised to the people of the country while adding that the government could not convince a section of farmers despite its clear heart and clean conscience. "There may have been some shortcomings in our efforts due to which we could not explain the truth, as clear as the light of the diya, to some of our farmer brothers," he said. Noting that it was the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, he said it was no occasion to blame anyone. "I have come to tell you that we have decided to repeal the three farm laws. In the upcoming Parliament session starting at the end of this month, we will complete the constitutional process to repeal the three farm laws," Modi said. "I would request all my protesting farmer friends, today is the auspicious day of Guru Purab, return home, to your fields and family and make a new beginning, let us move forward afresh," he said. Speaking in Hindi, the PM said, "Saathiyon main deshbaasion se shama maangte hue sacche man se aur pavitra hriday se kehena chata hoon ki shaayad humari tapasya mein hi koi kami rehe gayee hogi jiske kaaran diye ke prakash jaisa satya kuch kisaan ko humne samjha nahin paaya. Aaj Guru Nanak Dev ka prakash parv hai. Yeh samay kisi ko bhi dosh dene ka nahin hai. Aaj main aapko pure desh ko yeh bataane aaya hoon ki humne teen krishi kaanunon wapaas lene ka nirnay liya hai." The goal of the three farm laws was to empower farmers, especially small farmers, the prime minister said and went on to list various steps taken by his government for the welfare of small farmers and pointed out that the agriculture budget had risen by five times with over Rs 1.25 lakh crore being spent annually. Modi said that he had seen the challenges faced by farmers very closely in his five decades of public life and, therefore, when the country gave the opportunity to serve as "Pradhan Sevak" in 2014, he gave top priority to agriculture development and farmers welfare. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the farmers, had maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claim they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations. The ruling BJP will hope that the decision to repeal the three laws will cancel out the political headwinds it has encountered in Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, two states which are going to the polls early next year. The decision will also help former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in sealing his expected alliance with the BJP for the polls. Many farmers had been protesting and were encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for crops. On Friday morning the Prime Minister's Office tweeted: “Today is the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Today PM will inaugurate key schemes relating to irrigation in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh. Then, he will go to Jhansi for the 'Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv.' Before all of these programmes, he will address the nation at 9 AM." The last time the Prime Minister addressed the nation it was right after India scripted history by becoming only the second country after China to reach the one billion COVID-19 vaccinations milestone mark in October. Earlier this week, the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor -- the road to Darbar Sahib Kartarpur in Pakistan -- was reopened, just days before the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Movement on the Kartarpur corridor was suspended in March 2020, when Pakistan put restrictions on travel from India after the Covid outbreak. The Prime Minister, earlier in the day, paid tributes to Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev on his birth anniversary, saying his vision of a just, compassionate and inclusive society inspires people. Modi also paid tributes to Rani Lakshmibai, the Jhansi queen who had died fighting the British forces, saying she has a special place in the history of India and her bravery will not be forgotten by generations. Offering homage to the first Sikh guru, he tweeted, "On the special occasion of the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji, I recall his pious thoughts and noble ideals. His vision of a just, compassionate and inclusive society inspires us. Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji's emphasis on serving others is also very motivating."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||J&K govt exhumes bodies of two of four killed in Srinagar gunfight||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday exhumed the bodies of two of the four men killed in Monday’s alleged gunfight in Srinagar to hand them over to their families and ordered a magisterial inquiry into the killings, marking a rare capitulation to public protests. Such inquiries into killings have been rarely conducted since the constitutional changes of 2019, lest they convey weakness. Nor have bodies buried under police watch been returned to families in the Valley since the Covid outbreak, PTI reported. However, protests against the “fake encounter” have engulfed the Valley with politicians across the mainstream-separatist divide joining in, with the agitation threatening to snowball into the administration’s biggest crisis since 2019. The bodies of businessmen Mudassir Gul and Mohammad Altaf Bhat were exhumed from a graveyard for militants in far-off Handwara after securing an assurance from their families to keep the burial peaceful, officials said. The bodies were being brought to Srinagar, a PTI report said. It’s not clear whether the other two bodies – those of office assistant Aamir Magrey and alleged Pakistani militant Haider – would be exhumed too. The police, who say the dead include three militants or over-ground workers and an innocent man killed in crossfire, had so far refused to hand the bodies over to the families, deepening the outrage. “A magisterial inquiry by officer of ADM (additional district magistrate) rank has been ordered in Hyderpora encounter. Govt will take suitable action as soon as report is submitted in a time-bound manner,” the office of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha tweeted. “JK admin reiterates commitment of protecting lives of innocent civilians & it will ensure there is no injustice.” Director-general of police Dilbag Singh promised “corrections” if any wrongdoing was detected. “We will look into the demands of the families. We are open to corrections if anything has gone wrong. A police probe will also find out what went wrong,” Singh told reporters. Such investigations have seldom in the past brought any solace to bereaved families. The families on Thursday rejected the announcement as “eyewash”. “The only thing the government must do is return the bodies so they can be buried according to tradition. Otherwise, we have no hope of justice from the men who killed our men mercilessly,” a relative told The Telegraph before the exhumations became known. In February, the police had booked Pulwama resident Mushtaq under the anti-terror law UAPA for campaigning to secure the body of his teenage son, who the authorities claimed was a militant. On Wednesday night, the police had detained over a dozen relatives of Bhat, 50, and dentist turned real estate dealer Gul, 40, as they protested at the city centre in freezing cold. They were released late in the night. Video clips show the police bundling the relatives into vehicles. In one video, a relative is purportedly heard calling a policeman a “terrorist” and asking him to shoot him as well. The separatists have called for a shutdown on Friday against the killings. Senior politicians, including former chief minister Omar Abdullah, have continued to hit the streets seeking justice. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was placed under house arrest to prevent her joining the protests. The five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is campaigning for the restoration of Article 370, said it “won’t let Kashmir turn into a graveyard”. The alliance will petition the Supreme Court for justice, spokesperson Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||China not budging, Indian Army commanders inform Rajnath Singh||Top army commanders on Thursday informed defence minister Rajnath Singh of China’s repeated refusal to disengage from India-claimed lines at the friction points in Ladakh, sources in the ministry said. The defence minister was apprised of China’s rebuff during a meeting in which Singh reviewed the prevailing security situation along the Line of Actual Control, the sources added. Singh on Thursday inaugurated a revamped war memorial in eastern Ladakh’s Rezang La, the site of an epic battle at an altitude of 18,000 feet above sea level where a company of 13 Kumaon regiment led by Major Shaitan Singh had held back the Chinese People’s Liberation Army during the 1962 war. The company fought to its last bullet to defend its positions at the mountain pass. “The minister held a closed-door meeting with the commanders of the army’s northern command. The commanders informed Singh of the Chinese refusal to retreat from the occupied zones in Depsang Plains and Hot Springs,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. India and China have been locked in border disputes at multiple points in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Chinese army is said to have altered the unmarked LAC in these areas and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The meeting, the official said, continued for over an hour during which the commanders made a PowerPoint presentation and explained to the defence minister about the massive Chinese build-up at the remaining friction points inside India-claimed lines. “During the presentation, the commanders showed how the Chinese army is reported to have strengthened its positions at the friction points by building airbases and military camps,” he said. Another ministry official said Singh told the commanders that India would take up the matter “again with the Chinese army during the next military and diplomatic talks”. Singh’s visit to Ladakh came after the 13th round of military talks between the Indian and Chinese armies last month. The talks had failed to achieve any breakthrough as the Chinese have not agreed to a proposal to disengage from the India-claimed territory at the remaining friction points along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. Sources said the Chinese had been insisting that the remaining occupied zones at the Depsang Plains and Hot Springs belonged to them and asked Indian troops to move further back as a condition for disengagement. This has been rejected by the Indian Army. The Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. They have continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points on the Depsang Plains  — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May 2020. Four days after a clash at the Galwan Valley killed 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers on June 15 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory, allowing Beijing to dismiss allegations of border transgressions. After inaugurating the revamped war memorial in Rezang La, Singh paid tribute to the fallen heroes and described the monument as an example of the determination and indomitable courage displayed by the Indian Army that he said wad not “only immortal in the pages of history, but also beats in our hearts”. The minister said the courage and sacrifice of troops who defended Rezang La in 1962 would always inspire future generations. “The minister also lauded the Indian soldiers, who continue to carry forward the valour and patriotism of the fallen heroes and protect the country fearlessly,” a defence ministry statement said. Without naming China, Singh said: “We will give a befitting reply to anyone who threatens our sovereignty and integrity.” “The historic battle of Rezang La, fought at an altitude of 18,000 feet, is difficult to imagine even today. Major Shaitan Singh and his fellow soldiers fought till ‘last bullet and last breath’ and wrote a new chapter of bravery and sacrifice,” he said. “I am saluting the 114 Indian soldiers who made supreme sacrifices in the 1962 war after reaching Rezang La, located amidst the inaccessible hills of Ladakh,” he added. The renovated complex includes a double-storey museum, a mini-theatre to screen a special documentary on the battle, a large helipad and other tourist amenities. Border talks The 23rd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) was held on Thursday over the remaining friction points in Ladakh. During the meeting, it was agreed that both sides should hold the next (14th) round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, a statement from India’s foreign ministry said. The two sides recalled the agreement between external affairs minister and the foreign minister of China during their meeting in September in Dushanbe that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. “Accordingly, the two sides had candid and in-depth discussions on the situation along the LAC in Western Sector of India-China Border Areas and also reviewed the developments since the last meeting of the senior commanders of both sides which was held on 10th October 2021. In this regard they agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols so as to restore peace and tranquility,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||UP interfaith couples get  Allahabad High Court protection||Allahabad High Court on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government not to interfere with the “life, liberty and privacy” of 17 interfaith couples who wanted to marry, undermining Yogi Adityanath’s efforts to check conversions for interfaith marriage. Justice Suneet Kumar, dealing with petitions from 17 Hindu and Muslim women, also directed marriage registrars of the petitioners’ districts “to forthwith register the marriage of the petitioners without insisting/ awaiting approval of the competent district authority with regard to conversion of faith”. “The consent of the family or the community or the clan or the State or executive is not necessary once two adult individuals agree to enter into wedlock which is lawful and legal,” the single-judge bench ruled. A law enacted by the Adityanath government last November makes the district magistrate’s permission necessary to change one’s religion before an interfaith marriage. The 17 petitioners said marriage registrars had refused to register their marriages because they didn’t have documents from their district magistrates certifying that no coercion, threat or allurement was involved in their conversion. Nine of the petitioners — a majority — were Muslim women who had converted to Hinduism to marry Hindu men, shredding the “love jihad” theory that underlay Adityanath’s conversion law. “Petitioners, herein, claim to be major and one of the parties to (each) marriage has converted to the religion/ faith of his/ her partner,” the high court said. “It is pleaded that the conversion is on free will…. They (petitioners) apprehend threat to their life and liberty at the hands of their parents, relatives and other family members in connivance of the State machinery.” Government counsel had submitted that the petitioners had not obtained their respective district magistrate’s approval before converting for the purpose of marriage. The petitioners said citizens had a right to choose their partner and faith and sought protection of their life, liberty and privacy, guaranteed under Article 21. “The right to privacy is implicit in the right to life and liberty guaranteed to the citizens of this country by Article 21. A citizen has a right to safeguard the privacy of his own, his family, marriage, procreation, motherhood, child-bearing and education among other matters,” the high court said. “The marriage officer/ registrar cannot refuse to register a duly solemnised marriage, and/ or insist (on) a conversion approval of the district authority.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||Organistaion moves Kerala HC over use of halal jaggery in Sabarimala||An organisation of Sabarimala devotees has petitioned Kerala High Court claiming the jaggery being used in temple prasadam is halal-certified and therefore poses a health risk from the way it is manufactured apart from offending Hindu sentiments. The Travancore Devaswom Board, a state government body that governs the shrine, told the court on Thursday that a consignment of jaggery bought sometime earlier was indeed halal-certified, but it had been auctioned off to be used as cattle feed. It said the consignment had been bought in the hope that the Covid restrictions would be eased and pilgrim visits allowed. But the nod to reopen the shrine to devotees never came till November 15 — the start of the main pilgrim season — by when the old consignment had been auctioned. “Halal” means “lawful” and refers to what is allowed under Islamic law. Petitioner S.J.R. Kumar, a former state president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, has claimed: “The religious scholars of the Muslim community have been proclaiming publicly that saliva is a necessary ingredient for certifying halal in the preparation of food material.” An Islamic scholar dismissed the claim — being echoed on social media by Right-wing proponents — that food is made halal by spitting on it. “And no Islamic scholar would say so since Prophet Mohammed had clearly said that one should not blow or spit on food since anything edible has to be clean and hygienic,” Basheer Faizi Deshamangalam, the Kerala-based scholar, told The Telegraph. Deshamangalam said he had never heard of jaggery being halal, but added that all it should mean is that the stuff is clean and fit for consumption and is not stolen goods. Large quantities of jaggery go into two key offerings (nivedyam) — aravana and unniyappam — made to the Sabarimala deity, Ayyappan. These offerings are later distributed among the devotees as prasadam. According to the petition filed on Wednesday by Kumar, state general convener of the Sabarimala Karma Samithi, an organisation formed by devotees to protect the temple’s traditions, a consignment of jaggery bought from a Maharashtra-based company had come in bags certified “halal”. The petition adds that the tender for the jaggery was floated in July this year. The petition seeks directives to the Travancore Devaswom Board to stop distributing prasadam made with “impure” halal jaggery and withdraw the jaggery from any further use at the temple. Apart from the jaggery posing a health hazard for devotees who eat the prasadam, “it is highly disheartening to see that food materials prepared following the rituals and religious practices of another religion with its certification is accepted as food material for nivedyam/ prasada in a Hindu temple having its own rituals and customs”, the petition says. On Wednesday, the standing counsel for the Devaswom Board told the court that all prasadam is scientifically tested for health safety at a dedicated laboratory at the temple. The division bench of Justices Anil K. Narendran and P.G. Ajithkumar directed the state (Devaswom Board) in an interim order on Wednesday to file its response on Thursday. The next hearing is on Monday. The Devaswom Board has lodged a police complaint against the rumours being spread on social media about the quality of prasadam made with allegedly halal jaggery, saying such canards create strife in society. Kumar was among those who had opposed any changes to the Sabarimala temple’s traditions after the Supreme Court in 2018 lifted the centuries-old ban on women of childbearing age entering the shrine. The Left Democratic Front government’s decision to implement the court order had triggered large-scale protests by devotees led by the Sangh parivar and the Congress. A review petition is lying before the apex court, and the state has decided not to implement the original order until the final verdict is passed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||Congress sniffs conspiracy in sniper attacks on Gandhi, silence in govt||The Congress has smelt a sinister conspiracy to legitimise Nathuram Godse by undermining India’s freedom struggle and dislodging Mahatma Gandhi from his unrivalled pedestal. Although the Congress had initially ignored actress Kangana Ranaut’s comments condemning Indian Independence as “bheekh (alms)”, the party has now taken note of the sustained attacks on Gandhi and the silence of the entire Hindutva ideological fraternity on the concerted campaign to malign the Father of the Nation. The Congress is seeking to alert the country to the lurking perils as it begins to see Kangana as a Sangh parivar agent who is using her popularity to set the agenda. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said on Thursday: “There could be two reasons for what the agyani sarkari adaakara (ignorant sarkari actress) is saying: one, she is reading the text supplied to her for diverting the nation’s attention from real concerns. Two, there is a very big conspiracy to dislodge Gandhi and establish Godse.” The Congress leader underlined that Kangana had been heaping insult on Gandhi, and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government and the BJP had remained mum. “The government has no problem if an actress insults Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and generations of martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the country,” Vallabh said. That the Congress suspects Kangana has been planted by the RSS-BJP to test the public reception of an ideology that zealots want to inject into the mainstream was manifested in social media comments by former Union minister Jairam Ramesh. “A recent Padma Shri awardee has been hitting the headlines for her outrageous statements on Indian history. She’s only mouthing what RSS-affiliated pseudo-historians and self-styled scholars have been desperately trying to mainstream for years. Her sutradhars (puppet masters) are in power today,” the Congress veteran tweeted. Kangana had said at a public event that the Independence achieved in 1947 was “bheekh” and that India had got freedom in 2014. She later went on to target Gandhi in a series of posts on Instagram, questioning his non-violence and asking people to choose their heroes wisely. The Congress sees a pattern as several BJP parliamentarians, including Pragya Singh Thakur, have been openly trying to legitimise Godse by describing him as a “true patriot”. The design to undermine Gandhi is also demonstrated in Right-wingers trending hashtags in support of Godse on Twitter on Gandhi’s birth and death anniversaries. The Congress has begun to hit back hard. Asked about the “Hindutva-versus-Hinduism” debate, Vallabh said: “What Gandhi practised is Hinduism, what Godse practised is Hindutva. The distinction is clear — Gandhi was the greatest follower of Hinduism and Godse was the greatest follower of Hindutva.” The Congress is offering an easy-to-grasp analysis instead of getting into an academic debate so that its reading of the difference between Hinduism and Hindutva can be introduced into the public discourse, demolishing the general perception that the RSS-BJP represents the Hindu interest. Although this path is fraught with risks as explaining nuances in a communally charged political atmosphere is not easy, the Congress believes the issue must be settled once and for all. Rahul Gandhi has taken up the cudgels. Vallabh said: “Hinduism is inclusive, Hindutva is exclusive. Hinduism is sarv dharm sambhav (all religions are the same) and vasudhaiva kutumbakam (the world is one family). The agyani sarkari adaakara won’t understand non-violence because a mind filled with hate and prejudice can’t understand Gandhi. Gandhi was not acting in a film; sitting on a wooden horse to depict a battle scene. “Gandhi faced the might of the British in the real world, a global power which had the most modern army. The sarkari adaakara should tell us where the RSS was hiding when freedom fighters were struggling against the British forces.” Asked about this controversy, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said at a programme: “My idea of Hinduism is the intensely personal idea of a religion that is about seeking your own truth and you seek ultimately within yourself. The very idea of personal truth essentially involves the acknowledgement that there may be other truths of other people and that you have to respect. The acceptance of difference is fundamental to Hinduism. “What we are seeing with Hindutva is very different. It is a political ideology. It says that instead of a soaring, inclusive, majestic idea of Vedanta, you have ‘Hindutva’ that reduces ‘Hinduism’ to a badge of identity. That kind of talk in my mind is not Hindu, it is not Hinduism, it is not Hindu Dharma.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
19-11-2021||India||Odisha government launches road safety initiative ||The Odisha government has launched a scheme, Rakshyak, which aims at training 30,000 people who would serve as First Responders to road accidents. The volunteers will be equipped with first aid boxes to provide the medical treatment required in the first 30 minutes after an accident. All of them would be trained in the next 30 weeks. In a bid to improve road safety, the state government’s transport department on Thursday signed an MoU with Save Life Foundation (SLF), an NGO working towards road safety in the country. “We will take steps to reduce the road fatality as per the remedial measures suggested by SLF. We will try to create a zero fatality corridor which aims at reducing the number of accident-related deaths,” said transport commissioner, Arun Bothra. According to the government’s plan, these 30,000 people will be selected mostly from among those working in roadside eateries, business establishments and would be trained as first responders. Under the initiative, experts from Automotive Skills Development Council (ASDC) will train 300 master trainers. Later, they will move across the state to train other people. The state government would give a cash prize of Rs 2,000 to the good samaritans who save human lives. People critically injured in accidents will be entitled to receive a compensation of Rs 50,000, officials said. Commerce and transport minister Padmanabha Behera told The Telegraph, “We will provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the legal heir of the accident victims who die in the accident from the Solarium fund.” The rising number of road accidents in the state has become a major cause of concern. It has gone up by 21 per cent. “The rakshaks will serve as life savers’ said officials. The number of deaths in accidents has gone up from 3,931 deaths in 2014 to 4,738 in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||Bihar: Smugglers try to bring liquor bottles in ‘Amazon’ boxes ||Smugglers are now trying to bring in liquor to dry Bihar in boxes with names of popular e-commerce companies written on them. A state police team conducting a routine check in Mohania in Kaimur district had a first hand experience of the new modus operandi on Wednesday night when they stopped a truck carrying “Amazon” boxes. “On a closer look, our officials noticed that the boxes were of Amazon but the duct tape used to fasten them bore the name of “Flipkart”, another e-commerce company. It was enough to make them suspicious. They opened the boxes and found cartons of IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor) kept in them,” Mohania sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Faiz Ahmad Khan told The Telegraph on Thursday. Mohania is located on the Bihar–Uttar Pradesh border and falls on the trade route connected to Grand Trunk Road, also known as National Highway-2. A further search yielded 263 cartons containing around 2,367 litres of IMFL. The driver of the vehicle has been identified as Sandeep Daila from Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan. “The driver had brought the consignment from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. He has been arrested and forwarded to jail. We are establishing his backward links to track the people involved in smuggling liquor,” Khan said. The SDPO said the liquor mafia had changed their modus operandi. They do not inform the drivers about the destination beforehand. The address is given only after the vehicles cross the border check posts. Another police officer involved in the seizure said efforts were being made to find out how the culprits got hold of so many “Amazon” boxes. The seizure came just a few hours after chief minister Nitish Kumar brought back additional chief secretary K.K. Pathak to the prohibition and excise department in the aftermath of back-to-back hooch tragedies across the state this month in which around 50 people lost their lives. Pathak is known as a no-nonsense officer and was instrumental in drafting the prohibition law, which has often been criticised as “draconian”. The IAS officer was shunted out in 2018 after he moved against a couple of leaders belonging to Nitish’s Janata Dal United in Nalanda district for allegedly flouting the liquor ban. Although Nitish implemented total prohibition on April 5, 2016, the availability of liquor never stopped in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||MP home minister threatens to ban Vir Das from performing in state||Madhya Pradesh home minister and BJP leader Narottam Mishra on Thursday said comedian Vir Das, who is facing police complaints over his monologue “I come from two Indias”, would not be allowed to perform in the state. The Opposition and some artistes promptly asked Mishra why he was silent on actress Kangana Ranaut’s recent comments maligning the freedom struggle and some of its biggest icons. Das had on Monday uploaded a six-minute video of the monologue on YouTube. A part of his recent performance at the John F. Kennedy Center in Washington DC, the monologue had referred to the PM CARES Fund and the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre in which farmers were killed. “We won’t allow such jesters to perform. If he tenders an apology, we are going to think over it,” Mishra, also the Madhya Pradesh government spokesman, said. “Such type of people like him (Das), I call them vidushak (jester), will not be allowed to perform in the state.” Das, who has issued a statement saying his comments weren’t intended to insult the country, has found backing from Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra and Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor. Mishra said there were some comedians who tried to “defame” India and they had some supporters like Sibal and other Congress leaders. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also defames India on foreign soil. Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath also does it,” Mishra alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||Police officers thrash judge at gunpoint in Madhubani district ||Two police officers allegedly thrashed an additional district judge at gunpoint in Madhubani district of Bihar on Thursday. Judge Avinash Kumar of the Jhanjharpur sub-divisional court was beaten up in the afternoon after he issued summons to Ghoghardiha station house officer Gopal Krishna Yadav. Jhanjharpur is around 185km from Patna. Yadav, along with sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar Singh and other police personnel, allegedly barged into Kumar’s chamber and questioned his audacity to issue the summons. They also charged him with troubling the Madhubani superintendent of police in various cases. The SHO then allegedly pointed his pistol at the ADJ and, along with Singh, assaulted him. The ensuing shouts and screams drew the attention of lawyers and court employees who rushed to the judge’s chamber. The angry police officers started assaulting the lawyers and court staff but were soon overpowered. An employee attached to Kumar managed to snatch the gun of the SHO, sources said. The two police officers have been arrested. Patna High Court took suo motu cognisance of the incident and asked Bihar director-general of police S.K. Singhal to be present in court on November 29. Madhubani district magistrate Amit Kumar and superintendent of police Satya Prakash did not take calls from this newspaper. A couple of months ago, Judge Kumar had suggested that the Madhubani SP be sent for training in law and the use of proper sections in criminal cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||India second on smokers’ list, averse to quitting||India ranks second in the number of smokers aged between 16 and 64 years and is among nations with the lowest quit rates, according to a new report. The report prepared by the International Commission to Reignite the Fight Against Smoking using secondary data from sources like the World Bank said that China and India were home to more than 500 million tobacco users between the ages of 16 and 64. “India ranks second with 250,002,133 smokers between 16 and 64 years of age. Tobacco prevalence in India is three times higher among men than women. India also accounts for some of the highest rates of smokeless tobacco use and oral cancer in the world,” the report said. According to the report, 37 per cent of Indian respondents showed a desire to quit smoking. However, India is among the countries with the lowest quit rates for smoking. The rates for men are less than 20 per cent, it noted. The report said tobacco killed nearly eight million people annually. According to the report, nearly all countries have banned the marketing and direct sale of tobacco products to children but in low-to-middle-income countries, these prohibitions are not rigorously enforced. The report cites data from Consumer Voice 2019, which states that despite prohibitions in India, a study of areas around 243 schools found nearby vendors displaying tobacco products in ways that are appealing to children. “Around 91 per cent of displays were at 1 metre (at a child’s eye level.) An estimated 54 per cent of the points of sale have no visible health warning; and 90 per cent of displays were beside candy, sweets and toys, items marketed to children,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||Supreme Court quashes skin ruling, says sexual intent is key||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed Bombay High Court’s verdict that no offence of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, was made out if there was no direct skin-to-skin contact between the accused and the victim. A bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit said the most important ingredient of what constituted sexual assault was sexual intent and not skin-to-skin contact with a child. The purpose of the law cannot be to allow the offender to escape the meshes of the law, the apex court said. “We have held that when the legislature has expressed clear intention, the courts cannot create ambiguity in the provision. It is right that courts cannot be overzealous in creating ambiguity,” the bench, also having Justices S. Ravindra Bhat and Bela M. Trivedi, said. “The most important ingredient for constituting the offence of sexual assault is sexual intent and not skin-to-skin contact with the child. Construction of a rule should give effect to the rule rather than destroying it. “Any narrow interpretation of the provision, which would defeat its object, cannot be accepted. The intention of the legislature cannot be given effect unless wider interpretation is given,” the bench said. The high court had acquitted a man under the Pocso Act, saying groping a minor’s breast without “skin-to-skin contact” cannot be termed as sexual assault. The sessions court had sentenced the man to three years of imprisonment for the offences under the Pocso Act as also under IPC Section 354. The sentences were to run concurrently. The high court, however, acquitted him under the Pocso Act while upholding his conviction under IPC Section 354. The NCW on Thursday welcomed the Supreme Court order and expressed hope that it would help uphold legal safeguards for women and children. “The Commission welcomes the Hon'ble Supreme Court’s verdict today and believes that the apex court’s decision in the matter will uphold the legal and constitutional safeguard for women and children,” the NCW said in statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||Supreme Court reopens divestment probe CBI closed||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected a closure report filed by the CBI last year and ordered a full-fledged investigation into a divestment process that was carried out nearly 20 years ago when the BJP-led NDA was in power. The fresh CBI probe will look into alleged irregularities when the divestment took place in 2002 in the then public sector Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Sterlite Industries, part of the Vedanta group, now enjoys the controlling stake in the company. “We are desisting from commenting on some crucial facts and names of individuals involved, so as to not cause prejudice to the investigation of the matter,” a Supreme Court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B. Nagarathna said on Thursday. But the apex court has not stalled the sale of the Centre’s residual stake of 29.54 per cent in Hindustan Zinc through a public offer. The fresh probe marks an unusual chain of events: a BJP-led government divests the stake, the CBI under another BJP government recommends closure of the inquiry after many years and the highest court of the land reopens the matter. “Some of the aforesaid observations of the officials of the CBI, who recommended the conversion of the preliminary enquiry into a regular case, satisfy this court’s conscience for exercising its exceptional powers to direct the CBI to conduct an investigation into the matter,” the bench said in the 62-page judgment. “A prima facie case for a cognisable offence… has been made out in this case and warrants the registration of a regular case. The registration of a regular case, followed by a full-fledged investigation must be conducted. This court shall be duly apprised of the status of the investigation,” the judgment added. The court issued the directives while dealing with a PIL filed by the National Confederation of Officers Association of Central Public Sector Enterprises and certain other employees of Hindustan Zinc challenging the Centre’s decision to sell its remaining 29.54 per cent stake. In an affidavit and a self-contained note closing the preliminary enquiry, the CBI had justified it on the ground that the special prosecutor, CBI head office, New Delhi, on July 31, 2014; the director of prosecution on October 16, 2014; and the special director on March 21, 2016, had stated their reasons for recommending the closure of the preliminary enquiry without registering a regular case. However, the CBI additional director had on August 22, 2014, recommended the conversion of the preliminary enquiry into a regular case against certain officials and persons under Section 120B read with Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and Sections 13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. According to the CBI manual, in view of the differences of opinion, the matter was to be referred to the attorney-general on October 17, 2014. However, the Supreme Court said: “The status of this referral has not been alluded to before us, for determination of the closure of the preliminary enquiry. “Upon perusal of the aforementioned reports and recommendations, it is our considered opinion that the disinvestment in 2002 evinces a prime facie case for registration of a regular case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||‘Too late’, Supreme Court bins plea for hybrid board exams ||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to direct the CBSE and the CISCE to provide the hybrid option, instead of only the offline mode, to students appearing for the Class X and XII board exams, saying it would not be appropriate to disturb the process at the last minute. “Don’t mess up with the education system. Let the authorities continue to do their job,” the bench told Sanjay Hegde, the lawyer appearing for the petitioner students. The court noted that the first term of the CBSE board exams had started on November 16, while the first semester of the CISCE board was to begin on November 22. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar was informed by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the CBSE, that all precautions had been taken for conducting the board exams offline and the number of exam centres had been increased from 6,500 to 15,000. The bench said it “hopes and trusts” that the authorities would take all precautions to ensure that no one is exposed to anything untoward during the exams. The top court was hearing a plea by six students seeking directions to the CBSE and the CISCE to issue a revised circular for conducting the Class X and XII board exams in the hybrid mode, instead of offline only, amid the pandemic. Senior advocate Hegde told the bench that the students were only requesting that the exams offer both offline and online options. The bench told Hegde that it was too late now and the exams cannot be rescheduled at this stage. The senior advocate told the top court that there was a state of uncertainty and the students should be given the hybrid option. The court, however, said a “chaotic situation” would arise as nearly 34 lakh students were appearing for the exams across the country. Hegde pointed out that Covid-19 was an evolving situation and several aspects, including the possibility of conducting online exams, had been deliberated upon earlier. “This we could have tested if you had come early. This last-minute business should be discouraged,” the bench said. Hegde said that according to experts, there was a possibility of the coronavirus spreading because of gatherings. Mehta, the solicitor-general, contended: “The (CBSE) exams have already started on November 16.” He added that the authorities have taken care of the concerns over the possibility of thespread of the virus. “Let us be very practical about it. The examinations have already started. How can it be made online now?” the bench asked Hegde. The petition had said: “Consent assumes significance as exams directly relate to the mental health of the petitioners requiring a conducive and voluntary atmosphere to ensure a fair assessment. It is common knowledge that the third wave of Covid pandemic is predicted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||Facebook stonewalls communal riot queries in New Delhi||Facebook’s head of public policy in India on Thursday repeatedly gave evasive answers to a Delhi Assembly panel’s questions on the platform’s alleged role in spreading malicious content that led to last year’s communal riots in the city. When Committee for Peace and Harmony chairman Raghav Chadha asked about religious diversity among Facebook staff in India, Shivnath Thukral replied: “Indian laws don’t allow us to kind of differentiate people based on religious affiliation when we hire.” Asked who the grievance officer for India was during the February 2020 riots, Thukral, the public policy director representing Meta Platforms which owns Facebook, again gave vague answers. When committee member Bhupinder Singh Joon asked if the firm’s recruitment was classified, Thukral replied: “I am happy to share any information as per applicable law and legal orders.” Thukral repeatedly evaded questions on Facebook’s definition of hate speech in India, saying it was part of the company’s global standards. “Platforms like ours have to work on complex issues which have to balance both free speech and privacy safety at the same time…. We evolved hate speech definition to include caste slurs as well,” he said. Later during the deposition — open to the public and webcast — Chadha asked if the (hypothetical) sentence “African Americans are termites who have a conspiracy to take over the country and need to be exterminated” would be considered hate speech by Facebook in the US. Thukral replied that content policy was not his domain. Joon, Aam Aadmi Party MLA and Delhi’s former prosecution director, asked: “This was an extraordinary situation in February 2020. Did you take any action at that time?” “This is an issue pertaining to law and order of the city, and I would like to exercise my right as per the SC judgment not to comment,” Thukral said. While dismissing Facebook’s plea to avoid the committee’s summons, the Supreme Court had in July said the firm’s representatives “would be well within their right to refuse to answer” queries on law and order and the police. Chadha said: “By stonewalling my questions, reserving your right to reply, you are frustrating the objective of this committee.” He said the panel would examine Thukral’s replies and decide if and when Facebook officials needed to be summoned again. Around 53 people had lost their lives in the Delhi riots against the backdrop of the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait warns Modi and Yogi over stopping Lucknow rally||Farm leader Rakesh Tikait has warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath that peasants will prevent their planes from landing in the state if the government tries to stop the farmers’ rally in Lucknow on November 22. “Our mahapanchayat in Lucknow on November 22 will be peaceful. But the farmers will not let the planes of the Prime Minister and the chief minister land anywhere in the state if they try to put up hurdles in the way of the mahapanchayat convened by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha,” Tikait, the spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), said in a meeting of farmers at Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district on Thursday. He also coined a slogan against the BJP, referring to the party’s poll symbol: “Kamal ka phool ek bhool tha (It was a mistake to vote for the lotus).” “We will correct the mistake in the 2022 Assembly polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections,” Tikait said. Tikait took a holy dip in the Ganga and asked farmers to pledge to dislodge the BJP in the Assembly elections next year. Farmers have been protesting for over a year against three new farm laws of the Modi government. Tikait is leading the protest at the Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad district. The farmers have planned to intensify the movement, angry at the BJP government’s refusal to withdraw the farm laws. “I want to tell Yogi Adityanath to get ready as we are coming to Lucknow on November 22 to hold the mahapanchayat at Eco Garden,” Tikait said. “We are not going to Lucknow to wage a war against anybody but we must tell Yogi Adityanath that we are coming.” A police officer told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity: “We have chalked out a route for the farmers from Lucknow Junction railway station to Eco Garden. There is no problem with their rally unless we receive any adverse report on law and order.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
19-11-2021||India||In Gurgaon, doors open for Muslims to offer Friday prayers||Akshay Yadav has offered his 1,000sqft commercial space in Gurgaon for namaz, pointing out that “I don’t want our children to fight among themselves for being Hindu or Muslim”. The Shri Guru Singh Sabha has opened the gates of a gurdwara for Muslims to offer Friday prayers as “Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians have all made sacrifices for our country and no one should feel that they don’t have a place”. Voices upholding India’s most glorious traditions of inclusiveness and amity are rising in Gurgaon where some Hindutva groups and residents’ associations have opposed open-air Friday namaz. Earlier this month the district administration withdrew consent to eight of the 37 sites where Friday prayers are offered by Muslims in places where mosques are not available. The 37 sites, which include three Muslim institutions, had been earmarked by the administration in 2018 after protests by Hindutva groups. Prior to this, Friday and Id prayers were offered at 106 open spaces in addition to mosques, almost all of which are in the older parts of the city. Police have been protecting open-air Jumma namaz in the face of disruptions by the Hindutva groups and residents’ welfare associations since September 17. These outfits have been using loudspeakers to play Hindu devotional songs while the namaz is offered. Yadav, a conservationist and wildlife tour operator, said he was aghast to hear that Muslims were being heckled while offering namaz on grounds where they used to gather. The Yadavs own land and commercial properties in Gurgaon’s Sector 12 — one of the flashpoints where Hindu groups celebrated Govardhan Puja earlier this month on a ground where Jumma namaz was due. “I felt these extremists who don’t want them to offer namaz will make them believe that Hindus are enemies…. I don’t want our children to fight among themselves for being Hindu or Muslim. I offered them my lawn for namaz. They said they did not want to cause any discomfort to us during the pandemic, so I offered them a 1,000sqft vacant commercial space of mine,” Yadav told The Telegraph. He added: “I told them not to become bitter for someone denying you space to offer namaz…. Even I would feel bad if I lived in a Muslim village and had to say that they did not allow me to perform a puja. I am no saint, I am just a human being who understands their problem. Others will also come forward, the gurdwara has come forward.” On Wednesday, Sherdil Singh Sidhu, the president of the Shri Guru Singh Sabha that manages five gurdwaras in Gurgaon, offered the basement of a gurdwara at Sadar Bazar for Muslims to offer namaz from next Friday. “Gurdwaras are the abode of the Guru (Granth Sahib) and all are welcome here. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians have all made sacrifices for our country and no one should feel that they don’t have a place,” Sidhu told reporters. Muslims have welcomed the gestures. Altaf Ahmad of the Gurgaon Muslim Council said: “This is a true example of brotherhood where people from multiple faiths have come forward to defeat divisive forces who have been spreading hatred and communal disharmony in Gurgaon over the last two months.” “It is a sad state of affairs that a handful of people do not understand that Muslims are forced to offer their obligatory Jumma namaz in the open due to the lack of mosques in Gurgaon. I hope that the government of Haryana takes cognisance of these events and allocates land to Muslims at the earliest so they can build mosques and pray with dignity,” Ahmad said. Namaz gatherings have become a flashpoint in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh as well. On Wednesday a CPM delegation met police officers in Noida over a park being disallowed for Friday prayers on the ground of physical distancing. Worshippers there are mostly workers of neighbouring industrial units. Yadav said: “There are BJP governments in Haryana and the Centre but I don’t really know who is behind this trouble — the party or some groups…. This sends the wrong message to society. I am not a political person, neither am I anti-BJP or pro-Congress. I am a fan of Narendra Modi because I don’t think there is any leader besides him to represent us or handle us.” Yadav had earlier allowed his properties to be used during Ramzan. “As the mosques are far away, commuting takes up a lot of the time they allot to work. I offered them an unoccupied building I own.… I offered them sharbat during that time as they would be famished in the summer after fasting all day. It was my mother’s idea that we should offer them something to eat and drink when they break their fast as the blessings of prayers fall on everyone alike,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
19-11-2021||India||Modi govt’s compromise of national security stands exposed: Congress||The Congress on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why he was compromising on India’s territorial integrity as reports emerged about Chinese villages coming up in Bhutan in keeping with an encroachment ploy used in Arunachal. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “The Modi government’s unpardonable compromise of national security and India’s territorial integrity stands exposed once again.” “New satellite images show construction of Chinese villages in Bhutanese territory over the past year. Multiple new villages have spread through over 100sqkm.” The villages were constructed between May 2020 and November 2021.” Vallabh said the villages were near the Doklam plateau where the Indian and Chinese armies had faced off in 2017. “The new construction on Bhutanese soil is particularly worrying for India since India has historically advised Bhutan on its external relations and continues to train its armed forces,” he said, recalling how Modi remained silent on intrusions in Ladakh and Arunachal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
19-11-2021||India||NIE researchers confirm Covid-19 vaccine efficacy  ||The first nationwide real-world effectiveness study of Covid-19 vaccines has corroborated earlier findings that Covishield and Covaxin provide significant protection from severe disease, whether caused by the highly infectious delta or other coronavirus variants. Researchers at the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, and collaborating doctors in 11 hospitals across India have observed effectiveness against severe disease to be 80 per cent with Covishield and 69 per cent with Covaxin after two doses. The study findings — not peer-reviewed yet but released on an online archive of research preprints — underline the importance of continued expansion of two-dose vaccination coverage, the researchers said. “These real-world estimates of vaccine effectiveness are expectedly lower than the vaccine efficacy estimates documented during clinical trials,” Tarun Bhatnagar, an epidemiologist and the study’s principal investigator, told The Telegraph. For instance, Covaxin’s trial had observed 93 per cent vaccine efficacy against severe disease. “In the real-world setting, we include all who fit the study criteria. Also, the clinical trials were done before the delta’s dominance. Our study started when delta was already the dominant strain,” Bhatnagar said. “This would also influence vaccine effectiveness.” The study found vaccine effectiveness against the delta and its sub-lineages to be 64 per cent with Covaxin and 81 per cent with Covishield, but after two doses. After a single dose, the effectiveness was 44 per cent with Covaxin and 73 per cent with Covishield. The vaccine effectiveness observed in the real-world setting was the highest for both Covishield and Covaxin with dose gap of six to eight weeks. The current vaccination policy recommends a dose gap of four-to-six weeks for Covaxin and 12 weeks for Covishield. “The higher effectiveness with the six-to-eight-week gap is an interesting finding, but we don’t have sufficient data yet to recommend that Covishield gap should be shortened to six to eight weeks,” Bhatnagar said. Other studies and biological principles suggest the 12-week gap has greater efficacy, he said. It is possible that some of the people observed in the real-world study had already been infected with the coronavirus and thus carried antibodies before they received vaccinations. In the NIE study, the researchers analysed the Covid-19 vaccination status of 1,143 patients with severe Covid-19 and 2,541 patients who were negative for Covid-19 in 11 hospitals in 10 cities — Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Jodhpur, Kochi, Mysore, Nagpur, New Delhi, Puducherry, Rishikesh and Surat. The Covid-19 vaccination campaign had till Thursday administered one dose to 762 million (81 per cent) and fully vaccinated with two doses 391 million (41 per cent) of the country’s estimated 944 million adults.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
