20-11-2021||India||Manish Tewari slams Sidhu for 'bada bhai' address to Pak PM||Taking a swipe at Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sindhu for purportedly calling Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan "bada bhai", party leader Manish Tewari Saturday said Khan may be anybody's elder brother but for India he is that "cat's paw" of the Pakistan deep state that drones arms and narcotics into Punjab and sends terrorists on a daily basis to Jammu and Kashmir.  A video of Sidhu, during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib on Saturday, being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of Khan has gone viral in which the Congress leader is purportedly heard saying Khan was like a "bada bhai" to him and that he loved him a lot.  Taking to Twitter, Tewari tweeted, "@ImranKhanPTI may be anybody's elder brother but for India he is that cat's paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones arms & narcotics into Punjab & sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K."  "Have we forgotten martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon," the MP from Anandpur Sahib said.  India had recently opened the Kartarpur Sahib corridor, and a number of pilgrims from Punjab, including politicians, have visited the place on the occasion of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak's birth anniversary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
20-11-2021||India||Narendra Giri death: CBI files charge sheet against disciple Anand Giri and two others||The CBI on Saturday filed its charge sheet in the case of death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad chairman Acharya Narendra Giri against his disciple Anand Giri and two others, officials said.  In its charge sheet filed in a court in Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh, the CBI has charged Giri, priest of Allahabad's Bade Hanuman Temple Addhya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari with criminal conspiracy and abetment to suicide, they said.  All three are in judicial custody, they said. The CBI has kept the probe open for further investigation.  Acharya Narendra Giri, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on September 20. A purported suicide note was found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, the police had said.  The Centre had given the case to the CBI within days of the incident on the recommendation of the Uttar Pradesh government. The state government had recommend a CBI probe into the matter on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.  The Uttar Pradesh Police had earlier constituted an 18-member SIT which had arrested Anand Giri from Haridwar in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
20-11-2021||India||Centre writes to Ladakh, Puducherry over rising weekly Covid cases||Witnessing a rise in weekly Covid cases, testing and positivity rate, the Union Health Ministry has written to Puducherry and Ladakh urging them to take pre-emptive action to gain control over the situation. Earlier, the ministry had asked state governments of Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir to undertake a review and enhance testing in view of rising cases of COVID-19 and weekly positivity rates. In a letter to the principal secretary (Health) of Ladakh this week, Additional Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Arti Ahuja said the Union Territory has reported a 362 per cent increase in weekly new cases from 34 cases in the week ending on October 27 to 157 cases in the week ending on November 17. It is also worrying to note that the Union Territory has exhibited an increase of more than 156 per cent in weekly positivity from 1.5 per cent in the week ending on October 26 to 3.9 per cent in the week ending on November 16. "Further, worrying trends with regards to weekly cases, testing and positivity rate have been observed in various districts. Increase in number of weekly new cases: Leh district has exhibited a significant increase of more than 362 per cent in weekly new cases from 35 in the week ending on October 27 to 139 in the week ending on November 17. This is especially concerning given the geographical expanse of the district," Ahuja said. Leh has also recorded a 143 per cent increase in weekly positivity rate from 1.98 per cent in the week ending on October 26 to 4.81 per cent in the week ending on November 16. Although there has been an increasing trend of weekly tests conducted in the Union Territory, a decrease has been noted in the proportion of RT-PCR testing. Kargil (26.8 per cent) has recorded less than the government mandate of 70 per cent RT PCR contribution. The officer advised conducting a greater number of RT-PCR tests to capture a more accurate picture of the Covid public health situation in the Union Territory. "It has been observed that cases surge exponentially where basic public health strategy (Testing. Tracking. Treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination) is not followed rigorously. The current trends of decrease in RT-PCR testing, increase in new cases and case positivity if left unchecked may lead to a situation where there is severe strain on the health infrastructure and health workforce," Ahuja said in the letter. In addition to strict compliance with basic health strategy, the Union Territory has been asked to ensure routine submission of RT-PCR positive samples from international travelers as well as from community for genomic analysis at the designated INSACOG network laboratory as per laid down protocols. Additionally, positive samples from suspected vaccine breakthrough infections, super-spreader events and clusters of cases with high mortality and/or morbidity must also be sent for genomic analysis, the letter said. A rapid response team must be constituted according to the INSACOG guidelines for detailed investigation of mutations reported through the INSACOG. "As presently various events such as marriages and festive celebrations are taking place, it is critical to maintain sufficient level of testing across all districts to ensure timely detection of cases," Ajuha said in the letter. States must emphasise the importance of Covid safe festivities and ensure strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour along with prioritising the second dose coverage of eligible beneficiaries, she said. "Regular review of COVID-19 cases and deaths must also be undertaken, and necessary corrective measures be promptly communicated to the field teams. Lastly, it should also be ensured that the dist consistency in data up-dation on the Covid-19 portal," the letter said. On October 30, Ahuja had also written to West Bengal and Assam expressing concern over the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. Ahuja in her letter to the Puducherry principal secretary (health) said it has reported 41.7 per cent increase in weekly new cases from 168 cases in the week ending on November 9 to 238 cases in the week ending on November 16. Worrying trends with regards to weekly cases and positivity rate have been observed in various districts of the state, she said. Three districts out of four have reported an increase in weekly new cases. Karaikal district has exhibited an increase of more than 29 per cent in weekly new cases from 49 in the week ending on November 9 to 63 in the week ending on November 16, Pondicherry district has exhibited an increase of more than 30 per cent in weekly new cases from 84 in the week ending on November 9 to 109 cases reported in the week ending on November 16. Yanam shows a continuous increase of new cases from the past four weeks, 85 per cent new cases from 13 in the week ending on November 9 to 24 cases reported in the week ending on November 16. Although there has been an increasing trend in weekly tests conducted, there is a disproportion noted in Antigen and RT-PCR testing. "All four districts Karaikal (27.45 per cent), Mahe (1.59 per cent), Pondicherry (32.57 per cent) and Yanam (0.59 per cent) have less RT-PCR contribution than the government mandate of 70 per cent RT PCR contribution. State is advised to conduct a greater number of RT-PCR tests," the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
20-11-2021||India||Helplessness due to inevitable compulsion can't be considered as consent: Kerala HC||Helplessness in the face of inevitable compulsion cannot be considered as consent, Kerala High Court has said while considering an appeal filed by a rape convict.  Justice R Narayana Pisharadi, in his order said merely because the victim was in love with the accused, it cannot be presumed that she had given consent for sexual intercourse. Court said there is a gulf of difference between consent and submission and every consent involves a submission but the converse does not follow.  "Helplessness in the face of inevitable compulsion cannot be considered to be consent as understood in law. Exercise of intelligence based on the knowledge of the significance and the moral effect of the act is required for consent. Merely for the reason that the victim was in love with the accused, it cannot be presumed that she had given consent for sexual intercourse," the court said in its order dated October 31.  The court was hearing an appeal by 26-year-old Syam Sivan, against his conviction and subsequent sentencing by trial court under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including section 376, which deals with rape.  The accused had in 2013 taken a girl, with whom he had a relation, to Mysore and had sexual intercourse with her without her consent, the court noted in its judgement. It also noted that the accused sold all her gold ornaments and then took her to Goa where he raped her again.  "Her evidence shows that he made a threat that if she did not go with him, he would commit suicide in front of her house," the court noted.  The court said even if it is assumed that, on subsequent occasions, she did not resist the act of the accused, it cannot be found that it was with her consent that the accused had sexual intercourse with her. "It can only be found that it was a passive submission made by the victim girl under unavoidable circumstances as she had no other option," the court said in the judgement.  The court, however, set aside the conviction under the POCSO act as the age of the victim was not proved. Meanwhile, it said the act of the accused clearly constitutes the offences punishable under Section 366 and 376 of the IPC (Abduction and rape).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
20-11-2021||India||No positive evidence to show Aryan Khan was part of conspiracy: HC||The Bombay High Court, in its detailed order granting bail to actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and two others in the drugs-on-cruise case, has said that prima facie it has not found any positive evidence against the accused to show that they had conspired to commit an offence. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre had on October 28 granted bail to Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and a fashion model Munmun Dhamecha in the case on a personal bond of Rs one lakh each. A detailed copy of the order was made available on Saturday. The court said that perusal of the WhatsApp chats extracted from the phone of Aryan Khan shows that nothing objectionable was noticed to suggest that he, Merchant and Dhamecha along with other accused in the case have hatched a conspiracy of committing the offence in question. It also held that the confessional statement of Aryan Khan recorded by the NCB under section 67 of the NDPS Act can be considered only for investigation purposes and cannot be used as a tool for drawing an inference that the accused have committed an offence under the NDPS Act. "There is hardly any positive evidence on record to convince this court that all the accused persons with common intention agreed to commit unlawful acts," the court said while rejecting the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) argument that the case of all the accused ought to be considered together. Rather the probe carried out till date suggests that Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant were travelling independently of Munmun Dhamecha and "there was no meeting of minds' on the alleged offence, the 14-page order said. "So as to infer the case of conspiracy against the applicants also, there is absence of material on record of them having such meeting of minds with the other accused, who were named in the offence in question," the order said. The court further noted that the trio had already suffered incarceration for almost 25 days and the prosecution had not even conducted a medical examination on them so as to determine if they had consumed drugs. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and were booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for conspiracy, possession, sale, purchase and illicit trafficking of banned substances. The court in its order noted that Aryan Khan was not found in possession of any objectionable substance and this fact has not been disputed. Merchant and Dhamecha were found to be in illegal possession of drugs, the quantity of which is considered a small quantity. "The court, in such cases, is first required to ascertain whether there is enough material on record to prima facie infer that the applicants (Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha) have hatched a conspiracy and that the prosecution was justified in invoking provisions of section 29 (criminal conspiracy) of the NDPS Act," the order said. It added that to infer so, there has to be positive evidence about an agreement to do an unlawful act and such agreement must precede with meeting of minds. Justice Sambre further said that the court needs to be sensitive to the fact that there has to be presence of basic material in the form of evidence so as to substantiate the case of conspiracy against the accused persons. "Merely because the applicants were travelling on the cruise, that by itself cannot be termed as satisfying foundation for invoking provisions of section 29 (conspiracy) of the NDPS Act," the court said. Justice Sambre further said that even if the case of the prosecution is considered, the maximum punishment is not more than one year for such an offence. Aryan Khan had walked out of the Arthur Road prison on October 30. As per the bail conditions imposed by the high court, he is required to appear before the NCB office in south Mumbai every Friday to mark his presence and shall not indulge in similar offences or tamper with evidence in the case. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha have also been directed to not leave the country without permission from the trial court and to inform the NCB if they intend to leave Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: Ramban DDC chief warns of protest if third victim's body not returned to kin||Ramban District Development Council chairperson Shamshad Shan on Saturday warned of protests if the authorities do not decide on handing over the body of Amir Magray, the third person killed in the Hyderpora encounter and whose kin claim he was innocent, to his family members.  Shan, however, welcomed Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha's order for a magisterial probe into the encounter which took place in Srinagar on Monday evening. After the bodies of two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter were returned to their families, the chorus for handing over the mortal remains of Amir Magray grew louder.  Cutting across political spectrum, leaders from the mainstream as well as the separatist camp demanded that Magray's body be also returned to his family in the Ramban area of Jammu for last rites. "We are not disappointed as we have full faith in the Lt Governor. We are awaiting his decision and I am hopeful that he will make one by this (Saturday) evening and return Magray's body so his final rites could be performed. But in case he does not take a decision, the situation will compel us to go for protests," Shan told reporters in Ramban.  According to the police, Magray was a militant and was killed along with his Pakistani associate and two others. However, Magray's father Abdul Latief refuted the police's claim and appealed to the L-G to ensure justice for the family.  On Friday Latief met the deputy commissioner of Ramban seeking the return of his son's body. Additional District Magistrate of Ramban Harbans Lal Sharma on November 17 ordered imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in Magray's Famrote village, along with Sangaldan and Seripura, until further orders.  Bodies of Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter, were handed over to their kin on Thursday night after they were exhumed following protests by family members that they were innocent and not linked to militancy as claimed by the police. Police had initially buried them in the Handwara area of north Kashmir's Kupwara district.  "We are thankful to the Lt Governor for ordering a (magisterial) probe into the encounter and returning the bodies of two other civilians to their families. Let the government do its job to unveil the truth but let it also return Magray's body. The law is equal for all civilians," Shan said.  "We have already petitioned the deputy commissioner of Ramban. This (Magray's) family is nationalist, fought militancy and was awarded by the government for bravery besides giving a security cover. It is difficult to think their own son will be declared a terrorist," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Sidhu bats for Indo-Pak camaraderie, BJP slams him for eulogising Pak PM ||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday visited the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan and offered prayers and stressed on "opening of a new friendship chapter" and trade between the two countries, days after India reopened the visa-free Kartarpur corridor for Sikh pilgrims. The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district in India's Punjab state. The 4 km-long corridor provides visa free access to Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit the Darbar Sahib. In the name of Baba Guru Nanak, a new chapter of friendship between the two countries should begin," Sidhu told journalists upon his arrival at the Kartarpur Sahib. "After the World wars in which millions of people lost their lives, if Europe can open borders on one-visa, has one passport and one currency, why not in this region of ours where we have figures like Bhagat Singh and Maharaja Ranjeet Singh who are revered by everyone? he asked. Sidhu said he wants mutual love between India and Pakistan. "There is a need to open windows in the walls erected in 74 years (between India and Pakistan), he said, stressing on opening of trade between the two countries. "There should be trade between two countries," the cricketer-turned-politician said. Sidhu thanked Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan for taking a step to open the corridor. "I am thankful to PM (Imran Khan) for taking the first step and on the other side (India) responded with two steps. I had already said that those favouring the 'laanga' (corridor) would have blessings and those opposing it had no value, he said. When Kartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit CEO Muhammad Latif welcomed the former Test cricketer at the zero point and extended best wishes to him and his delegation on behalf of the prime minister, Sidhu said, "Imran Khan is my elder brother. I am greatly honoured. He (Khan) gave us a lot of love." The BJP meanwhile hit out at the Congress after Sidhu reportedly called Pakistan PM his "elder brother" alleging the opposition party sees terror groups like IS and Boko Haram in Hindutva while it finds a "bhai jaan" in Khan. A purported video of Sidhu being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of Khan has gone viral in which the Congress leader is heard saying Khan was like a "bada bhai" to him and that he loved him a lot. "It is a serious matter of concern for India," BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said as the ruling party seized on the issue to target Congress. He claimed that there was a larger design at work, and Sidhu's comments were linked to a number of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, criticising Hindutva. Referring to Congress leader Salman Khurshid's statement in his latest book, Patra said the opposition party sees terror groups such as the ISIS and the Boko Haram in Hindutva while it finds a "bhai jaan" in Khan. "It is being done for appeasement politics as the Congress still believes that there is a section in India which will be happy with praise for Pakistan. There are no such people in India though," Patra added. He noted that Sidhu had praised Khan and Pakistan earlier too and had hugged its army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa during an earlier trip to the neighbouring country. Noting that Punjab is a border state where Pakistan tries to foment troubles, Patra said it needs a mature and patriotic leadership. "Sidhu is not right for India and Punjab deserves better than him," he said. Pakistan's foreign minister had recently described Hindutva as a threat to global security, and he had borrowed the term from Rahul Gandhi, the BJP leader alleged. To a question about Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi writing a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the farmers' issue, Patra shot back and asked if she also considers Khan an elder brother like Sidhu as she had in the past called the Punjab leader her brother. Sharing the video, BJP IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted, "Rahul Gandhi's favourite Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan his bada bhai . Last time he had hugged Gen Bajwa, Pakistan Army's Chief, heaped praises. Is it any surprise that the Gandhi siblings chose a Pakistan loving Sidhu over veteran Amarinder Singh?" India had recently opened the Kartarpur Sahib corridor, and a number of pilgrims from Punjab, including politicians, have visited the place on the occasion of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak's birth anniversary. In November 2019, Prime Minister Khan formally inaugurated the Kartarpur Corridor as part of commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at a colourful ceremony, paving the way for Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit one of their religion's holiest sites in Pakistan without needing a visa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Gehlot to hold last meeting of his current council of ministers today evening: Sources||Ahead of the proposed Cabinet reshuffle, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will hold the last meeting of his current council of ministers on Saturday evening when ministers are likely to resign. The meeting will take place at 5 pm at the chief minister's residence, official sources said. The sources said the Cabinet meeting has been called ahead of the proposed Cabinet reshuffle and ministers are likely to resign. Govind Singh Dotasra, Harish Chaudhary and Raghu Sharma have already offered resignation in writing to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. The sources added the oath ceremony may take place on Sunday at Raj Bhawan. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken arrived in Jaipur last night and told reporters about the resignation of the three ministers, who desired to work for the party. While Dotasra is the PCC chief, Harish Chaudhary and Raghu Sharma are in-charge of the party's affairs in Punjab and Gujrat respectively. After their resignation, the strength of the Cabinet has reduced from 21 to 18. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers, including the chief minister. The clamour for Cabinet reshuffle had been growing for the last several months with the Pilot camp demanding to accommodate supporters of the state's former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot's supporters in the government. Apart from the Congress MLAs, independents who support the government and MLAs who defected from the BSP to Congress also have expectations from the reshuffle. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had recently hinted that the Cabinet reshuffle will take place soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Proposed tractor march to Parliament not withdrawn yet, say farmer leaders||The proposed daily tractor march to Parliament during the upcoming Winter Session has not been withdrawn and a final call on this as well as the future course of the agitation will be taken in a Sunday meeting, farmer leaders said on Saturday.  To observe one year of the anti-farm law agitation, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, had earlier this month announced that 500 farmers will participate in peaceful tractors marches to Parliament every day during the Winter Session starting November 29.  However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced the Centre will repeal the three farm laws, marking a climbdown by his government to meet the unrelenting demand of farmers protesting in several states against the reform measures.  SKM welcomed the Prime Minister's decision but said they will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures. It also indicated that its movement for a statutory guarantee of MSP and demand for the withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill will continue.  "Our call of tractor march to Parliament still stands. A final decision on the future course of the agitation and MSP issues will be taken in a meeting of the SKM at Singhu Border on Sunday," farmer leader and SKM core committee member Darshan Pal told PTI on Saturday.  Farmer leader and president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) Joginder Singh Ugrahan said at the Tikri border point that the tractor march has not yet been withdrawn.  "The SKM will decide on the call for tractor trolly march to Parliament. So far, there is no call to withdraw it. A decision on this is likely to be taken on Sunday after the SKM's core committee meeting," he told PTI.  On January 26, a tractor rally had turned violent with protesters breaking barricades, attacking security personnel and storming the Red Fort, where they hoisted a religious flag. Ugrahan reiterated that farmers will stay put here at Tikri and other borders until the Centre formally repeals these laws in Parliament. He said many farm unions are holding separate meetings to ponder over farms issues and future strategies after the prime minister's Friday announcement.  "Representatives of these farm unions will take part in the SKM meeting tomorrow," the farmer leader said, adding the Central government should give a legal guarantee to MSP for all crops.  Another farmer leader at Tikri Border and SKM member, Sudesh Goyat said, "Farmers cannot trust the Centre on farm laws as earlier too they had announced to give one rank one pension (OROP) but it is yet to be done."  "So, we have decided not to leave the site till these laws are formally repealed in Parliament. Mobilisation of farmers on Delhi borders on November 26 to mark the first anniversary of the agitation will continue," she said.  She added that so far there is no call to withdraw tractor march.  Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh under the aegis of various farmers unions have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Earthquake of 4.1-magnitude rocks Assam||An earthquake of 4.1 magnitude jolted parts of Assam, including its largest city Guwahati, on Saturday afternoon. The quake, with epicentre in Kamrup district, hit the state at 1.12 pm, according to data from the National Center for Seismology. Tremors of the earthquake, which occurred at a depth of 10 km, were felt across Guwahati city as well as its adjoining areas. No report of loss of life or damage to property has been received yet. The northeastern region falls in a high seismic zone, making earthquakes a frequent phenomenon in the area. A 6.4-magnitude quake had shaken Assam and parts of northeast on April 28, causing damage to several buildings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Indore wins India's cleanest city award for fifth year in a row||Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for the fifth time in a row in the Central government's annual cleanliness awards while Chhattisgarh retained the first position in the state category. The second and third positions in the 'cleanest city' category of the 'Swachh Survekshan Awards, 2021' were secured by Surat and Vijayawada, respectively. Varanasi, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha, has been adjudged the "cleanest Ganga town" while Bihar's Munger and Patna have been ranked second and third in the category. Although Indore and Surat retained their positions in the 'Swachh Survekshan Awards 2021', Navi Mumbai lost its third spot to Vijaywada and was in the fourth position in the latest survey results announced by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Saturday. President Ram Nath Kovind gave away the awards in presence of Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and others at an event here. The ministry said in the latest nationwide cleanliness survey, 4,320 cities were covered in 28 days, adding that over 4.2 core people had given their feedback. Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, having more than 100 urban local bodies, have been adjudged the second and third cleanest state in the country. In the category of states with less than 100 urban local bodies, Jharkhand has been ranked first, followed by Haryana and Goa. The 10 top-ranked cleanest cities, having a population of more than one lakh, are Indore, Surat, Vijaywada, Navi Mumbai, New Delhi, Ambikapur, Tirupati, Pune, Noida and Ujjain. Lucknow has been ranked the lowest among 25 cities in the same category. According to the ministry, Vita city of Maharashtra has been ranked the cleanest city with less than one lakh population, followed by Lonavala and Sasvad. New Delhi Municipal Council secured the first position in the country's cleanest small city category of 1-3 lakh population while Hoshangawad and Triputi emerged as the "Fastest Mover small city" and "Best Small City in Citizens' Feedback" categories, respectively. Noida emerged as the country's "cleanest medium city" in the category of 3-10 lakh population. Navi Mumbai bagged the first award in the category of 'Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge'. It also got the first position as India's 'cleanest big city' in the category of 10-40 lakh population. In the category of cantonment boards, Ahmedabad was ranked the cleanest city, followed by Meerut and Delhi. Surat has bagged the first award in the district ranking category while Indore and New Delhi have secured second and third position, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Priyanka urges PM not to share stage with Mishra at DGPs' meet||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday urged him not to share the stage with Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra during the DGPs conference here keeping in mind farmers' interest.  She also sought the removal of Mishra from his post over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which his son is an accused. Vadra made the appeal to the PM through a letter that she read out in front of reporters hours before the commencement of the DGPs conference.  "Yesterday, while addressing the countrymen, you had said that with true mind and pious heart and keeping in mind the interests of the farmers, an unprecedented decision to repeal the farm laws was taken. If this is true, then getting justice delivered to the families affected by the Lakhimpur Kheri violence should be your top priority," the Congress general secretary said.  "But, Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra 'Teni' still remains a member of your council of ministers. If you share the stage in the (DGPs) conference with the father of the accused (Ashish Mishra), then a clear message will go to the aggrieved families that you are still with those persons, who are giving patronage to the murderers".  She further said, "If today, your intention is really clear about the farmers of the country, then you should not share the stage with the Union Minister of State for Home, and remove him."  The AICC general secretary also urged that cases registered against the farmers in the country for staging protests against the agri laws be withdrawn and financial assistance be given to the families of all those who died during the agitation.  "You are the Prime Minister and you must be understanding well the responsibility towards the farmers of the country. Ensuring justice towards every citizen is not only the duty but also the moral responsibility of the prime minister," she said in the letter written in Hindi.  Referring to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra, the Congress leader said, "The entire country has been witness to the cruelty that has been meted out to the 'annadatas' (food providers) in Lakhimpur Kheri. You know that the son of the Union minister of state for Home is the main accused in running a vehicle over the farmers.  "Owing to political pressure, the Uttar Pradesh government has from the beginning tried to stifle the voice of justice. The Supreme Court has said that it seems the government is trying to save a special accused person," she said.  Violence had erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when farmers were protesting the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit to Mishra's place. Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist, two BJP workers were also killed in the violence that ensued.  Vadra also said that she had met the family members of the deceased farmers, and they are in tremendous pain.  "All the families want justice and with the Union minister of state for Home being in office, they do not have any hope of getting justice. The current situation of the probe in the Lakhimpur violence case proves that the apprehension of the families is correct. Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have shared the stage with him (Ajay Mishra)," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Sushil Kumar murder case: Co-accused granted custody parole by Delhi court||A Delhi court has granted five days custody parole to wrestler Gaurav Loura, one of the accused in the Chhatrasal Stadium murder case involving Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, to appear for the school examination. Additional Sessions Judge Shivaji Anand allowed him to give Class 12 exams at a school in Haryana's Jhajjar district and asked him to incur the expenses of being escorted by the police to another state. The accused is granted custody parole for November 20, November 29, December 1, December 6, and December 10 from 12 noon to 6 pm for attending his exams on the above-mentioned dates, the judge said. The court, in an order dated November 18, directed the accused to deposit Rs 20,000 after the prosecution stated that taking him to another state will cause an unnecessary burden of expenses on the state. "Rest of the expenses shall be borne by the State," the judge added. The case in which Loura is an accused relates to the alleged murder of former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar. Sushil Kumar is the main accused in the case. Loura, a student of the National Institute of Open Schooling, practised wrestling in the Chhatrasal Stadium and belonged to the same village as Kumar, according to the charge sheet. In one of the videos recovered from the phone of co-accused Prince, accused Loura is seen beating Dhankar, the final report stated. Loura was arrested on June 26, 2021. Loura and Kumar, along with several others, had allegedly assaulted Dhankar and his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar succumbed to injuries later. According to the post-mortem report, he died due to cerebral damage resulting from blunt object impact.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Varun Gandhi writes to Modi, urges him to accept farmers' demand on MSP||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept farmers' demand for statutory MSP guarantee for their crops and also sought action against Union Minister Ajay Mishra for the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. In a letter to the prime minister, the MP from Pilibhit in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh said that till this demand of farmers' is not met, their movement will not end. Gandhi's remarks came a day after the Prime Minister in his address to the nation announced repeal of the three farm laws which triggered a year of protests by farmers. The announcement of the withdrawal of the contentious laws was warily welcomed by leaders of the farmers' unions spearheading the agitation but they said the protests will continue till the measures are repealed in Parliament and Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops gets legal guarantee. Gandhi thanked Modi for his "large-heartedness" in announcing the decision to repeal the three farm laws, but added "more than 700 farmer brothers and sisters have been martyred in this movement", as they peacefully protested in extremely difficult and hostile conditions. "If this decision had been taken earlier, innocent lives would not have been lost," he said. In his letter posted on Twitter, Gandhi underscored the need to accept the farmers' demand for legal guarantee of MSP. "This movement will not end without the resolution of this demand and there will be widespread anger amongst them, which will continue to emerge in one form or the other. Therefore, it is very important for the farmers to get the statutory guarantee of MSP for their crops," he wrote. The BJP leader said the legal binding on MSP will give sizeable economic security cover to farmers and will empower small and marginal farmers. "My humble request to you is that the government must immediately accept this demand in the interest of our nation," Gandhi said in his letter to the prime minister. He said MSP should also be based on the C2+50 per cent formula of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices. Describing the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which farmers were among eight people killed, as heartbreaking and a "blemish on our democracy", Gandhi said, "... It is my request to you that appropriately strict action is taken against the Union minister who has been connected to this incident, so that there is a fair enquiry." The BJP MP Gandhi made the request to the prime minister without taking Mishra's name. He also claimed that the Lakhimpur incident was outcome of the adversarial atmosphere created against the farmers' movement by provocative statements of many leaders sitting in senior positions. Gandhi also demanded that Rs 1 crore compensation be given to farmers martyred in this movement against the laws and that all "politically motivated false" FIRs against the protesting farmers be quashed. Concluding his letter, Gandhi said that farmers expect that their demands will be resolved in a timely and sensitive manner and asserted that democracy runs on constitutionality, discourse and empathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
20-11-2021||India||Rain wreaks havoc in Andhra Pradesh, triggers flood||A heavy downpour of up to 20 cm wreaked havoc in three Rayalaseema districts and one south coastal district in Andhra Pradesh, leaving at least 17 people dead on Friday. Over a hundred people were still reported missing all over the state, while the Indian Air Force, SDRF and Fire Services personnel rescued tens of people caught in the flash floods. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy over phone and enquired about the situation and promised all help to the state. The Chief Minister will undertake an aerial survey of the flood-hit districts on Saturday, the CMO said in a release. Swollen rivers and rivulets caused a huge deluge in the districts, cutting off roads at some places and throwing life out of gear. In many places, roads turned into canals and swept vehicles away. Though the Tirupati International Airport at Renigunta was re-opened for flight operations on Friday, the two ghat roads to Tirumala Hills remained shut. The stairway leading to Tirumala from Alipiri suffered heavy damage due to landslips and flooding, shutting it down for pilgrims who normally trek the Hills. The Chief Minister asked the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam officials to make arrangements for free accommodation and food for the stranded pilgrims on the Hills. In Rajampeta constituency in Kadapa district, at least five people were killed in a flash flood in the Cheyyeru rivulet while 12 more were still missing. Kadapa Collector Vijaya Rama Raju told PTI that eight people in all were killed in the district in the floods. The conductor of a State Road Transport Corporation bus and two other passengers met with a watery grave in Kadapa district as the vehicle tilted in the flood. Two others in the bus were rescued, according to an official release. In neighbouring Anantapuramu district, 10 people stranded in the Chitravati river flood at Veldurthi village were rescued by the Indian Air Force personnel, who specially flew in from Yelahanka Air Force Station in Karnataka. The IAF team carried out a winching operation using a Mi-17 helicopter to rescue the ten people, who were stuck in a JCB. The JCB had earlier in the afternoon gone to rescue four people in a car caught in the Chitravati flood but, as the flood turned menacing, six of those in it and the four car passengers got stuck. The Anantapuramu district administration sent an SOS to the IAF, following which the rescue operation was carried out successfully. SDRF, police and Fire Services personnel rescued tens of people from flood-hit places in Kadapa and Chittoor districts. In Kadapa district, 33 relief camps have been opened and 1,200 persons were lodged in them. The Chief Minister spoke with Collectors of the flood-hit districts and asked them to step up rescue and relief measures. The South Central Railway said 11 passenger and Express trains were cancelled, five partially cancelled, 27 diverted via other routes and one more rescheduled because of the deluge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||India logs over 10,000 fresh Covid cases, 267 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 infection tally rose by 10,302 in a day to reach 3,44,99,925 while the number of active cases declined to 1,24,868 during the same period, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,65,349 with 267 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Active cases decreased by 1,752 in 24 hours and now comprise 0.36 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. Also, the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.29 per cent, the highest since March last year, the Health Ministry said. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 43 days in a row and less than 50,000 for 146 consecutive days. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.96 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 47 days. The weekly positivity rate was 0.93 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 57 days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,09,708 while the case fatality rate was 1.35 per cent. The 267 new fatalities include 204 from Kerala and 15 from Maharashtra. Of the 204 deaths, 49 were reported on November 19 and 155 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Friday. A total of 4,65,349 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,707 from Maharashtra, 38,169 from Karnataka, 37,051 from Kerala, 36,349 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,364 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. So far, over 115.79 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country under the nationwide COVID-19 inoculation drive. India's COVID-19 case tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' category||The national capital's air quality was in the 'very poor' category on Saturday but is predicted to improve significantly from Sunday owing to relatively strong winds. Delhi's air quality index (AQI) at 9 am on Saturday was 377. It was slightly better on Friday when the AQI was 370, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 14.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The AQI in neighbouring Ghaziabad (342), Gurgaon (340) and Noida (363) was also in the 'very poor' category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. According to the authorities concerned, the air quality is likely to improve "significantly" from Sunday owing to relatively strong winds. To combat pollution, the Delhi government had on Wednesday issued 10 directions, including a ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items in the city and closure of schools and colleges till further orders. The maximum temperature in Delhi is likely to settle at 26 degrees Celsius on Saturday. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 85 per cent. The weather department has predicted a generally cloudy sky for the day with the possibility of very light rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||Only under BJP laws are made and unmade without prior Cabinet approval, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the announcement to repeal the farm laws without holding a Cabinet meeting and alleged that it is only under the BJP that laws are made and unmade without prior Cabinet approval. The Congress leader's attack came a day after Modi in an address to the nation announced the repeal of the three agri laws that had triggered a year of protests by farmers. "Home Minister hailed the PM's announcement as showing 'remarkable statesmanship'. BJP President said that PM has 'immense care for farmers'. Defence Minister said that PM had taken the decision considering the 'welfare of the farmers'. Where were these worthy leaders and their wise advice in the last 15 months?" Chidambaram said on Twitter. Did you notice that the PM made the announcement without holding a Cabinet meeting, the former Union minister asked. "It is only under the BJP that laws are made and unmade without prior Cabinet approval," he went on to allege. Hundreds of farmers had been protesting and were encamped at Delhi's borders since last November with a demand for repeal of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and forging of a new law that guarantees MSP for crops. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the farmers, had maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claimed the legislations would leave them at the mercy of corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||A year since farmers braved water cannons and pushed past boulders||Come November 26, it will be a year since farmers braved water cannons and pushed past boulders placed on Haryana highways by the state’s BJP government to stop their march to Delhi to make themselves heard by the Narendra Modi government. The Centre had ignored their protests to ram through three farm bills in Parliament. But the protests pre-date the Dilli Chalo call by at least five months. A timeline of the farm movement: June 5, 2020: The Modi government promulgates three ordinances — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and another one to amend the Essential Commodities Act. Together, the trio dilute the controls on sale, pricing and storage, which have insulated farmers for long from free market forces. August 2020: Protests begin in Punjab against the farm bills, for a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) and withdrawal of the Electricity Bill. September 20: The farm bills are cleared by the Rajya Sabha in a much-contested vote that the government pushes through amid considerable support for the Opposition demand to refer them to a select committee for closer scrutiny. September 26: The Akali Dal quits the NDA over the farm laws. November 7: 40 farmer unions from across the country form the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has spearheaded the protests through a collective le-adership mechanism. The SKM gives the Dilli Chalo call for November 26 — the day when the Constitution was adopted in 1949 — and November 27. November 26/27: Farmers begin reaching Delhi’s borders, braving water cannons and boulders. They pitch tents on Delhi’s outskirts after refusing the government’s offer to allow them to proceed to the Nirankari Sangam Ground. December 1: The first in a series of negotiations between farmer union leaders and the Centre is held at the level of the agriculture minister, a process that saw at least 10 rounds during which the government first offered amendments. December 3, 2020: Akali Dal patron Parkash Singh Badal returns the Padma Vibhushan. December 8: A Bharat Bandh sees workers align with farmers in what became a template for future mobilisations that saw the coalition broadening to other sectors. December 12: Union home minister Amit Shah steps in to lead the negotiations for the government to no avail. January 12, 2021: The Supreme Court stays the implementation of the farm laws and appoints a committee to resolve the stalemate. The farmers had already announced they would not participate. Now they harden their position as all members of the committee are in favour of the farm laws. January 21: The government offers to suspend implementation of the laws for a couple of years; the farmers reject it. January 26: Farmers hold a tractor rally in Delhi but incidents of violence at a couple of points and storming of the Red Fort by a group of protesters put the SKM on the back foot. It calls off the tractor rally midway. January 27: The government begins to crack down on the farmers. January 28: Farm leader Rakesh Tikait breaks down in full view of farmers during the crackdown, turning the tide of the movement that had been demoralised by the government narrative on the incidents of violence. Since then the movement has gone from strength to strength with farmers being extra cautious during any mass mobilisation. April/May: The SKM actively campaigns against the BJP in the Assembly elections without supporting any party. October 31: Four farmers are mowed down in Lakhimpur Kheri by a Thar jeep owned by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni and with his son Ashis allegedly in it. This spreads the farmers’ movement, which till then had been confined to the western region when it came to Uttar Pradesh, to the Terai region of the state. It further triggers the already agitating farmers of the Terai region in Uttarakhand, poll-bound like Uttar Pradesh. November 19: Modi announces decision to withdraw the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||Farmers to continue protests till demand for MSP law met||The protesting farmers on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for announcing the repeal of the contentious farm laws but will continue their protests till the process is complete and their other main demand for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price for all farm produce is met. Next week’s protest plans by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which has been spearheading the farmer protests across the country since last November, stand unchanged. These include a Muzaffarnagar-like mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday as a prelude to marking the first anniversary of the protest at Delhi’s borders. Having got a government that makes a virtue of being unbending reverse a decision it was deeply invested in, the farmers are in no mood to call off their yearlong protest without the MSP guarantee law. They know managing another mobilisation of such a scale — and keeping it largely peaceful — is not something that can be repeated in a heartbeat. If anything, the demand for a law guaranteeing MSP resonates more in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. State-level Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait set the tone for the next course of action — even before the SKM had spoken — by stating the repeal was only half a victory. In its statement, issued about an hour after Modi’s address, the SKM welcomed the decision and said it would wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedure. “If this happens, it will be a historic victory of the one-year-long farmers’ struggle in India. However, nearly 700 farmers have been martyred in this struggle. The central government’s obstinacy is responsible for these avoidable deaths, including the murders at Lakhimpur Kheri,” it said. The statement reminded Modi that the agitation was not just for the repeal of the three “black laws” but also for a statutory guarantee of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce and for all farmers. “This important demand is still pending. So also is the withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill,” the SKM said. In a more detailed statement in the evening, the Morcha said the farmers’ struggle had led to a reinstatement of democracy and the federal polity in India. Several of the farmer union leaders put out social media posts urging supporters not to leave the protest sites because of Modi’s announcement. The SKM said the mobilisation to mark the first anniversary of the protest on November 26 was under way and was being intensified, particularly for the kisan mahapanchayat in Lucknow. The Morcha’s core committee is likely to meet on Saturday. This is to be followed by a general body meeting on Sunday to take the final call on the course of the movement. For now, all seem ready for the long haul, keen to use the movement’s momentum — buoyed by the government’s climb-down — to realise the long-pending demand for an MSP law. The farmers’ Mission UP and Mission Uttarakhand too stand for now. The farmers plan to campaign against the BJP during the two Assembly elections without supporting any particular party — a repeat of what they had done during the last round of state polls this year. The SKM’s claim that the farmers’ struggle has led to the reinstatement of democracy is not just hyperbole, for they have presented a template to the Opposition to peacefully stand up to a government that had used every trick in the book to break the peasants. Although the 40 unions that together formed the SKM and the others that supported the Morcha from outside come from various political persuasions, they were able to bury their differences and provide collective leadership to the movement with a single-minded focus on the agenda. Differences emerged at various points and several union leaders were suspended for short periods for differing with the collective view of the SKM. But the protests continued against all odds, which included an unleashing of the brute force of the State against them, the vagaries of nature, and the pandemic. Through it all, the leadership managed to ensure the movement remained largely peaceful in the face of extreme provocation from mischief-makers, ably aided by large sections of the television media. The farmers celebrated the idea of India enshrined in the Constitution, refused to succumb to divide-and-rule politics, and accepted mistakes on their part and the instances of lawbreaking within their ranks. They held their ground even when dragged to the Supreme Court where they refused to engage with the court-appointed committee, insisting there was nothing to mediate on since they wanted total repeal of the three laws. Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee and president of the Shetkari Sanghatana, described the decision to repeal the farm laws as regressive, alleging Modi had chosen politics over farmer welfare. The Sanghatana has always favoured opening up the farm sector. Ghanwat said the government had not done its job properly, resulting in the agitation. “This decision is a political decision. The government wants to win in all the states which have elections in the coming months,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||Modi apologises to people, declares decision to repeal three farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday apologised to the Indian people and announced a decision to repeal the three farm laws that have triggered a yearlong agitation, marking a rare capitulation before public opinion by a leader prone to boast about his “56-inch chest”. Modi said he was taking the step “for the country” but did not explain himself. Many social media users, the Congress and some BJP leaders attributed the decision to the upcoming Assembly polls, especially in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The Prime Minister’s surprise announcement, made in a sudden 9am address to the nation, came on Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary, implying an attempt to woo the minority Sikh community that has been spearheading the farmer protests in Punjab and at Delhi’s borders. Modi announced the repeal towards the end of his around 20-minute speech, still insisting the contentious laws were beneficial for farmers and apologising only because his government had failed to convince “some” farmers about this. “Friends, while apologising to countrymen, I want to say with a sincere and pure heart that perhaps something was lacking in our dedication that we could not explain the truth, which was clear as daylight, to some of our farmer brothers,” he said, a week before the farmers’ siege of Delhi completes one year. Modi said: “But today, Prakash Parv, is not the time to blame anyone. Today I want to tell the country that we have decided to repeal the three farm laws.” He added: “Whatever I did (so far) was for farmers. What I’m doing is for the country.” The agitating farmers had argued the three laws would leave them open to exploitation by big companies. Modi said the three laws would be revoked during the upcoming winter session of Parliament, expected to start in end-November. He requested the farmers to end their agitation and return to their homes, urging them to “make a new beginning” and “move forward afresh”. But the Prime Minister offered no apology or regret for the relentless campaign by some BJP leaders to demonise the protesting farmers as “anti-nationals”, “Maoists” and “Khalistanis”. Nor did he apologise for the deaths of hundreds of farmers during the long protest, including the four farmers mowed down by a car owned by one of his ministers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh. Ministers and BJP leaders rushed to hail the Prime Minister’s “statesmanlike” move, but some privately acknowledged the climb-down was very “un-Modi-like”. Only once before had Modi backtracked on a reform move — a minor one compared with the farm laws, and one that came early during his first stint as Prime Minister. Modi had in 2015 quietly shelved a pro-market land acquisition ordinance that had provoked Opposition protests and a “suit boot ki sarkar” jibe from Rahul Gandhi. The withdrawal of the farm laws is much bigger, especially since Modi had led the campaign from the front, defending the reforms, viciously attacking the Opposition and asserting his firmness not to yield. Besides, the three laws, railroaded through Parliament, reflected the government’s bullishness after the electoral mandate of 2019, which had also emboldened it to bulldoze all opposition and force constitutional changes and a brutal clampdown on Jammu and Kashmir. In Kashmir too, on Thursday, the authorities buckled before public protests, announced a probe into a disputed “encounter” and reversed a decision not to hand over the victims’ bodies to their families. Home minister Amit Shah hailed Modi’s decision as “statesmanlike” and tweeted: “It also shows there is no other thought except the welfare of each and every Indian for him.” Some in the BJP suggested the “national interest” that dictated the decision was a perception in the Sangh parivar that a feeling of persecution among Sikhs was bringing them closer to Muslims. The government’s climb-down comes just months ahead of Assembly elections in Punjab and the key state of Uttar Pradesh, and shortly after a series of by-election defeats had prompted it to lower fuel prices. Western Uttar Pradesh, which had become a hub of the farm protests along with Punjab and Haryana, accounts for around 130 of the state’s 403 Assembly seats. Party insiders said an internal assessment suggested the raging anger among farmers in the region could cause severe electoral damage. The party is worried that the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre has spread the message of the farm protests across the state’s central and eastern districts too. The recent by-election drubbings in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan have alarmed the party, as has the alliance between the Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal and smaller outfits in Uttar Pradesh. “The by-election results led the government to cut petrol and diesel prices and now the decision to repeal the farm laws,” a BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh said. Elections are due early next year in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur, and later in the year in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||The first sign of fear: Modi’s retreat is no act of generosity||More than just the embroiled farm laws were cast into the bin on Friday; with them went a few more volts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meticulously crafted and copyrighted aura — a decisive leader, unwavering of conviction, unmoved by opposition, a high-risk sweepstakes adventurist. In 2017, he barrelled into Uttar Pradesh on the back of widespread disaffection triggered by the demonetisation and won the state on a canter. Four years later, Modi appears a little robbed of mien and out of character, baulked by the challenge of retaining hold over what is verily his political home state. Friday’s summary backtrack on the farm laws is a desperate grab in the garb of a gift, make no mistake; a cold, calculating heart masquerading as having finally melted under the Gurupurab moon out of concern for the farmer. Nothing has melted other than fragments of the fabled Modi warrior sheen. After the drubbing in Bengal, the loss of Uttar Pradesh would be an injury too dire to carry into the battle of 2024. The league of those who can only see Modi rendering one masterstroke upon another has been dutifully at work all day, divining character in capitulation. But it has been a hard act to keep up. The reality is that beyond all the expertly argued pros and cons of the farm laws, beyond all their widely advertised merits, the outing has ended in a political mishap. Nothing revealed the truth of a Modi atypically shaken than the groan echoing off his core constituents: oh no, how disappointing he has given in, now what? Several of them even wondered, aghast and aloud, whether this would be the beginning of a slide into surrenders. Will he not notify the CAA now? Is the NRC buried? Will there be pushback on labour reform laws? Oh my, could it mean even Article 370 is up for re-negotiation? Is this rollback time? The Modi nerves, bared to the nation early this Friday morning, have rippled down the Modi fellowship. None of what they fear might actually come to transpire, but that isn’t the point; the point is that they have come, for the first time since 2014, to harbour a fear; where they expected courage unbound, they have spied a weak bone: Modi can be hounded off his obduracy. And, on the evidence of Bengal this summer, Modi can be vanquished at the hustings. For those who have stood up to oppose the Modi ecosystem’s manifestly sectarian project and suffered for it these past years, Friday’s message may be momentous — if you fight right and if you stay the course, you’ll force openings. There is probably no trick the Modi regime did not employ in order to break the farmers’ stir, probably the most determined and sustained in living memory. It was also, lest we forget, the most costly. More than 700 farmer lives were lost; in their grimmest hour, in the face of the most testing provocation, it’s their collective sense of purpose the farmers never lost sight of. The regime’s propaganda behemoth churned out label after defamatory label — Khalistanis, Pakistanis, anti-nationals, urban Naxals, Maoists…. Agents were planted in their midst to give the stir a bad name and hang it. The farmers’ act of claiming their capital on Republic Day was sought to be represented as a flaming act of treason. Time and time again attempts were made to lure away this union or that, to somehow sunder the movement. Eleven rounds of negotiations were held, helmed on the government’s side by a catalogue of senior ministers. Each of those rounds proved more firmly to the farmers that the government was stringing them along, playing on their purpose and patience. And those talks never meant state violence was off the table — heckling and beating, baton charging, tear gassing, firing, all of the ugly instruments of power remained in frequent and flagrant use. The most modern machinery was employed to build the most medieval defences around Delhi — iron spikes grouted into highways, sections of roads gouged out by earth-movers, cement barricading erected in serried layers, the nation’s capital was rendered off limits to those who keep this nation fed. If there was, in any precinct of this regime, any fondness for the farmer, or regard for his cause, it wasn’t in evidence before 9am on Friday. Modi’s retreat is no act of generosity, it is a resort to cutting essential losses. Reports from Punjab have long been dismal for the BJP, especially after the Akalis deserted the NDA in protest over the farm laws; what had begun to hurt and haunt was the persistently poor feedback from Uttar Pradesh, especially the agitation-riven western and central belt. There will be those who will deem Modi’s a smart move; the likelier truth could be that the Prime Minister is smarting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||Modi will have to carry burden of injustice, misery: Ashwani Kumar ||Former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would have to carry the heavy burden of causing untold misery to the farmers who would never forget the hardships caused by the delayed withdrawal of the controversial farm laws. Reacting to Modi’s announcement of repealing the three laws during the next Parliament session, Kumar said the belated announcement affirmed the truth that the defence of peoples’ rights and the vindication of their sensitivities rested finally on the assertion of popular will. “The farmers of India have not only made history but have reminded us of its lessons. The vindication of the farmers’ cause is owed entirely to their unflinching faith in the justice of their cause and the nationwide support for it. “If only the central government had risen above hubris and responded to the farmers’ cry for justice, human misery on a colossal scale could have been averted. “There is no doubt that the Modi government will have to carry the heavy burden of injustice and the misery caused by the belated decision to repeal the unjust laws. “Farmers are not going to forget the hardships caused to them and their families in a hurry. Public memory may be short, but historic struggles are not easily forgotten,” Kumar told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||BKU leaders claim its members make up two-thirds of protesters ||Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) Ugrahan, a former soldier from Sunam tehsil in Sangrur district, Punjab, formed what has now become the largest faction of the BKU in 2002. The group’s leaders claim its members make up almost two-thirds of all the protesters at Delhi’s borders. Ekta Ugrahan is seen as the most influential secular organisation in Punjab’s Malwa region. The group was not invited to the talks that Union home minister Amit Shah held with 13 peasant groups last December. Ekta Ugrahan had begun the agitation in September last year with protests in front of the homes of former Punjab chief minsters Amarinder Singh and Parkash Singh Badal, and boycotted Congress leaders the following month over the issue of compensation to cotton farmers for pest attacks. Ugrahan has kept his group at a distance from others, organising protests separately from the start and leading the agitation at the Tikri border rather than join most of the other groups in Singhu. His group now focuses its attacks on the BJP alone, unlike many others who equate the Congress with the BJP in Punjab as both are ruling parties. During the agitation, Ugrahan’s group joined and invited industrial workers and protested against the imprisonment of students over the 2020 Delhi riots, and of activists and writers in the Elgar Parishad case. Ekta Ugrahan’s expansion in states like Uttarakhand and Haryana has caused friction between it and BKU (Charuni). Gurnam Singh, president BKU (Charuni) Gurnam, who is from Charuni Jattan in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district, leads the key BKU faction in the state. He was suspended from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha for a week in July for leading campaign rallies for the upcoming Punjab polls, which went against the SKM’s norm of keeping out of the electoral arena. He boycotted meetings after that, saying he was being discriminated against, and has been involved in public spats with other farmer groups. Gurnam is known for creative protests: he has led shirtless protesters, dumped potatoes on highways, and in 2019 climbed a tall water tank to compel government procurement of the sunflower crop. His supporters led militant boycotts of the BJP and its Haryana ally, the Jannayak Janta Party, after the police detained him on his way to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh last month. Earlier, Haryana police had booked him in an attempt-to-murder case in Ambala for leading protesters in driving their tractors through a highway police barricade. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharti Kisan Union (Dakaunda) Jagmohan is a qualified acupuncture therapist from the border village of Karma near Ferozepur, Punjab. After the anti-Sikh riots in 1984, he quit his job in the department of cooperatives to devote all his time to activism. He joined the BKU-Ekta group in 1993, walking away later to form the Dakaunda group in 2005. Jagmohan is considered an encyclopaedia on agricultural laws, negotiations and the history of the farmers’ movement, and is consulted by other groups. Through the agitation, he has spoken out on the changing fine print in the Centre’s and state governments’ grain procurement policy and other economic policies. He began protests against the farm ordinances in June last year and was instrumental in getting several Punjab groups to cooperate with the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Part of the secular tendency that includes Ugrahan, Darshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal and the Left, Jagmohan has opposed the proximity of Nihang religious warriors to the Singhu protest and the use of religious symbols. Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab Pal has been the agitation’s spokesperson and ideological helmsman, setting the line, politely chiding leaders who digress, and bringing together groups with strong individual identities some of whom have clashed in the past. Known as a far-Left intellectual in Punjab, Pal is an MD in anaesthesia. He retired early from the Punjab Civil Medical Service and began organising peasants in 2007. Before this, he was associated with radical platforms including the now-banned Revolutionary Democratic Front and the People’s Democratic Front of India (PDFI), and with now-imprisoned professor G.N. Saibaba, Elgar accused author Varavara Rao and anti-dam activist Medha Patkar. The PDFI had organised several visits by activists to Singur, Bengal, to protest the eviction of peasants to set up a Tata Nano factory — part of attempts at reindustrialising Bengal that led to the Left Front government’s downfall in 2011. Pal was among those who had last year called for the burning of effigies representing the Centre and corporate houses seen as its cronies. Hannan Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha Mollah has emerged as a key leader with a national outlook in the SKM and has been instrumental in taking the agitation outside north India. The former CPM parliamentarian was elected to his current position in the CPM-affiliated AIKS — perhaps India’s largest group of organised peasantry — in 2012. Since then, the organisation has led several large agitations, such as in Maharashtra in 2018. The AIKS has taken up issues of peasants outside the ambit of the farmer agitation, such as that of Bengali peasants killed during an eviction drive in Assam in September. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union Tikait’s contribution has been the expansion in western Uttar Pradesh. He had broken down in front of TV cameras as police laid siege to his protest at the Ghazipur border in January and cut off electricity. The visuals of him crying led to lakhs of Jats arriving in tractors to join him, pushing aside barricades. Tikait, a former Delhi police constable, is the son of Mahendra Tikait, one of those who had founded the BKU in 1978. Rakesh Tikait lost his deposit as a Rashtriya Lok Dal candidate from Amroha, Uttar Pradesh, in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. An unlikely leader of the farmers’ movement, he has publicly said he had voted for the BJP in 2019. However, Tikait has worked hard to shake off the image of being close to the BJP by blocking the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur and leading the siege of a police station in Fatehabad, Haryana, for the release of agitating farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
20-11-2021||India||Prasad: How come demands are raised to free those behind bars?  ||Piyush Goyal, Union minister; leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Last December, Goyal told the annual Ficci meeting: “We now realise that the so-called farmer agitation hardly remains a farmers’ agitation. It has almost got infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements, a flavour of which we saw over the last two days when there were extraneous demands to release people who have been put behind bars for anti-national… who have been put behind bars for illegal activities.” Goyal tweeted on Friday: “PM @NarendraModi ji’s announcement on farm laws reflect his unflinching commitment to the welfare of our annadaata (food giver).” Ravi Shankar Prasad, former Union minister Responding to the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)’s call for the release of political prisoners on Human Rights Day (December 10) last year, Prasad — then law and justice minister -—told a meeting of farmers organised by his party in Bakhtiarpur, Bihar: “(The) tukde-tukde gang is using the shoulders of farmers to fire on the country’s unity and integrity. How come demands are raised to free those behind bars for rioting in Delhi and Maharashtra? Strong action will be taken against them.” On Friday, Prasad tweeted a quote from the Prime Minister’s speech announcing the decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws. Ajay Mishra (Teni), Union minister of state for home In a speech made shortly before the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre last month, Mishra purportedly said: “Face me, it will take just two minutes to discipline you fellows…. I am not only a minister or an MP and MLA.... People who knew me even before I became a parliamentarian know that I never run away from challenges. The day I accept a challenge you will all have to leave not only Palia (a place in the district where farmers had shown black flags to Mishra) but Lakhimpur itself.” Days later, a Thar jeep owned by him allegedly led a convoy in mowing down four farmers, for which his son has been arrested. On Friday, Mishra re-tweeted Modi’s speech. Raosaheb Patil Danve, minister of state for railways, coal and mines At the inauguration of a health centre in his district of Jalna in Maharashtra last December, Danve said: “The agitation that is going on is not that of farmers. China and Pakistan have a hand behind this. Muslims in this country were incited first. What was said? That NRC is coming, CAA is coming and Muslims will have to leave this country in six months. Did a single Muslim leave? Those efforts didn’t succeed and now farmers are being told that they will face losses. This is the conspiracy of other countries.” On Friday, Danve re-tweeted Modi’s speech and posts from the official handles of the BJP and party president J.P. Nadda. Not villains, but… After international pop star Rihanna, climate change activist Greta Thunberg and several others tweeted in support of the farmers’ agitation in February, several Bollywood and Indian sports celebrities posted identical tweets supporting the government and condemning the critics’ remarks. Among them were actors Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn, former and current cricketers Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli, table tennis star Manika Batra and athlete P.T. Usha. They were called out by a few other sportspersons such as tennis player Somdev Devvarman and cricketers Irfan Pathan and Manoj Tiwary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
20-11-2021||India||Upcoming Assembly polls forced PM to repeal farm laws: Congress||The Congress is seeing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s abrupt decision to repeal the contentious farm laws as neither a moral awakening nor a remorseful retreat, insisting that the politician had finally capitulated to electoral compulsions. Arguing that the spectre of defeat in the upcoming Assembly elections, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, had forced Modi to abandon the “pro-corporate” agriculture laws that he had so vigorously pursued through vicious propaganda and coercive tactics against the farmers, the Congress said the government should be punished for the “crime”. The Opposition party said Modi’s intent was still suspect given his “anti-farmer” track record. Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the farmers’ satyagraha had defeated the government’s arrogance. “The country’s annadatas (food providers) have made arrogance bow its head through satyagraha. Congratulations on this victory against injustice! Jai Hind, Jai Hind ka kisan,” Rahul tweeted in Hindi. The Congress parliamentarian said in another tweet that it was also a victory for those who could not return to their homes. “Defeat is only theirs who could not save the lives of the annadaatas,” Rahul wrote, sharing a video that had images from the farmers’ yearlong protest. He released a letter to the farmers congratulating them for their triumph and asked the Prime Minister to announce the road map for doubling their income instead of “plotting loot” by “crony capitalists”. The Congress has decided to celebrate Kisan Vijay Diwas across the country on Saturday. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The anti-farmer conspiracy, the might of the crony capitalists and Modi’s conceit have been vanquished. The country will not forget that Modi rolled back his crime after the death of over 700 farmers, a sordid saga of torture and coercion and sinister plots to defame and demoralise. “The country will punish the BJP for this crime — for digging up national highways, planting nails on roads, erecting blockades and barbed wire and (issuing) orders to break heads of farmers.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in Lucknow that Modi’s somersault was caused by the fear of defeat in Uttar Pradesh. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “What cannot be achieved by democratic protests can be achieved by the fear of impending elections! The Prime Minister’s announcement on the withdrawal of the three farm laws is not inspired by a change of policy or a change of heart. It is impelled by fear of elections! Anyway, it is a great victory for the farmers and for the Congress party which was unwavering in its opposition to the farm laws.” The Congress veteran added: “If there is fear of losing the next election, the Prime Minister will admit that demonetisation was a Himalayan blunder, admit that Chinese troops have intruded into Indian territory and occupied our land, admit that the CAA is a patently discriminatory law.” Another Congress senior, Jairam Ramesh, weighed in: “First, bulldoze laws in Parliament. Then face unprecedented protests. Thereafter, confront election realities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, particularly. Finally, after much appeal, repeal. Kisan-ity prevails at last! I salute the tenacity of our kisans who did not give up.” He said in another tweet: “Alas, if only there was a way of repealing the November 8, 2016, decision (demonetisation) by Headline-jeevi. This was really a demonic move, for which the country is still paying.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in a statement: “Truth, justice and non-violence have won today, along with the struggle and sacrifices of the farmers. The arrogance and conspiracy of dictators lie defeated. All decisions should be taken in democracy after consulting the stakeholders. Hope the Modi government will learn something for the future. The government should work for the welfare of farmers and ensure they get MSP (minimum support price).” The Modi government’s insensitive handling of the yearlong farmers’ protest had drawn condemnation within the country and abroad. Every trick was played to malign the farmers, with BJP leaders branding them as Khalistanis, Maoists and Pakistani and Chinese agents. The farmers were not allowed to enter the national capital, compelling thousands of men, women and children to suffer extreme weather conditions as they picketed Delhi’s borders for a year. While Modi neither visited the farmers nor directed his party leaders to stop the character assassination, he met delegations of peasants organised by the BJP to give credence to the false perception that the protesters were not farmers. The Prime Minister had got several opportunities to intervene and resolve the crisis — the last being the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of farmers by a car belonging to a Union minister and being allegedly driven by his son. Union junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, who owns the Thar jeep that ran over four farmers and a journalist, continues to be in his post, even sharing a dais with Amit Shah. Nor has Modi expressed any sympathy in public for the dead farmers. The government’s attitude was manifested in the brazen stonewalling of Rahul’s attempt to offer condolences to the deceased farmers in the Lok Sabha, the filing of sedition cases against activists for expressing solidarity with peasants and the massive propaganda run by friendly media outlets to sully the movement. Even on Friday while withdrawing the laws, Modi claimed that he had failed to convince “only a few farmers (kuchh kisan)”. Surjewala called attention to a series of actions Modi has taken after assuming power that proves that the Prime Minister is “anti-farmer”. “He stopped bonus for crops and told the states that minimum support price won’t be given if bonus is provided. Then he attacked the Land Acquisition Act, relenting only after a massive protest led by Rahul Gandhi. His government filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying that giving 50 per cent profit over input costs, which had been promised in the elections, was not possible.” The Congress spokesperson added: “Then he brought a flawed crop insurance scheme enabling his crony capitalists to make a profit of Rs 27,000 crore. He followed it up by increasing the price of diesel and levying GST on agriculture, leading to increase of Rs 25,000 per hectare in input cost.” Surjewala asked the Prime Minister why the farm laws could not be scrapped through an ordinance if the tenures of the CBI and ED chiefs could be increased through that route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
20-11-2021||India||Farmers, workers to continue stir to seek repeal of labour laws||The farmers and workers will continue to protest and mount pressure on the Narendra Modi government to withdraw four labour laws that were introduced “without consultations with trade unions.” Left and Congress-backed labour unions on Friday trained their guns at the central government over the four labour laws and demanded their withdrawal. They are planning to hold a Bharat Bandh for two days during the budget session of Parliament in February next year. Ever since the farmers’ agitation began, 10 labour unions, including the Congress-affiliated Intuc, CPM-backed Citu, Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the CPI-backed Aituc have been actively supporting the demand for the repeal of the farm laws. In the last two years, Parliament has passed four labour laws — the Wage Code, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, Industrial Relations Code and the Social Security Code. These laws have subsumed 29 existing labour laws. The government is in the process of framing rules for their implementation. The Industrial Relations Code, which provides for speedy redress of workers’ disputes, gives exemption to firms engaging up to 300 employees to retrench people without approval of the state governments. The Wage Code merely provides a threshold floor-level wage, not a minimum wage. The Occupational Safety Code that provides for safety standards at workplaces exempts labour contractors engaging up to 50 workers. The Social Security Code provides for social security measures but does not clearly mention the financial obligation of the central government. “It is our demand that the labour laws be repealed. Tomorrow, the Intuc’s national working committee is meeting to decide the future course of action. The fight will go on jointly with the farmers,” said Ashok Singh, general secretary of Intuc. Harbhajan Singh Sidhu, general secretary of the HMS, said: “The bills should have been discussed in tripartite forums like the Indian Labour Conference represented by workers, employers and government. But the ILC has not been conducted since 2015.” Citu said, “We call upon the working class and the peasantry to strengthen the unity and intensify the struggles against the anti people policies of the BJP/NDA government.” Aituc said the four labour codes and the privatisation bid were the other aspects of the “subversion plan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
20-11-2021||India||Union law ministry to remove three farm laws from statute book||The Union law ministry will have to initiate a process to introduce a repeal bill in the upcoming winter session of Parliament to remove the three contentious farm laws from the statute book following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Friday. One bill listing all three laws can be introduced and passed by both Houses of Parliament separately and then signed by the President before they can be declared as repealed. It will not be difficult for the government to pass the repeal bill as most Opposition parties are anyway opposed to the laws and have questioned the manner in which they were rammed through the Rajya Sabha last year. The other option before the government is to promulgate an ordinance since Parliament is not in session at the moment, and then bring a repeal bill to replace it in the winter session beginning on November 29. The ultimate power to repeal a law enacted by Parliament remains with the legislature, and successive governments have exercised this option to do away with laws that have become obsolete or redundant. For the Modi government, repealing laws is not a new exercise. When it assumed office in 2014, the Prime Minister had appointed a committee to identify obsolete laws for repeal. Over the seven years of Modi rule, several repealing and amending laws have been enacted, the most recent being in 2019. Prior to this, 10 repealing and amending acts had been passed since 1950, removing in part or whole over 1,300 laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
20-11-2021||India||Lucknow residents cannot hang clothes in balconies for PM visit||Police have asked the residents of half-a-dozen apartments in Lucknow not to hang clothes in their balconies from November 19 to 22 as part of security measures for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the area for an event. “I have to inform you that the honourable Prime Minister of India’s programme was proposed at police headquarters in Gomti Nagar Extension area. The high buildings in the adjoining areas have been identified with the view of the security (of the Prime Minister), which includes Saraswati Apartment near the police headquarters,” a letter sent by Prashant Kumar Mishra, the officer in charge of Gomti Nagar Extension police station, to the residents’ welfare association reads. “It is to inform all the residents living in Saraswati Apartment…, Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow, not to put their clothes in their balconies and other places between November 19 and November 22,” the letter adds. The residents will have to inform the police if any relatives visit them during these four days. Mishra told reporters that similar letters have been sent to some other residents’ welfare associations as well. “We have to follow certain security measures and the directions of the Special Protection Group that looks after the security of the Prime Minister. There would be security personnel on the roofs of at least half-a-dozen apartment buildings here,” he added. Modi will address a meeting of the directors-general of police of all states at the police headquarters in Gomti Nagar Extension on Saturday. A resident of one of the apartments said: “It would have been better had the government given us dry cleaners.” “The way the police are visiting our apartments time and again scares our children. They have stopped playing in the ground within the boundary of our building,” another resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
20-11-2021||India||Separatists' call for shutdown paralyses life across Valley||A shutdown against the recent killings of “civilians” during a purported anti-militancy operation in Srinagar paralysed life across the Valley on Friday amidst renewed calls for the return of the body of a third victim. The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday night exhumed the bodies of two businessmen, Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Dr Mudassir Gul, killed in the alleged gunfight on Monday and handed them over to their families for the last rites, marking a rare capitulation to public protests. The bodies were buried in the ancestral graveyards of the families in Srinagar on Thursday night amid emotional scenes at their homes. It’s not clear whether the bodies of two others killed in the operation, office assistant Aamir Magrey and alleged Pakistani militant Haider, will be exhumed too. The four had been secretly buried at a graveyard meant for militants in north Kashmir’s Handwara, some 100km from Srinagar, on Tuesday night, triggering protests from their families who wanted the bodies back. Shops, business establishments and many offices remained shut across Kashmir on Friday in response to the call of a shutdown by the separatists against the killings and subsequent refusal to hand over the bodies to the families. The government has shown zero tolerance for all forms of dissent after the 2019 scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The unyielding crackdown has pushed the separatists to the margins, with many of their top leaders either behind bars or under house arrest. Monday’s killings, however, have given the separatists fresh ammunition to hit out at the government. Moderate Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, under house arrest for over two years, and the jailed leader of the hardline faction, Masrat Alam, had given Friday’s shutdown call. Lateef Magrey, father of the slain Aamir, regretted that his son’s body had not been returned. “I have no hope that they will return my son’s body because they seem to have made up their mind that he was a militant. But I still appeal to the LG (lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha) sahab to return his body as I firmly believe that he too was innocent,” Magrey, a resident of Jammu’s Ramban district, told The Telegraph. “We approached the district administration in Ramban today but they told us that they have written to officials in Srinagar to return his body,” the berieved father said. An official in Ramban refused to comment on the claim. Valley politicians on Friday asked the government to explain why it was not returning Aamir’s body. “Aamir Magrey, also killed in the Hyderpora encounter, is yet to be given a decent burial by his mourning family. The fact that these families are begging for mortal remains instead of asking for justice reflects their lack of faith in the system. His body must be returned immediately,” former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. The five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, on Friday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking a time-bound “judicial probe” into the killings. The government of the Union Territory has ordered a magisterial inquiry. “Such unfortunate incidents widen the gulf between the people of J&K and the government of India. We would also bring to your notice the practice of taking away bodies of the victims of such incidents and depriving their families of the right to organise their burial in accordance with religious practices… Your Excellency, the right to decent burial is well recognised in the Constitution of India as well as in the international humanitarian law,” alliance president Farooq Abdullah said in the letter. “The dead bodies cannot be denied the right to burial under any circumstances including the so-called law and order problem. The bereaved families likewise also have a right to organise burial of the dead bodies in accordance with their religious practices. In the previous few years such rights have been violated with impunity. In the present case these rights are being denied.” The police claim the dead include three militants or over-ground workers — Haider, Aamir and Gul — and an innocent man — Bhat, who was killed in crossfire. Their families claim they were innocent and killed in a staged gunfight. Aamir’s father has written to the government that his son was a “true nationalist”. “The applicant (killed) one militant in the year 2005 and the then governor decorated the applicant with a gold medal, sena medal. Thereafter the applicant worked with security forces in an anti-militancy operation,” Magrey wrote about himself. Magrey had been at the forefront of fighting militancy in his area and had killed a militant in 2005 for which he was rewarded by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
