21-11-2021||India||After Centre's climbdown, farmers announce 'Sansad Chalo' on Nov 29||Emboldened by the Centre's climbdown on three contentious farm laws, farmers' front Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday met at Singhu border and decided on a series of upcoming programmes, including a march to parliament on November 29 -- when the houses meet for Winter Session. The SKM wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday seeking resumption of talks with the government over their six demands, including a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for all farmers. They also demanded withdrawal of cases against farmers and building a memorial for those who lost their lives during protests against the contentious farm laws. While thanking Modi for announcing repeal of the three farm laws, the SKM alleged, "After 11 rounds of talks, you chose the path of unilateral declaration rather than a bilateral solution." In the letter, the umbrella body of farmers' unions also demanded compensation and rehabilitation support for their families of farmers who died during the protest. Despite Modi's announcement that the three farm laws, against which the farmers have been agitating for a year now, will be withdrawn, the farmers have asserted that their protest will continue till the laws are officially withdrawn. Besides a law on MSP, they have also demanded withdrawal of the police cases filed against many of them over the last year. A statement issued by SKM on Sunday said that a Kisan Mahapanchayat will be held in Lucknow tomorrow, a Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Diwas will be observed on prominent British India politician Sir Chhotu Ram's birth anniversary on November 24, a march to Delhi borders will be organised on November 26 and a march to Parliament on November 29. The farmers' front has called another meeting on November 27 to review the situation. At today's meeting, the SKM lauded the Telangana government's decision to financially support the families of the farmers who died during the agitation, "while Mr Narendra Modi or his govt does not acknowledge the heavy and avoidable sacrifices made by around 700 brave farmers". In a counter to the Prime Minister's remark that there may be something lacking in the government's "tapasya" that they could not "explain the truth" about the laws to some farmers, the SKM said it was the protesting farmers "who did the true tapasya with faith". "These annadaatas have taken the historic movement to the cusp of a historic first victory with their tapasya and are steadily taking this towards full victory, which will actually be a victory for democracy itself. This victory is not a question of someone's pride or ego, but a matter of lives and livelihoods of millions of ignored and marginalised Indians," it said, asserting that their movement is bigger than a farmers' agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
21-11-2021||India||AIMIM to contest 100 seats in UP polls, Owaisi says party base strong ||Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) would contest in Uttar Pradesh elections on 100 seats out of the 403 assembly seats. The state is going to polls next year. Party chief Asaduddin Owaisi announced this in Lucknow and said his party it is in talks with other parties to form an alliance. "Our party has decided to contest elections on 100 seats. We are in talks with one or two more parties and time will tell, if we form an alliance or not. We are surely in a position to win the elections," he said. Owaisi further said that AIMIM has been making inroads in Uttar Pradesh. “Today, we are in this position that we will win the election and get lots of votes too, InshaAllah," he added. Meanwhile, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Friday hinted at forming an alliance with Samajwadi Party in the state. Sources said both parties will finalise the decision soon. Earlier, in the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party swept the elections, bagging 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) captured 47 seats. Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats while the rest of the seats were captured by other candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
21-11-2021||India||Floods bring Andhra Pradesh to its knees, death toll climbs to 33||In Andhra Pradesh, hundreds of vehicles and people were stranded, traffic was either closed or suspended in arterial highways and over 100 trains cancelled snapping rail-road link between southern and other parts of the country on Sunday as the Penna river in spate caused heavy destruction. The death toll in rain-related incidents in different districts of Andhra Pradesh touched 33 as more bodies were retrieved from the flooded streams and at least 12 people were reported missing. The Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 remained cut off for traffic between Nellore and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh as was the Chennai grand trunk rail route severing the all-important link between the southern and eastern and northern parts of the country. According to the South Central Railway, more than 100 express trains were cancelled because of the damage caused to the railway tracks near Nellore and 29 more diverted. The Chennai-Mumbai rail route that runs through Kadapa district also remained shut as the tracks got washed away near Nandaluru. A fresh flood scare, meanwhile, stared temple-town Tirupati and surrounding villages as a breach started developing in the Rayalacheruvu lake. The Chittoor district authorities have directed people living in 20 villages to immediately move to safer locations. Senior IAS officer P S Pradyumna, deputed to Chittoor district to oversee flood relief operations, told reporters: "The situation is grim, so we have forewarned the people to move to rehabilitation camps. While the tank capacity is just 0.2 tmc ft, it is now filled with 0.9 tmc ft." Every effort was being made to plug the breach and avoid any major calamity, he said. In total, the government said 2,007 houses were damaged in four flood-hit districts, the highest being 911 in Chittoor, causing a loss of Rs 5.18 crore. The loss on account of cattle and livestock was Rs 2.47 crore in these districts. The state government ordered free distribution of 25 kg rice, one kg red gram dal, one litre of edible oil, a kg each of potatoes and onion to the flood-affected families. According to government data, the rain and flood-related death count was 20 in Kadapa, seven in Anantapuramu, four in Chittoor and two in SPS Nellore. In Nellore district, body of an unidentified person was found near the Somasila reservoir. In Kadapa district, where 12 people were missing, crops on hundreds of acres were destroyed, heads of cattle washed away and tens of houses in villages were reduced to rubble as flash floods due to a breach of the Annamayya project's earthen bund on Cheyyeru river caused havoc. In Kadapa city, a mother and child, who were trapped on the second floor of a building were rescued in the nick of time by rescue personnel, just before the three-storied building folded like a pack of cards in the wee hours. Floodwater gushing out from the Veligallu reservoir led to the collapse of a bridge on river Papagni cutting off the road link between Kadapa and Anantapuramu districts. As floods caused devastation, the Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 had to be closed down for traffic in SPS Nellore district following a heavy breach at Padugupadu. The State Disaster Management Authority said more than two lakh cusecs of floodwater flowed out of the Somasila reservoir in SPS Nellore district, leading to the deluge. This caused a breach at another location, Kovuru as well hitting the National Highway-16 route. Consequently, traffic on the NH-16 between Nellore and Vijayawada was suspended, leaving hundreds of vehicles stranded for kilometres on either side. The National Highways officials, along with the SPS Nellore district administration, got into action to repair the damaged stretch of the NH and restore it to traffic as early as possible. Hundreds of passengers were stuck in the Nellore RTC bus station as bus services were disrupted. Vehicular traffic coming from Srikalahasti was stopped and diverted, officials said. Kadapa district villages, including Togurupeta and Mandapalli had to take the burnt in the wake of the devastation due to the breach in the Annamayya project's earthen bund. Annamayya is a medium irrigation project with a gross capacity of only 2.24 tmc ft on Cheyyeru, a tributary of Penna river, in Rajampet constituency. It caters to an ayacut of 22,500 acres, besides fulfilling the drinking water needs of 140 habitations. The Pincha project upstream breached, letting out all floodwater into Annamayya while water from Seshachalam too came gushing in because of very heavy rainfall, resulting in an overall discharge of over two lakh cusecs. That pushed Cheyyeru river into spate, inundating at least 10 villages downstream in Rajampet and Nandaluru mandals, and leaving widespread destruction in its wake. "It was nothing but gross mismanagement on the part of the administration. Didn't they know about the flood when there was such heavy rain? Why were we not even alerted about the coming danger before it destroyed us?" angry villagers of Mandapalli and Togurupeta questioned. Except for some kind-hearted volunteers, the administration did not come to their help in any way, they lamented. "Ours is the first village right under Annamayya project. We lost our houses, cattle, belongings everything. Some of our villagers were killed. There is no place for us to go," the surviving residents of Togurupeta, a hamlet of about 500 people, said. The temple of the local goddess, which somehow remained intact, has now turned into the only shelter zone for the hapless villagers. Mandapalli presented a heartrending sight. Two families were completely wiped out as seven people in all were killed in the flood fury. Another family lost two people. Kadapa district Collector Vijaya Rama Raju told PTI that the dam breach was the major factor that caused such a major calamity. "The river course changed but the dam breach was what caused the real destruction. We still moved some 600 people to safety," he said. "Yes, it was a major calamity, the scale of which could not be imagined," Raju added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
21-11-2021||India||Adityanath tweets photos of him taking a walk with Modi, speaks about 'making new India'||Ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, two photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a stroll with his hand on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's shoulder have created a buzz. Taking a dig over the pictures shared by the CM on his Twitter handle, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said sometimes this is done "unwillingly" in politics for the "sake of people". The Congress too said the photos show that the BJP is "losing" ground and people's confidence. Sharing the photos on Twitter, Adityanath had written a poem about the commitment of making a new India. The photos of Modi with his hand on Adityanth's shoulder in deep conversation were snapped at the Uttar Pradesh Raj Bhavan. The PM, who is in Lucknow to attend the DGPs' conference, is staying at Raj Bhavan since Friday night. Adityanath had gone to meet the prime minister on Sunday morning. However, it is not known what discussion took place between them. Along with the photos, Adityanath wrote a poem in Hindi, which roughly translates to, "We have started a journey with a pledge, dedicating our mind and body, to make the sun rise; rise high above the sky and make a new India". Retweeting it, Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, "Moving towards a comprehensive victory." The Samajwadi Party scoffed at the photos of Chief Minister Adityanath and Prime Minister Modi. Without a direct reference to Adityanath's tweet, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav wrote a poem in Hindi, "For the sake of people, sometimes it is done in politics; unwillingly one has to put a hand over another's shoulder and take a few steps together."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
21-11-2021||India||Tirupati: 500-year-old reservoir develops cracks,  villagers asked to vacate town||The Chittoor district administration in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday evening issued public warnings asking people of 16 villages to immediately vacate as some minor openings were developed on the tank bund in the 500-year old massive water tank called 'Rayalacheruvu' in the Ramachandra Mandal 14 KM from here. Due to recent downpour, the oldest colossal tank had waters to its full capacity now for the first time and started developing minor breaches, officials said. Special Officer PS Pradyumna, Chittoor district Collector M Harinarayanan, Tirupati Superintendent of Police Ch Venkata Appala Naidu along with revenue and irrigation officials visited the tank and efforts were being taken to avert any danger. As of now, there is no immediate danger for the tank, they said adding, however, the villagers as a precautionary measure should vacate the villages immediately for three days with their valuables to higher areas or nearby engineering colleges kept ready for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
21-11-2021||India||People not ready to believe PM's words on farm laws: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said people who have "suffered false rhetoric" in the past are not ready to believe the words of the prime minister on repealing the farm laws. He said this as farmer unions decided to continue their year-long agitation at Delhi's borders even after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the decision to withdraw the three farm laws. "People who have suffered false rhetoric are not ready to believe the words of the PM. Farmers' Satyagraha continues," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#FarmersProtest continues". Farmers have been protesting on Delhi's borders for the past year seeking the withdrawal of the three laws. The farmer unions have said that they will continue their agitation till the three central laws are repealed by Parliament and legislation on a legal guarantee of MSP is brought in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
21-11-2021||India||Flash flood after water leaks from Andhra’s biggest dam||The Annamayya project on Cheyyeru river has turned out to be the sorrow of many a village in Rajampet Assembly constituency in Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh.Togurupeta, Mandapalli, Pulapathur and Gundlur presented a picture of haunted villages in the wake of the devastation. The flash flood caused due to a breach of the project's earthen bund caught at least 18 people in a watery grave and left many others missing in these villages. A sudden gush of about two lakh cusecs of floodwater on Friday, with the level reaching up to 10 feet height, caught the villagers unawares and scampering for their lives. Tens of houses in these villages downstream the project were reduced to rubble. The villagers literally lost everything, except the clothes on their person. Agricultural crops in hundreds of acres stood destroyed. Tens of cattle heads were washed away.Nothing of the household items was left as the deluge gulped them. It all happened in a flash. There was no warning whatsoever about the impending disaster and we were left to face the fury. Now, our lives are in total ruin, the sobbing villagers of Togurupeta and Mandapalli said. In Pulapathur village, 12 people were swept away in the swirling flood in Cheyyeru, nine in Mandapalli and five in Gundlur. So far, only 18 bodies have been recovered, with no trace of the rest. Annamayya is a medium irrigation project with a gross capacity of only 2.24 tmc ft on Cheyyeru, a tributary of Penna river, in Rajampet constituency. It caters to an ayacut of 22,500 acres, besides fulfilling the drinking water needs of 140 habitations. The Pincha project upstream breached, letting out all floodwater into Annamayya while water from Seshachalam too came gushing in because of very heavy rainfall, resulting in an overall discharge of over two lakh cusecs. That pushed Cheyyeru river into spate, inundating at least 10 villages downstream in Rajampet and Nandaluru mandals, and leaving widespread destruction in its wake. It was nothing but gross mismanagement on the part of the administration. Didn't they know about the flood when there was such heavy rain? Why were we not even alerted about the coming danger before it destroyed us? angry villagers of Mandapalli and Togurupeta questioned.Except some kind-hearted volunteers, the administration did not come to their help in any way, they lamented. Ours is the first village right under Annamayya project. We lost our houses, cattle, belongings everything. Some of our villagers were killed. There is no place for us to go, the surviving residents of Togurupeta, a hamlet of about 500 people, said. The temple of the local goddess, which somehow remained intact, has now turned into the only shelter zone for the hapless villagers. Mandapalli presented a heartrending sight. Two families were completely wiped out as seven people in all were killed in the flood fury. Another family lost two persons. Kadapa District Collector Vijaya Rama Raju told PTI that the dam breach was the major factor that caused such a major calamity. The river course changed but the dam breach was what caused the real destruction. We still moved some 600 people to safety, he said. Yes, it was a major calamity, the scale of which could not be imagined, Raju added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Congress asks PM Modi to end ‘silence’ on Chinese ‘intrusion’ in Arunchal Pradesh||The Congress on Sunday accused the BJP government of deception and deliberate distortion over alleged Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "silence" on the issue. The opposition party also accused the BJP of giving lessons on national security to the entire country while digressing from addressing the serious issue that affected India's integrity and sovereignty. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi shared satellite images to claim that China has built another village six to seven kilometres inside Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh with over 60 structures. He also claimed that the Chinese president had visited a few kilometres north of this spot a few days ago. The Congress leader demanded that Prime Minister Modi address the issue and tell the nation about steps he is taking in this regard. "We condemn the prime minister's silence. It is culpable. It is a negative eloquence which we can do without. It is inexcusable," he told reporters. There was no response from the government on the issue. The Congress has been attacking the government consistently over its handling of border tensions with China. "We don't understand this definition is national security, where you berate, browbeat, intimidate the whole country on national security issues and keep silent on this kind of things," Singhvi said, claiming the prime minister never said a word "on the January 2019 and September- October 2021 intrusions". "It is a sad case of deliberate distortion, digression and diversion on an issue affecting India's integrity and sovereignty," he alleged, hitting out at the BJP government. The satellite images shared by Singhvi, sourced from some professional websites, purportedly show images of the same spot in Arunachal Pradesh in April 2019 and then in September 2021 with around 60 structures or habitats built up. He also cited a statement of BJP MP Tapir Gao from Arunachal Pradesh made in Parliament over a year ago where he alleged that the second Dokalam will be in Arunachal. He said that the BJP should at least listen to its MP, if not the opposition party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Retrieving Pak-occupied Kashmir is next on agenda: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said that retrieving Pakistan-occupied Jammu & Kashmir (PoJK) is next on the agenda.  Addressing the Mirpur Balidan Diwas programme dedicated to PoJK displaced persons here, he said the leadership which has the capacity and the will to abrogate Article 70, also has the capacity to retrieve PoJK from the illegal occupation of Pakistan.  Speaking as the chief guest, the minister said the partition of Indian subcontinent was the greatest tragedy in the history of mankind and added that while India suffered the tragedy of partition, Jammu and Kashmir suffered the second tragedy of losing out a part of the erstwhile state to illegal occupation of Pakistan.  "Retrieving Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) is next on the agenda," Singh said.  He said it was always believed and said that Article 370 would never be abrogated but under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this was made possible and in the same way the resolve to retrieve PoK would also be accomplished.  Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, said, retrieving PoJK is not only a political and national agenda, but also a responsibility towards the respect for human rights because "our brethren in PoJK are living in inhuman conditions" and have been mercilessly denied even basic amenities like healthcare and education.  He said the then Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel took over the responsibility of accession of over 560 princely states at the time of independence and successfully accomplished it but he was kept out of Jammu and Kashmir because Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru wanted to handle J&K at his own level.  Even after Pakistan attacked J&K in the autumn of 1947, Nehru was hesitant to send Indian forces to Jammu and Kashmir and it was only after empathic intervention by Sardar Patel that the first contingent of Sikh Regiment landed in Srinagar, said Singh, who is also Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency.  "Deviating from the propriety of collective decision-making, Nehru had on his own declared unilateral ceasefire just when the Indian forces were about to retrieve the entire territory of Jammu and Kashmir captured by Pakistan, he said.  "PoJK would have never happened if only Patel was given a free hand in Jammu and Kashmir," Singh said.  On the occasion, a camp was also organised to make domicile certificates for the members of PoJK community living in Delhi.  The minister asked every member of the displaced community of PoJK to get their domicile certificate as it not only entitles them to certain opportunities and privileges but also gives them a sense of identity and esteem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||BJP will bring back three farm laws after assembly polls, speculates Samajwadi Party||The Samajwadi Party on Sunday expressed apprehension that the three contentious farm laws will be brought again after the 2022 assembly elections, citing the statements made by Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP from Unnao Sakshi Maharaj on them.  Both Mishra and Maharaj told reporters on Saturday that the laws can be brought again, if needed  On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws after the nearly year-long agitation by a section of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  Farmer leaders said the protesters will stay put at border areas of Delhi until the Centre formally repeals these laws in Parliament and indicated their stir for a statutory guarantee of MSP and withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill will continue.  In a tweet in Hindi, the Samajwadi Party charged, "It is absolutely clear that their heart is not clean, and after the elections, the bills will be brought again. Occupying the constitutional posts, Governor of Rajasthan Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj have said that the BJP government may bring the bill for farm laws."  "This is the truth of those tendering false apologies to farmers. The farmers will bring a change in 2022," the SP said in the tweet.  Mishra on Saturday said in Bhadohi that efforts were made to make the farmers understand the provisions of the farm laws, and positive aspects, but the farmers were demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws and were protesting against them. Eventually, the government felt that the laws be withdrawn, and if there is a need to make the laws again, it will be done.  "The farmers were continuously demanding that the farm laws be withdrawn, and it was done in a very civilised manner. It is a good step and appropriate decision," Mishra said.  Speaking to reporters in Unnao on Saturday, BJP MP Maharaj said, "Bills are made and repealed. They will come again, and will be made again. It hardly takes any time (Bills to bante rehte hai, bigarhte rehte hai...vaapas aajaayenge, dobaaraa ban jaayenge...koi der nahi lagtee hai). But, I would thank Modiji that he displayed a big heart, and he chose the Nation over the laws. And those whose intentions were wrong, those who had raised slogans of Pakistan zindaabaad and Khalistan zindabad, they have got a befitting reply."  He also categorically stated that there is no connection between the announcement of repealing of the farm laws with the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022.  "In the UP 2022 Assembly elections, the BJP will cross the 300 mark in the (403-member) UP Legislative Assembly. In India, there is no substitute of (Prime Minister) Modi and (UP Chief Minister) Yogi Adityanath. Their magic will stay," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Jammu: Leaked PHE pipe causes massive mudslide||A mudslide triggered by a leaked water pipe of the Public Health Engineering (PHE) department blocked the busy Panjtirthi-Sidhra road connecting the city with the Jammu-Srinagar national highway on Sunday, prompting the agency concerned to press its men and machines to restore the vital link, officials said. The road was blocked around 4.30 am following which the Public Works Department (PWD) launched a road clearance operation, the officials said. They said the PHE department rushed a team to repair the water pipe meant to supply tap water to several parts of the city. A road clearance operation is underway following the massive mudslide and it will take several hours for resumption of traffic, an official of the PWD said, adding all the incoming and outgoing traffic was diverted through the main highway along Manda Zoo. The road is likely to be thrown open by evening, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle: 15 ministers inducted into Ashok Gehlot ministry||Fifteen ministers took the oath in Rajasthan on Sunday in a cabinet expansion that included 12 new faces, fulfilling a key demand of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot whose rebellion last year shook the state's Congress government.  The 11 cabinet-rank and four ministers of state (MoS) sworn in by Governor Kalraj Mishra included five considered to be in the Pilot camp. Among them were Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, back now as cabinet-rank ministers after being sacked during the revolt.  The list included three MoS, all Dalits, from the old team who were elevated to the cabinet rank. The Congress also made room for an MLA who had switched over from the Bahujan Samaj Party.  All 20 members of the earlier ministry had submitted their resignations just ahead of the long-awaited reshuffle. But only three, including state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra, have been dropped with the party deciding to follow the one man, one post formula.  The expansion, two years ahead of the next assembly polls, also gives Dalits and women a stronger presence in the Ashok Gehlot government.  Apart from the elevation of SC ministers Mamta Bhupesh, Bhajan Lal Jatav and Tikaram Jully to the cabinet rank, another member from the community, Govindram Meghwal, was inducted at that level.  There are three women ministers now, instead of just one earlier. Mamta Bhupesh and Shakuntala Rawat hold the cabinet rank, while Zahida is a newly sworn-in MoS.  The ministry now has 30 members, the maximum possible for Rajasthan. The council of ministers has 19 cabinet ministers and 10 MoS, apart from the chief minister.  Along with Pradesh Congress Committee president Dotasra, the party also accepted the resignation from the ministry of Raghu Sharma, who is the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Gujarat, and Punjab in-charge Harish Chaudhary.  Pilot, who was removed from the posts of deputy CM and state Congress president when he and 18 other MLAs rebelled against Gehlot, expressed satisfaction with the reshuffle.  "There is only one faction -- the faction of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and we all are the members. It will be our endeavour to move forward collectively and win the next assembly elections," he said.  There is no word yet on the post which Pilot may get in the party. But more people in his camp are likely to be accommodated on other political posts in the state.  Gehlot and Pilot had patched up after the AICC set up a three-member committee to address the concerns of the rebel faction.  Mamta Bhupesh, Bhajan Lal Jatav and Tikaram Jully are the three MoS promoted to the cabinet rank.  Mahesh Joshi, the party's chief whip in the Assembly, was sworn in as a cabinet minister. So were Hemaram Choudhary, Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat and Shakuntla Rawat.  Zahida, Brijendra Singh Ola, Rajendra Gudha and Murari Lal Meena were sworn in as MoS.  Of the six MLAs who defected from the BSP to the Congress, Rajendra Gudha found a berth in the ministry as an MoS.  The most senior among the 15 ministers who took oath on Sunday is Hemaram Choudhary, a six-time MLA.  Ramlal Jat is a four-time MLA. Malviya, Ola, Vishvendra Singh, Ramesh Meena, and Murari Lal Meena are three-time MLAs, while the rest of the new ministers are two-time MLAs.  Gehlot said some MLAs, who could not be included in the ministry, will be accommodated in posts like parliamentary secretary, adviser to the chief minister and chairmen of various boards and corporations.  The independents who supported the Gehlot government during the 2020 political crisis too had expectations from the cabinet reshuffle. But no independent MLA has been inducted in the Gehlot team.  Pilot said representation of Dalits, tribals and women has increased in the cabinet, which is a welcome move. He said the regional and social balance in it will benefit the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Prolonged school closures due to Covid pose threat to gender equality: UNESCO study||Educational disruption due to prolonged closure of schools across the globe will not only have alarming effects on learning loss but also poses threat to gender equality, a new study by UNESCO has pointed out.  The global study titled "When schools shut: Gendered impacts of COVID-19 school closures brings to the fore that girls and boys, young women and men were affected differently by school closures, depending on the context.  "At the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, 1.6 billion students in 190 countries were affected by school closures. Not only did they lose access to education, but also to the myriad benefits of attending school, at an unparalleled scale," said Stefania Giannini, UNESCO, Assistant Director-General for Education.  "Educational disruption of this extent has alarming effects on learning loss and school dropout. Beyond this, it poses threats to gender equality, including effects on health, well being and protection that are gender specific," Giannini said.  Drawing on evidence from about 90 countries and in-depth data collected in local communities, the report shows that gender norms and expectations can affect the ability to participate in and benefit from remote learning.  "In poorer contexts, girls' time to learn was constrained by increased household chores. Boys' participation in learning was limited by income-generating activities. Girls faced difficulties in engaging in digital remote learning modalities in many contexts because of limited access to internet-enabled devices, a lack of digital skills and cultural norms restricting their use of technological devices," the report said.  The study pointed out that digital gender-divide was already a concern before the COVID-19 crisis.  "The in-depth studies on Bangladesh and Pakistan in the global report revealed its gendered effects on remote learning during school closures. In the study on Pakistan, only 44 per cent of girls in participating districts reported owning mobile phones for their personal use, whereas 93 per cent of boys did so. Girls who did not own mobile phones reported that they relied on their relatives' devices, typically those belonging to their fathers," it said.  "While some of the girls were able to use family members' phones, they were not always able to do so. Their access was restricted since some parents were concerned that providing girls with access to smartphones would lead to misuse and could result into romantic relationships."  "The longer girls were out of school, the higher was the risk of learning loss. From April to September 2020, the share of girls reporting that they did not study at all increased from 1 to 10 per cent," it added.  Noting that the pandemic is a timely reminder that schools are sites not only for learning, but also lifelines for girls and boys an essential space for their health, well-being and protection, the report has several recommendations on how to challenge gender-based barriers for participation in remote learning.  "To advance equal access to gender-responsive and inclusive remote learning, it is recommended to provide a range of remote learning options including low-tech and no-tech solutions spearhead and support efforts to reach the most at-risk learners design, develop gender-responsive educational resources and tools besides providing appropriate teacher support and training use formative assessments to track learning outcomes," it said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Nehru didn't even spare Gandhi in intellectual combat: Book||Jawaharlal Nehru while engaging with political opponents and colleagues, often fought for his corner, clarifying and structuring his own ideas in the process and in this intellectual combat, he did not even spare Mahatma Gandhi, says a new book.  Sharing the stage with political and intellectual figures who considered themselves his equals and peers, if not competitors, Nehru had to pit himself vigorously against them in the public realm, say Tripurdaman Singh and Adeel Hussain in their book Nehru: The Debates that Defined India.  "And in this marketplace of ideas, he had to fend off not only political opponents like Mohammad Ali Jinnah of the All-India Muslim League and Syama Prasad Mookerjee of the Hindu Mahasabha, but also colleagues like the Congress leader Sardar Patel, with whom he often disagreed," they argue.  "This was a challenge that Nehru took up with gusto. Engaging with them, arguing with them, debating with them and attempting to manipulate them, Nehru fought for his corner, clarifying and structuring his own ideas in the process," the book says.  "In this intellectual combat, he did not even spare Mahatma Gandhi, although he shied away from open confrontation with his mentor," it says.  Gandhi once described to Viceroy Lord Linlithgow after a debate with Nehru over the Quit India Movement that he (Nehru) had the capacity to argue for days together.  "Some of the most profound questions in South Asian history were debated this way, many of which continue to remain unresolved, bedevilling the contemporary world as intensely as they did Nehru's - for example, questions about Muslim representation, about the role of religion in public life, the sanctity and inviolability of Fundamental Rights, or India's relations with Pakistan and China," the book says.  According to the authors, through such sparring - often conducted directly and openly via speeches, correspondence and articles - ideological disagreements were voiced, political allegiances were forged and public opinion was moulded; and these hugely consequential debates decisively influenced political events, generating enduring repercussions.  The book, published by HarperCollins India, shines a spotlight on four consequential debates that Nehru engaged in: with the poet-philosopher Muhammad Iqbal, Jinnah, Patel and Mookerjee.  With Jinnah, Nehru exchanged rancorous letters on Hindu-Muslim relations and the demands of the Muslim League. With Iqbal, he contested the meaning of Muslim solidarity, and the role of religion and religious orthodoxy in public life, the authors say.  Patel and Nehru crossed swords over India's policy towards China and Tibet. And with Mookerjee, Nehru clashed in Parliament over civil liberties and the First Amendment to the Constitution, they add.  All four debates represent critical junctures in South Asian history, moments that decided which way the pendulum of events would swing, the book says.  "Each debate is thus a crucial part of the events that followed: unbeknownst to them, for example, Nehru and Jinnah's arguments were the opening act of Partition, in the same way as Patel's confrontation with Nehru contained the seeds of 1962," it says.  The authors are of the opinion that Nehru's personality, complex and contradictory in equal measure, heavily influenced his politics. Combining hard work, charm, idealism and ruthlessness with vanity, petulance and frequent (and famous) outbursts of temper, Nehru's predilections and prejudices, his likes and dislikes, had a great bearing on his relationships with his contemporaries, and his engagement with their ideas, they say.  Nehru's political career was rooted not only in his vision, but also in the exigencies of practical politics and the personal relationships he shared - an aspect of his politics that admirers tend to play down as much as detractors like to play up, they add.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Delhi air pollution: Schools to remain shut for physical classes till further orders||Schools in Delhi will remain closed for physical classes till further orders while online classes and board exams will continue, the Directorate of Education (DoE) announced on Sunday in view of the prevailing air quality situation.  The air quality remained very poor on Sunday morning, authorities here said. The city recorded its air quality index (AQI) at 382 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 374 on Saturday.  "The environment department has directed to close all the schools with immediate effect till further orders of the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas. Therefore, all government and private schools will remain closed till further orders," Additional Director of Education Rita Sharma said.  "However, online teaching learning activities and the examinations for board classes would be conducted as per guidelines issued earlier," the official said.  The Delhi government had on November 13 announced closure of schools and other educational institutions in view of the deteriorating air quality in Delhi.  Schools had reopened for all classes from November 1, after nearly 19 months of closure due to COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet likely to approve on Wednesday bills for withdrawal of farm laws||The Union Cabinet is likely to take up for approval on Wednesday the bills for withdrawal of the three farm laws, sources in the government said.  These bills shall then be introduced in the forthcoming session of Parliament, they added.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Friday announced on the occasion of Gurupurab the government's intention to withdraw the laws in the interest of the nation.  The winter session of Parliament would commence from November 29.  Demanding the withdrawal of the laws, agitating farmers sitting at three sites on Delhi's borders since November last year have said they will stay put till Parliament repeals them.  The government will now bring bills for the withdrawal of the three farm laws in Parliament following the prime minister's announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
21-11-2021||India||Farm-law agitation: SKM to hold meeting on Nov 27 to decide future course of action||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will hold another meeting on November 27 to decide future course of action while the planned march to Parliament by farmers on November 29 will go ahead as per schedule, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said on Sunday.  Addressing a press conference at Singhu border following a meeting, Rajewal said, "We discussed the repeal of farm laws. After this, some decisions were taken. SKM's pre-decided programs will continue as it is. Kisan panchayat will be held in Lucknow on November 22, gatherings at all borders on November 26 and march to Parliament on November 29".  SKM, an umbrella body of the agitating unions, met earlier on Sunday to decide on the next course of action, including on the MSP issue and the proposed daily tractor march to Parliament during the upcoming Winter Session.  Farmer leaders have been maintaining that the protesters will stay put at border areas of Delhi until the Centre formally repeals these laws in Parliament after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise announcement on Friday and have indicated their stir for a statutory guarantee of MSP and withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||SKM to hold farmers' mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, will be holding a mahapanchayat here on Monday in a show of strength days after the Prime Minister's announcement of repealing the three farm laws.  The gathering scheduled to be held at Eco Garden in the city was planned several months before Friday's announcement.  Farmer leaders said the protests will continue until the government makes a law on minimum support price (MSP) and removes Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra.  In a tweet in Hindi on Sunday, Bhartiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, "Chalo Lucknow Chalo Lucknow (lets go to Lucknow) for MSP Adhikaar Kisaan Mahapanchayat. The agriculture reforms being talked about are fake and cosmetic. The farm reforms are not going to stop the plight of the farmers. The biggest reform for the farmers and agriculture will be to make a law pertaining to the MSP." Vice-president of Uttar Pradesh unit of BKU Harnam Singh Verma told PTI, "The Prime Minister has announced the repeal of the three farm laws, but he did not say when the MSP law will be made. Until a law is made on the MSP, and Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra is removed, the agitation will continue."  Verma also said a number of other issues will also be discussed at the farmers' mahapanchayat. "The BJP had said (during the previous Assembly elections in UP) that once it forms the government in the state, payment will be made to the sugarcane farmers within 14 days, but this mechanism could not be implemented in the state. In a span of four-and-a-half years, the increase in sugarcane price was barely Rs 25," he said.  Violence had erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 when farmers were protesting the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Mishra's native place. Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist and two BJP workers, were also killed in ensuing violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Farmers in Gujarat to get Rs 1,500 government aid to purchase smartphones||The Gujarat government has decided to provide financial assistance of up to Rs 1,500 to farmers in the state for purchasing a smartphone, as per a notification issued by the state agriculture department. The Union government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi who hails from Gujarat, has recently repealed the contentitious farm laws that had evoked nationwide protests.    The scheme is meant to encourage the farmers to buy smartphones which could be used for various purposes towards increasing their farm income, at a time when the prevalence of digital services in the field of agriculture is growing every day, it said.  Any landholding farmer in Gujarat can apply for the assistance of 10 per cent of the total cost of a smartphone not exceeding Rs 1,500 on i-khedut portal to avail of the benefit of this scheme, said the Government Resolution (GR) issued by the state's Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Cooperation department on Saturday.  The assistance is valid only for the cost of the smartphone and not for any other accessories such as power backup device, earphones, charger etc., it said. All landholding farmers are eligible for this scheme, but only one beneficiary in a joint holding farm will be eligible.  "The smartphone will make it easy for a farmer to access information regarding weather forecast, possible pest infestation, various schemes of the agriculture department, modern farm techniques and expert opinion and others," it said.  "The smartphone can also be utilised by farmers to apply online for various schemes of the state government meant for them by using smartphone facilities such as camera, emails, texts and multimedia services, GPS, web browser, internet connectivity among others," the GR said.  Once the application is approved, the beneficiary farmers will have to provide a copy of the purchase bill of the smartphone, mobile IMEI number, a cancelled cheque and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Some irresponsible nations with hegemonic tendencies twisting definition of UNCLOS: Rajnath||Taking a dig at China, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said "some irresponsible nations" with their narrow partisan interests and hegemonic tendencies are coming up with wrong definitions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).  It is a matter of concern that UNCLOS is being repeatedly weakened by arbitrary interpretation of its definition by some nations, Singh said, after commissioning of Indian Navy's destroyer Visakhapatnam here.  As a responsible maritime stakeholder, India supports consensus-based principles and a peaceful, open, rules-based stable maritime order, Singh said. India envisages Indo-Pacific having freedom of navigation, free trade and universal values where all stakeholders' interests are protected, he said.  "Some irresponsible nations, with their narrow partisan interests, hegemonic tendencies are coming with wrong definitions of international laws," Singh said without naming China.  China has been militarizing islands in the South China, a move that has attracted global criticism. The area has over-lapping claims of several East and Southeast Asian nations.  In 2016, an international tribunal rejected China's argument that it enjoys historic rights over most of the South China Sea -- a region known to be rich in hydrocarbons and also hosting an important Sea Lane of Communication.  Following the order, China said the award is "null and void and has no binding force" and it neither accepts nor recognises it.  Singh said as an important country in the region, the Indian Navy's role assumes a more crucial role for the region's security.  He said countries world over are working towards making their military power strong and modern due to global security reasons, border disputes and importance to maintain maritime dominance.  There is a rising demand for military equipment. Reports suggest that world over the cost for security is expected to reach USD 2.1 trillion. In 5-10 years, this is expected to rise manifold, Singh noted.  "We have an opportunity to use all our capacity, take advantage of the policies, and make the country a hub in indigenous ship building," Singh said.  Indigenously-built stealth guided missile destroyer Visakhapatnam, packed with an array of missiles and anti-submarine rockets, was commissioned in presence of top naval commanders.  Visakhapatnam' is equipped with lethal weapons and sensors, including supersonic surface-to-surface and surface-to-air missiles, medium and short-range guns, anti-submarine rockets and advanced electronic warfare and communication suits, officials said.  Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of the Naval Staff, said the ship is a shining example of self-reliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Woman raped in captivity for three days in Yogi's UP||A 24-year-old woman was allegedly held captive, beaten up and raped for three days here, police said on Sunday.  According to the complaint lodged by the woman with the police, she was forcibly taken to a hotel by a man where she was made to consume beverages laced with sedatives and raped for three days, they said.  The woman also alleged that the man beat her up whenever she tried to defend herself, police said. They said the woman and the man knew each other.  The accused, Rahul Verma, is absconding, they said. Police said the woman has been sent for medical examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle sends positive message across Rajasthan: Pilot||Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday said the Cabinet reshuffle initiated by the Ashok Gehlot government has sent a positive message across the state and denied any factionalism in the party.  Pilot, who was sacked as the deputy chief minister due to rebellion last year, said he is happy that the issues he had raised, including increasing the representation of Dalits in the Cabinet, have been addressed.  "Four Dalits have been included in the Cabinet. This is a big message. At the same time, the representation of tribals and women has been increased. This was a necessary step and the party and the government worked hard to take it forward," Pilot told reporters.  He said the committee which was formed last year to look into the issues raised by him has delivered the first result .  When asked about members from his group who have been given a place in the Cabinet, Pilot said there was no factionalism in the party and all will work unitedly to win the 2023 Assembly elections.  "There is only one faction - the faction of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and we all are the members. It will be our endeavour to move forward collectively and win the next assembly elections," he said.  On a question about his role in the new setup, Pilot said that he will follow what the party decides for him.  Fifteen new Rajasthan ministers will take oath at 4 pm at the Raj Bhavan in Jaipur. The new cabinet will see 12 new faces, including five from the Pilot camp.  This is the first cabinet reshuffle of the Gehlot government which came to power in December 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality remains very poor, winds likely improve situation||Delhi's air quality remained very poor on Sunday morning and strong surface winds are likely to bring some relief from high pollution levels during the day, authorities said. The city recorded its air quality index (AQI) at 382 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 374 on Saturday. Neighboring Faridabad (347), Ghaziabad (344), Greater Noida (322), Gurgaon (345) and Noida (356) also recorded their air quality in the 'very poor' category. From November 21 to November 23, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality, said the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor SAFAR. Transport-level winds coming from northwest direction are also likely to be strong during the period and will flush out locally emitted pollutants from Delhi to the southeast region that is expected to improve air quality further, it said. According to the India Meteorological Department, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 27 degrees Celsius. Strong surface winds gusting up to 30 kilometers per hour are likely on Monday, it said. To combat pollution, the Delhi government had on Wednesday issued 10 directions, including a ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items in the city and closure of schools and colleges till further orders. The Delhi government had banned construction and demolition activities in the city till November 21. It had also ordered its employees to work from home till Sunday. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will Monday hold a high-level meeting with senior officers to review the restrictions imposed in the city to contain high pollution levels, officials said Sunday. The meeting has been called to review the restrictions which come to an end on Sunday. Officials of all departments concerned will be in attendance, an official said. Rai had also said 1,000 private CNG buses will be hired to strengthen the public transport system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||India reports 10,488 new Covid-19 cases, 313 fresh fatalities||India logged 10,488 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,10,413, while the active cases declined to 1,22,714, the lowest in 532 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,65,662 with 313 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 44 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 147 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.36 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.30 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.  A decrease of 2,154 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Rajasthan cabinet to get 12 new faces, 5 from Sachin Pilot camp||Fifteen new Rajasthan ministers will take oath at 4 pm on Sunday at the Raj Bhavan here as part of the Cabinet reshuffle, officials said.  The ministers include 11 Cabinet ministers and four ministers of state (MoS).  The new Rajasthan cabinet will see 12 new faces, including five from the Sachin Pilot camp, in the reshuffle on Sunday.  This is the first cabinet reshuffle of the Gehlot government which came to power in December 2018.  Three ministers -- Govind Singh Dotasra, Harish Chaudhary and Raghu Sharma -- have been dropped and their resignations have been accepted by the governor on recommendation of the chief minister while three ministers -- Mamta Bhupesh, Tikaram Jully and Bhajan Lal Jatav-- will be elevated from MoS to cabinet rank.  While Dotasra, Chaudhary and Sharma resigned on Friday, other ministers resigned in a meeting of council of ministers on Saturday.  The resignation of Sharma, Chaudhary and Dotasra was accepted as they hold party positions and the "one man, one post" formula has been applied in the state.  Sharma has been appointed as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Gujarat and Chaudhary as the AICC in-charge for Punjab. Dotasra is the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief.  The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government will have a total of 30 ministers, including 18 who had resigned earlier.  Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers including the chief minister.  Three ministers of state -- those have been elevated to cabinet rank -- are from the Scheduled Caste (SC) community, party sources said.  The new state cabinet will have four SC members and three ministers from the Scheduled Tribe (ST) community, the sources said, adding that the cabinet will also feature three women -- a Muslim, one from the SC community and a Gujjar.  Among the new ministers to take oath as cabinet ministers are Hemaram Chaudhary, Mahendrajit Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishvendra Singh, Ramesh Meena, Mamta Bhupesh Bhairwa, Bhajanlal Jatav, Tikaram Juli, Govind Ram Meghwal and Shakuntala Rawat.  Those who will take oath as the new ministers of state are Zahida, Brijendra Singh Ola, Rajendra Durha and Muralilal Meena.  Mahesh Joshi is the government chief whip.  Among those from the Sachin Pilot camp who have been included in the ministry are Vishvendra Singh, Ramesh Meena and Hemaram Chaudhary as cabinet ministers, and Brijendra Ola and Murari Meena as ministers of state.  Two of them -- Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena -- were sacked as cabinet ministers during a political crisis in the state last year.  Another SC member, former MP Govind Ram Meghwal, is a fresh face to be included in the refurbished cabinet.  Rajendra Singh Guda, one of the six MLAs who defected from the BSP to the Congress, has also been included as a minister of state.  No independent MLA has been given a ministerial berth, while some of them would be included as parliamentary secretaries.  Some former BSP legislators would also be included as parliamentary secretaries, the sources said, adding that some senior MLAs would be made advisers to the chief minister.  After the Congress won bypolls held on two assembly seats recently, the tally of the ruling party has reached to 108 in the house of 200.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Odisha government allows jatra as cases of Covid declined||The Odisha government on Saturday allowed all jatras, open-air theatres and other cultural platforms to perform as the cases of Covid have declined in the state. The state has only 2,203 active Covid cases at present. The special relief commissioner (SRC) said in a notification on Saturday: “Cultural gatherings, programmes including melodies, orchestra, jatra, opera, dances — classical, folk and other permitted dance forms, cultural competitions, open air theatres, drama, street plays and other such performances shall be allowed to open with due compliance to Covid-19 protocols.” The notification added: “Keeping the size of the ground, space in view, appropriate number of persons (subjected to a ceiling of 2,000 persons) will be allowed ensuring maintenance of prescribed physical distancing norm — maintaining a distance of 6 feet from each other and seating arrangement shall be made accordingly.” Jatra artistes had approached the state government seeking the lifting of the bar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
21-11-2021||India||Situation at borders with China and Pakistan discussed at Modi meet||The situation at the borders with China and Pakistan was discussed at length on Saturday during a police conference attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lucknow, sources in the security establishment said. “The top brass of the Intelligence Bureau and senior security officials today discussed the security situation along the LAC and the LoC. India is facing the threat of two-front aggression from Pakistan and China,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. The LAC, or the Line of Actual Control, is the border with China while the LoC, or the Line of Control, is the Pakistan frontier. The chiefs of the Intelligence Bureau and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and all heads of the central police organisation and the central armed police force are attending the directors-general conference inaugurated by Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday. In January, Indian Army chief M.M. Naravane had said there was increased cooperation between Pakistan and China and a two-front situation was something India must be ready to deal with. The DGP conference is being organised by the Intelligence Bureau, the country’s internal spy agency. Over 250 officers of the rank of DGP and IGP from all states, Union Territories and the central government are taking part in the three-day summit to discuss the security situation in the country. “Besides the border situation, security in Jammu and Kashmir, cyber terrorism, Pakistan-sponsored militants in the Valley and the Maoist threat are among the key issue being discussed at the meeting,” the home ministry official said. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Twenty Indian Army personnel and at least four Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash at the Galwan Valley in June last year. Since last winter, the Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC. Never before have such huge numbers of additional soldiers been posted in the forward areas of the LAC, at altitudes above 14,000sqft where temperatures can dip to minus 40°C when the winter peaks. The Indian deployment — backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the air force’s combat aircraft — is an effort to match the massive Chinese build-up along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
21-11-2021||India||Farmers in no mood to forgive despite Modi's U-turn on reforms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have caved into farmers’ demands that he scraps laws they say threaten their livelihoods. But the reaction to the shock U-turn in Uttar Pradesh, where Modi’s BJP faces key elections next year, has been less than positive, a worrying sign for a leader seeking to maintain his grip on national politics. In the village of Mohraniya, some 500km by road east of New Delhi and located in Uttar Pradesh, farmer Gursevak Singh said that he and others like him had lost faith in Modi and his party. “Today Prime Minister Modi realised that he was committing a blunder, but it took him a year to recognise this and only because he now knows farmers will not vote for his party ever again,” Singh said. For the young farmer, the matter is deeply personal. Singh’s 19-year-old brother Gurvinder was killed in October when a jeep ploughed into a crowd returning from a protest. “Today I can announce that my brother is a martyr,” Singh told Reuters, weeping as he held a picture of his dead brother. “My brother is among those brave farmers who sacrificed their lives to prove that the government was implementing laws to destroy the agrarian economy,” he added. Around him were several police officers, who Singh said were provided after his brother and three other farmers were killed by a jeep owned by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni. Mishra’s son Ashish is in police custody in relation to the incident. Mishra said at the time that his son was not at the site and that a car driven by “our driver” had lost control and hit the farmers after “miscreants” pelted it with stones and attacked it with sticks and swords. Leaders of six farmer unions who spearheaded the movement in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab states said they would not forgive a government that labelled protesting farmers as terrorists and anti-nationals. “Farmers were beaten with sticks, rods and detained for demanding legitimate rights... farmers were mowed down by a speeding car belonging to a minister’s family... tell me how can we forget it all?” said Sudhakar Rai, a senior member of a farmers’ union in Uttar Pradesh. Farmers like Singh warned that the government could pay a price for its treatment of them. “We are the backbone of the country and Modi has today accepted that his policies were against farmers,” said Singh. “I lost my brother in this mess and no one can bring him back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
21-11-2021||India||Karnataka farmers to intensify agitation against three state laws||The Centre’s decision to repeal three controversial farm laws has energised Karnataka’s farmers who are set to intensify their agitation against three state laws that they say affect crop prices, threaten their farmland and burden them with the upkeep of old oxen and bulls. Farmer organisations have urged BJP chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to repeal the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act along with recent amendments to the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act and the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. The September 2020 amendment to the APMC Act allows private buyers to directly approach farmers, obviating the need to go through the APMC markets where prices are regulated. Farmers allege this enables corporate buyers to dictate prices. The almost simultaneous amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act enables non-agriculturalists to buy agricultural land, till then reserved solely for farmers. In December, the state government passed the new cattle slaughter law which allows the slaughter of buffalo of both genders if certified as at least 13 years old. It prescribes jail for three to seven years and a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh for violations. The new law replaced the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, which banned the slaughter of cows, she buffalo and calves of both genders. The farmers’ problem is that the new law bans the slaughter of oxen and bulls as well. “Farmers are unable to sell even aged animals now,” Badagalpura Nagendra, president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (a farmers’ organisation), told The Telegraph on Saturday. “They have to maintain unproductive cattle as transporting them to states like Kerala and Goa (where beef is freely consumed) has become a nightmare with vigilante groups intercepting trucks.” Nagendra said the state’s farmers would under the banner of the Samyukta Horata, a coalition of farmers’ groups, agitate on national highways on November 26. Lakhs of farmers are expected to participate in a larger protest on Republic Day. “On January 26 we shall release detailed studies on the adverse impact of these three laws on the farmers and the APMC markets,” Nagendra said. “Areca nut (betel nut) farmers are struggling to get fair prices. The APMC markets haven’t sufficient income to pay salaries to their employees.” Republic Day will also witness kisan panchayats across the state. Karnataka had seen several farmer protests against the three central laws over the past year. That apart, sugarcane growers had held a huge demonstration in Bangalore in September urging the Centre to raise the fair and remunerative price (FRP). While the Union government has increased the FRP for sugarcane by Rs 50 to Rs 2,900 per tonne, the farmers say it doesn’t meet even their costs, which is Rs 3,200 per tonne. “The Narendra Modi government had kept the FRP unchanged for three years before the measly Rs 50 increase although fuel and fertiliser prices have almost doubled in this period,” said Kurbur Shantakumar, president of the Indian Sugarcane Farmers’ Association. He said many sugarcane farmers had had to sell land to make up their losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
21-11-2021||India||Varun writes to PM seeking 'strict action' against Ajay Mishra Teni||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Saturday wrote to the Prime Minister seeking “strict action” against Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, embroiled in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, piling political pressure a day after the capitulation over the farm laws dented Narendra Modi’s strongman image. Although Varun has been on a rebellious path over the farmers’ movement for some time now and there have been murmurs that he could jump ship, the letter appeared to be an after-effect of Modi’s decision to withdraw the controversial farm laws. The Lok Sabha MP from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh posted the letter, written in both Hindi and English, on Twitter. It hailed Modi for his “large-heartedness” and welcomed the move but at the same time sought to rub in a message by pointing out that many “innocent lives” would have been saved had the decision been taken earlier. “The heartbreaking incident (in Lakhimpur) is a blemish on our democracy. It is my request to you that appropriately strict action is taken against the Union minister who has been connected to this incident, so that there is a fair enquiry,” Varun wrote, joining the Opposition’s demand to remove junior home minister Mishra. Varun said the October 3 incident in Lakhimpur Kheri in which four farmers returning from a protest were crushed to death by a car owned by Mishra was the result of the “provocative” statements of BJP leaders. The minister’s son, Ashis, is in custody over the carnage. The allegation is that Ashis was in the Thar jeep that mowed down the farmers and a journalist. Minister Mishra had threatened protesting farmers publicly from a stage days before the incident. The BJP and the Modi government, however, have not taken any action against Mishra, ostensibly because he is an influential regional Brahmin leader. The BJP fears that dropping him could anger Brahmin voters in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year. Mishra recently shared a stage with Union home minister Amit Shah. Varun appears to be taking advantage of the weakness Modi and the BJP have betrayed through the decision to cancel the three farm laws, and is intensifying the political attack before the elections. It is believed that Varun chose dissidence after being pushed to the margins under the current BJP regime and is now toying with the idea of quitting the party. On Saturday he seemed to have timed his letter with that of cousin Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who too dashed off a letter to the Prime Minister over the farmers’ movement with some identical demands. Seeking to project himself as a champion of farmers, the BJP parliamentarian backed the other primary demand of the farmers: a legally guaranteed minimum support price for every farm produce. “This movement will not end without the resolution of this demand and there will be widespread anger among them, which will continue to emerge in one form or the other,” Varun wrote. Going further, he urged Modi to extend condolences to the families of the farmers who lost their lives during the yearlong movement, and sanction a compensation of Rs 1 crore for the family of each of the deceased. While announcing the intent to withdraw the farm laws, Modi had not expressed condolences over the deaths of farmers during the protracted protests. The farm unions have said that more than 700 farmers have died. “It is my humble request to you that while expressing condolences towards the farmer brothers and sisters who were martyred in the movement, a compensation of Rs 1 crore each be announced for them,” Varun wrote, adding that the “false FIRs” registered against peasants during the movement should be withdrawn. Although the BJP has been trying to project the repeal decision as a “statesmanlike” move adopted in the “national interest”, politically it is being seen as the first major instance of Modi bowing before pressure. Internally, the BJP is planning to re-launch its attack if the farmers do not end their protest despite the repeal promise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
21-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws won’t make Narendra Modi a hero, feels Cong||The Congress believes the repeal of the farm laws cannot undo the political damage that one of the greatest movements in the country’s history has inflicted upon the BJP because farmers believe these laws were not an aberration but reflected Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mindset. “The cheque Modi signed yesterday cannot be encashed,” senior Punjab Congress leader Sunil Jakhar told The Telegraph, arguing that the Prime Minister had retreated only after exhausting all his ammunition. “Farmers will continue to see Modi as the leader who thrust the farm laws upon them, not a saviour who repealed these,” Jakhar said. The Congress, which celebrated “Kisan Vijay Diwas” across the country on Saturday, posted a terse message: “Don’t be fooled. It is not benevolence, it is not compromise; it is a calculated decision to achieve a single goal — power.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra underlined that the Prime Minister had failed to act against Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri days after the minister himself had issued a public threat to them. The Congress pointed to Modi’s silence on the more than 700 farmers who had died in the course of the movement, as also his claim that only some farmers were against the laws, as proof that he did not really care. Jakhar said Modi had repealed the farm laws to salvage the situation for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly elections are due early next year. Punjab, which too will go to the polls at the same time, is a write-off for the party, he said. “Whoever gets into the coalmine, the hands will be blackened. If Captain Amarinder Singh aligns with the BJP, he will be getting into the sinking ship,” the former Punjab Congress chief said. Insisting that Modi has been exposed before the people of the country, Jakhar said: “All his flagship programmes have boomeranged. He started with an attempt to kill the Land Acquisition Act. Then CAA and GST angered people. The less said the better about the Covid mismanagement, and finally the farm laws.” He added: “This wasn’t an ordinary protest, this was an inquilab (revolution). Modi didn’t realise he was biting off more than he could chew. His aura of invincibility is gone. People know he succumbed to the backlash.” Ashish Mittal, general secretary of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS), echoed this sentiment. “Critical issues related to agriculture have now come to the forefront after this protracted and successful movement. They cannot be abandoned because the Prime Minister has unilaterally declared a repeal of the farm laws. What about the MSP, what about the doubling of income? Diesel prices, input costs, farmers’ suicide — all are linked,” he said. Ruling out the possibility of the farmers changing their perception of the Prime Minister overnight, Mittal said: “His pro-corporate character is established. That he wants greater corporate penetration into agriculture is indisputable. What the new ministry headed by Amit Shah is doing to farmer cooperatives is not hidden from us. “We have seen the sinister games the government played through the media during this agitation. His (Modi’s) handling of the movement threw up serious questions about his faith in democracy. We have lost 700 farmers. How will the farmers wipe the slate clean and start voting for the BJP?” Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced that a memorial will be built to the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. He demanded compensation for every life lost, and the MSP as a statutory right. Portraying Modi as a disaster, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Our bhashanjeewi Prime Minister failed to convince the farmers of the benefits of his attempt to dilute the Land Acquisition Act, failed to convince economists and citizens of the benefits of demonetisation, failed to convince traders of the benefits of GST, failed to convince the minorities of the virtues of the CAA, failed to convince the middle class of the benefits of high petrol-diesel-LPG prices, failed to convince industrialists of the benefits of Make-in-India. Finally, he failed to convince the farmers of the benefits of the farm laws. There is a limit to ignorance, sahib, the country understands everything, only the suit-boot government doesn’t.” Many Congress leaders wondered how the BJP leaders who had passionately defended the farm laws were now welcoming their repeal and praising the Prime Minister’s wisdom. Senior leader P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Home Minister hailed the Prime Minister’s announcement as showing ‘remarkable statesmanship.’ BJP president said that PM has ‘immense care for farmers’. Defence Minister said that PM had taken the decision considering the ‘welfare of the farmers’. Where were these worthy leaders and their wise advice in the last 15 months?” Chidambaram raised another point: “Did you notice that the PM made the announcement without holding a Cabinet meeting? It is only under the BJP that laws are made and unmade without prior Cabinet approval.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
21-11-2021||India||Wary farmers stay firm on demand for law guaranteeing MSP for crops ||The protesting farmers on Saturday stayed firm in their demand for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for their crops, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unilateral promise to repeal the three controversial farm laws. Friday’s outreach by the Prime Minister notwithstanding, the farmers have not forgotten the yearlong vilification of their peaceful protest by the ruling party’s ecosystem, which linked them to Khalistanis and Maoists. Modi himself had used the word “andolanjeevi”, suggesting that the protesters were professional agitators. The farmers are also angry at Modi’s failure to mention — let alone show remorse over — the lives lost during the protest because of the government’s obduracy. Having tasted victory, the farmers are even more determined to not lose the momentum and try and secure the MSP guarantee law by pressing the advantage they seem to hold with Assembly elections approaching. They cited Modi’s advocacy of such a legal provision in 2011 when he was chief minister of Gujarat. Also, they want the government to withdraw the false cases filed against several farmers during the year, mainly in BJP-ruled states. The plan to campaign against the BJP during the upcoming Assembly elections too remains unchanged for now. The farmers remember how various state governments diluted the safeguards in the land acquisition law after protests had forced the Modi administration to shelve its plans to water these down. They are keen to ensure the same does not happen with the three farm laws, with the states reviving them in some form after the Union government repeals them. For this, the farmers believe they have to ensure the BJP is defeated or at least weakened in the election-bound states. The nine-member core committee of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — which has been spearheading the farmer protests for a year — met on Saturday and decided to stay the course. But a final call will be taken at the general body meeting scheduled for Sunday. During the meeting, union leaders iterated that they cannot call off the agitation on the basis of Modi’s announcement. They underlined that the manner in which the announcement was made was undemocratic too. “This is a decision that should have been taken by the cabinet. Instead, the Prime Minister made a unilateral announcement. Our struggle has not only been for farmers’ rights but also for democracy,” a union leader said. The farmers’ first mobilisation after the announcement will be in Lucknow on Monday in the form of a kisan mahapanchayat. The event was announced last month after four farmers were mowed down in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, by a jeep belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. Teni’s continuation in Modi’s ministry remains a red rag for the farmers, who consider it a provocation that the Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate has invited the minister to an event as the chief guest. “The district administration surely realises the upset mood of the local farmers, and also knows that the Supreme Court is taking a suo motu interest in impartiality for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri massacre,” the SKM said in a statement. It urged the district magistrate to cancel the event and pressed the demand for Teni’s arrest and dismissal from the Union ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
