22-11-2021||India||Protest to continue till six demands, including legal guarantee of MSP, is met: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a body of farmer unions, on Monday reiterated its six demands raised before the government, including legal guarantee of minimum support price for crops, and said it will continue with its agitation till they are met.  The body also said that its agitation will not be called off at Delhi's border points, till the three farm laws, which triggered a year of protests by farmers, are formally repealed in Parliament.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday in his address to the nation had announced the Centre's decision to repeal the laws.  "The SKM (Samyukt Kisan Morcha) sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi late evening yesterday, after its meeting at Singhu Border. In this letter, SKM pointed out that the prime minister has chosen the path of unilateral declaration of the government's decision to repeal the three farm laws rather than a bilateral solution, but also welcomed the announcement," the SKM said in a statement.  The Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana was the fountainhead of the farmers' protest, which started last year in November, two months after enactment of the laws. From there the movement gradually expanded to the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and other sites.  The SKM also sought withdrawal of cases against farmers and building of a memorial for the protesters who died during the agitation against the three contentious central laws.  Despite the prime minister's surprise Friday announcement of repealing the three agri laws, farmer leaders have maintained that they won't budge until the laws are formally repealed in Parliament.  They have also indicated that their stir for a statutory guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) and withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill will continue.  While thanking Modi for his decision, the SKM, in its letter, had said, "After 11 rounds of talks, you chose the path of unilateral declaration rather than a bilateral solution."  "MSP based on the comprehensive cost of production should be made a legal entitlement of all farmers for all agricultural produce so that every farmer of the country can be guaranteed MSP announced by the government for their entire crop. Withdraw the draft 'Electricity Amendments Bill, 2020/2021'," the letter read.  It also sought removal of penal provisions against farmers in the 'Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act, 2021'.  The SKM's demands also include the sacking and arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose son is an accused in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which farmers were killed.  Over a dozen people, including the minister's son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in the violence case.  On the agitation against the three laws, the letter to the prime minister said, "Thousands of farmers have been implicated in hundreds of cases during this movement (June 2020 till date) in Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and several other states. These cases should be withdrawn immediately."  "During this movement, about 700 farmers have died. There should be compensation and rehabilitation support for their families. Land should be allotted at the Singhu Border to build a memorial for the deceased farmers," it stated.  The SKM warned that the agitation will continue till the government resumes talks with it over the six issues listed in the letter.  "Prime minister, you have appealed to the farmers that we should now go back home. We want to assure you that we are not fond of sitting on the streets. We too desire to return to our homes, families and farming after resolving these issues as soon as possible," the SKM said.  If the agitation has to end, then the government should immediately resume talks with the SKM on the six issues. Till then, the SKM will continue this movement," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||Centre calls all-party meet on Sunday, ahead of Parliament session; PM Modi likely to attend||Ahead of the winter session of Parliament, the government has called an all-party meeting on Sunday, which is expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, sources said on Monday.  The floor leaders of all the political parties from both houses of Parliament have been invited to the meeting, they added.  Besides Modi, senior Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, along with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, will represent the government at the meeting.  On Sunday evening, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has called a meeting of the floor leaders of the Upper House of Parliament.  Similarly, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla is expected to call a meeting of the floor leaders in the Lower House on November 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle: CM Ashok Gehlot allocates portfolios to ministers, keeps home and finance||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday allocated portfolios to ministers of his expanded cabinet, retaining home and finance with him.  Twelve new ministers were inducted and three ministers of state were elevated to the cabinet rank.  The 15 ministers were sworn in on Sunday for the expanded Gehlot cabinet, fulfilling a key demand of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot whose rebellion last year shook the state's Congress government.  The chief minister along with the finance and home portfolios, has kept taxation, personnel, general administration cabinet secretariat, information and public relation, and information technology and communication.  The department for NRI and the Rajasthan State Investigation Bureau are under Gehlot.  Following the expansion, the council of ministers in the state has 19 cabinet ministers and 10 ministers of state. The Rajasthan Cabinet can have a maximum of 30 ministers, including the chief minister.  From the old cabinet -- Pratap Singh Khachariyawas was allocated food and civil supplies, Shanti Dhariwal retained urban development and housing, and parliamentary affairs, Lal Chand Kataria retained agriculture and Pramod Jain Bhaya retained mines and petroleum.  BD Kalla and Parsadi Lal Meena were allocated education, and health and excise respectively.  The new ministers who got portfolios in the cabinet rank include Hemaram Choudhary (forest), Mahesh Joshi (PHED), Ramlal Jat (revenue), Ramesh Meena (panchayati raj and rural development), Vishvendra Singh (toursim and civil aviation), Govindram Meghwal (disaster management and relief) and Shakuntala Rawat (industries) and Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya (water resources).  Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena were sacked last year from the Rajasthan cabinet along with Pilot for rebelling against Gehlot's leadership. Vishvendra Singh in this expanded cabinet got back his old portfolio of tourism.  Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled against Gehlot last year.  Mamta Bhupesh was allocated women and child development, Bhajan Lal PWD, Tikaram Jully social justice and empowerment, as they were elevated to cabinet rank from minister of state.  The newly inducted ministers of state and their portfolios are Brijendra Ola (transport, devasthan and state enterprises), Murari Lal Meena (agriculture marketing, estate, tourism and civil aviation) and Rajendra Singh Gudha (sainik kalyan, home guards, panchayati raj and rural development).  Zahida Khan (science and technology, printing and stationary, primary and secondary education, art, literature and culture) is also a new minister of state in the Gehlot cabinet.  The ministers of state from the old cabinet who retained their portfolios are Arjun Singh Bamaniya (tribal area development), Ashok Chandna (sports and youth affairs) and Subhash Garg (technical education).  Those who got new portfolios are Sukhram (revenue and labour), Bhanwar Singh Bhati (power-independent charge) and Rajendra Yadav (higher education).  In the new and expanded cabinet, the three women ministers are Mamta Bhupesh and Shakuntala Rawat (cabinet rank) and Zahida (minister of state).  Cabinet minister Mahesh Joshi is also chief whip while Minister of State Brijendra Ola is the son of former Union minister Sisram Ola.  Minister of State Rajendra Gudha is one of the six MLAs who defected from BSP to the Congress.  Among the 15 ministers who took oath on Sunday, Hemaram Choudhary is the senior-most MLA. He is a six time MLA.  Ramlal Jat is a four-time MLA; Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Vishvendra Singh, Ramesh Meena, Brijendra Ola and Murari Meena are three-time MLAs, while rest of the ministers who took oath on Sunday are two-time MLAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||Kejriwal promises cash scheme for women of Punjab if AAP wins||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that Rs 1,000 per month will be transferred into the accounts of all women in Punjab if his party AAP is voted to power in the 2022 assembly polls.  Today I want to make an announcement. Aam Aadmi Party will form the government in Punjab. We will transfer Rs 1,000 every month into the accounts of every woman who is more than 18 years old in the state, he said, adding to the list of freebies promised by him.  Elderly women who are getting an old-age pension will continue to get that in addition to the Rs 1,000 to be credited into their accounts, Kejriwal, who started his two-day Punjab visit on Monday, said while addressing a gathering here.  Under the AAP's 'Mission Punjab', Kejriwal will visit various places in the state in the next one month to rally support for the upcoming state electi polls.  The AAP, founded in 2012, had emerged as the main opposition in Punjab in the last assembly election but party leaders had admitted that they were expecting the party to fare better.  Kejriwal has already promised up to 300 units of free electricity for each household in Punjab, 24-hour electricity supply and free treatment and medicines at government hospitals if voted to power in the assembly elections due early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||No scientific evidence so far to underline need for Covid vaccine booster dose: ICMR chief||There is no scientific evidence so far to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against COVID-19, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said on Monday underlining the completion of second dose for India's adult population is the priority for the government for now.  According to sources, the booster dose issue is likely to be discussed in the next meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI).  "Administering the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine to all adult population and ensuring that not only India but the entire world gets vaccinated is the priority of the government for now.  "More so, there is no scientific evidence so far to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against COVID-19," Bhargava told PTI.  On the probability of administering a booster dose, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya recently said that adequate stocks are available and the aim is to complete the vaccination of the target population with two doses. After that, a decision on booster dose would be taken based on expert recommendation, he had said.  "The government cannot take a direct decision in such a matter. When the Indian Council of Medical Research and expert team will say that a booster dose should be given, we will consider it then," he had said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always depended on expert opinion, be it vaccine research, manufacturing or approval.  According to officials, around 82 per cent of the eligible population in India have received the first dose of the vaccine while around 43 per cent have been fully inoculated.  The total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 116.87 crore, according to provisional reports till 7 am.  The government has launched a month-long 'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign for house-to-house COVID-19 vaccination of those who are yet to take a dose and for people whose second dose is overdue.  According to officials, over 12 crore beneficiaries are overdue for their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||Data Protection Bill: dissent notes by MPs of Congress, TMC  ||Members of the Congress, the BJD and the TMC on Monday gave dissent notes to the Joint Committee of Parliament on the Personal Data Protection Bill after the panel adopted its report at its meeting here. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he was compelled to submit a detailed dissent note on the bill as his suggestions have not been accepted and he was unable to convince members of the panel. From the TMC, MPs Derek O' Brien and Mahua Moitra submitted a dissent note, alleging the bill lacks adequate safeguards to protect the right to privacy of data principles. Other Congress MPs who have submitted dissent notes are Manish Tewari, Gaurav Gogoi and Vivek Tankha. BJD's Amar Patnaik has also submitted a dissent note on the bill. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, was referred to the Joint Committee of Parliament (JCP) for scrutiny before it is taken up by Parliament for consideration and passage. The report on the bill was delayed by the panel as its former chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi was elevated as a minister and a new chairperson of the committee was appointed. Ramesh, a former Union minister, lauded the democratic manner in which the committee functioned under the chairmanship of P P Chaudhary for the past four months. "Finally, it is done. The Joint Committee of Parliament has adopted its report on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. There are dissent notes, but that is in the best spirit of parliamentary democracy. Sadly, such examples are few and far between under the Modi regime," he said after submitting his dissent note on the proposed legislation. The Congress leader said he is compelled to submit the note as his suggestions have not been accepted and he is unable to convince members. "But that should not detract from the democratic manner in which the committee has functioned. Now, for the debate in Parliament," he said on Twitter. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs, who are part of the panel, described the bill as "Orwellian" in nature and raised questions on the functioning of the committee. In the dissent note filed with Chaudhary, they have alleged that the committee rushed through its mandate and did not provide sufficient time and opportunity for stakeholder consultations, sources said. O'Brien and Moitra also said multiple meetings were held during the COVID-19 pandemic, making it difficult for those outside Delhi to attend. The MPs also said they oppose the bill for lack of adequate safeguards to protect the right to privacy of data principles, the sources said. In the note, the two MPs have also opposed the committee's recommendations for inclusion of non-personal data within the proposed legislation, they said. Ramesh, who is also the chief whip of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, in his dissent note said he had suggested amendments to Section 35, which is the most crucial provision of the bill as well as to Section 12. He has argued that Section 35 gives almost unbridled powers to the central government to exempt any government agency from the entire Act itself. "Under the amendment I had suggested, the central government will have to get Parliamentary approval for exempting any of its agencies from the purview of the law. Even then, the government must always comply with the bill's requirement of fair and reasonable processing and implementing the necessary security safeguards," Ramesh said. "This would bring about greater accountability and transparency, but even that was not found acceptable. Section 12(a)(i) creates certain exceptions for governments and government agencies from the provisions of consent," he said. Ramesh has in his note said that the JCP's report allows a period of two years for private companies to migrate to the new data protection regime, but governments and government agencies have no such stipulation. He argued that the design of the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, assumes that the constitutional right to privacy arises only where operations and activities of private companies are concerned. Governments and government agencies are treated as a separate privileged class whose operations and activities are always in the public interest and individual privacy considerations are secondary, the Congress leader said. "The idea that the August 2017 Puttaswamy judgment of the Supreme Court is relevant only for a very, very, very tiny section of the Indian population is, in my view, deeply flawed and troubling and is one that I totally reject," he asserted in his note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||Many farmers' issues need to be resolved: Tikait at mahapanchayat||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said that besides the repealing of the three agri laws, there are many issues of farmers that need to be resolved as a large number of them gathered here for a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' to press their demands for a legal guarantee for MSP, among other things.  "It seems that after announcing repealing of the three farm laws, the government does not want to speak to the farmers. The government should make it clear that it has repealed the laws in the true sense and talk to us so that we can start moving to our villages," Tikait told PTI at the Eco Garden here, the venue for the 'mahapanchayat'.  The 'mahapanchayat' has been called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the agitating farmer unions. It was planned months before Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced repealing the contentious agri laws. The SKM, at a meeting in Delhi on Sunday, decided to stick to the date.  The SKM has put forth six demands before the government. Besides the legal guarantee for minimum support price, the farmers are demanding the removal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose son is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, withdrawal of cases against farmers, building a memorial for the protesters who lost their lives during the agitation and withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill.  The issues of MSP, seeds, dairy and pollution need to be resolved, Tikait said.  More than 750 farmers, mostly from Punjab, died during the protest against the agri laws, he claimed.  SKM leader from Uttarakhand Gurpreet Sukia said farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand have come to participate in the 'Kisan Mahapanchayat'.  Shekhar Dixit, president of Rashtriya Kisan Manch, said, "The PM made the announcement about repealing of farm laws with an eye on the upcoming assembly elections in UP and other states, where the BJP is seeing power slipping away from its hands."  Despite the prime minister's surprise announcement, farmer leaders have maintained the protesters won't budge until the three contentious laws are formally repealed in Parliament.  Hundreds of protesting farmers have been camping at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders since November 2020. Rakesh Tikait on Monday compared Union minister Ajay Mishra with a "terrorist" and sought his arrest in connection with the death of four farmers in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.  The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader also opposed the proposed inauguration of a sugar mill in Lakhimpur Kheri by the minister, saying if he turns up there, farmers won't take their sugarcane to the mill.  The violence had erupted on October 3 when farmers were protesting the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Mishra's native place.   Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle allegedly carrying BJP workers.  Four others, including a journalist and two BJP workers, were also killed in the violence that followed.  Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra has been named as accused in the case.  Addressing a "kisan mahapanchayat" here at Eco Garden, Tikait said the arrest of the minister is one of their main issues.  He said attempts are being made to make the minister a "hero" from a "qatil" (murdrer).  "If terrorists from Kashmir can be lodged in the Agra jail, then the murderer of farmers is also a terrorist and he too should go to the Agra jail," Tikait said.  Referring to the proposed inauguration of the sugar mill by Mishra, Tikait said if he goes there to inaugurate it, then no sugarcane will be taken to the mill.  "Rather, farmers will take the sugarcane to the office of the district magistrate, no matter how much losses they incur," Tikait said.  Tikait said after December, he will be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri for three days to meet families of the farmers killed in the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||AP Assembly passes bill to repeal controversial three capitals law ||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Monday passed a Bill to repeal the controversial AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020, that was intended to establish three capitals for the state.  Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, however, told the Assembly his government would bring a "comprehensive, complete and better" Decentralisation Bill.  The 2020 Act was being repealed to protect the larger interests of people.  "Our intention of a decentralised development of the state has been twisted, distorted and misinformation launched. Also, legal hurdles were created and court cases filed," the Chief Minister alleged.  Without referring to the farmers of Amaravati region, who had been fighting the three capitals decision for more than 700 days now, Jagan said the government would explain "our genuine intention and the need for decentralisation" to all concerned and incorporate necessary changes in the new Bill.  The government had earlier hinted AP could have three capitals-- Executive capital in Visakhapatnam and the Legislative capital in Amaravati and Judiciary capital in Kurnool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
22-11-2021||India||Law and order in Manipur tremendously improved under BJP rule, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday lauded the BJP government in Manipur for bringing peace and all-round development in the last five years and said there has been a significant improvement in the law and order situation in the state. While virtually laying the foundation stone of the Rani Gaidinliu tribal freedom fighters' museum in Manipur, Shah said the government at the Centre and the N Biren Singh government in Manipur have brought tremendous improvement in the law and order situation, education, power and other infrastructure sectors. "Before coming to power in Manipur, we had promised to end bandh, hartal and blockade. We have ended all the three and significantly improved the law and order situation in Manipur," he said. The home minister said if a comparison is made between the development witnessed in the last five years in Manipur and the development in previous 70 years in the state, one can see more progress in the last five years. The BJP came to power in Manipur for the first time in 2017. Shah said for the first time since Independence, those living in the hill areas of Manipur have felt that there is a central government that thinks about their welfare. The people living in the hills got power and gas connections, free toilets and saw the setting up of schools, he said. "The governments of Narendra Modi and Biren Singh brought all these developments. I am sure the people of Manipur will again elect a BJP government in Manipur," he said. Assembly elections in Manipur are due early next year along with that in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa. Shah also paid rich tributes to Gaidinliu, and said people called her as 'Rani' acknowledging her role in the struggle against the British. The home minister said on her birth centenary commemoration function in 2015, the prime minister had released a coin of Rs 100. The Indian Coast Guard commissioned a fast patrol vessel 'ICGS Rani Gaidinliu' in 2016, he said. The Rani Gaidinliu tribal freedom fighters museum will be set up at Luangkao village in Tamenglong district of Manipur, where she was born. While the Manipur chief minister, Union Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda and other dignitaries attend the event in Imphal, Shah addressed it through video conferencing from Delhi. The museum project has been sanctioned by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs at an estimated cost of Rs 15 crore. Rani Gaidinliu was born on January 26, 1915. At the age of 13, she was associated with Haipou Jadonang, a spiritual leader and political activist from Manipur, and became his lieutenant in his social, religious and political movement. Her four-year association with Jadonang that started around 1926 prepared her to be the fighter against the British. After the execution of Jadonang by the British in 1931, Gaidinliu took up the leadership of the movement. Gaidinliu started a revolt against the British after the martyrdom of Jadonang for which she was imprisoned by the Britishers for 14 years and finally released in 1947. She was released from Tura jail (Meghalaya) after India got Independence. Rani Gaidinliu passed away on February 17, 1993. She was awarded the Tamrapatra in 1972, Padma Bhushan in 1982, Vivekananda Sewa Summan in 1983, Stree Shakti Purashkar in 1991 and Bhagwan Birsa Munda Puraskar in 1996 posthumously. The government of India issued a commemorative stamp on Rani Gaidinliu in 1996.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||Rain fury in south India: Torrential rain floods neighbourhoods in Bengaluru, Chennai||North of Bengaluru and several pockets of northern Chennai's Manali area experienced heavy flooding as a result of torrential rain in parts of the South over the last few days, reports NDTV. Apart from basements of several apartments getting flooded, rain water inundated several homes in many localities in Manali, an industrial pocket of Tamil Nadu's capital. Several areas in northern Chennai were heavily inundated due to excess discharge from the Kosasthalaiyar river. Boats have also been deployed in some areas of northern Chennai to deal with the situation. According to a NDTV report, excess water overflowing from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh city of Chitoor also contributed to the overnight deluge as water from the Poondi reservoir in Tamil Nadu's Thiruvallur district – filled to capacity – was released beyond 3000 cubic feet per second a few days back. However, discharge from the Poondi reservoir has now been reduced, authorities said on Monday. Bengaluru saw heavy flooding overnight as the Allalasandra lake overflowed, inundating the lake's surrounding areas. Several roads in northern Bengaluru were left heavily waterlogged as a result of last night's downpour. Many houses were inundated, with residents unable to get out of their homes. The Yelahanka, Nagavara, Kogilu Cross and Vidyaranyapura areas of Bengaluru were particularly affected by the rain. In Yelahanka, 153 mm of rain fell in the last 24 hours alone, contributing to the area's heavy water-logging. The same area received a visit from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who arrived in the neighbourhood to service an apartment that saw water enter its premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||Delhi govt lifts ban on construction and demolition activities||The Delhi government has lifted the ban on construction and demolition activities in view of an improvement in the air quality and inconvenience caused to workers, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Monday. Rai also said the government will take a call on the reopening of schools, colleges and other educational institutions and work-from-home for government staff during a review meeting on Wednesday. "We will also discuss if CNG-operated trucks carrying non-essential items can be allowed to enter Delhi if the situation continues to improve," he said. The Delhi government on Sunday night extended the ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items and work-from-home for its employees till November 26 to combat air pollution and minimise its health effects. "For some time, the air quality index remained above the 600--mark. However, steps taken to contain air pollution and change in the wind pattern have resulted in a gradual decline in air pollution levels," he said. "In view of the improvement in the air quality and inconvenience caused to workers, we have decided to lift the ban on construction and demolition activities. However, the government will continue to monitor the implementation of dust control measures by all agencies," Rai said at a press conference. He said 585 monitoring teams have been working to ensure compliance of directions. "If any agency is found violating dust control norms, the government will stop work and impose a penalty without notice," Rai warned. The minister said the government has hired 1,000 private CNG-operated buses to augment public transport. These will have "Prayavaran Bus Sewa" written on them and people can travel on them like DTC buses. Strong surface winds gusting up to 30 kilometres per hour barrelled through the capital on Monday, dispersing pollutants and improving the air quality. Delhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) stood at 307 at 1 pm, down from 349 at 4 pm on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||TMC holds protest outside home ministry against police action in Tripura||A delegation of TMC MPs on Monday sat on a dharna outside the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) here over alleged police brutality and arrest of its youth leader in Tripura. The MPs also raised slogans against the home minister and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded an appointment with Amit Shah. "We want the home minister to listen to us. Both Shah and Modi need to answer for the violence that is happening in Tripura," said TMC leader Sukhendu Sekhar Ray. TMC MP Saugata Ray said the protests were also against the arrest of party's youth leader Sayani Ghosh in Tripura. The party alleged "mayhem" in BJP-ruled Tripura as Ghosh was arrested by the police and accused of attempt to murder. Party chief and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is also expected to arrive here later in the day. The Tripura Police on Sunday arrested actor-turned TMC leader Ghosh on charges of attempt to murder after she allegedly disrupted a meeting of state Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb by shouting Khela hobe (We will play) on Saturday night. Ghosh, the youth unit secretary of TMC West Bengal, was arrested after being called in for questioning in a police station in Agartala, a police official had said. The Supreme Court recently directed the Tripura Police to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising its rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner. The TMC has repeatedly alleged that its candidates were being prevented from campaigning by the ruling BJP supporters there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||SC protects Param Bir Singh from arrest in criminal cases lodged against him Maharashtra||The Supreme Court Monday granted protection from arrest to former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in criminal cases lodged against him in Maharashtra and sought responses from the state government, its DGP and the CBI on his plea. Singh, who had accused the then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption, has alleged frame-up in criminal cases. Besides seeking protection from coercive steps, Singh has sought a CBI probe into the entire issue involving him. A bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh issued notices to the Maharashtra government, its DGP Sanjay Pande and the CBI on Singh's plea. "Issue notice. Returnable on December 6. In the meantime, the petitioner shall join the investigation and shall not be arrested," the bench ordered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||SC to hear TMC's contempt plea against Tripura govt on Tuesday ||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear on November 23 the Trinamool Congress Party's plea seeking contempt action against the Tripura government and others for failing to curtail violent incidents against opposition parties in the run up to the upcoming local body polls. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna said it will hear the plea on Tuesday after advocate Amar Dave, appearing for TMC, said that despite court's November 11 order the situation in the state is worsening. "Yesterday, there was an incident. The situation in the state is very volatile and it has gone from bad to worse. The situation is worsening day by day," he said. "The plea for contempt action has been filed as there are repeated incidents of violence and false cases are being lodged against their members," he added. When the bench asked whether the petition has been filed, Dave said it is in the process being filed and once it is numbered, he will provide it to the court. "Ok, we will hear it on Tuesday. Once the petition is numbered, you provide the details to the court master," the bench said. On November 11, the top court had directed the Tripura government to ensure that no political party including TMC, in the fray for local body polls of the state, is prevented from pursuing electoral rights in accordance with law and from campaigning in a peaceful and orderly manner. The apex court had also directed the state government to make appropriate arrangements for ensuring law and order for the unimpeded right of political participation in the municipal elections. It had issued notice to the state government on the plea by TMC and its Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev seeking security for the party workers and representatives alleging wide scale violence against them. Since the election process has commenced, it is the bounden obligation of the respondents (Tripura government) to ensure that no political party which is in the fray is prevented from pursuing its electoral rights in accordance with law and from campaigning in a peaceful and orderly manner, the top court had said. Necessary arrangements shall be put in place and appropriate action taken by the Secretary to the Department of Home Affairs of the Government of Tripura as well as by the Director General of Police, together with the law enforcement machinery of the State to enforce and comply with this order, it had said. The top court had said that as regards to the plea for individual security, the concerned Superintendents of Police who are impleaded as parties in the plea shall take a decision having regard to the threat perception with reference to each case and area and take necessary action for the maintenance and provision of security, as required. "An affidavit shall be filed by the first respondent (Tripura government) explaining the steps being taken in pursuance of the present order and even otherwise to ensure that the process of election during the ensuing municipal elections in Tripura remains free and fair," the bench said. It had also asked the Director General of Police and the Home Secretary of the State to file a joint report of compliance, on affidavit, in pursuance of the directions of the court. The top court posted the matter for further hearing on November 25. The TMC party and Dev have sought directions to the state government and police officials to ensure the maintenance of security and safety in the areas where the elections are scheduled to be held in November 2021. The plea has also sought direction for providing security to the members of TMC for the constitution of a neutral and fair SIT to probe into the incidents of violence meted with its workers. The local body election process commenced on October 22 after the notification and polling will take place on November 25. Polling for a municipal corporation, thirteen Municipal Councils and six Nagar Panchayats in the Tripura will be held on November 25. PTI MNL||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||SC asks Bengal Speaker to decide on plea seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||Air quality in Delhi improves as winds sweep city||Strong surface winds brought some relief from high pollution levels in Delhi and improved visibility on Monday morning, officials said. The air quality index of the city stood at 307, which falls in the very poor category. However, it was down from 349 the previous day. The air quality index of Gurugram, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Noida stood at 318, 213, 326 and 268 respectively. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will on Monday hold a high-level meeting to review the curbs imposed to contain high pollution levels in the city. Winds gusting up to 20 kmph swept through the city, dispersing pollutants partially and improving visibility. The minimum temperature on Monday was recorded at 12 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 78 per cent. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 27 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||Daily Covid cases in country lowest in 538 days||India recorded 8,488 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 538 days, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,18,901, while the active cases declined to 1,18,443, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,65,911 with 249 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 45 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 148 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.34 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.31 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 4,271 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.08 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 49 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.93 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 59 days, according to the ministry.\ The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,34,547, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 116.87 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 249 new fatalities include 196 from Kerala and 17 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,65,911 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,739 from Maharashtra, 38,175 from Karnataka, 37,495 from Kerala, 36,375 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,383 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||Raman Dandyan and Gurinder Baasi are the two superstars emerging in the music industry||Different industries and fields are on a constant rise, especially from the past few years, thanks to the consistent efforts, hard work, and resilience a few individuals have shown over the years. These individuals have been hustling their way to the top in their chosen industries and making the most of the opportunities, and also creating newer ones for them. Raman dandyan and Gurinder baasi are such rare gem amongst these young talents from India, who, for his passion for music has been consistently walking his path, facing the challenges, and emerging as a true winner in the same. It is unbelievable to know that Raman dandyan and Gurinder baasi are the only youngster, who with his pure love, passion, and commitment to music, has been shining brightly as a rising musical artist in the ever-so-evolving and growing music industry. The young guys confesses that from a very young age, while he was still a kid, he realized his heart was inclined the most towards the world of music. Since he understood his true calling early in life, he decided to dive deep into the music industry to emerge as a dynamic young singer and artist. Raman dandyan and Gurinder Baasi, today has given us hit songs such as Phantom, Double Cross, Fame etc. They confesses that they always wanted to do something different as a singer and offer a kind of uniqueness to the audiences and music lovers with his songs. To know more, follow him on Instagram @ramandandyan1, @gurinder_baasi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
22-11-2021||India||18-year-old Boy Mohit Churiwal, The Man Behind The Growth And Success Of Maxtern Media||Kickstarting his career at an early age, Mohit Churiwal has achieved several milestones and has inspired many people over the years. He is the proud owner of the Public Relation Company named Maxtern Media which he founded in late 2019. Maxtern Media helps people in elevating their businesses by increasing their reach across social media. The growth of the company has never been overnight. Mohit had to work diligently to take the firm to the heights of success. Today, Maxtern Media is one of the most renowned firms which works for the professional development of people. Over time, the renowned Entrepreneur built a strong team of experts who always remain at people’s beck and call to help people in every possible way. With the help of Social Media Marketing, Mohit and his team help people to elevate their businesses to a new level of success. His strategic skills and his ability to take risks are the reason behind the firm’s success. Maxtern Media’s Ceo, Mohit Churiwal recently announced the launch of SuratStore.in. It is going to be Surat’s first E-commerce website where people can find apparel, shoes, and gadgets at affordable prices. By partnering with We Fast Courier Mohit and his team members are constantly on their toes to ensure a hassle-free shopping experience. SuratStore.in aims to provide doorstep delivery for people hailing from Surat. To ensure unique customer service, the team has worked tirelessly to come up with excellent ideas. Customers with temporary requirements will also benefit from the launch of SuratStore. Serial Entrepreneur, Mohit Churiwal promises to provide goods on a rental basis. Now Surat residents can avail cameras, gadgets, and games on rent. The latest Sony Playstation 5 including various forthcoming games like FIFA2022 will also be available on the E-commerce website. Customers can place their orders on the website and the admin will contact them for further details. Mohit’s consistent efforts are the reason behind Maxtern Media’s success. His success journey has been an inspiration to all the people, especially the youth. It will be challenging to make his new startup a huge success but we all know that his extensive knowledge about the market will pave his way towards victory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Indian Institute of Hotel Management has crossed many milestones||It is has proved that when we talk about a job oriented institute they are among the top ranking colleges to exemplify the same. The core quality of any job oriented college is to complement its academics with streamlined training and suitable placement in places of repute and more importantly mentor them to stand out in a crowd. Indian Institute of Hotel Management has been able to provide the Hotel/ Hospitality industry with quality students not only throughput India but also across borders. If we talk about the format of education in this pandemic we have seen that the college has made all efforts to satisfy the needs of local and out station students. Practical classes are conducted in small batches so that the protocol of social distancing is maintained cautiously and at the same time the classes can be seen online for outstation students. Workshops, competitions, education excursions and an array of activities are designed in such a way that the students coming from various backgrounds, social circles and regions get an equal exposure to enhance their skills and communication. Priority is given to students from vernacular boards and a perfect hand holding is done for them so that they do not feel out of place or apprehensive about their choice of career. The effort taken to groom and discipline the students is commendable as poise, gesture, mannerisms and behavior is keenly monitored and enhanced to fit industry standards.  Students who want to pursue their professional career in Hotel/Hospitality and Hospital management should connect with the college admission cell at 9051475838 and the location of the college is very easy as it is well connected and centrally located in the heart of  Saltlake Sector Five EN 33,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Leadership Redefining Organizational Culture ||A successful organization must have a culture that is founded on a set of deeply held and broadly shared ideas that are backed up by strategy and structure. Three things happen when an organization's culture is strong: Employees are aware of how top management expects them to respond in each situation, they feel that the expected response is the appropriate one, and they are aware that embodying the organization's values will be rewarded. Employers play a critical role in upholding a strong culture, beginning with recruiting and selecting applicants who resonate with the organization's beliefs and thrive in that culture. Businesses should develop orientation, training, and performance management programs that outline and reinforce the organization's core values, ensuring that employees who truly exemplify the culture receive appropriate rewards and recognition. Role of Leaders in Building Organizational Culture Business leaders play a critical role in establishing and communicating their company's culture. The relationship between leadership and culture, on the other hand, is not one-sided. While leaders are the primary architects of culture, the type of leadership that is conceivable is influenced by the existing culture. Leaders must recognize their role in preserving or evolving a company's culture. A deeply ingrained and well-established culture demonstrates how individuals should act, which can assist employees in achieving their objectives. When an employee believes a leader is assisting him or her in achieving a goal, this behavioural framework provides increased job satisfaction. The modern performance management system enables leaders to create a structured framework that in turn, help employees to track their performance, thereby promoting self-accountability. Organizational culture, leadership, and job satisfaction are all intricately intertwined from this perspective. Many diverse workplace cultures can be developed by leaders, and they can also be impacted by them. These distinctions can appear in a variety of ways including: Adaptive and adhocracy cultures are defined by the degree to which individuals are free to make decisions, generate new ideas, and express themselves. Adaptive cultures respect to change and are action-oriented, which increases the chance of long-term survival. Adhocracy cultures are fast-paced and entrepreneurial, with a focus on taking risks, innovating, and being first at experimenting. Task cultures and clan cultures both play a role in how devoted employees are to the company's goals. In a task culture, teams of experts are established to address specific challenges. Due to the significance of the tasks and the large number of small teams involved, a matrix structure is popular in this sort of culture. Clan cultures are similar to family cultures, with a focus on mentoring, caring, and doing things as a group. Power cultures, role cultures, and hierarchy cultures are all characteristics of how power and information flow through an organization's structure and system. One leader controls the strategy and makes quick choices in a power culture. This type of culture necessitates a high level of reverence for the leader. Role cultures are places where functional structures are established, where people know their jobs, report to their superiors, and place a premium on productivity and accuracy. In that they are highly structured, hierarchy cultures are comparable to role cultures. They prioritize efficiency, consistency, and doing things the right way. Some significant aspects of personal culture and market culture are how the members of an organization conduct business, treat employees, customers, and the wider community. Person culture is one in which horizontal structures are most beneficial. Each individual is valued more than the corporation as a whole. This can be tough to sustain since the company may suffer as a result of conflicting people and priorities. Market cultures focus more on competition, performance, and "getting the job done." The Culture is Ever Evolving! The culture of an organization never remains static. As members of an organization interact over time and learn what works and what doesn't, they form a shared understanding about "what right looks like." When certain ideas and assumptions lead to less-than-satisfactory outcomes, the organization's culture must develop in order to remain relevant in a changing environment. Changing an organization's culture is a whole different ball game. Employees are sometimes resistant to change and can form a unified front against a new culture. As a result, it is the responsibility of leaders to persuade their workforce of the benefits of change and to demonstrate that the new culture is the best way to function in order to achieve success through collective experience with behavioural changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Exclusive Interview: Right from his latest album to the motivation in the music industry, guitarist V Play Music reveals it all!||*Your Name* - V Play Music *Name of latest release* - Guitar on Vocals *Release date of Album* - 17/04/2021 *Tell us about your Album* - okay so 'Guitar on Vocals' as name suggests I had that thought in my mind that you don't always need 'Vocals' to appreciate music and dance to it, i always wanted to make some kind of music that even without vocals a common man can relate to and dance on it. it should fulfill requirements of the vocals by any other instrument. since i play guitar so i decided to proceed that way. So I came up with 'Guitar on Vocals'. *What's the genre* - it's mostly hard rock, soul rock, alternative rock thing but each song represents different feel and emotion, like one song is kind of pop but blended with latin beats on drums and it sounds like pop rock, two tracks are heavy thrashy metal and some are very alternative souly rock vibe. you'll have all type of songs, happy, emotional, positive, and metal as well. *When did you become a musician* - started learning guitar in early 2013 and since then i'm playing, I started working professionally as devotional programs guitar player in 2014, did that for straight two years while building my sources and contacts with musicians in delhi, i was also learning side by side from Delhi School of Music. Did grade 4 from rock school and since then i'm working professionally as i got connected to SANKRAMAN (Delhi Based Band), I did an audition for badhshah's live band setup with sankraman and got selected there in 2016. right now playing for Badshah and Aastha Gill as their official guitar player. *How long did it take to record the Album* - It was always in my mind to make my own music since i started playing guitar but ‘work’ always got me occupied. as when one comes from a middle class family he/she has to take care of the finances and balance the creativity with the money aspect. so the first track of the album 'Whispering Cloud' is also the first song i wrote in 2018 and then in this lockdown i finally got time to sit and complete the whole album. Took me quite a while but thanks to this lockdown I was able to focus better and competed the album in some couple of months. *Tell us a fun story about the album* - okay so 'Guitar on Vocals' as the name suggests i had that thought in my mind that you don't always need 'Vocals' to appreciate music and dance to it, i always wanted to make music as even without vocals a common man can relate to it. Like I said as it should fulfill the requirements of the vocals by any other instrument, just because I play guitar so I swap vocals with guitars and came up with the idea and name 'Guitar on Vocals'. all the songs have Intro, Pre Chorus, Chorus, Verse and so on as of course the usual pop songs are written. *How old are you* - Im 25 Right now 18/Sep/1995 *Where are you born and where are you based now* - Born and raised in Delhi, used to live in east delhi near Nirman Vihar, right now living near Dwarka. *Who made the album artwork* - I Made by Myself. *Influences* - Highly influenced by Andy James first of all, then John Petrucci, Jack Thammarat,  Charlie Parra Del Riego , Chris Buck, Yngwie Malmsteen etc. *Favorite quote* - "Who Needs Vocals When You Can Make Your Guitar Sing" by V Play Music (My Own) *Where and how did you record the Album* - Recorded At my home studio all done by myself by searching online taking some online sessions for mix and mastering and of course a lot of practice. *Youtube or Spotify ?* - YouTube for covers, Spotify for Originals. or only YouTube if i have to choose one. *Say your 5 favorite words* - Positivity, Bright, Love, Happy, Guitar. *Define your story in one word* - Hustler. *Favorite instrument*  - Electric Guitar of course!! *5 things you cannot do without* - Music, Positive Energies, Love, Imagination, Suffering. *What is your morning routine* - Don't Really have a routine, usually i work at night and i love working at nights as well, so in the morning i'm usually sleeping. When I wake up I do obvious things like a normal guy and wait for the night to come in contrast and then i start working. and yah things that i complete at night, i make sure i listen to that in the morning and judge if its good or not. That's the only thing I do in terms of music in day light. Judging things and Making points to complete my project at night. *When do you start your day and music* - My music starts at night and my nights are my days, cz that's the time i choose to feel like working. *Favorite food * - Paneer Butter Masala or any paneer related dish. *Favorite color* - RED. *If you would like to collaborate with someone Indian and foreign* - Definitely Nishidh Hedge from India and Andy James From UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Chirag Alawadhi, The Leading Entrepreneur Shares His Future Endeavors||They say that Entrepreneurship involves thinking ten steps ahead of others and no one knows this better than Chirag Alawadhi. As an Entrepreneur,  Digital Marketer,  YouTube Consultant, and Social Media Influencer, Chirag has to face a lot of challenges in his everyday life. Aware of social media and its power, Chirag also knows that the youth are slowly but surely becoming better in their profession. In this competitive world, knowledge is the most important asset for professional development and Chirag's success journey exemplifies it. His extensive knowledge about the market and awareness of the opportunities one can have via social media allowed him to come this far. Kickstarting this venture that is Marketing Moves and MintShint has been tougher than people like to believe. When asked about the struggles he says, " At first honestly it was tougher but my zeal allowed me to face the challenges." Over time, Chirag gained experiential knowledge and has worked with some of the biggest brands like T-Series and Zee Music Company. Chirag Alawadhi firmly believes that now is the time to take the next step. When asked about his plans, Chirag says, " As of now my only plan is to enhance my skills and be better in my field. My firms are known to be the best in terms of coming up with creative solutions and I plan to enhance that as well." Adding to it he also says, " I also plan to bring ideas and technology together to innovate something better. As an Entrepreneur not only can I envision these things but I can surely turn them into reality with consistent efforts." With passing days, technology and its power are rising like never before. Chirag plans to bring a revolution in the market by learning and adopting new ways of marketing. Every Entrepreneur wants to have a deal with Chirag due to his self-reliance and every aspiring entrepreneur looks up to him. The Leading Entrepreneur's plans aren't less than a challenge. He might have to work harder than ever to turn his vision into reality but we all know that he won't stop till he achieves what he desires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Iktara in hand, 75-year-old's victory songs at Singhu to motivate farmers||Jagar Singh, 75, plays a one-stringed instrument but knows that the protesting farmers’ demands have many strands. The resident of Patiala, Punjab, had visited the protest site at Singhu on Delhi’s border three times in the past one year to sing to his ektara and boost the farmers’ morale. On Saturday, he arrived a fourth time with his songs of victory to motivate the protesters to continue their struggle till all their grievances had been addressed. “We have won half the battle but there is still some time left before we can return home triumphant,” Jagar said. “We want the government to bring in legislation to guarantee a minimum support price (for every farm product).” Jagar said he had camped at the Singhu border for a week during each of his past three visits. “Playing the ektara is my hobby and over the past few years, I have gradually started singing as well. This is the fourth time I have come…. I have family responsibilities back home,” he said. Jagar added that he had performed on the main stage at the Singhu protest site. Chad Singh, 70, a Patiala resident, said the protesters had achieved one demand but “there are others which have to be accepted by the government”. “The government should also compensate the families of the protesters who died here and give jobs to their relatives. The farmers have spent a lot of money on the protest; the government should waive the loans of all farmers,” Chad said. Malkit Singh, 58, a resident of Ropar, Punjab, said a nagar kirtan had been organised at Singhu on Sunday morning. “It was started from the main stage; we did sewa in the kirtan and sweets were distributed during the procession,” he said. “We want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil our other demands too so that we can go back home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||World Fisheries Day 2021: Marine district award for Balasore||Balasore district on Sunday received India’s “Best Marine District” award on the occasion of World Fisheries Day 2021. The award ceremony was organised by the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, in Bhubaneswar. The  World Fisheries Day is celebrated on November 21 to recognise the contributions of millions of fisher folks, fish farmers, and people involved with the fishery trade across the globe. Handing over the award to Odisha government’s director of fisheries Smruti Ranjan Pradhan, Union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, Parshottam Rupala, said India aims to achieve Rs 1 lakh crore revenue from the fisheries sector including the marine products. He said the country aims to achieve a target of producing 22 million metric tonne of fish by 2024-25. “With the active support of the young entrepreneurs, the target can be achievable,” said Rupala. Minister of state for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying and ministry of information and broadcasting L. Murugan was also present on the occasion. “Odisha is the fourth largest fish producing state in India with 8.73 lakh metric tonnes of fish produced during 2020-21 contributing to 2.33 per cent of the state economy. Over the last five years, the fisheries sector has grown at an average annual growth rate of about 13 per cent in Odisha,” said R. Raghu Prasad, secretary, fisheries, Government of Odisha. “The demand for fish in Odisha is huge, since around 94 per cent of the 45 million population in Odisha consume fish. There is huge demand for Odisha fishery products in international markets such as USA, Europe, Japan, China, ASEAN countries and Middle Eastern countries. The seafood exports from the state have tremendously increased by 9 folds in the last 20 years and reached Rs 3,108 crores with a volume of 61,000 tonnes during 2020-21,” said Pradhan. “The state government have successfully piloted inclusion of fish in anganwadi supplementary nutrition programme in Mayurbhanj district, through introduction of dry fish and fish powder,” Pradhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Cong questions Modi’s 'mysterious' silence on Chinese intrusion||The Congress has again questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “mysterious and inexcusable” silence on Chinese intrusion, pointing to the latest satellite pictures suggesting new constructions inside Arunachal Pradesh. On Sunday, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said at a news conference: “It is a sad and distressing story of deception, prevarication on a subject like national security. It is a case of deliberate distortion, digression and diversion on an issue affecting India’s integrity and sovereignty. Can you have doublespeak, hypocrisy on national security? What is the definition of national security? We don’t understand this definition of national security, where you berate, browbeat, intimidate the whole country on national security issues and keep silent on this kind of thing.” Pointing to the divergent views in the government, Singhvi said: “Virtually No. 2 in the defence hierarchy General Bipin Rawat says all is well and everything is happening on the Chinese side of the border. Is it not a travesty he doesn’t answer any particularity and Arindam Bagchi, the MEA spokesperson, on the same day said, ‘China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along border areas, including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims.’ And you have the Prime Minister’s inexcusable silence.” The Congress spokesperson also recalled defence minister Rajnath Singh’s rhetoric that nobody can occupy even an inch on India’s territory without dealing with specifics. The latest intrusion shows the Chinese have built infrastructure 6-7km inside Indian territory. Showing satellite imageries, he said: “We can see a cluster of 60-70 houses. This is apart from the encroachments reported into Bhutanese territory. The Prime Minister who speaks on everything is silent on these issues.” The Congress has been ceaselessly raising questions about the Chinese aggression in different parts of the country but the government hasn’t given credible, categorical explanation. Singhvi insisted that everybody stood for national interest and the government too should take these concerns in a constructive manner instead of seeing it through partisan politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Covaxin protects recipients from severe Covid-19, say researchers||Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, activates key memory components of the human immune system that can continue to protect recipients from severe Covid-19 even after the vaccine-generated anti-viral antibodies have waned, researchers have said. A collaborative study by researchers in India and the US has found that Covaxin activates arms of the immune system called memory T and B cells to levels comparable to those observed after natural Covid-19 infection. Both sets of cells help in different ways to protect people from severe disease. Although animal studies and clinical trials with Covaxin had thrown hints of memory responses, the new study is the first to directly measure memory T and B cell responses specifically directed against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “We see amazingly robust immune memory responses very similar to those caused by the natural infection,” said Nimesh Gupta, a scientist at the National Institute of Immunology (NII), New Delhi, who led the study. The study is yet to be peer-reviewed but the scientists have posted it on medRxiv, an online archive of preprints. “These memory responses will outlast and confer protection even the concentrations of the initial antibodies deplete over months,” Gupta said. Similar immune memory responses have also been observed earlier with other Covid-19 vaccines such as the m-RNA vaccines. While responses to vaccines are easiest measured through counts of neutralising antibodies — the concentrations of virus-specific proteins that obstruct SARS-CoV-2 — circulating in the bloodstream, scientists have known for months that antibodies deplete over weeks to months. The depletion of antibodies has prompted health experts to recommend booster shots. Gupta and his colleagues compared memory T and B cells in 71 people vaccinated with Covaxin and 73 people who had recovered from Covid-19 between October and December last year before the vaccines had been introduced. Memory T cells have the capacity to detect and kill SARS-CoV-2 infected cells in the body even after neutralising antibodies have waned. T cells also serve as helper cells to B cells, prompting the B cells to churn out fresh loads of neutralising antibodies. “Immune memory is the key to long-term protection — this is how all childhood vaccines work,” said a senior scientist who is not associated with the study and who requested not to be named. “The memory helps bring back microbe-specific antibodies only when they are needed.” The new study has also observed strong T cell responses specific to different coronavirus variants. The study team included researchers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad, and the University of California, San Diego, and doctors from hospitals in Delhi and Faridabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Cow dung fires big source of air pollution, says study||Cow dung, wood, and other biomass fires for cooking food, heating water and keeping warm remain big air pollution sources along the Indo-Gangetic plains despite the vastly increased proportions of households covered by liquefied petroleum gas. Researchers studying biofuel burning have estimated that only nine per cent of households currently use cow dung as fuel, but contribute to 50 per cent of aerosol particles from the residential sector. Their studies have also suggested that biomass burning for warmth in winter causes on average greater air pollution than paddy residue burning in the northwestern states, long blamed for air pollution spikes. “We see large contributions from sources that have not been easy to measure,” said Baerbel Sinha, an atmospheric chemistry specialist and associate professor at the department of earth and environmental sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Mohali (Punjab). The studies by Sinha and her colleagues have found wood or other biomass fires set by people trying to keep themselves warm or heat water during the winter months can on average increase particulate matter sized 2.5 microns emissions by about 151 micrograms per cubic metre. They observed the rise in emissions triggered by paddy residue burning — a traditional practice farmers employ to prepare their land for the next crop — to be about 97 micrograms per cubic metre, greater than the increase observed during harvesting activities but less than heating. Through a study at several rural sites in Punjab, the scientists observed that even after paddy residue burning had stopped, the emissions from burning of wood and other biomass for personal heating requirements rose as average temperatures dipped from 17°C to 9°C. While paddy residue burning lasts for about a month, the emissions from biomass burning for heating continue to impair air quality through December, January and February. “These small heating fires are hard to quantify as they can’t be imaged by satellites,” said Sinha. The IISER researchers have published their findings in the research journals Atmospheric Environment and Environmental Pollution. Their findings underline how many households continue to rely on biomass fires despite LPG and electricity coverage expansion. The proportion of households across India relying on LPG has increased from less than 20 per cent in 2000 to more than 60 per cent by 2020. Alongside that expansion, a 19 per cent reduction in residential solid biomass fuel use between 2010 and 2020 has helped improve air quality. More than 97 per cent of households across India had electricity supply in 2020, but not all received power 24 hours a day. A residential energy survey by the Council for Energy Environment and Water in 2020 had found power outages lasting up to six hours in parts of Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The IISER researchers have called for air quality programmes that fast-track installation of biogas plants for households that continue to rely on cow dung for fuel. New funding mechanisms would be required to help low-income households establish biogas plants or refill LPG cylinders more frequently, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
22-11-2021||India||Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot in unity pitch||The Congress on Sunday unveiled a balanced ministry with adequate representation of different sections of society apart from accommodating leaders from the Sachin Pilot camp to project a unified face in Rajasthan. After a protracted factional battle that threatened to tear the party apart, both chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Pilot on Sunday sang the unity tune, asserting that there was no groupism in the Rajasthan Congress. Rajasthan is one of the most crucial states for the Congress as it goes to polls just before the parliamentary election in 2024. The Congress salvaged the government with great difficulty after the rebellion against Gehlot by Pilot and the strained relations between the two delayed the reconciliation process. While Pilot wanted his loyalists to be adjusted in the ministry again, Gehlot felt they could not be rewarded for endangering the government. The high command had to force Gehlot to change his mind by stressing the need for unification before the next assembly election. Pilot loyalists, including the two ministers who were sacked for rebellion — Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, were reinducted in the government on Sunday. Others known to be close to Pilot — Hemaram Chowdhary, Murari Meena and Brijendra Ola — were also sworn in on Sunday. But there was more to the reshuffle than accommodating Pilot camp as strong regional leaders also got the place in the Cabinet. While the Congress sent a strong signal to its traditional supporters by making four Dalit ministers, three women also got into the ministry. Strong Gehlot loyalists Mahesh Joshi, Ramlal Jat, Mahendrajit Singh Maliviya and Mamata Bhupesh were also inducted. Senior ministers Raghu Sharma and Harish Chowdhary who were given election assignments in Gujarat and Punjab respectively were relieved of their ministerial responsibilities. State unit chief Govind Dotasara also quit the ministry adhering to one-man-one-post principle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
22-11-2021||India||SKM writes open letter to Narendra Modi on pending demands||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Sunday sent an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a dialogue with the government on the farmers’ pending demands. The letter is a formal response to Modi’s surprise overture of announcing that the three contentious farm laws will be repealed, and informs him the farmers will continue their protest pending the resolution of their remaining demands through discussion. The letter was sent at night, hours after the general body of the SKM —  the collective leadership of the farmers’ movement — met at the Singhu border. In the letter, the SKM has stressed that the Prime Minister knows the agitation was not just for the repeal of the three laws. It mentions the demands for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices, the withdrawal of the Electricity Bill, and the scrapping of anti-farmer provisions in the law to control pollution in the National Capital Region. To these, the SKM has added issues that cropped up during the course of the protest: the “fake” cases registered against protesting farmers in several BJP-ruled states, compensation for the farmers who died during the protest, and the arrest and dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni for his alleged role in the “Lakhimpur Kheri massacre”. The letter also reveals why the farmers are reluctant to take the Prime Minister’s assurance at face value, pointing out that the government included the Electricity Bill in its agenda for Parliament despite promising farmers during discussions that it would be withdrawn. Referring to the Prime Minister’s appeal to farmers to return to their homes and farms, the SKM said: “We would like to assure you that we are not interested in sitting on the streets. We would like to return home to our families and farms as early as possible. If you also want this to happen, then the government should start discussions with the SKM on these six issues. Till then, the SKM will continue with our movement.” Earlier in the day, the SKM’s general body endorsed the core group’s decision to continue with the agitation and mobilise farmers for Monday’s Lucknow mahapanchayat and other programmes scheduled to mark the movement’s first anniversary on November 26. The general body will meet again on Saturday to decide the farmers’ next course of action depending on this week’s developments. The farmers’ future strategy will be determined by the government’s response not just to their programmes during the week but also to their call for dialogue. This is the second time the SKM has called for dialogue since the breakdown of the talks in January after 11 meetings, one of them with Union home minister Amit Shah. The government did not respond to the earlier offer. On criticism that the farmers’ list of demands has been growing, Abhimanyu Kohar of the Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh told The Telegraph that the SKM had demanded an MSP law and withdrawal of the Electricity Bill right from the beginning along with the repeal of the three farm laws. “As for the withdrawal of false cases, compensation for the martyrs of the movement, and arrest and dismissal of the minister, these are issues that came up during the course of the movement and will have to be part of the resolution,” Kohar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
22-11-2021||India||Haryana government disregards Supreme Court order on OBC quota||The Haryana government has included salary and agricultural earnings in calculations of whether an Other Backward Classes candidate belongs to the creamy layer, the notification coming just three months after the Supreme Court struck down a similar order. A senior lawyer said the latest notification — which also flouts a 1992 apex court ruling — had exposed the BJP-ruled state administration to contempt charges. Opposition politicians accused the BJP-RSS of trying to sabotage the reservation regime. The Supreme Court, while denying OBC reservation benefits to a “creamy layer” in a 1992 verdict, had said income from salary and agriculture cannot be considered for creamy layer identification. Subsequently, the Centre issued an order in 1993 reiterating the point while, as prompted by the court, including in the creamy layer also those holding constitutional or Class A posts, and those promoted to Class A posts before turning 40. This meant that while calculating parental income for creamy layer identification, earnings such as those from landholding and business alone were considered. However, the Haryana government issued a notification in 2018 saying “income from all sources” would be considered while determining who belonged to the creamy layer, implying salary and agricultural earnings would be considered too. This was challenged in the apex court, which in August this year struck the order down saying income could not be the sole criterion — a reference to the notification’s silence on the status of posts that the OBC candidates’ parents might hold. The court order did not specifically mention the illegality of considering salary and agricultural income to identify the creamy layer, but referred to the 1993 government order. The Haryana government’s November 17 notification mentions the parental posts that make an OBC candidate ineligible for reservation while reiterating that “income from all sources shall be clubbed to arrive at the gross annual income”. Shashank Ratnoo, a Supreme Court lawyer and expert on reservation issues, said the Haryana government’s latest order was “open to contempt petitions”. “(Virtually) the same notification uprooted by the Supreme Court has been restored now. Inclusion of salary under the annual income is against the specific direction of the apex court in Indra Sawhney vs Union of India, 1992,” Ratnoo said. Haryana state Congress chief Kumari Selja accused the BJP and the RSS of conspiring to end reservations, saying their “anti-reservation mentality” had been exposed repeatedly over the years. The Haryana government had earlier issued a notification in 2016 that introduced what was virtually a two-grade creamy layer, saying priority would be given in reservation to OBCs with annual parental earnings below Rs 3 lakh before considering those in the Rs 3-6 lakh bracket. The creamy layer income cut-off in Haryana is Rs 6 lakh. This notification too was challenged in the apex court along with the 2018 order, and was struck down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
22-11-2021||India||51-yr-old sacked by private hospital in lockdown, not hired again||Two months after Sanjay Pandey was sacked, the private hospital in outer Delhi where he used to work as a clerk began recruiting staff again. “But they wouldn’t re-employ me,” the 51-year-old said. Pandey has been jobless since being sacked in April last year, a week after the national lockdown began, his lack of earning threatening his daughter’s education. In June last year, the hospital reopened and began re-hiring people as clerks. “I approached them several times but they would not take me back,” Pandey said. Employers in the formal sector are largely choosing to recruit new staff rather than re-hire those they retrenched following the Covid outbreak, official figures show, charting the latest blow to some of the pandemic’s economic victims. A labour ministry official suggested a possible reason: new employees accept lower pay than sacked staff, who tend to demand their old salaries. Pandey said that in his case, it was his age that stood in the way: “The hospital re-employed retrenched staff who were below 50, but not those older.” Official documents that the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) placed at its Central Board of Trustees meeting on Saturday, and which The Telegraph was able to access, reveal employers’ preference for new staff over re-employing old ones, at least in low-paid jobs. The EPFO documents detail the impact of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ABRY), under which the Centre provides social security benefits for freshly recruited employees, including re-employed old staff, with monthly salaries less than Rs 15,000. The documents show that from the ABRY’s implementation in October last year till September this year, the number of beneficiaries among new employees was 28.8 lakh while that among re-employed staff was just 4.18 lakh. The labour ministry official who spoke to this newspaper confirmed a significant overlap of employers between the two sets of figures, implying that businesses that had retrenched staff after the Covid outbreak had later hired new people for the same jobs. The official said these figures were significant, for they covered more than two-thirds of all formal-sector hirings within this period in jobs with monthly salaries below Rs 15,000. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management, XLRI, Xavier School of Management, suggested another reason that may have contributed to the trend. “It’s possible that migrant workers who lost their jobs felt discouraged to go back to their old enterprises, and that the employers (would not take the trouble) to locate and invite the old employees back,” Sundar said. Under the ABRY, the government pays for two years both the employee’s and employer’s EPF contribution — 12 per cent of wages each — in the case of establishments with 1,000 or fewer employees. For those with more than 1,000 employees, the government pays only the employee’s share. To be eligible for the scheme — meant to encourage hiring — establishments with less than 50 employees need to make at least two hirings and those with 50 or more employees need to make at least five. If the hospital had re-employed Pandey after October last year, his take-home would have risen even with the same salary because the government would be paying his EPF contribution. His sacking had forced Pandey to default on daughter Diya’s school fees. The school refused to let her take the pre-board exam (for this year’s Class XII boards) and failed to send her school-based performance records to the CBSE. Diya eventually took and cleared the re-exam after Pandey appealed to the CBSE. She has enrolled in a college. “It’s been a struggle. I’m my family’s sole breadwinner and have been doing some or other part-time work here and there,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
