23-11-2021||India||India should be prepared for floods and droughts: Meteorologists||Extreme sea-level events are on the rise along the Indian Ocean, according to meteorologists. A very severe cyclone, Yaas, which crossed the northern Odisha coast on May 26 recorded extremely high sea levels compared to extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae which crossed the Gujarat coast on May 17 this year. This is mainly because of the tide, topography and the mean sea level which determine the possibility of extreme sea-level events said Swapna Panickal, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and co-author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report “The Physical Science Basis” released in August. These events are also increasing over the Mumbai coast and show sea level data from 1870 onwards, Panickal said during her presentation at the ongoing International Symposium on Tropical Meteorology (INTROMET-2021) on Changing Climate: Consequences and Challenges (November 23 to 26), while cautioning that the coastal regions in India need to be better prepared for sea-level rise related concerns. Between 1870 and 2000, there was a 1.8 mm per year increase in global mean sea level which nearly doubled to 3.3 mm per year during the 1993 to 2017 period. “When heat is added ocean water expands, melting of glaciers also contributes to the rise in sea level. Oceans absorb more than 91% of the heat of the climate system, they have a higher heat capacity than other components of the earth system. The global mean sea level is increasing and the sea levels over the Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea, are also projected to increase. By 2050, the sea level is expected to increase by another 15 to 20 cm over the Indian Ocean region also. This is one of the concerns,” Panickal explained, adding that “Extreme sea levels are also going to increase as during severe cyclones there will be storm surges and when they are happening with high tide they will produce higher elevation of the sea level.” “Tide gauge observations for Tauktae and Yaas shows Yaas recorded extremely high sea levels. So, extreme sea-level rise events are determined by topography, tide and mean sea-level increase,” she added. Another IPCC co-author, Subimal Ghosh, Institute Chair Professor, Department of Civil Engineering at IIT Mumbai also flagged that urbanisation, urban heating, urban heat island effect, air pollution also contributes to variability in rainfall, increase in moisture leading to extreme rain events in urban areas. M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences who spoke on the role of oceans in modulating the Indian monsoon said that observations suggest that heavy rainfall events during northeast monsoon are showing an increasing trend and future climate change scenarios also indicate that extremely heavy and heavy rainfall events will increase in coming years. “We are seeing these events this season also over several parts of Peninsular India. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka will be impacted and should be prepared.” He also pointed that though during La Nina years lower than normal rainfall is expected during the northeast monsoon, this time heavy rainfall events are being recorded over peninsular India. Rajeevan recommended a research roadmap to be developed for a better understanding of the role of Indian and Atlantic Oceans on monsoon variability with more focused observations for the Indian Ocean region. M Ravichandran, secretary, ministry of earth sciences said monitoring the impact of climate change on the Indian monsoon will be of the greatest importance for the research community. Aerosol loading and cloud albedo effect (less solar energy reaching surface could cause cooling) often complicates the understanding of climate change impacting the monsoon but monsoon will be even more erratic with prolonged wet and dry seasons interspersed with floods and droughts, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||Govt to bring bill in winter session to bar private cryptocurrencies||The government is likely to bring a bill in the ensuing winter session of Parliament to bar all but a few private cryptocurrencies and create a framework to regulate digital currency issued by the RBI.  The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, is listed for introduction in the Lok Sabha in the winter session, scheduled to begin from November 29.  The bill seeks to "create a facilitative framework for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India. It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India, however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses", as per the bill listed for introduction on the Lok Sabha website.  Currently, there is no regulation or any ban on the use of cryptocurrencies in the country. Against this backdrop, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier this month, held a meeting on cryptocurrencies with senior officials, and indications are that strong regulatory steps could be taken to deal with the issue.  Recently, there have been a rising number of advertisements, featuring even film stars, promising easy and high returns on investments in cryptocurrencies in recent times, amid concerns over such currencies being allegedly used for luring investors with misleading claims.  Last week, the Standing Committee on Finance, chaired by BJP member Jayant Sinha, met the representatives of crypto exchanges, blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC), among others, and arrived at a conclusion that cryptocurrencies should not be banned, but it should be regulated.  The Reserve Bank of India has repeatedly reiterated its strong views against cryptocurrencies, saying they pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them and their claimed market value.  RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das too had earlier this month had reiterated his views against allowing cryptocurrencies, saying they are a serious threat to any financial system since they are unregulated by central banks.  The RBI had announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency in the face of the proliferation of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, about which the central bank has had many concerns.  Private digital currencies/virtual currencies/ cryptocurrencies have gained popularity in the past decade or so. Here, regulators and governments have been sceptical about these currencies and are apprehensive about the associated risks.  It can be noted that on March 4, 2021, the Supreme Court had set aside an RBI circular of April 6, 2018, prohibiting banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||Special courts set up by SC to try lawmakers are valid, says Amicus||Special courts for expeditious disposal of cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs, set up by the Supreme Court under its special power, are valid and no illegality can be attached to trial of cases by these courts against lawmakers, the Supreme Court was informed on Tuesday. The submissions were made before a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana in a report by amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria and Sneha Kalita in response to vexatious legal issue whether minor offences, triable by magisterial courts, against lawmakers can be prosecuted before a special court presided over by a sessions judge who is senior to a judicial magistrate. It has been alleged that such trials by sessions judge consequently lead to deprivation of one judicial forum for right to appeal which is ordinarily available to other accused. The 34-page 15th report has been filed by the amicus curiae in a 2016 PIL filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay seeking a life ban on lawmakers convicted in heinous criminal cases and speedy disposal of cases against them and deals with the issue whether special court headed by an officer of the rank of Additional Sessions Judge can try cases which are triable by Magistrate under CrPC . The report also deals with the question if a special court can try offenses without a committal order under CrPC and try cases without cognizance being taken by the magistrate under section 193 CrPC . The constitution of Special Courts MP/ MLA for expeditious trial of cases against Parliamentarians and Legislators under the direction of this Court issued in exercise of power under Article 142 of the Constitution are valid and no illegality or unconstitutionality can be attached to trial of cases by these Courts against MPs/ MLAs. All the accused persons are granted a fair trial as per the Constitutional norm. The cases are tried by judicial officers trained in law and no special procedure less advantageous to accused persons has been prescribed for trial of the cases. The cases are tried by the independent and qualified judges as per the procedure laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure. MPs and MLAs constitute a separate class in themselves and expeditious trial of criminal cases against them by Special Courts do not suffer from any Constitutional infirmity, the report said. Referring to apex court orders in setting up of special courts for trying 2G and Coal scam cases, the report said under a provision of the CrPC, the apex court has power to transfer a case from one court to another court of equal or superior jurisdiction . "Similar power is possessed by the High Courts under section 407 CrPC. Thus, merely because a case has been transferred from a court of inferior jurisdiction to a court of superior jurisdiction, the same cannot be challenged as illegal, it said. It is submitted that the constitution of Special Courts both at the Sessions level and the Magistrate level is desirable, and has been so recorded by this court in its earlier order, it said. No illegality can be attached to the constitution of Special Courts for trial of both Sessions cases and Magisterial Trial cases, as the accused persons will get a fair trial before the said Court, it said. The right of first appeal is not taken away, and instead of Session Court, the appeal would lie to the High Court. The right of revision is not an inherent right but only a supervisory jurisdiction, Hansaria said in the report. The report said that the Allahabad High Court may be directed to constitute Special Court both at the Sessions level and Magistrate levels in all the districts. Similar directions may be issued to all the High Courts and the State Governments to constitute Special Courts both at Sessions level and at Magistrate level in each district or group of districts as may be considered appropriate by the High Court having regard to the number of cases and geographical location, it said. The report urged the bench to clarify that the directions to constitute special courts will not affect the orders passed by such courts at the sessions level in respect of cases triable by Magistrate under the CrPC. The Magisterial trial cases already concluded or pending trial will not be open to challenge only on the ground that the final judgement and/or the interim orders have been passed by the Special Court headed by an officer of the rank of Sessions Judge, it said. The special court manned by sessions judges shall transfer cases triable by magistrate to the special court presided over by the magistrate under the respective jurisdiction and the magistrate shall conduct the trial from the stage the file has been received, the report suggested. On November 15, the apex court had said that jurisdiction of special courts has to conform to the statutes and there would be a very serious problem , if these courts decide this aspect. The bench was told by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Abdullah Azam Khan, the politician son of Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, that his client has been prosecuted by a special court, manned by a sessions judge, in cases which should have been tried by magistrates as they are of minor offences. We have no problems with the matters being prosecuted at the level of Sessions court but it must be either provided by the statute or under Article 142 of the Constitution, the senior advocate had said. Two distinct issues are here and so far as the jurisdiction of this (apex) court is concerned, it can direct that a particular judge or trial court will be the special court to try a certain type of cases under Article 142 (special power) of the Constitution and that cannot be questioned, the bench had said. The top court, which has now listed the case for hearing on November 24, has been passing a slew of directions time-to-time for ensuring speedy investigation by the CBI and other agencies and conclusion of trials. It had ordered the setting up of additional special courts by the high courts. It had expressed its deep concern over tardy probe and prosecution in CBI cases against the lawmakers and had issued a slew of directions for ensuring speedy investigation by the agency and conclusion of trials, besides setting up additional special courts by the high courts. It had asked high courts to set up special courts wherever such additional courts are required to be constituted for expeditious disposal of pending trials and apprise it of any non-cooperation by the Central or State Governments on the issue. As per the CBI report, 121 cases were pending trial before different CBI Courts involving sitting and former MPs and 112 matters pending against serving and former MLAs. Taking note of status reports, it had said the high courts shall constitute special CBI Courts wherever they are needed to be set up for expeditious disposal of pending trials. The special courts are needed to be set up in different parts of states where more than 100 cases are pending to ensure easy accessibility to the witnesses and decongestion of existing infrastructure, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||Kangana faces FIR in Mumbai for 'derogatory' remarks against Sikhs||Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut here for allegedly using derogatory language against the Sikh community in a social media post, an official said. The FIR was lodged at the suburban Khar police station a day after the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) submitted a complaint against the actor. Ranaut (34) was booked under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and further investigation was underway, the official said. According to the official, the complainant in the case is Amarjeet Singh Sandhu, a Mumbai-based businessman who was part of a DSGMC delegation that submitted the complaint on Monday. In a statement, Sandhu accused the actor of making derogatory remarks against his community in a post on Instagram. After submitting the complaint, the DSGMC delegation, led by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader who is also president of the organisation, had met Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil and top officials of the Mumbai police, and demanded action against Ranaut. In the complaint, the DSGMC mentioned that Ranaut had intentionally and deliberately portrayed the farmers' protest (Kisan Morcha) as a "Khalistani" movement and also dubbed the Sikh community as "Khalistani terrorists". She also made references to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, it said. In the post, the actor has used very derogatory and insulting language against the Sikh community, according to the complaint. "This act on her part is most degrading, disrespectful and contemptuous, which has hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community settled all over the world," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||NDPP appeals for early solution of Naga issue||The ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) on Tuesday appealed for an early resolution to the Naga political issue and asked all negotiating parties to expedite the ongoing negotiations and bring an early solution that is democratic honourable and acceptable to the people. The NDPP made the appeal through an eight-point resolution unanimously adopted during its 4th General Convention held here. The NDPP appreciated the Government of India and all Naga negotiation parties for resuming the ongoing Naga political talks that had been stalled for some time. The party reiterated that it stands for an early resolution to the decades old Naga political issue and appealed to all the negotiating parties to expedite the ongoing negotiations and bring an early solution that is democratic honourable and acceptable to the people. The NDPP welcomed the formation of the opposition-less United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in the spirit of encouraging the Naga National Political Groups to unite and come as one to bring about a common solution to the Naga issue. It reaffirmed its support to the UDA in its role as an active facilitator in the ongoing peace process. The NDPP called upon all sections of the people to come together under the spirit of unity, brotherhood and oneness to work towards strengthening the ongoing peace talks so that all stakeholders contribute towards an early conclusion to the negotiations. The NDPP said it supports the desire of the Naga people to live as one and also reiterated its support for the integration of all contiguous Naga areas under a single administrative unit. The NDPP urged the state government to consider positive reforms that will enable economic growth, create employment opportunities, attract investment, enhance tourism potentials and promote brand Nagaland in a progressive manner to the national and international community. Considering the agrarian status of Nagaland, the NDPP appealed to the state government to consider and institute a flagship programme for the farmers of the state. The NDPP also requested the state government to continue its exercise in ensuring the empowerment of the youth and the student community of the state by creating conducive job opportunities and providing employment based on meritocracy. While standing up for regionalism, the party affirmed to make all efforts in positively contributing towards the nation building process and taking Nagaland into the global forum to achieve our declared aspiration of "change is coming". Addressing the gathering, Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio while expounding on the party motto, deeds not words, said it is not only for the party leaders and legislators but all should make contributions for the growth of the party. Saying that the Naga issue is the biggest commitment of NDPP, he called upon all to give efforts and go all out to facilitate it. If we achieve, we will be very happy that we could bring solution, peace and development. But even if not achieved, we will be contended that we did our best , he said. The chief minister also called upon all to take up challenges by remaining united so that people will trust the party and continue to support us. Party leaders should know the government policies and decisions, specially on urban local bodies, SARFAESI Act and Register of Indigenous People of Nagaland and create awareness among the general public whenever and wherever required, said Rio. NDPP president Chingwang Konyak reiterated that the party was formed in response to the people's desire for a political party that will carry the voice and aspirations of the masses and respond to a need for change in the system of governance and perspectives to development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||Goa Congress spokesman Trajano D'Mello expelled for anti-party activities||The Congress on Tuesday expelled its Goa spokesman Trajano D'Mello from the primary membership of the party for six years, accusing him of being involved in anti-party activities.  Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) vice-president M K Sheikh said the expulsion was ordered as per the directions of All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao.  As directed by AICC in-charge Dinesh Gundurao, the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee has expelled Trajano D'Mello from the primary membership of the Congress for six years for anti-party activities, Shaikh stated in a release.  Recently, an audio clip of D'Mello accusing GPCC chief Girish Chodankar of working detrimental to the welfare of the party went viral on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||NIA arrests J-K activist Khurram Parvez under UAPA in terror funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested human rights activist Khurram Parvez under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a terror funding case, officials said on Tuesday, adding that he is likely to be taken to Delhi.  The coordinator of the J&K Coalition of Civil Society was detained during a raid at his Sonawar residence on Monday and placed under arrest around 11.30 pm, they said. He is being questioned.  Besides Sonawar, raids were carried out at the Society's main office at Amirakadal Bund in the heart of the city. Officials said several incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized during the raids.  On October 28 last year, the NIA searched 10 locations, including that of Parvez, in Kashmir Valley and one in Bangalore in a case related to some so-called NGOs and trusts raising funds in India and abroad in the name of charitable activities and using them for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said.  A case was registered under sections of the IPC and the UAPA following "credible information that certain NGOs and trusts are collecting funds domestically and abroad through so-called donations and business contributions" and then using them to fund terror activities in the union territory, the agency had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav, Rastriya Lok Dal chief meet in Lucknow, seat-sharing discussed||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Rastriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chowdhury on Tuesday met here to discuss seat-sharing for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Yadav had earlier said that his party's alliance with the Rastriya Lok Dal is final and only sharing of seats is to be discussed. "Badhte Kadam," Chowdhury said on his official Twitter handle and also posted a photograph with Yadav. Later in a tweet, the Samajwadi leader said, "Shri Jayant Chowdhury ji ke saath badlav ke ore (With Jayant for change)." When asked Rastriya Lok Dal state president Masood Ahmad said that both the leaders met in the state capital and "there is a discussion on seat sharing". About the number of seats the RLD will be getting to fight in the polls early next year, Ahmad said, “It has not been finalised yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||Four-storey building collapses in HP's Solan||A four-storey building collapsed in Himachal Pradesh's Solan district on Tuesday, a state disaster management official said. Solan District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC) informed that the old four-storey building collapsed around 1.35 pm at Microtech Compay Sector-2 in Parwanoo area of Kasauli Sub-Division, he added. A fire brigade team rushed to the spot, he said, adding that further details are awaited. This is a breaking news. More details are awaited. Keep refreshing the page for more updates||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||53 school-going girls, 22 MBBS students test positive for COVID-19 in Odisha||Fifty-three girl pupils of a government-aided high school in Odisha's Sundargarh district and 22 MBBS students of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla in Sambalpur tested positive for COVID-19 in the last three days, a health official said.  The state's coronavirus tally rose to 10,47,386 on Tuesday as 212 more people, including 70 children, tested positive for the infection; while two fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,396, he said.  "The girls have been isolated and special provisions have been made for their treatment. Their health condition is normal, while the educational institute has been shut for a week," Sister Petrica, headmistress of St Merry Girls' School, said.  The infected students are studying in classes 8, 9 and 10, and were tested for COVID-19 after a majority of them exhibited symptoms of cold and cough, she said, adding that the district administration and health authorities have been informed about it.  The 22 MBBS students of VIMSAR, Burla have been admitted to the COVID hospital. Authorities suspect that the infection might have spread from the institute's annual function held recently. They have convened an urgent meeting on the prevailing situation on the campus.  "While there has been a significant decline in the spread of the infection across Odisha, the sudden spurt in cases in the western districts of Sundargarh and Sambalpur is a cause of concern," health expert Dr Narayan Mishra said.  Of the 212 new cases registered in the state, 123 were reported in quarantine centres, while the remaining 89 infections were detected during contact tracing. Fourteen of the 30 districts did not record any new case.  The rate of infection among the 0-18 age group stood at 33.01 per cent against 19.88 per cent on the previous day. Khurda district, under which Bhubaneswar falls, registered the highest number of new cases at 90 followed by Sundargarh (39) and Mayurbhanj (13).  The state had registered 171 cases on Monday, 205 on Sunday, 239 on Saturday, and 242 on Friday. Both the two fresh fatalities were reported in Khurda. Fifty-three other patients have died due to comorbidities so far.  The state now has 2,191 active cases, while 10,36,746 people have recovered from the disease so far, including 245 in the last 24 hours. Odisha has tested over 2.33 crore samples for COVID-19 to date, including 48,143 on Monday. The state's cumulative positivity rate stood at 4.48 per cent while the daily test positivity rate was at 0.44 per cent.  More than 1.45 crore people have been fully vaccinated so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
23-11-2021||India||SC-appointed panel member writes to CJI urging early release of report on farm laws||Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws, on Tuesday wrote to Chief Justice of India, urging him to consider releasing the report on the three agri laws in the public domain at the earliest or authorise the committee to do so. Ghanwat, also a senior leader of Shetkari Sangathan, said he will mobilise one lakh farmers and bring them to Delhi in the next couple of months demanding farm reforms. In the letter dated November 23 written to Chief Justice of India, Ghanwat said after the government's decision to repeal the three farm laws in the coming Winter Session of Parliament, the panel's report is "no longer relevant" but the recommendations are of great public interest. "The report can also play an educational role and ease the misapprehensions of many farmers who have, in my opinion, been misguided by some leaders....," he said. The three-member panel had submitted the report to the apex court on March 19. Since then, the report has not been made public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||'Hybrid' immunity, vaccination behind low Covid cases, big third wave unlikely: Experts||Is the worst of the Covid crisis behind India? As cases dip three weeks after Diwali, the answer is a possible yes, say several experts, attributing the downslide to a large section of the population already exposed to the virus during the second wave and a stepped up vaccination campaign. Though there are always imponderables, including the possibility of a new, transmissible variant and the onset of winter in large parts of the country, a third wave as devastating as the second one is unlikely, they said while advising caution and vigilance. Covid cases may rise, perhaps across late December-February, but the impact of will be milder than what India experienced in the second wave when thousands died and many thousands more were hospitalised. It may not take off in a coordinated manner across the country, provided no far more transmissible variant comes along, explained Gautam Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University, in Sonepat. Several epidemiologists had predicted a third wave peaking in October and November because of large gatherings in the festive season, which includes Durga Puja and Diwali. But the much feared spike thankfully hasn't happened. On Tuesday, India recorded 7,579 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 543 days, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,26,480, while active cases were the lowest in 536 days, according to Union Health Ministry data. The daily rise in new infections has been below 20,000 for 46 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 149 consecutive days. What it suggests is that the impact of the second wave, where a substantial fraction of Indians were infected, continues to manifest itself, Menon told PTI. In addition, a stepped-up vaccination campaign has meant that more people are protected against severe disease, hospitalisation, and death, he added. In his view, the substantial number of people infected during the second wave from March to July this year is the prime protective feature at the moment for India, while vaccines add to that protection . A combination of a prior infection with a later vaccination may be even more protective than just the vaccination alone, said Menon. Many scientific studies suggest that people who become naturally infected with Covid and recover before vaccination develop hybrid immunity , better immunity than those who only have antibodies from vaccination. Virologist Anurag Agrawal agreed with Menon, saying the low number of cases can be attributed to a high fraction of the population being infected by the Delta variant during the second wave, followed by most adults having received at least one vaccine dose further boosting the immune response. Serosurveys have shown that the majority of the population is likely to have been infected, Agrawal, director of the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, told PTI. It is a well-established fact that complete vaccination as well as previous exposure with SARS-CoV2, the virus that causes COVID-19, lead to a significant decrease in the severity of the disease, added immunologist Vineeta Bal. Describing the slow decline in nationwide Covid cases as a good sign , she also pointed out that northeastern states, especially Mizoram, are still showing a continuing increase in the number of cases. Although the cases started rising in the northeast much later than the rest of the country, this shows that there might be small outbreaks or slow increase in cases in pockets or areas where immunisation has been poor and rate of infections over the past year or so was low, Bal, from Pune's Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, told PTI. Unfortunately, such granular data is not available nationwide. Hence vigilance needs to continue, search for outbreaks needs to be in place along with necessary isolation and treatment facilities, she cautioned. The increasing number of cases in Europe and North America over the last month has been a matter of concern. For the last two years, India seems to have followed Europe in the Covid spike but many scientists feel that may not be the case this time and a third wave even if it does happen will be milder. If there was a spike looming in our future, we should have detected signs of it already, said Menon. According to Sitabhra Sinha, professor of physics at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) in Chennai, India's "second wave" is the analogue of Europe's "third wave" and the country may have luckily escaped that particular wave. I think the third wave' already came and went in mid-September. About whether we can expect another wave in the near future, no modeling study can really predict that given a large number of factors and the lack of hard data, said the scientist. Sinha, who has been tracking the reproductive number (R-value) for the country since the beginning of the pandemic, said there has been no post-festival spike at least at the national scale but there was a spike before the season set in. R-value is the number of people getting infected by an already infected person on average. Currently, Sinha said, only Mizoram and Jammu and Kashmir among the states and UTs with over 1,000 active cases have R values that are substantially higher than 1. West Bengal has an R-value just higher than 1. However, while the states seem to be doing reasonably well, the major cities are mostly showing increasing trend with Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and Kolkata all having R over 1, Sinha told PTI. So while the increase in cases seems to have so far been mostly contained in these urban areas, I would be cautious about how the situation is going to evolve as we go into the cold season, he added. The fourth national serosurvey in July by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) reported that 67.6 per cent of people across India had COVID antibodies, providing them with a level of immunity against the virus. According to officials, around 82 per cent of the eligible population in India has received the first dose of the vaccine while around 43 per cent has been fully inoculated. According to Bal, the spread of asymptomatic or symptomatic COVID-19 during the second wave was possibly on a much bigger scale in India as compared to Europe. This is apparent from sporadic serosurveys though such generalisation is associated with difficulties. Vaccination coverage, especially that of first dose, has significantly improved, Bal said. Besides the winter is not that severe, as in Europe, in many parts of the country. Based on this, my prediction is there might be some increase in cases in India in the forthcoming months, but it is unlikely to reach very huge proportions, she added. Agrawal said although the immediate future for the COVID-19 situation in India looks fine, the long-term future depends on multiple factors including new variants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav appears before CBI court at Patna in fodder scam case||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad on Tuesday appeared before a special CBI court here in connection with a case relating to the fodder scam. Special CBI judge Prajesh Kumar, who had last week ordered the former Bihar chief minister to appear in person, fixed November 30 as the next date of hearing. "On the next date, the court will examine around 200 witnesses. On that date, Lalu Ji has not been asked to appear. However, he will appear whenever the court asks him to do so," Prasad's counsel Sudhir Sinha told reporters. Prasad was summoned here in connection with the alleged fraudulent withdrawal of about Rs 1 crore from the treasury in Banka district. He has been convicted in similar cases pertaining to a number of other districts of Jharkhand, which were part of undivided Bihar when he ruled the state in the 1990s. Currently out on bail, the RJD supremo has been staying in Delhi with his eldest daughter Misa, where he has been under strict medical supervision. The septuagenarian suffers from a number of ailments, which include diabetes, cardiac and renal problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||UPA govt should have actioned kinetic response following 26/11 Mumbai attack: Tewari||Congress leader Manish Tewari has in his latest book criticised the UPA government for its response to the 26/11 Mumbai terror strikes, saying restraint is not a sign of strength and that India should have taken kinetic action following the attack. Citing excerpts of the book, the BJP on Tuesday alleged that the grand old party-led UPA government put the national security at stake by not responding strongly after the Mumbai terror attacks. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said this confirms that the UPA government was "useless". In the book 10 Flashpoints: 20 years that is set to be released on December 2, the former union minister has looked back at the security situations that have impacted India in the last two decades. Tewari is a member of the 'Group of 23' leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul and elections for every post in the Congress party. "Happy to announce that my Fourth Book will be in the market shortly - 10 Flash Points; 20 Years - National Security Situations that Impacted India. The book objectively delves into every salient National Security Challenge India has faced in the past two decades," Tewari said in a tweet while announcing the launch of his book. He has dissected the responses both in terms of success and failures and examined the tools and processes of Indian statecraft in terms of both diplomacy and intelligence. "For a state that has no compunctions in brutally slaughtering hundreds of innocent people, restraint is not a sign of strength; it is perceived as a symbol of weakness," he said in his book. "There comes a time when actions must speak louder than words. 26/11 was one such time when it just should have been done. It, therefore, is my considered opinion that India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India's 9/11," he said. The nation would observe the 13th anniversary of 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks this week. Tewari has also hit out at the Modi government, alleging that the scrapping of the Mountain Strike Corps is the "greatest disservice" that this government did to India's national security. The former minister said in July 2018, the defence and finance ministers of the subsequent Modi-led government shelved all the plans of raising the Mountain Strike Corps against China citing financial constraints. "Scrapping the Mountain Strike Corps is perhaps the greatest disservice that this government did to India's national security," Tewari said. He also said while the triumphant Taliban claim that just as the fighting and fiercely independent people of Afghanistan had vanquished the Soviet Union, a superpower in the penultimate decade of the 20th century, it had similarly defeated the only remaining hyper-power, the US, in the second decade of the 21st century through guile, cunning and military tactics. It would have profound consequences on Pax Americana and the US's reliability qua its allies around the world, he noted. The Congress leader said the implication of such an assertion and the unfolding situation in Afghanistan is that it would give a huge fillip to all kinds of militant and terrorist organisations in West and South Asia from the lslamic State-Daesh and al-Qaeda to the LeT and JeM respectively. "Both radicalism and extremism would be exacerbated.This will have implications on the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and the other north-western border states also," he noted. As many as 166 people were killed in the Mumbai terror attacks carried out by 10 Pakistani terrorists at different places in the city. The attacks began on November 26, 2008, and went on till November 29. Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist who was captured alive, was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Central Vista Project: SC dismisses plea challenging change in land use of plot||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the change in land use of a plot where the new official residence of the Vice-President is proposed as part of the ambitious Central Vista project in Lutyens' Delhi. Everything can be criticised but it should be constructive criticism , the apex court observed and said it was a policy matter and the authority concerned has offered sufficient explanation to justify the change in land use of the plot. We find no reason to examine the matter further and therefore put a quietus to the entire controversy by dismissing this petition, a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar said. The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, was hearing a petition challenging the change in land use of plot number one from recreational area to residential. As the petitioner's counsel argued that the change in land use of the plot is not in public interest and they are seeking to only protect the green and open area, the bench orally asked, Hereafter, recommendation will be taken from common citizens as to where the Vice President's residence should be? . Everything can be criticised. There is no difficulty about that but the criticism should be constructive criticism, the bench said, adding, How the Vice-President's residence can be shifted elsewhere. It observed that policy makers have considered these aspects. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September 2019 envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will celebrate its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is to be built by 2024 under the project that covers a 3-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in the national capital. During the hearing, the counsel appearing for the petitioner said they are not on the location of the Vice-President's residence but the change in land use is not in public interest as these are open and green areas. It is not some private property which is being created there. It is for Vice-President's residence as per the affidavit, the bench observed, adding, In Vice-President's residence, there is bound to be green area around. The counsel said the petitioner cannot have any objection as far as residence of Vice-President is concerned. When he said that six acre of green area is being proposed to be taken over, the bench observed that it is a matter of policy. Unless you are alleging mala fide, how can we go into that issue. On what ground can we interfere. The judicial review will be in respect of what? the bench said. It said the affidavit filed by the authority give reasons as to why the change was necessitated and it also says that some other areas have been added to increase the greenery. It is a fact that it was never used as recreational ground, the bench observed. The apex court said even if it is assumed that the plot was used for recreational purpose in the past, is it not open to the authority to make changes which are essential for the holistic development of the area. The petitioner's counsel said that in larger public interest, they are seeking to only protect the green and open area. He said like salami slice', a smaller portion of land is taken and then the authority says it is compensating it. The counsel argued that the affidavit filed by the authority is vague and no green area or open area is compensated in the Central Vista region. Is it a matter of arithmetic that if 10 metre area is taken, then 10 metre area has to be provided at other place, the bench said, adding, After having seen the affidavit, is it possible for you to say that it was done mischievously, with mala fide. The counsel said they are invoking the public trust doctrine. We are not impressed with this argument. If you have some better arguments, we will consider that, the bench said. At the fag end of hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that the apex court had considered these aspects in the first round of litigation in the matter. There has to be end to everything, he said. The bench noted in its order that it is not the case of the petitioner that the authorities have no power to introduce such change. The only argument is that in the past, since the plot was shown as recreational ground, it should have been retained as such and at least the commensurate area should have been provided elsewhere for that purpose, it noted. In January this year, the apex court, by 2:1 majority, had held that the grant of environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use for construction of new Parliament building under the project was valid. The top court's verdict had come on several pleas, including those against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the grant of environmental clearance and the nod to change of land use. The top court had in June this year dismissed a separate plea challenging the Delhi High Court order which had rejected a petition seeking to halt Central Vista construction work in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Mercury drops further in Kashmir||The mercury slipped further in Kashmir on Tuesday as cold wave conditions persisted in the Valley, with Srinagar recording its coldest night of the season at minus 2.3 degrees Celsius, meteorological department officials said. Kashmir has been experiencing sub-zero temperatures for the past few nights and in most places, the mercury has remained two to three notches below the normal for this part of the season, they said. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of minus 4.4 degrees Celsius last night. It was the coldest recorded place in Kashmir, the officials said. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 2.3 degrees Celsius last night -- down from minus 1.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday night, they said. Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 0.6 degrees Celsius. The mercury settled at a low of minus 3 degrees Celsius in north Kashmir's Kupwara. Qazigund, the gateway to the Valley, recorded a minimum temperature of minus 2.2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag registered a low of minus 1.1 degrees Celsius. The meteorological department has said that the weather is most likely to remain dry but cold till the end of this month. However, there is a possibility - 40 to 50 per cent chance -- of light snowfall over extreme north Kashmir parts on November 25, it said. The wintry conditions in Kashmir have set in much ahead of the beginning of the extremely harsh weather conditions that usually start around the third week of December. Chillai Kalan, the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir, begins on December 21 every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Mamata welcomes Pavan Varma, Kirti Azad in Trinamul||Congress leader Kirti Azad and former JDU leader Pavan Varma joined the Trinamool Congress in the national capital on Tuesday in the presence of party chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Another Congress leader, Ashok Tanwar, who quit the party in October 2019 and launched his own party, joined the TMC later in the evening. "I'll work under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee and I'll start working on the field. The BJP's politics is divisive and we will fight it. Today, a personality like her is needed in the country who can show it the right direction," Azad said after joining. Varma, a former adviser to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, was expelled from the ruling JD(U) in 2020. He was an MP until July 2016. He was also the national general secretary and spokesperson of the party. "Looking at the current political circumstances and the potential in Mamata Banerjee, I have today joined TMC," said Varma. Kirtivardhan Azad, a former BJP MP turned Bihar Congress leader, was a key member of the team led by Kapil Dev that won the cricket world cup in 1983. Son of the late Bihar chief minister Bhagwat Jha Azad, he had cut his teeth into politics with the BJP, unlike his father who was a diehard Congressman. While his father was literally a son of the Bihar (undivided) soil, serving in public office both at the Centre and in Patna, Azad has been a Delhi boy. During his cricketing days, Azad represented Delhi in the Ranji Trophy, not Bihar. His first foray into electoral politics was as an MLA from Delhi’s Gol Market seat, which had a sizeable Bengali-speaking population. His fallout with the BJP, while still an elected MP, too happened over allegations of corruption and irregularities in the Delhi Cricket Association then headed by the late Arun Jaitley, close to both Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Azad contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket unsuccessfully. And has since been heard or seen little of. Since the Congress-RJD mahagathbandhan lost to the NDA in the last Assembly polls of 2020, the Opposition in Bihar has had very little space, as both the Congress and RJD have fallen out. The inclusion of former JNUSU president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar made matters worse for the Congress and the RJD despite Lalu Prasad Yadav’s proximity to the Gandhi family. “Both (Azad and Kumar) are a liability for the Congress. Will either of them hit the streets for the Bihar Congress worker? No. Kumar is more comfortable addressing closed-door meetings and seminars. And Azad’s life has always been in the circle of power. With Trinamul he at least stands a chance of getting a Rajya Sabha seat,” said a Bihar Congress leader. Azad, owing to his lineage from a Maithili Brahmin family in current Jharkhand, gives Mamata the added advantage of getting a face for her party in the neighbouring state. “In the current expansion mode that the Trinamul is in, it is natural that Jharkhand and Bihar will be on her radar. Azad, like the all-rounder he was in cricket, can play in both the states. But it can’t be said with any certainty that he can win the cup,” said a Trinamul source. On the other hand, the ship carrying Tanwar had sailed over two years ago from the Congress when he quit the party barely weeks before the crucial Assembly polls. Tanwar, handpicked by Rahul Gandhi to lead the Congress after the 2014 Lok Sabha debacle, had run into the formidable Hoodas. That was one time when Sonia Gandhi appeared to have backed the right horse, as the father son duo of Bhupinder and Deepinder Singh Hooda delivered 30 seats and stopped the BJP from reaching the majority mark of 46 seats, till Dushyant Chautala flipped to the BJP and helped it retain power. Tanwar’s proximity to the Gandhis was largely because of his wife Avantika, daughter of the slain Delhi Congress leader Lalit and Geetanjali Maken and grand-daughter of former president Shankar Dayal Sharma. Avantika was barely six years old when her parents were killed by Khalistani militants on July 31, 1985, nine months after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The Gandhis—Rajiv and Sonia—had mourned the Makens for weeks. While Rajiv took on the responsibility of running the Prime Minister’s Office, Sonia took the orphaned Avantika under her care, and she soon turned into her Sonia aunty. That bond stretched for over three decades till politics tore it apart. Avantika had tied the knot with Tanwar, a Dalit leader with a PhD from JNU, with Sonia Gandhi’s blessings, after her first marriage ended in a divorce. For Rahul Gandhi, who as then Congress president was trying to revitalise the party, Tanwar ticked all the right boxes. He had risen through the ranks heading the NSUI and the Indian Youth Congress, that gives him common ground with the Bengal chief minister. Since his ouster, Tanwar has largely been in political wilderness till February this year when he announced his outfit, Apna Bharat Morcha, in Delhi. The event was attended by another former Congress leader from the far-flung state of Tripura, Kirit Pradyot Deb Burman. It is not a coincidence that Mamata is trying hard to gain a foothold in Tripura and there have been talks with the member of the erstwhile rulers of the kingdom of Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Delhi Police to set up cyber police station in every district||With a rise in cybercrime in the national capital, the Delhi Police will set up a dedicated cyber police station in every district to deal with such cases effectively. The Delhi government's Department of Home has issued a notification to this effect. Cyber police stations will be set up in all 15 police districts. According to officials, the police stations are likely to start functioning from December 1. The notification said it is considered necessary to set up cyber police stations in each notified police district to investigate cybercrime cases. "The Lieutenant Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, in order to facilitate extension of better police assistance to the public, hereby, is pleased to direct and declare that the cyber police stations in east, northeast, south, southeast, southwest, west, outer, central, north, northwest, Shahdara, Rohini, New Delhi, Dwarka and outer north shall be the cyber police stations in each notified 15 police districts in Delhi from the date of issue of this notification," it stated. The cyber police stations shall function from the location as described in Schedule-A or from any other place where the office is shifted in future from the date of issue of this notification, it added. The cyber police stations shall have jurisdiction over the entire police district, it said. According to Schedule-A, the cyber police station in east district will be located at Pandav Nagar police station and in northeast district, it will be located at Jyoti Nagar police station. It will be located at Saket police station in south district, at Badarpur police station in southeast, at Vasant Vihar police station in southwest, at Hari Nagar police station in west and at Paschim Vihar West police station in outer district. The cyber police stations at central, north, northwest, Shahdara, Rohini, New Delhi, Dwarka and outer north districts will be located at Kamla Market, Maurice Nagar, Mukherjee Nagar, Shahdara, Budh Vihar, Mandir Marg, Dwarka North and Samaypur Badli/Bawana police stations respectively, the notification said. The Delhi Police has a separate unit called Cyber Prevention Awareness Detection (CyPAD) unit for cybercrimes that functions under its Special Cell. Each district also has specific cyber cells. The CyPAD has been renamed as the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit. Officials said the cyber police stations will report directly to the district deputy commissioner of police. The police stations will work in coordination with the IFSO unit. According to data provided by the Delhi Police during its annual press conference in February, there was a rise in cybercrime cases from March to May 2020, when restrictions were in place due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The number of such cases went up from around 2,000 in March to more than 4,000 in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Covid cases in country lowest in 543 days||India logged 7,579 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 543 days, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,26,480, while the active cases were the lowest in 536 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,66,147 with 236 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 46 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 149 consecutive days now. The active cases declined to 1,13,584 and comprise 0.33 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.32 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 4,859 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.79 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 50 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.93 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 60 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,46,749, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 117.63 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 236 new fatalities include 180 from Kerala and 14 from West Bengal. A total of 4,66,147 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,747 from Maharashtra, 38,177 from Karnataka, 37,675 from Kerala, 36,388 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,397 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Medical college and hospital in Kandhamal: Naveen Patnaik||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday announced that a medical college and hospital will be set up in the underdeveloped Kandhamal district with an investment of Rs 504 crore. Around 100 students will be enrolled in the medical college every year, while the hospital will have 500 beds, the chief minister said. Patnaik made this announcement during a visit to Kandhamal to distribute the health smart cards under Odisha government’s flagship programme Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana, a universal health insurance scheme. Under the scheme, a beneficiary is entitled to get medical benefit up to Rs 5 lakh and a woman beneficiary is entitled to receive cashless treatment of Rs 10 lakh every year. In Kandhamal district alone, 6.5 lakh people will avail health benefits under the Biju Swasthya Kalayan Yojana. While distributing the health cards, Patnaik said the government aims to bring 3.5 crore people of 96 lakh families under the Biju Swasthya Kalayan Yojana and all of them will get the smart health cards. “The life of every human being is valuable. Now just showing the health cards, the beneficiary can avail medical facilities in 200 hospitals of the country,” he said. So far 16 districts have been covered under the health insurance scheme of Odisha government. The chief minister also laid the foundation stones for various projects worth Rs 276 crore and announced that the ongoing work on the 220-33 KV grid station will be completed  soon. However, the chief minister faced the ire of Congress workers in Kandhamal for not taking action against home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra who had allegedly patronised the main accused in the 24-year-old teacher murder case in Kalahandi. Congress workers tried to show black flags to Patnaik and later courted arrest in Kandhamal. The district was in news in 2008 when it witnessed communal violence following the murder of Swami Lakshmanananda Saraswati, a Hindu monk, on August 23, 2008.  Later, thousands of people belonging to the Christian community left the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
23-11-2021||India||Fodder scam: Lalu arrives in Patna||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) national president Lalu Prasad arrived in Patna on Monday. He has been summoned by the CBI court here to be physically present in hearing for one of the Rs 1,000 crore fodder scam cases on Tuesday. The case in the CBI court in Patna pertains to the illegal withdrawal of Rs 46 lakh from Banka district treasury. The RJD chief faced altogether six fodder scam cases — five in Jharkhand and one in Bihar. He has already been convicted in four cases in Jharkhand and came out on bail in April this year after serving around three-and-a-half years in jail. He had come to Patna previously on October 24 to campaign for the bypolls to the two Assembly seats and returned to Delhi on November 3 after falling ill. He is a diabetic and suffers from various ailments related to heart and kidneys. Before leaving Delhi, the RJD chief attacked Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over prohibition, hooch tragedies and police raids at weddings in search of liquor. “This is what is happening in Nitish Kumar’s rule. Prohibition has failed and people are dying after drinking spurious liquor. The state lost revenue and people lost their lives. Home delivery of liquor is also happening in the state,” Lalu said. The 74-year-old leader, famous for his rustic charisma, asserted that he had told Nitish in 2016 about how prohibition would succeed because of the geographical location of the state. “I had pointed it out to Nitish that Bihar was like an island surrounded by Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal and Nepal and asked him how he would succeed in implementing the ban on liquor. I had suggested him not to ban toddy (fermented palm tree sap) to which he said that he would get neera (unfermented sap) and other products made from it. This project also failed,” Lalu said. The RJD chief also revealed that he had asked Nitish to consider ending prohibition, but now it was for the government to think about it. He said that his party and the Congress were still together and suggested that Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan should also join them. Apart from attending the court, Lalu will also light and inaugurate a six-tonne stone lantern at his party’s state headquarters to mark silver jubilee year of the foundation of the party. It will run on gas and burn continuously. Lantern is the RJD’s election symbol. This is the silver jubilee year of the foundation of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Bihar police go all out to enforce liquor ban, raid bride room||Rampant raids without search warrants by Bihar police in connection with prohibition have raised serious concerns about the violation of the right to privacy and fundamental rights. The concerns aggravated after the police raided a wedding function without a warrant on Saturday evening and went on to search the bride’s room without the presence of women officers or constables. No liquor was recovered. A video of the raid at a posh private hotel–cum–marriage hall under Ramkrishna Nagar police station here went viral on Sunday. It shows a team of policemen searching the rooms, including those in which only women and the bride were present, opening cupboards and checking the luggage. As the cops go about their work, those present at the venue seem visibly upset by the sudden intrusion. “We searched the marriage venue on Sunday evening at around 7pm. We have orders from the higher-ups to conduct such searches at wedding functions because people are either carrying liquor or attending them after consuming it. The hotel’s manager and other staff were present with us. The bride and groom’s family members willingly allowed us to search the premises,” Ramkrishan Nagar station house officer (SHO) Jehangir Alam told The Telegraph. Alam refused to reveal who were the higher-ups who had given such orders. On whether he had a warrant to conduct the search, he said: “No search warrant is needed in action against liquor.” He could not explain why women constables were not present. Asked about the incident, inspector-general (prohibition) Amrit Raj said the police had a right to check or search if they had information about any cognisable offence. “Search warrants are not required in cognisable offences. Flouting prohibition is a cognisable offence,” Raj added. Around 150 hotels and several houses have been raided over the past couple of days in Patna and around 100 people have been arrested, including a dozen engineers working with multinational companies, doctors, professors, railway employees, businessmen, contractors, law and medical school students. Some liquor has also been seized. Six engineers were arrested when a bottle of liquor was recovered from them in a hotel. They all had come to attend the marriage of a friend’s sister. Patna High Court advocate Vindhyachal Singh condemned the police action without search warrants as a glaring example of the violation of the right to privacy, which is intrinsic to the fundamental right to life and personal liberty as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India. “A search warrant is mandatory for the police in such cases. Otherwise they will keep violating the right to privacy without any legal authority in the garb of excise statutes without even having to seek forgiveness if nothing is recovered. The police must understand that fundamental rights are sacrosanct. They cannot invade the privacy of people like this,” Singh said. Singh added that he would “not debate the prohibition law that is full of draconian provisions. It was set aside by Patna High Court here and is currently under consideration of the Supreme Court. But one thing is certain. The Bihar government has criminalised an activity that is considered normal in other states”. Chief minister Nitish Kumar refused to pay attention to the gravity of the situation when reporters asked him about the raid at the wedding. “The police have got such complaints that arrangements for liquor consumption are made at weddings. The police are going on the basis of such information. People should not worry about it. If you are not involved in drinking then what is the problem?” Nitish said. The chief minister said his office was making enquiries about the wedding incident, but asserted that consuming liquor was “bad, immoral and illegal and it has to be stopped. We have given the responsibility to the police and the administration to see to it”. Nitish banned liquor in Bihar in April 2016 by bringing a law. However, the availability and consumption of liquor never stopped. It simply went underground with the liquor mafia taking deep roots in nexus with the police, excise officials and politicians. However, the chief minister ordered a crackdown after around 50 people lost their lives in back-to-back hooch tragedies in the state earlier this month. Raids have been conducted across the state since then. The police have registered 2,176 FIRs and arrested 2,463 people this month for flouting prohibition and seized over 54,000 litres of country liquor and 80,000 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Imran to allow return of Afghan patients through Pakistani territory||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday decided to facilitate the return of Afghans — who had come to India for medical treatment and got stranded owing to the situation in Afghanistan since August — through the Pakistani territory. This forms part of the Humanitarian Assistance Package for Afghanistan that he unveiled on Monday after the first meeting of the apex committee of the Afghanistan Inter-Ministerial Coordination Cell. Among the various measures to be taken, Khan announced that “Pakistan will also facilitate the return of Afghan patients who had gone to India for medical treatment and are stuck there’’. This apart, he iterated that Pakistan would “allow the 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat India has offered to provide Afghanistan as humanitarian assistance to go through Pakistan as soon as modalities are finalised with the Indian side’’. A similar announcement had been made by his office after he met a delegation led by Afghanistan’s acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi on November 12. At that time, his office had tweeted: “The Prime Minister conveyed that in the current context Pakistan would favourably consider the request by Afghan brothers for transportation of wheat offered by India through Pakistan on exceptional basis for humanitarian purposes and as per modalities to be worked out.’’ India had reached out to Pakistan last month seeking permission to move 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan overland as humanitarian assistance. If Pakistan will allow Indian trucks to ferry the wheat right up to Afghanistan or insist on Indian trucks offloading the wheat at the Wagah border crossing remains the question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Scanner on FB over poll code on ads||Facebook secured an industry body’s help to pre-empt the Election Commission setting strict social media rules before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls under a high court’s prodding, documents given by a whistleblower to America’s stock exchange regulator appear to suggest. Excerpts from purported Facebook memos published by two news organisations indicate the social media giant was able to put the onus of reporting violations on the poll panel, and not take action on its own like it does in the US. These excerpts are purportedly from redacted copies of internal memos that former Facebook data scientist Frances Haugen has submitted to America’s Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These have been accessed by a consortium of news organisations, including an Internet news page called 'The Intersection' which on Monday published the excerpts in collaboration with Hindustan Times newspaper. At the heart of the matter lies the “Voluntary Code of Ethics for the General Election 2019” (VCE), authored by the Internet and Mobile Association of India, which the Election Commission adopted in March 2019. Facebook’s MD in India, Ajit Mohan, is vice-chairman of the IAMAI. Around that time, Bombay High Court was hearing a public interest plea that demanded political ads be banned on social media in the 48 hours before polling, similar to the ban on physical campaigns during that period. One published excerpt from the Facebook memos says: “With the help of the Voluntary Code of Ethics and continued engagement with ECI (Election Commission of India), we were able to avoid an onerous and prescriptive direction from the Bombay High Court.” Another says: “We ensured our primary trade body IAMAI was involved to negotiate on behalf of the industry so that no bad recommendation was made. Eventually, we managed to get a text which was in line with intermediary protection for tech platforms.” In the “Commitments” section, the VCE says: “Participants and the Election Commission of India (ECI) have developed a notification mechanism by which the ECI can notify the relevant platforms of potential violations of Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and other applicable electoral laws in accordance with procedures established by law.” IAMAI president Subho Ray did not respond to an email from this newspaper seeking comment. A spokesperson for Meta, Facebook’s new avatar, replied saying: “It (VCE) includes measures like a dedicated communications channel for notice and take down after receiving valid legal order, processing of valid requests in the blackout period ahead of voting and voter education efforts…. “During the 2019 elections, we deployed our Integrity Product Operations Centers (IPOCs) model to monitor and respond to threats in real time; seeking to ensure our integrity systems and resources are robust and ready where there may be ongoing risk; or building temporary product levers ahead of elections.” Although American elections do not have a silence period, Facebook on its own disabled political ads in the US for a week before last year’s presidential election. An Election Commission spokesperson told The Telegraph the claim that Facebook was able to scuttle Sinha’s report was “not true”. According to the poll panel, some 909 posts were taken down on its directions in 2019, and that it is the first election commission in the world to get major social media platforms to agree to a code. Haugen told the US Congress and the SEC in September that Facebook “promotes global division and ethnic violence”, including in India. She said the company was aware that its platforms, including Instagram, “promote human trafficking and domestic servitude”. Facebook claims it has drastically reduced hate speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea on CBSE exam results||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine a plea by Class 12 CBSE students that they should not be declared as “fail” in their improvement exams and instead their original marks should be maintained for this year’s exams held during the pandemic. According to the aggrieved students, the CBSE had initially announced that the higher marks obtained by the students either in the original exam or the subsequent improvement exam would be considered final. But the board chose to renegade on its earlier assurance. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravi Kumar, while seeking CBSE’s response, posted the matter for further hearing to December 6. The students have moved the apex court pleading that Class 12 students who were declared “pass” by the CBSE in accordance with its assessment policy dated June 17, 2021 and appeared in offline exams held in August-September 2021 for improvement of their scores should not be declared “fail” in case they failed to pass in the improvement exams. Instead, the students pleaded that their original marks should be maintained wherein they had already been declared “pass”. “Petitioners herein have either been declared fail or awarded less marks in the improvement examination. Petitioner students are under an apprehension that their original result declared by the CBSE in which they were declared pass will be cancelled, on the basis of the following Clause 28 of Respondent no. 1 Evaluation Policy dated 17.06.2021,” the petition said. According to Clause 28, students who are not satisfied with the assessment will be given an opportunity to appear in exams to be conducted by the board when conditions are conducive. As per this policy, marks scored in the later examination will be considered final. According to the petitioners, the clause is contradictory to the CBSE’s earlier circular and press statements issued in this regard. It was pointed out that as per a CBSE circular dated March 16, 2021 for students appearing in improvement exams, “Better of the two marks obtained in the subject will be considered for final declaration of results.” The circular further stated: “Candidates who will improve their performance will be issued combined mark sheet.” A press release dated September 29, 2021 issued by the CBSE stated that 34,317 students appeared in the offline exams for the purpose of improving their scores. Clause 3 of the press release stated: “In case of improvement, both mark sheets are valid. You can use either one.” “Admittedly, there is no specific bye law which says that original marksheet will become invalid or be cancelled…” the petitioners pleaded while seeking appropriate directions to the authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Kerala: Calicut University clears air on ‘ST Muslim’ quota||Calicut University has denied creating a new reservation category for Muslim students from Lakshadweep, blaming the controversy on a mistake by the backend team that handles its web portal. The university in Kerala is a favourite among students from the archipelago, and already offers them reservation based on their domicile and not religion. Recently, its website showed “ST-Muslim” as a reservation category for postgraduate studies, prompting some to infer that the university had introduced a new quota for the islanders. The university’s admission director, Binoj Sebastian, on Monday told The Telegraph this was a mistaken label for the domicile-based Lakshadweep quota and had now been corrected. The university sets aside two undergraduate seats in each department and one seat each in every postgraduate department on its campus and at all its affiliated colleges for students from Lakshadweep. Although the people of Lakshadweep are classified as Scheduled Tribe, Calicut University provides them with a separate quota over and above the Other Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other quotas. University syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed told this newspaper he had called the vice-chancellor’s office after the “ST-Muslim” tag was spotted on the web portal and was told that varsity officials were looking into the matter. “There’s a lurking danger in such a classification, whatever may be the excuse. The reservation for students from Lakshadweep is not based on their religion. I know people (from Lakshadweep) who don’t follow any religion or are Hindus or Buddhists,” Ahammed, assistant professor of Arabic at a private college in Malappuram, said. “Such a classification could give rise to friction between communities since ‘ST-Muslim’ could be misconstrued as Muslims grabbing seats meant for other communities.” Sebastian said: “It was only a random name used by the website developer…. Perhaps this confusion wouldn’t have happened had it been some other title like ‘LD’ (Lakshadweep). We have changed that nomenclature.” He added that Muslims from Kerala have eight per cent reservation in the state’s universities and the seats reserved for students from Lakshadweep do not fall under that category. “Let me assure everyone that all the reserved seats would go only to the specific categories,” Sebastian said. Another syndicate member, who declined to be named, linked the controversy to recent developments such as the Lakshadweep administration’s sundering of all ties with Calicut University. The Lakshadweep administration had in August scrapped the BA and MA Arabic courses run by Calicut University on the archipelago. This month, it shifted all the other courses the university taught in Lakshadweep to Pondicherry University. This was seen as part of the “saffron agenda” that Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel is accused by some of imposing on the Muslim-majority islands since taking charge last December. “Of course, it’s the decision of the Union Territory. But since we have close linguistic and cultural ties with the islanders, anything about them immediately grabs attention in Kerala,” the syndicate member said. Among the controversial decisions Patel has taken without consulting the local elected representatives are a beef ban in school midday meals and draft laws proposing a cow slaughter ban, a two-child norm for contesting local council polls, and stringent anti-gangster measures in a place with a low crime rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||SC directs Centre to create extra seat in IIT Bombay for Dalit student||The Supreme Court on Monday exercised its special powers and directed the Centre to create an extra seat in IIT Bombay for a Dalit student who had been unable to pay the admission fee in time because of technical constraints. The court said it was the government’s duty to ensure that students from underprivileged communities living in far-flung areas did not face Internet or banking problems, else “only children from metropolitan cities would go to the IITs”. The bench passed the order invoking Article 142, which empowers the Supreme Court to pass any order “as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it….” The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and A.S. Bopanna rejected the Centre's argument that the order might spur demands from other candidates who too had been unable to pay their fees in time. In that case, the bench said, the government should work out a robust system so that students from remote areas did not face such problems. The bench directed the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JOSAA) to allot a supernumerary seat to the student within 48 hours. “This court has (been) moved by a young Dalit student who is on the verge of losing a valuable seat which has been allocated in IIT Bombay,” Justice Chandrachud said. “It would be a great travesty of justice if the young Dalit student is denied admission for non-payment of fees to IIT Bombay after having tried to do so. Hence, we are of the view that it is a fit case for exercise of our power under Article 142….” The Dalit student, Prince Jaibir Singh from Uttar Pradesh, had challenged Bombay High Court’s refusal to grant him relief. Jaibir had ranked 864 in the JEE Advanced in his reservation category, and was allocated a seat in the civil engineering BTech course at IIT Bombay. The last date for the online payment of fees was October 31. Jaibir had logged into the JOSSA portal on October 29 and uploaded his documents but could not pay the fees that day because of financial constraints. His counsel said Jaibir later borrowed money from his sister. But when he attempted to pay the fees on October 30 and 31, technical glitches came in the way. His subsequent phone calls and emails to the IIT authorities did not yield results. Jaibir then visited IIT Bombay but the authorities expressed inability to help him. He then petitioned Bombay High Court and later the Supreme Court. On Monday, Justice Chandrachud was short with the Centre when it cited difficulties in helping Jaibir and merely offered to “explore possibilities”. “You are bound to do something. There is no question of exploring options. Otherwise, we will pass an order under Article 142,” he said. The bench said the authorities must take a humanitarian view considering the petitioner’s background, and stressed there had been no negligence on Jaibir’s part. “What about students from small villages, small towns where there might not be any banking facilities?” Justice Chandrachud said. “Not everybody would have multiple credit cards. There may be instances of banks not responding. Some modality is needed to deal with such cases.” He added: “Students spend years and years preparing (for exams). There has to be some buffer for students facing such insurmountable problems. Otherwise only children from metropolitan cities would go to the IITs." The bench, however, clarified that the order was for the limited purpose of creating a supernumerary seat and would not dislodge or disturb any student already admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Parliamentary panel finalises report on data bill, Opp dissents ||A 30-member joint parliamentary committee on Monday finalised its report on the contentious Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 after tossing out amendments proposed by Opposition members that were designed to stymie the government and its agencies from overriding an individual’s right of consent before processing his personal data. The committee decided to retain all the draconian and objectionable elements in the original bill which seeks to treat the government and its agencies as a privileged class on the presumption that they always act in the public interest and, in effect, treated an individual’s privacy concerns as secondary. Seven members of Opposition, including Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari and Trinamul legislators Derek O’Brien and Mahua Moitra, submitted dissent notes in protest at the way the government had made short work of data privacy concerns. The Opposition’s main objection was directed at Section 35 of the Bill which empowers the government to exempt federal agencies from the application of the data protection law in the interest of “sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign countries and public order”. “Section 35 gives almost unbridled powers to the central government to exempt any government agency from the entire Act itself. Under the amendment I had suggested, the central government would have had to get parliamentary approval before exempting any of its agencies from the purview of the law,” Ramesh said. “I don’t agree with the fundamental design of the proposed legislation. It will not stand the test of law,” Tewari said. The Trinamul MPs described the bill as “Orwellian” and were deeply concerned about the government arrogating to itself the right to control the Data Protection Authority (DPA), which is supposed to oversee the implementation of the protections provided in the bill. The DPA was supposed to act independently, without interference from anyone. According to the Trinamul MPs, the problem begins with the selection process for the members and chairperson of the DPA, which has heavy involvement of the central government under Clause 42. The committee has recommended that the DPA be bound by the directions of the central government in all instances and not just on questions of policy. “This would affect the independent functioning of the DPA. We strongly oppose these recommendations,” the Trinamul legislators said. O’Brien and Moitra added that they opposed the bill because it lacked adequate safeguards to protect the right to privacy of data. Ramesh also objected to section 12(a)(1) of the bill, which grants the government and its agencies the power to override an individual’s right to consent over the processing of his data when the state provides “any service or benefit” to the individual. “I had suggested some changes to make this exemption less sweeping and less automatic,” Ramesh said. He also objected to the disparity between private companies and government agencies when it came to processing an individual’s data. “The JPC’s report allows a period of two years for private companies to migrate to the new data protection regime but the government and its agencies have no such stipulation,” Ramesh said. He wrote in his dissent note: “The bill assumes that the constitutional right to privacy arises only where operations and activities of private companies are concerned. Governments and government agencies are treated as a separate privileged class whose operations and activities are always in the public interest and individual privacy considerations are secondary. The idea that the August 2017 Puttaswamy judgment of the Supreme Court is relevant only for a very, very, very tiny section of the Indian population is deeply flawed and troubling and is one that I totally reject.” Tewari said in his dissent note: “The bill creates two parallel universes — one for the private sector where it would apply with full rigour and one for government where it is riddled with exemptions, carve-outs and escape clauses.” Cyber law experts said that if the government passed the bill in its present form, it would be contested in court. N.S. Nappinai, Supreme Court advocate and founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “Exemptions from the application of the data protection law to government agencies was ring-fenced with the need for a Parliament-enacted law under the 2018 draft. This was already diluted under the 2019 draft. Retention, if any, in the JPC draft would be a substantial solution of the intent and purpose of the enactment. In any event, excessive vesting of the process of exemptions on the executive is bound to not only face flak but may also be contested in court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Railway withdraws Ramayan Express saffron dress code||The Indian Railways on Monday changed the uniforms of its serving staff on board the Ramayan Express after seers from Ujjain objected to the waiters’ saffron attire. The seers said this was an insult to the Hindu religion and threatened to block the train in Delhi on December 12 if the uniform was not withdrawn. “It is to inform that the dress of service staff is completely changed in the look of professional attire of service staff. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” a railways statement said. The uniforms have been changed to the usual shirts, trousers and headgear. The waiters will, however, wear saffron masks and gloves. “We wrote to the railway minister two days ago, lodging our protest against waiters serving refreshments and food on the Ramayan Express in saffron,” Avdeshpuri, former general secretary of the Ujjain Akhada Parishad, had earlier told PTI. “Donning saffron attire with a sadhu-like headgear and wearing malas (necklaces) of rudraksha is an insult to the Hindu religion and its seers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee arrives in Delhi on four-day trip||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived in Delhi on Monday evening, bringing the issue of Opposition unity to fight the BJP in focus once again ahead of the winter session of Parliament and against the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s stunning retreat on the farm laws. During the course of her nearly four-day stay, Mamata is scheduled to call on Modi to raise Bengal-specific issues. However, what will be politically significant are her meetings with Opposition leaders, particularly one likely with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Ahead of her arrival, Trinamul MPs here prepared the political ground by staging a dharna outside home minister Amit Shah’s office in North Block, protesting against alleged attacks on party leaders in BJP-ruled Tripura. The MPs shouted the slogan “khela hobe” during the sit-in, pressing for an appointment with Shah to raise the Tripura violence. The MPs were finally called to meet the home minister at his residence around 4pm, hours after Mamata said the first thing she would do after landing in Delhi was rush to North Block to “show solidarity” with the protesting party members. Before Mamata arrived in Delhi, a group of over two dozen Trinamul MPs met Shah at his Krishna Menon Marg residence. “We told him how Trinamul leaders were arrested and MPs beaten up. He (Shah) said he had spoken to the Tripura CM and would seek a report from the state,” Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee told reporters. The party also submitted a memorandum on the Tripura violence to the minister. Trinamul has been trying to expand in Tripura and emerge as a key player in poll-bound Goa and Uttar Pradesh, where Mamata is seen to be harming Congress’s interests. Against this backdrop, Mamata’s likely meeting with Sonia holds political significance. At their last meeting in July, they had discussed Opposition unity with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
23-11-2021||India||Mahapanchayat: Farmers press for MSP law, Ajay Mishra's sacking||Thousands of farmers gathered for a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday and heard their leaders reaffirm that their movement would not end until the Narendra Modi government had accepted all the farmers’ demands. The meeting resounded with calls to defeat the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh elections and with slogans demanding the dismissal and arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri atrocity. “When we arrived on Delhi’s borders on November 26 (last year), we had not thought it would take a year,” Darshan Pal Singh, a leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the movement, said in his address “But your unity and wise decisions demolished a dictator who for seven years had refused to retreat an inch (on any issue). I congratulate you.” In the crowd at the first public gathering of farmers since Prime Minister Modi’s sudden announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws were the families of the four farmers and one journalist mowed down by Teni’s SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait told the gathering it would be naïve to simply take the central government at its word. Harinam Singh, also of the BKU, said the farmers must make sure that Modi’s assurance on repealing the contentious farm laws does not prove to be mere “chunavi jumla (election-speak)”. “They did the right thing by withdrawing the laws but tried to divide farmers by saying that they failed to make only some farmers understand the laws,” Tikait said. He laughed away reports that the Centre would form a committee to resolve the farmers’ remaining demands. “The government doesn’t need a committee to decide minimum support prices for farm produce. As chief minister of Gujarat in 2011, Modi had sent a report to the then Manmohan Singh government seeking a law on MSPs for farmers,” he said. “It’s still lying with the government. Modi is Prime Minister now and would have implemented it if he had good intentions for us.” On Sunday, the Morcha had written an open letter to Modi seeking talks to address their remaining six demands, including the law guaranteeing MSPs for all farm produce and the dismissal and arrest of Teni. Besides these, the farmers want the withdrawal of a draft electricity bill that threatens power subsidies, the removal from anti-pollution legislation of a clause prescribing strict punishment for stubble-burning, compensation for the farmers who died during the yearlong agitation and withdrawal of “false” cases against protesting farmers. “We have placed our demands…. Unless the Centre holds a meeting with farmers and resolves these issues, we shall teach them a lesson in the 2022 (Uttar Pradesh) Assembly elections and then the 2024 Parliamentary elections,” Tikait said. Darshan asked the farmers to raise their hands if they supported the demand for Teni’s dismissal. Amid raised arms, the crowd chanted: “Ajay Teni ko barkhast karo (sack Ajay Teni)” and “Ajay Teni ko jail bhejo, jail bhejo (Send Ajay Teni to prison)”. Teni’s son Ashis Mishra was allegedly in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that is accused of mowing down the four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashis has been arrested. Teni had a few days before the carnage threatened to fix the protesting farmers. Darshan, who is from Punjab, said the Morcha had prevented the BJP’s ministers, MPs, MLAs and office-bearers in Punjab and Haryana from holding public meetings and that this had also begun to happen in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “There’s an election in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.... Raise your hands and give us a guarantee that you will defeat the BJP,” Darshan said. “We will defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh the way we defeated them in Bengal. They have decided to withdraw the three farm laws but the farmers are in debt and 4-5 lakh farmers have committed suicide. Farmers are not getting the right price for their produce,” he added. “We shall keep fighting till every farmer is free of debt, till they get the right price for their produce.” Abhimanyu Kohar of the Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh said: “We cannot give up our struggle midway. We cannot return home empty-handed. We have to secure the MSP law.” Like many other speakers, he stressed the role played by gurdwaras in keeping the movement alive with their langars (free kitchens), apparently to counter those attempting to divide the farmers on religious lines by alleging Khalistani influence on the protests. Ashok Dawale, president of the All India Kisan Sabha, said the farm laws were “part of the Modi-(Amit) Shah agenda to sell the country to Ambani-Adani”. “This struggle succeeded because we were united; farmers from every religion participated in this movement,” he said. Political activist Yogendra Yadav too attended the rally. Asked whether the farmers’ movement had become political, Tikait chose to take a dig at the BJP and AIMIM leader Asasuddin Owaisi, suggesting they were colluding to divide the Muslim vote. “The government is political and so are we. You can see that Owaisi is roaming around Uttar Pradesh to help the BJP. We call him the ‘chacha’ (uncle) of the BJP,” he said. “But the farmers have no religion; they belong to the farming religion and cannot be divided.” Joginder Singh Ugrahan of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), an organisation primarily of peasants that is conducting the Tikri border protest and challenges the narrative that the movement benefits only a few rich farmers,  said: “We have won but not fully… and must continue this fight for our rights.” Additional reporting by our Delhi bureau, Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
23-11-2021||India||NIA detains rights activist Khurram Parvez in Srinagar||Prominent rights activist Khurram Parvez was detained for questioning by the National Investigation Agency on Monday after raids at his home and office in Srinagar. The NIA did not confirm the detention but family sources said he was taken for questioning by officials who claimed to be from the NIA. “There was a raid at his residence after which they took him along. His laptop, phones and documents related to his work were seized,” a source said. Khurram’s family said they had received an arrest memo that showed he had been booked under sections 120B, 121 and 121A of the Indian Penal Code and sections 17, 18, 18B, 38 and 40 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Early in the day, officials from the NIA raided the office of Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society, a rights group, at Amira Kadal. Khurram is the coordinator of JKCCS and chairperson of the Asian Federation Against Involuntary Disappearances. Khurram’s Sonawar residence was also raided. The NIA was tight-lipped about the raids. An official said the details, if any, would be made available in an official statement, which was not released till late in the evening. The development comes at a time security forces in the Valley are battling a crisis following the killing of two businessmen and one of their assistants in a controversial gunfight. The three were buried secretly at a graveyard in far-off Handwara. After an uproar, the government was forced to exhume the bodies of the two businessmen — Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Dr Mudassir Gul — and return them to their families. The government has ordered a magisterial probe in the purported gunfight, which many in Valley believe was staged. Many condemned the NIA for the raids and detention, with journalist Bharat Bhushan asking if it was “an example of new frontier of warfare against civil society?” Valley politicians and rights defenders have accused the Centre of using agencies such as the NIA and the Enforcement Directorate to silence critics and crush any opposition to its jackboot tactics. Family sources said the agency had also raided Khurram’s residence during the intervening night of October 28 and 29 last year in a case related to the funding of “secessionist and separatist activities”. Khurram is one of the most known rights defenders from the Valley who lost his leg to a militant IED in early 2000s. He is a recipient of Reebok Human Rights Award 2006. Khurram is a vocal critic of the government and was arrested for two and a half months in 2016 by the Mehbooba Mufti-led government. Two days before his arrest, the immigration authorities in the country had refused to let him board a flight to Geneva where he was scheduled to address the United Nations Human Rights Council about India’s human rights record. Jammu and Kashmir High Court later quashed his detention as “illegal”. JKCCS has published some of the most damning reports on human rights violations in Kashmir, the latest titled “Kashmir’s Internet Siege” on mass detentions and the justice system amid Internet restrictions following the abrogation of the state’s special status on August 5, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
