24-11-2021||India||Cong issues notice to Amarinder's wife over 'anti-party activities'||The Congress Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to its Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, the wife of former chief minister Amarinder Singh, seeking an explanation for her "anti-party activities".  Kaur has been asked to explain her stand within seven days.  Issuing the notice to Kaur, Congress leader Harish Choudhary, the in-charge of party's Punjab affairs, wrote, "For the last many days, we are continuously receiving reports from Congress workers, MLAs, leaders from Patiala and the media about your anti-party activities."  "This information and news have been coming ever since your husband Captain Amarinder Singh ji resigned from Congress and floated his own party: Punjab Lok Congress. We are also made aware of your announcements in the media about siding with your husband's party," he wrote.  In the notice, the Congress asked Kaur to explain her stand on the issue within seven days "otherwise the party will be forced to take necessary disciplinary action".  Notably, Amarinder Singh had resigned as Punjab chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.  Charanjit Singh Channi had replaced Amarinder Singh.  After his unceremonious exit from the state government, Amarinder Singh floated his political party and named it the Punjab Lok Congress. He is hoping for a seat arrangement with the BJP for the upcoming elections.  Amarinder Singh had also announced that he will fight from the Patiala seat, his family bastion, in the 2022 assembly elections. He has represented the seat four times -- 2002, 2007, 2012 and 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
24-11-2021||India||After SC prod, Centre to discuss community kitchens with states||The Centre has decided to act on Supreme Court’s suggestion to chalk out a uniform scheme across the country to pave the way for supply of cheap food to the poor in timebound manner with the creation of ‘food grid’. The government is going for a threadbare discussion on Thursday engaging state food ministers to start a community kitchen for the poor. Union Food Minister Piyush Goyal will chair the meeting to discuss the issue of community kitchen and other issues, an official statement said. Issues such as ‘One Nation One Ration Card’, Aadhaar-seeding of ration cards and biometric authentication of transactions in fair price shops are also likely to be featured in the discussion. Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey last week discussed with chief secretaries and food secretaries of states on the model community kitchen scheme. Tamil Nadu and Odisha have already set up community kitchens and provide cooked meals at very low prices. On November 16, Supreme Courtestioned the Centre’s commitment to run community kitchens to stave off hunger across the country. The first job of a welfare sate was to ensure that people did not starve to death. Hearing a writ petition filed jointly by activists Anun Dhawan, Ishann Dhawan and Kunjana Singh that prayed for setting up community kitchens and establishment of a national food grid, the apex court asked the government to hold a meeting and frame the policy in three weeks. The petition quoting the Food and Agriculture Report 2018, has stated that India houses 195.9 million of the 821 million undernourished people of the world, accounting for approximately 24 per cent of the world’s hungry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who reviewed the Poshan Abhiyaan on Wednesday with secretaries of related ministries, said that it should be implemented in mission mode in each State. He also talked about participation of Self-Help Groups (SHGs) and other local organisations in promoting awareness on children’s health and nutrition at grassroot level, which will help in improving the reach and uptake of the Abhiyaan, aimed at curbing malnutrition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
24-11-2021||India||Mamata indicates expansion plans for TMC underway||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, indicated that expansion plans for her party, Trinamool Congress, were well underway, with trips to PM's constituency Varanasi and Mumbai already in the pipeline.  Speaking to reporters after her meeting with Modi, Banerjee said that she raised the issue of the BSF's territorial jurisdiction in West Bengal, demanding that it be withdrawn.  "Giving more powers to the BSF leads to confrontation in law and order with the state police. We are not against the BSF. It is not right to disturb the federal structure without any reason," she said.  The chief minister also said that she has invited the prime minister to inaugurate the Global Business Summit which will be held in the state next year.  "I also told him that we will get Rs 96,655 crore from the Centre which are pending as dues. How will states run if money due from the Centre is not provided? Whatever political differences we have... our ideologies are different but that should not effect the state-Centre relations. If states develop, then the Centre will develop," she said.  The chief minister said that she raised the issue of violence in Tripura in which TMC workers were allegedly assaulted by BJP workers.  On the Uttar Pradesh elections, Banerjee said that she was open to helping Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav if he needs the TMC's help.  "If Trinamool can help defeat the BJP in UP, we will go... If Akhilesh (Samajwadi chief Akhilesh Yadav) wants our help, we will help," she said.  The TMC chief also said while her party has "started" in Goa, regional parties should slug it out in some states.  "We have started in Goa and Haryana... but I think some places, let regional parties fight. If they want us to campaign, we will help," she said.  Days after she inducted two senior Congress leaders into her party, Banerjee said she had no plans to meet party president Sonia Gandhi during her trip this time.  Congress leader Kirti Azad and former president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee Ashok Tanwar formally joined the party on Monday.  "This time I sought time only from the prime minister. The leaders are all busy with Punjab polls. Work is first... Why should we meet Sonia every time? It is not constitutionally mandated," she said when asked if she was meeting Sonia Gandhi.  Banerjee also said that she would visit Varanasi since "Kamalapati Tripathi's family is now with us".  Rajeshpati Tripathi and Laliteshpati Tripathi, the grandson and the great-grandson of former UP chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi, joined the Trinamool Congress in October.  The TMC chief also said that she will meet Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar during her visit to Mumbai on November 30-December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
24-11-2021||India||Human trafficking racket busted in Indore; nine held||The police on Wednesday arrested nine members of a gang allegedly involved in trafficking women from Bangladesh and forcing them into flesh trade in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, an official said. The kingpin of the racket was carrying a reward of Rs 20,000 on his head, the official said. According to the police, the gang has sent several women from Bangladesh to other parts of the country for flesh trade after getting them to cross the borders illegally. The kingpin of the gang, Mamoon Hussain (41), was running the racket from Mumbai, superintendent of police (SP) Ashutosh Bagri said. Mamoon arrived in India 25 years ago and had managed to get a ration card for himself using a fake identity, and subsequently got an Aadhaar card, voter ID and passport, the SP said. The accused, with the help of his Bangladesh-based wife, allegedly lured orphaned, helpless and needy women with a promise of getting them work as domestic helps, by pretending to be associated with an NGO, he said. In the last 10 years, Mamoon's gang had pushed thousands of women into flesh trade in different parts of the country by getting them to cross the Indo-Bangladesh border illegally, the official claimed. Mamoon has links with middlemen of different cities and they used to send Bangladeshi women to Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and other states, he said. Mamoon also married a woman in India and was evading investigating agencies with his fake identity of Vijay Dutt, Bagri said, adding that the accused used to send the money earned from flesh trade and human trafficking through hawala racket to Bangladesh. Apart from Mamoon, the police have arrested eight others, including four women, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
24-11-2021||India||Ahead of Modi's visit, posters attacking BJP taken down in Bulandshahr||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday pulled down posters related to Jewar International Airport put up here in the city ahead of the Prime Minister's visit to lay its foundation stone. The posters carried the pictures of local Samajwadi Party leaders and asked the BJP government when it's going to sell off the under construction airport. Police took down the posters -- reportedly put sometime the previous night - and booked several people in the matter. ‘When will BJP sell off the Jewar Airport?’ the posters read. Akhilesh Yadav will come in 2022 and will save the airport from being sold, they also said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the airport in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Thursday. Modi had earlier inaugurated the Kushinagar Airport in the state on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
24-11-2021||India||Niti Aayog floats idea of full-stack digital banks||Government think-tank Niti Aayog on Wednesday proposed setting up of full-stack 'digital banks', which would principally rely on the internet and other proximate channels to offer their services and not physical branches, to mitigate the financial deepening challenges being faced in the country.  The Aayog, in a discussion paper titled Digital Banks: A Proposal for Licensing & Regulatory Regime for India, makes a case and offers a template and roadmap for a digital bank licensing and regulatory regime for the country.  Digital banks or DBs are banks as defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (B R Act), the paper said.  "In other words, these entities will issue deposits, make loans and offer the full suite of services that the B R Act empowers them to. As the name suggests however, DBs will principally rely on the internet and other proximate channels to offer their services and not physical branches," it said.  However, the paper said as a natural corollary to being a bank in full sense of its legal definition, it is proposed that DBs will be subject to prudential and liquidity norms at par with the incumbent commercial banks.  "Creating a new licensing / regulatory framework is being proposed as regulatory innovation and not as regulatory arbitrage," it clarified.  The paper noted that India's public digital infrastructure, especially UPI, has successfully demonstrated how to challenge established incumbents.  UPI transactions measured have surpassed Rs 4 lakh crore in value. Aadhaar authentications have passed 55 lakh crore.  "Finally, India is at the cusp of operationalising its own Open banking framework," the paper said.  "These indices demonstrate India has the technology stack to fully facilitate DBs. Creating a blue-print for digital banking regulatory framework and policy offers India the opportunity to cement her position as the global leader in Fintech at the same time as solving the several public policy challenges she faces," it said.  The paper also recommends a two-stage approach, with a digital business bank license to begin with and Digital (Universal) Bank license after policymakers and regulators have gained experience from the former. Focus on avoiding any regulatory or policy arbitrage and giving a level playing field is an important recommendation.  "Moreover, even with the Digital Business Bank license, it recommends a carefully calibrated approach" comprising of issue of a restricted digital business bank license (in terms of volume/value of customers serviced and the like).  Enlistment (of the licensee) in a regulatory sandbox framework enacted by the RBI, and issue of a "full-stack" Digital Business Bank license (contingent on satisfactory performance of the licensee in the regulatory sandbox including saliently, prudential and technological risk management), are the other steps suggested in the paper.  The paper said that while RBI's authority to issue a license to a banking company under the Banking Regulation Act is straightforward, an additional step is necessary for creating a licensing regime for digital business banks that permits them to offer value-added services that are complementary to their core financial business, on the same balance sheet as the banking services.  It further suggested that minimum paid-up capital for a restricted digital business bank operating in a regulatory sandbox may be proportionate to its status as restricted.  While the RBI is the final arbiter of what numerical value constitutes "proportionate", the paper has proposed a ladder for minimum paid-up capital by way of illustration.  "As per the illustration, upon progression from the sandbox into the final stage, a full-stack digital business bank will be required to bring in Rs 200 crore (equivalent to that required of the Small Finance bank)," it suggested.  The paper said estimates indicate that DBs have high cost efficiency.  It also noted that the prevalent neo-bank business model in India is a function of regulatory vacuum.  "In the absence of a licensing regime for full-stack digital banks, fintechs offering the neo-bank proposition in India have improvised and adopted the front-end neo-banks model," it said.  Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant in his foreword said this discussion paper examines the global scenario, and based on the same, recommends a new segment of regulated entities -- full-stack digital banks.  "Based on the comments received, the paper will be finalized and shared as a policy recommendation from Niti Aayog," he said.  While India has made rapid strides towards enabling financial inclusion, credit penetration remains a public policy challenge, especially for the nation's 63 million odd MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||Gujarat: Slum-dwellers protest against eviction for Gandhi Ashram project||Residents of a slum settlement here in Gujarat staged a protest demanding rehabilitation after their dwellings were marked for demolition by authorities to free the land for the upcoming Gandhi Ashram redevelopment project.  The 'Gandhi Ashram Basti,' a settlement of around 55 families of labourers, was ordered to be demolished by the district authorities, officials said on Wednesday.  Following the protest held by the residents on Tuesday, the demolition drive was stayed for seven days to explore joint alternatives for rehabilitating these slum-dwellers, they said. "Authorities have agreed to meet the representatives of residents in the coming days. They are feeling relieved," said an official of 'Majoor Adhikar Manch. He claimed that authorities had come with a full demolition squad and police to raze the 55 hutments without giving them a written notice.  Most of the residents are nomadic and denotified tribal communities who have lived here for over three decades, and a majority of the dwellers are eligible for rehabilitation under the Regulation for the Rehabilitation and Redevelopment of Slums, 2010, the Manch claimed.  However, district officials said the slum-dwellers are not residents of the Gandhi Ashram and therefore are not eligible for the government's resettlement scheme. They have encroached on the government land, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||UP polls: Akhilesh meets AAP, Apna Dal (K) leaders||A day after meeting Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday held talks with AAP leader Sanjay Singh and Apna Dal (K) chief Krishna Patel in the run-up to the 2022 assembly polls. After the separate meetings, Patel said a tie-up with the SP has been finalised while Singh indicated that the talks have begun. A strategic discussion (rannitik charcha) was held on the common agenda to make UP corruption-free and get rid of the government under which law and order collapsed," Singh, who is the Aam Aadmi Party in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, told reporters here. About an alliance with the SP, Singh said the discussion has just begun. A good meaningful discussion was held. We will let you know later." The AAP leader has met Akhilesh Yadav earlier as well but said then that his party will contest the UP elections alone. Singh was also present Tuesday at an event to release a book by SP leader Ramgopal Yadav. SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav were there. On Wednesday, Akhilesh Yadav also met Apna Dal (K) chief Krishna Patel and both apparently agreed to address joint public meetings. "We had a discussion with Akhilesh ji and our alliance has been finalised. We are allying with parties of the same ideology and we will soon be sharing the dais," Patel told reporters. When questioned on a seat-sharing arrangement, she said this was not a priority while hinting that her party might pitch for 20 to 25 seats in the elections in 403 constituencies. "Our priority was to move ahead with others and today our alliance has been finalised," she said. "There were no discussions on the number of seats during the meeting. Discussions are going on at many seats. We will have 20-25 seats," she added. The Apna Dal (Sonelal) led by Krishna Patel's daughter Anupriya Patel is already an ally of the ruling BJP. Anupriya Patel's party has nine MLAs in UP and three MPs including herself, but the faction headed by the mother has no elected representative either at the Centre or in the state. A tie-up with the Krishna Patel faction could be seen as part of the SP efforts to divide the Kurmi votes in the crucial poll battle. Arvind Kejriwal's AAP also doesn't have any MP or MLA in Uttar Pradesh. But as part of its efforts to expand beyond Delhi, the AAP has been preparing to fight elections in UP along with some other states. Akhilesh Yadav had met RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary a day earlier to discuss seat-sharing for the upcoming polls. "Badhte Kadam," Chaudhary had said on his official Twitter handle and also posted a photograph with Yadav. Later in a tweet, the SP leader had said, "Shri Jayant Chaudhary ji ke saath badlav ke ore (With Jayant for change)." In his statements, Yadav in has repeatedly said the SP is open to alliances with smaller parties. Om Prakash Rajbhar's Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Sanjay Chauhan's Janwadi Party (Socialist) and Keshav Dev Maurya's Mahan Dal are already with the SP, campaigning to make Yadav the state's next chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||Govt making all efforts to complete AI disinvestment process by December-end: Official||The government is making all efforts to complete the disinvestment process of national carrier Air India by the end of December, according to a senior official.  Tata group firm Talace Pvt Ltd has emerged as the winning bidder for loss-making Air India.  On October 25, the government signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for the sale of the airline for Rs 18,000 crore. The amount includes payment of Rs 2,700 crore in cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the carrier's debt.  Along with Air India, Tatas will acquire low-cost carrier Air India Express and Air India's 50 per cent stake in equal joint venture AISATS. On Wednesday, Civil Aviation Secretary Rajiv Bansal said all efforts are being made to complete the disinvestment process of Air India by the end of December. Bansal is also the Chairman and Managing Director of the national carrier.  Air India has been incurring a monthly loss of more than Rs 600 crore, he noted. The airline has 43 wide-body planes, including 27 Boeing 787s.  On October 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the decision on Air India will give new energy to the country's aviation sector.  As of August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. Of the total amount, Talace will take over Rs 15,300 crore, and the remaining Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to AIAHL.  Besides, non-core assets of Air India, including land and building, valued at Rs 14,718 crore, are also being transferred to AIAHL. Further, liabilities of Rs 15,834 crore towards dues to operational creditors, like those for fuel purchases, as of August 31 would be transferred to AIAHL.  In 2019, the government set up a special purpose vehicle -- Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL) -- for holding debt and non-core assets of the Air India group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||If SP wins, will give farmers who died during farm law protests Rs 25L: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said if his party comes to power in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, its government will give Rs 25 lakh each to farmers who died during the farm laws agitation.  "The life of a farmer is priceless because he grows foodgrains for others," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  "We promise that in 2022, as soon as the Samajwadi Party government comes to power, farmers who died during the agitation against farm laws will be given a 'Kisan Shahadat Samman Rashi' of Rs 25 lakh," Yadav added.  The Samajwadi Party has extended support to the farmers' movement against the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||Fadnavis calls on Raj Thackeray, triggers speculation ahead of Mumbai civic body polls||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday called on Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray here, sparking off speculation in the political circle about a possible tie-up between the two parties ahead of the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections early next year. Fadnavis and his wife Amruta met Raj Thackeray, his wife Sharmila at the latter's new residence 'Shivteerth' at Dadar in central Mumbai. All four of them were seen chatting in the balcony of the MNS president's house. While BJP office-bearers called it a cordial family meeting, political observers said it assumes significance in view of the crucial Mumbai civic body polls. During his tenure as the Maharashtra chief minister between 2014 and 2019, Fadnavis had maintained cordial relations with Raj Thackeray. In the 2017 BMC polls, the BJP had made giant strides in the Shiv Sena citadel of Mumbai, winning 82 seats. However, the Shiv Sena had retained the power by bagging 84 seats. The BJP now eyes to clinch a clear lead over the Shiv Sena, which has been controlling the civic body for the last three decades. In the last BMC election, the Congress was relegated to the third position with 31 seats, whereas the NCP and MNS got 9 and 7 seats respectively. Later that year, six out of the seven MNS corporators had joined the Shiv Sena, giving the party an edge over the BJP. Raj Thackeray, who had run a vigorous campaign against the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had in 2020 unveiled his party's new saffron flag and declared support to the NDA government for evicting Pakistani and Bangladeshi "infiltrators", among other things, indicating his shift to vocal Hindutva. Several BJP leaders from Maharashtra, including state party chief Chandrakant Patil, Ashish Shelar and Prasad Lad, have also met Raj Thackeray in the last few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||International flight services to normalise by this year-end: Civil Aviation Secy||Civil Aviation Secretary Rajiv Bansal on Wednesday said international flight services are expected to be normalised by the end of this year. Scheduled international passenger flights to and from India remain suspended since March last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. India has air bubble arrangements with more than 25 countries for operating international flights. On resumption of normal services to global destinations, Bansal said international flight services are expected to be normalised "very soon" and "by the end of this year". Under an air bubble arrangement between the two countries, international passenger flights can be operated by their respective carriers into each other's territories subject to certain conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||HC quashes all orders passed to convert Jaya's residence as memorial, wonders if it is not one memorial too many||The Madras High Court on Wednesday set aside all the orders of the previous AIADMK government starting from 2017 to 2020, which culminated in the take over and conversion of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's Poes Garden residence here-- Veda Nilayam into a memorial and wondered if "is it not one memorial too many," considering that there was a Phoenix-themed memorial a few kilometers away from the locality, at the famed Marina Beach, for the deceased leader.  Justice N Seshasayee, who passed the orders, also posed some questions to the government over spending of public money and criticised the then government for taking over a private land for a memorial, when one existed on the Marina, and for lapses in observing the procedure.  It is a wastage of public money, the judge held in his 123-page order.  The court quashed the orders while allowing a batch of three writ petitions and about 15 miscellaneous petitions with various related prayers filed by J Deepa and J Deepak, the niece and nephew, respectively, of the late AIADMK supremo.  The compensation amount, which the government had deposited in a lower court pursuant to the award, is liable to be returned with all accrued interest to the government, the judge said.  "In a state where the substantial number of its populace is struggling for a dignified life under the Constitution, for whom Part III and Part IV of the Constitution are yet to become relevant, the court may not remain insensitive and play Dhridarashtra (the visually impaired king and father of Kauravas in Mahabharatha) when the Government decides to divert crores of public money mindlessly. Has not the cry of the citizens reached the powers that be?" the judge wondered. Part III of the Constitution deals with fundamental rights, while part IV relates to directive principles of state policy.  The Court cancelled the July 22 2020 conversion order of the Land Acquisition officer in Guindy under the 'Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013' and ordered the Chennai District Collector, in whose custody the keys of 'Veda Nilayam' is, to hand them over to the petitioners within three weeks. The judge said that the Income Tax Department is free to proceed for recovering any arrears of tax payable by Jayalalithaa which is chargeable on her estate, as per law.  The issue was well within the concept of judicial review, as it faced an allegation of colourable exercise of statutory power. If it is not, there is a grave risk of wasting public money on erecting memorials for those whose life, taken wholly and not selectively, hardly has a message for the public. As long as public money is involved, a scrutiny by the court to examine if a memorial constitutes a public purpose can not be avoided, the judge noted.  Differentiating the memorial on the Marina, the judge pointed out it does not involve any acquisition and noted that Veda Nilayam is only a few kilometers away from the Marina.  "Is it not one memorial too many? What is the inspirational story that 'Veda Nilayam' may provide which the Marina memorial does not?. What then is the public purpose in acquiring a private residence of the former chief minister?. Beyond the smoke screen of 'policy decision' and the Government's prerogative to attribute 'public purpose', this Court is still searching for an answer."  "And the fact that the notification for acquisition has been published a couple of years before the Court had cleared the construction of the Marina memorial for the former chief minister is immaterial, for what ultimately matters to this Court is defraying public money on a second memorial for the same CM," the judge added.  Refuting the claim of the then government that Jayalalithaa had implemented certain welfare measures, the judge said he does not intend to engage in a probe if the personal traits of a leader, or if such measures introduced by the same as a CM are sufficient to justify expanding public money to erect a memorial.  "Are not providing welfare measures without any personal gain the duty of any government?. At any rate, do the reasons cited explain why there ought to be a second memorial for the same leader?", the court asked.  It said the public trust doctrine implies that governments in this democracy are the custodian of public wealth and resources (including public money), which this country is blessed with and that it ought to manage them as a prudent manager of finances for public good.  Fiscal prudence is the soul of fiscal management and is inbuilt in the governance of public affairs. As a prudent manager of public funds it is the government's duty to deploy public money where the investment fetches tangible returns to the public at large. It includes welfare measures for the public like health, education, housing, transportation and also expenditure necessary for the preservation and protection of the public and Constitutional institutions that serve the public.  But the basic criterion is that the public expenditure by a government must be measurable in terms of the benefit it generates for them. Fiscal indiscipline, with no care to go for a cost-benefit analysis to demonstrate the existence of a public purpose, "will be a painful betrayal of the Constitutional faith", which every government, conscious of its constitutional duty to govern with a sense of commitment to its people, should refrain from, he said.  The context in that case was different, but the content of what is stated is apposite. Thus in all cases, where the public purpose is not so evident and becomes a subject matter of a judicial review, then it becomes necessary for the government to demonstrate that the intended object of acquisition is useful to the public and to justify the public expenditure involved in it, lest it would be, as held by the Supreme Court, a wasteful expenditure.  "In the final analysis, this court is left with little option than to hold that acquisition of Veda Nilayam cannot be said to involve a public purpose' in law. The acquisition fails. The fact that an award has been passed is of no consequence. And the fact that a formal inauguration of Veda Nilayam the Memorial on January 28 this year is equally of no consequence," the judge said.  The residential building in the upscale locality comprises an office room, library, waiting room for guests and conference hall.  It was reportedly bought by Jayalalithaa's mother in the late 1960's and was home to the late chief minister for over three decades, where several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called on her.  On August 17, 2017 then Chief Minister K Palaniswami had announced that Veda Nilayam would be converted into a memorial and opened to the public in remembrance of her achievements and service to the people.  The Tamil Nadu Assembly had in September 2020 adopted a Bill to replace an ordinance issued for possession of the house and to facilitate vesting of movable properties therein with the government.  In January this year, Veda Nilayam, converted into a memorial, was declared open by Palaniswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||Physical classes in schools, colleges to resume from November 29 in Delhi||In view of an "improvement" in the air quality, the Delhi government on Wednesday decided to resume physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions and reopen government offices from November 29.  The ban on the entry of trucks, barring those engaged in essential services, will continue till December 3. However, "CNG and electric trucks will be allowed to enter Delhi from November 27," Environment Minister Gopal Rai said after a meeting to review curbs to tackle air pollution.  Rai urged government staff to use public transport.  "We hired private CNG buses recently. We have decided to use them to ferry employees from colonies such as Gulabi Bagh and Nimri Colony. A majority of government employees live in these areas," he said.  The government will also start a shuttle bus service from the Delhi Secretariat to ITO and Indraprastha metro stations for its employees.  "The air quality has improved over the last three days. The city's AQI is similar to pre-Diwali days," he said.  On November 13, the city government had ordered closure of all educational institutes, banned construction and demolition activities and asked its employees to work from home to combat air pollution and minimise its health effects.  On November 17, it had extended the restrictions, besides banning the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items in Delhi.  The ban on construction and demolition activities was lifted on Monday in view of an improvement in the air quality and inconvenience caused to workers.  Rai said violation of the 14-point dust control guidelines at construction and demolition sites will lead to immediate termination of work and a penalty.  Authorities have stopped work at 105 out of the 1,221 sites inspected so far, the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi demands credible data on Covid deaths in country||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday demanded that the government provide credible data on Covid deaths in the country and pay a compensation of Rs four lakh each to families of those who lost their lives due to coronavirus. Gandhi shared a video in which families, who lost their dear ones due to Covid in Gujarat, alleged that they did not receive timely help from the government. He also attacked the "Gujarat model" which according to him the BJP has projected as the best in the country. "The Congress party has two demands that credible data on Covid deaths be disclosed and compensation of Rs four lakh be given to the families of those who lost their kin due to COVID-19.The government will have to ease the pain of people and they should get compensation," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#4LakhDenaHoga". In the 4.31 minute video as part of "Congress Nyay campaign", Gandhi said the Gujarat model is much talked about but the families whom they talked to said that during Covid times they neither got a hospital bed nor a ventilator. "When you had to help them in the hospital, you were not there and when they lost Rs 10-15 lakh in hospital and also their family members, you were still not there to provide compensation. What type of Government is this," he asked. Gandhi said while the Gujarat government claims that only 10,000 people died due to Covid, the truth is that "three lakh people have died" due to Covid. He claimed that Congress workers have gone house to house to ascertain this. "The official tally says 10,000 people died due to Covid, but the truth is three lakh," he claimed. He said in today's Gujarat model, only Rs 50,000 is being paid as compensation to people losing their kin due to Covid, whereas they should get Rs three lakh each. "The prime minister has Rs 8,500 crore for buying a new plane, but the government has no money for paying compensation to those who lost their family members due to Covid," he said. Gandhi said Congress wants the government to pay compensation of Rs four lakh to all the lakhs of people who died due to Covid in the country. "Some select industrialists are being handed over the country and have been given relief in tax of lakhs of crore during Covid times, but the poor people of India are not being paid compensation due to Covid deaths," he alleged. "The Congress party will exert pressure on the government and will make sure compensation of Rs four lakh each is paid to all those poor families who lost their kin due to Covid," Gandhi said in the video. The Congress has stepped up its campaign against the BJP in Gujarat, which goes to polls late next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
24-11-2021||India||Cabinet approves Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021: Sources||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a bill to repeal the three farm laws, which triggered protests at Delhi borders by thousands of farmers, according to official sources. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 has been approved days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement to repeal the three central farm laws. The new bill will now be introduced in the Lok Sabha for passage in the upcoming Winter session of Parliament beginning November 29. The repeal of these three legislations has been one of the key demands of around 40 farmer unions protesting against these reforms for nearly a year now. On November 19, Modi in his address to the nation had announced the withdrawal of the three farm laws saying the government could not convince protesting farmers the benefits of these reforms. He had also urged them to end the protest and return home. The three laws to be repealed are: Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. These laws, passed in September last year, had triggered widespread protests by thousands of farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh at Delhi borders. The protest started at the fag-end of November 2020, and is still continuing. Meanwhile, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- joint body of farmer unions leading the current protests -- on Sunday wrote to the Prime Minister urging him to immediately resume talks on the farmers' six demands including legal guarantee to procurement of crops at minimum support price (MSP). The other demands were sacking and arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, withdrawal of cases against farmers and building of a memorial for those who lost their lives during the agitation. They also sought removal of penal provisions on farmers in the "Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act 2021" and withdrawal of the draft "Electricity Amendments Bill, 2020/2021" proposed by the government. SKM had said it would continue their planned protests, including the march to Parliament on November 29, to observe one year of anti-farm law protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court orders inquiry into police probe, asks if attempt made to shield offenders||A Delhi court has ordered the police to investigate whether a deliberate attempt was made to shield five men who were discharged in a February 2020 riots case due to the lack of sufficient evidence. Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat discharged five men accused of allegedly being part of a riotous mob, looting a medical shop and house of the complainant Firoz Khan, and taking away medicines and cosmetics worth about Rs 22-23 lakh on February 25, 2020. The judge said the accused were not let off because the incident in question did not happen or that they were falsely implicated but merely for the reason that there was no sufficient evidence produced against them. "Let the DCP North-East District conduct an inquiry into the manner in which the investigation was conducted by the IO, in this case, to find out whether or not there had been any deliberate attempt to shield the offenders and submit a report to this Court on the next date of hearing," he ordered. The sessions judge further noted that Firoz Khan was the only witness in the case who claimed to have identified the accused as assailants and that too from the photographs shown to him in the police station. There should be sufficient and legally admissible evidence on the basis of which charges can be framed against an accused, which is lacking in the instant case, ASJ Bhat stated in the order dated November 22. He said the charge sheet did not indicate whether or not the investigating officer (IO) made any efforts to trace other witnesses. "It is not clear as to whether the IO chose not to find out any other witness or whether no other person came forward who had seen the incident in question," the judge said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||This is the national capital, look at the signal we are sending to the world, Supreme Court to govt on Delhi's air quality||The Supreme Court Wednesday asked the Centre and the NCR states to continue implementing for few days the measures to ensure improvement in air quality, saying that preventive actions are needed in anticipation to curb pollution even as it wondered what signals are being sent to the world.  When the weather becomes severe then we take measures. These measures have to be taken in anticipation, and this anticipation has to be based on a statistical model and scientific study and pattern, a special bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said.  This is the national capital. Look at the signals we are sending to the world. You can stop these activities in anticipation itself so the severe grade does not happen, said the bench which also comprised justices D Y Chandarchud and Surya Kant.  The measures suggested by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and Adjoining Areas to deal with industrial pollution, thermal plants, vehicular emissions, dust control, diesel generators as well as encouraging work from home be continued for the time being, the apex court said.  Take the measures for the next two-three days and we will hear this matter next Monday. In the meantime if pollution becomes 100 (AQI) etc then you can lift some ban, it said.  Referring to the submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on automatic graded action plan in view of worsening air pollution, the top court said these are ad hoc mechanisms and the commission on pollution will have to undertake a scientific study and take preventive action in anticipation.  On the stubble burning, the bench wondered as to what bureaucrats are doing and said that officials like chief secretaries and others should go and meet farmers, experts and scientists.  As a government lawyer and we judges are discussing this. What the bureaucracy has been doing all these years? Let them go to villages, they can go to field, talk to farmers and take a decision. They can involve scientists and why cannot this happen, the bench observed.  On the issue of construction workers, the bench said the states have huge funds on account of labour cess collected from real estate firms and that can be used for paying the workmen who have been deprived of their livelihood due to the ban.  Can the construction workers' fund be used as long as workers are out of work... How much money is there in labour welfare fund. You pay the workers from that, it said.  At the outset, Mehta referred to measures which are still being in force to deal with the spike in the air pollution and said that the situation, which is being monitored, will be reviewed in a few days.  He said the measures like banning the entry of trucks, except few exceptions, complete closure of all public and private educational institutions, and closure of six thermal power plants in the 300 km radius of the national capital are still in force.  Earlier, the bench had directed authorities to ensure implementation of the decisions taken in a meeting to curb air pollution, observing that it cannot get into the nitty gritty and the bureaucracy has developed a "sort of inertia" of not taking decisions which are left to the courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Security tightened outside Gambhir's residence after threat mail from 'ISIS Kashmir'||Security has been beefed up outside the residence of BJP MP Gautam Gambhir here after he received an alleged death threat from "ISIS Kashmir ", officials said on Wednesday. A complaint addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) stated that a death threat from "ISIS Kashmir" was received on the official email ID of Gambhir at 9.32 pm on Tuesday, they said. The mail read, "We are going to kill you and your family," the officials said. In the complaint, a request was made to look into the matter, register an FIR and make necessary security arrangements, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Shweta Chauhan said, "We have received the complaint and an enquiry into the matter is underway. We have enhanced security arrangements outside his (MP's) house". However, no FIR has been registered in the matter yet as an enquiry is in process, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 537 days||India added 9,283 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,35,763 while the active cases declined to 1,11,481, the lowest in 537 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,66,584 with 437 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 47 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 150 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.32 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.33 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,103 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.80 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 51 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.93 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 61 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,57,698 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 118.44 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 437 new fatalities include 370 from Kerala and 19 from Maharashtra. Of the 370 deaths, 57 were reported over the last few days and 313 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a state govt release said on Tuesday. A total of 4,66,584 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,766 from Maharashtra, 38,182 from Karnataka, 38,045 from Kerala, 36,401 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,407 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Very poor air quality in Delhi as winds slow down||Delhi's air quality slipped into the very poor category on Wednesday morning as low temperatures and slow surface winds allowed accumulation of pollutants. The city's air quality index (AQI) read 357 at 9 am. According to the India Meteorological Department, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 27 degrees Celsius. Strong winds on Sunday and Monday had led to an improvement in the air quality. The 24-hour average AQI read 290 on Tuesday, the second best AQI reading this month since November 1 (281). Delhi has seen very poor or severe air quality on the rest of the days. Neighbouring Faridabad (348), Ghaziabad (346), Greater Noida (329), Gurgaon (308) and Noida (320) also saw a dip in the air quality on Wednesday morning. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Delhi government will take a call on the reopening of schools, colleges and other educational institutions and work-from-home for its employees during a review meeting on Wednesday. It will also discuss if CNG-operated trucks carrying non-essential items can be allowed to enter Delhi. The government had on Monday lifted the ban on construction and demolition activities in view of improvement in the air quality and the inconvenience caused to workers. The city government had on Sunday night extended work-from-home for its employees and the ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items till November 26 to combat air pollution and minimise its health effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Covaxin 50% effective against symptomatic Covid in real-world, finds Lancet study||Two doses of Covaxin are 50 per cent effective against symptomatic COVID-19, according to the first real-world assessment of India's indigenous coronavirus vaccine published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal. The results of an interim study recently published in The Lancet showed that two doses of Covaxin, also known as BBV152, had 77.8 per cent efficacy against symptomatic disease and present no serious safety concerns. The latest study assessed 2,714 hospital workers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, from April 15 to May 15, who were symptomatic and underwent RT-PCR test for COVID-19 detection. Researchers noted that the Delta variant was the dominant strain in India during the study period, accounting for approximately 80 per cent of all confirmed COVID-19 cases. Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Indian Council of Medical Research (NIV-ICMR), Pune, is an inactivated whole virus vaccine administered in a two-dose regimen, 28 days apart. In January this year, Covaxin was approved for emergency use in India for people aged 18 and above. The World Health Organization (WHO) added the vaccine to its list of approved emergency use COVID-19 vaccines earlier this month. The latest study was conducted during India's second COVID-19 surge and in healthcare workers who were primarily offered Covaxin. "Our study offers a more complete picture of how BBV152 (Covaxin) performs in the field and should be considered in the context of COVID-19 surge conditions in India, combined with the possible immune evasive potential of the Delta variant," said Manish Soneja, Additional Professor of Medicine at AIIMS New Delhi. "Our findings add to the growing body of evidence that rapid vaccine rollout programmes remain the most promising path to pandemic control while public health policies must continue to include additional protective measures, such as mask-wearing and social distancing," Soneja said in a statement. The COVID-19 vaccination centre at AIIMS New Delhi exclusively offered Covaxin beginning January 16 this year to all of its 23,000 employees. Researchers evaluated the effectiveness of the vaccine against symptomatic RT-PCR confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Of the 2,714 employees in the study population, 1,617 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, and 1,097 tested negative. Positive cases were matched to negative RT-PCR tests (controls). The odds of vaccination with Covaxin were compared between cases and controls and adjusted for occupational exposure to COVID-19, previous SARS-CoV-2 infection, and infection dates. The study found that the vaccine effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 after two doses of Covaxin with the second dose administered 14 or more days before undergoing RT-PCR testing was 50 per cent. The effectiveness of two vaccine doses remained stable over the seven-week follow-up period, the researchers said. The adjusted vaccine effectiveness of the first dose, estimated after seven and 21 days, was low, which is consistent with the performance of other preventives against the Delta variant, they said. "Findings from the study confirm previous research indicating that two doses of BBV152 are required to achieve maximum protection and that all vaccine roll-out plans must follow the recommended dosing schedule," said Parul Kodan, Assistant Professor of Medicine at AIIMS New Delhi. "More research is needed to better understand how these findings translate to BBV152's effectiveness against delta and other variants of concern, especially related to severe COVID-19 infection, hospitalisation, and deaths," Kodan said. The authors acknowledge that the vaccine effectiveness of Covaxin estimated in this study is lower than the efficacy reported by the recently published phase 3 trial. They noted that several factors may be responsible for the lower vaccine effectiveness in the latest study. The researchers said this study population only included hospital employees who may have a higher risk of exposure to COVID-19 infection than the general population. The research was conducted during the peak of India's second wave of COVID-19 with high test positivity rates for both hospital employees and residents of Delhi, they said. Prevalence of circulating variants of concern, especially Delta, may have also contributed to the vaccine's lower effectiveness, according to the researchers. The authors acknowledge several limitations to their study. The study does not estimate the vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation, severe disease, and death, which require further assessment, they noted. Also, the study was not designed to estimate vaccine effectiveness for different time intervals after vaccination or to determine if vaccine effectiveness changed over time, the researchers added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Kashish Jain rising through creative makeup ideas perfect for the millennial choices||Makeup is more about bringing out the confident side rather than just mending the unwanted. It is rather creative than just a learned skill. Kashish Jain a well-known makeup artist is routing through creative makeup ideas perfect for millennial choices. Makeup comes naturally to Kashish as her mother is known to have already established her presence through her work in the beauty industry. Priya, Kashish's mother is not just a makeup artist but is an experienced personality who has made it to the top all by herself. Following the footsteps is Kashish who believes in creating extravagant makeup techniques. Kashish, though born in Rajasthan soon, was moved to Surat, Gujarat when her mother decided to prosper through her business of makeup. Following her mother's footsteps, Kashish entered the makeup world in the year 2015 after rigorous years of learning from her mother. Their venture PK Make-up Studio, also known as Priya & Kashish academy, has done major wonders in the field of makeup. The constant support and the habit to achieve creative goals separates Kashish from others in the industry. After working for celebrities like Fizah Khan, Nagma Mirajkar, Afsha Khan, Shanaya Khan, Sana Khan, Vaishnavi Patil, Rukaiya Khan, and others, she is now piled with many new projects. The mother-daughter duo has lifted the bar of makeup industry with their PK make-up studio. In a recent event, Kashish alongside her mother Priya Jain received an award of excellence in their field on a national level marking their exuberant work. The award was presented by Urvashi Rautela to her. Social media presence and hard work towards innovating new techniques have got Kashish her multiple projects. She is also creating makeup awareness for the millenials to learn from through online classes. Kashish Jain is making it bigger than life and making her mother proud of her work. It is something she loves taking pride in as most of her natural talent comes from her mother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Mamata inducts Kirti Azad, Pavan Varma, Ashok Tanwar into TMC||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday welcomed a current and a former Congress politician and an ex-Janata Dal United leader into the Trinamul fold in an apparent effort to emerge as the principal challenger to the BJP, but in the process sent out the signal that she was competing with the Congress at the national level. The trio who joined Trinamul in New Delhi were cricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad who has political roots in Bihar, Ashok Tanwar, a Dalit leader from Haryana, and expelled JDU leader Pavan Verma, once known to be close to Bihar chief minister and BJP ally Nitish Kumar. Barring Tanwar, a former Rahul Gandhi aide who quit the Congress ahead of the 2019 Haryana polls and floated his own party, the other two don’t have a mass following. However, Mamata’s move to induct them into her party on the second day of her visit to New Delhi underlined her political intent of expanding Trinamul’s base outside Bengal, even at the cost of chipping away at the Opposition space held by the Congress. The developments put a question mark on her possible meeting with Sonia Gandhi to iron out differences in the path of forging a larger Opposition unity to fight the BJP. “Now the possibility of a Mamata-Sonia meeting appears ruled out. Didi will meet the Prime Minister tomorrow (Wednesday) and fly back to Calcutta the day after tomorrow,” a Trinamul leader said. Ahead of her arrival in Delhi on Monday, several Trinamul leaders had said that a meeting with the Congress president was on the cards. Speaking to Tanwar’s supporters from Haryana in the evening, she thanked them for being part of the “biggest decision for the country and to defeat the BJP”. With Tanwar by her side, Mamata promised to visit Haryana, a state ruled by a BJP-JJP alliance where the Congress is the principal Opposition. “Tanwarji has taken a very important decision today for the country and to fight the BJP…. I will visit Haryana whenever Tanwarji calls me,” the Trinamul chief said. She added that Tanwar would be sent to Goa, a poll-bound BJP-ruled state where Trinamul is trying to replace the Congress as the principal challenger. Trinamul leaders privately spoke of Mamata emerging as the “new and real Congress” and said the Congress was incapable of fighting the BJP. On Mamata’s national ambitions, they said she was only trying to fill the vacuum of a “credible Opposition” to the BJP. The Trinamul leaders rubbished allegations that such moves could jeopardise a wider Opposition unity and end up making the path easier for Narendra Modi and the BJP. On Tuesday, Tanwar, Azad and Verma came one by one to the 184 South Avenue apartment of Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee to meet her and join her party. Earlier in the day, Sudheendra Kulkarni, a former aide of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani, and poet-lyricist Javed Akhtar, a former Rajya Sabha MP, called on Mamata. The three leaders who joined Trinamul hailed Mamata as the leader who can challenge the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “The entire country is feeling tortured by the BJP…. The circumstances have become such that the only leader capable of leading the country is Mamatadi,” Tanwar said. “Just like the farmers got together and defeated the arrogant government, the entire Opposition should get together and defeat the BJP,” he added. Azad, who had been a Lok Sabha MP from the BJP twice before joining the Congress in 2019, said India needed a leader like Mamata who “can fight on the ground and give a new direction to the country”. “The way Mamataji has successfully challenged Modi in a democratic way, many people like me would like to join her. She will be a deciding factor in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and she will play a national role,” Verma said, claiming that many more leaders committed to fight the BJP were set to join Trinamul. The entry of the leaders on Tuesday and Trinamul’s determined forays into some BJP-ruled states where the Congress is the principal Opposition bear the imprint of Prashant Kishor, who was Trinamul’s consultant for the Assembly elections. Verma, like Kishore, is a former JDU leader and they are known to share a cordial relationship. Both had earlier tried to project Nitish as a national alternative to Modi and now seem to be doing the same with Mamata after the Bihar chief minister stunned everyone by embracing the BJP again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Congress plans to hold mega rally against price rise in Delhi||The Congress is planning a mega rally in Delhi in December, when Parliament will be in session, as the culmination of its Jan Jagran Abhiyan against price rise. Party office-bearers from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab — states that bring in the big crowds — were on Monday night called for a meeting to discuss the plan and asked to start preparations. The date for the rally has not been finalised yet. The Jan Jagran Abhiyan, a 15-day mass contact programme across the country, was launched on November 14. The Congress held a news conference on Tuesday to highlight the high prices of essential commodities and argued that the BJP created “non-issues” only to divert attention from the people’s sufferings. “Survival has become difficult today,” spokesperson Pawan Khera said, reeling out the prices of edible oil, tomato, onion and other vegetables, apart from diesel and petrol. Khera said: “While millions have been pushed below the poverty line, the poor can’t even eat today.” Referring to the increase in mobile phone and data tariff, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “There is nothing that hasn’t become costlier in the Narendra Modi regime. From aata (flour) to data, life insurance to textile, footwear and vegetables. Those who sang ‘bahut hui mehngai ki maar’ are now attacking the people with price rise every day.” The GST on readymade apparel and slippers has been raised. On Monday, Bharti Airtel increased its prepaid tariff by 20-25 per cent. On Tuesday, Vodafone raised its prepaid call and data rates by 18-25 per cent. Congress spokesperson Khera, who was grilled by journalists on the controversy around party leader Manish Tewari’s upcoming book on “national security situations”, retorted: “The BJP wants the people to remain engrossed in non-issues. Fake issues are invented every day. We are not going to fall into that trap. The basic items needed for the kitchen are beyond the reach of the common man. “Tomato is selling at Rs 100 a kg. Mustard oil has crossed Rs 200 a litre. Capsicum is at Rs 120 a kg. The poor can’t buy even potatoes and onions. After all, the performance of the government will be judged on how much you save at the month-end.” The BJP has seized on Tewari’s book, of which he has posted some pages on Twitter that suggest he believes the UPA government erred by not acting militarily against Pakistan after the Mumbai terror attack. BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said: “The gist of this book is that restraint can be considered weakness.… India should have taken strict action....” Tewari responded saying he was “rather amused” by the BJP’s reaction. The BJP spokespersons have avoided responding to criticism about the Modi government’s mishandling of Chinese intrusions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
24-11-2021||India||Health ministry silent on govt’s plan to order oral anti-Covid drugs||The health ministry is silent on whether the Narendra Modi government plans to order in advance, as several other countries have done, the oral anti-Covid-19 drugs from Merck and Pfizer that dramatically reduce the risk of hospitalisation and death. The US companies have independently announced steps to make available their drugs — Merck’s molnupiravir and Pfizer’s Paxlovid — through licenced local manufacture in India but, experts say, how patients in India could access them remains unclear for now. The lack of advance agreements with foreign vaccine makers had delayed the rollout of the Covid inoculation drive in India. The UK earlier this month became the first country to approve the restricted use of molnupiravir that has been shown through trials to reduce Covid-19 hospitalisation or death by 50 per cent. Regulatory approval is pending in other countries, including India. Pfizer had announced earlier this month that its novel drug Paxlovid, co-administered with a small dose of another anti-viral called ritonavir, can reduce risk of hospitalisation or death by 89 per cent. Paxlovid too is yet to receive regulatory approval. But both treatments need to be given early after onset of symptoms which, public health experts say, would require a streamlined drug-distribution mechanism to enable patients to receive the medicines. Several countries have signed or are negotiating advance purchase pacts with Merck and Pfizer. The US government had in June announced a $1.2 billion purchase agreement for 1.7 million five-day treatment courses of molnupiravir to be procured if the country’s drug regulatory authority approves the drug. The UK has ordered 480,000 courses of molnupiravir and Japan has ordered 1.6 million. Pfizer has also entered into advance purchase agreements with multiple countries and is in negotiations with several others, the company said earlier this month. “We cannot share the specifics of any future agreements as discussions are ongoing,” a Pfizer spokesperson told this newspaper. Merck had earlier this year announced licencing pacts with five Indian companies — Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Sun Pharmaceuticals and Torrent Pharmaceuticals — to produce molnupiravir for India and low and middle-income countries. Pfizer has said Paxlovid would be available at low cost in 95 countries, including India. But neither the health ministry nor the companies have disclosed whether the Indian government has initiated discussions on procurement of these drugs with either Merck or Pfizer. A query sent by this newspaper to the health ministry asking if the Indian government had, like the other countries, sought from either company any quantum of either drug has not evoked a response. A spokesperson for Cipla said regulatory processes were currently in progress. “The regulators have sought more trial data to evaluate before any approval,” the spokesperson said, but did not respond to a query asking whether the Indian government had initiated discussions on supply of the drug if it is approved. A senior physician who is not connected with the government said if and when the drugs become available, they would “almost certainly” be regulated, administered only to those who need them. India had regulated the antiviral oseltamivir during the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009-10. “But drug procurement can also be done by states,” the physician said. A senior government scientist who is advising the Centre on Covid-19 said he was not aware of any plans to procure the drugs. “I think there is a feeling that Covid is gone.… This government works with ad-hoc thinking and short memory,” the scientist said, requesting anonymity. “Thankfully, our private sector will be making both the drugs and they will thus be available at reasonable cost.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Custody torture fear for activist Khurram Parvez||The arrest of prominent human rights defender Khurram Parvez on terrorism charges in Jammu and Kashmir has sparked international condemnation, with a global watchdog fearing that he faced high risk of torture in custody and several outfits calling for his release. Parvez was arrested on Monday evening by the National Investigation Agency and booked under stringent provisions of the anti-terror law UAPA and the IPC that carry a maximum punishment of the death sentence. Many see the arrest as a corollary of national security adviser Ajit Doval’s description of civil society as a “new frontier of war”. The Geneva-based World Organisation Against Torture on Tuesday called for Parvez’s release. “We are deeply concerned about the high risk of torture while in custody,” it said in a tweet. The United Nations said it was disturbed by the reports of his arrest. “He’s not a terrorist, he’s a Human Rights Defender,” Mary Lawlor, UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders, tweeted. David Kaye, a former UN special rapporteur, said Parvez’s arrest on terrorism charges was “yet another extraordinary abuse in Kashmir”. The arrest marks a significant escalation in the crackdown on dissent in Kashmir at a time the security forces are facing outrage over allegations that they killed two Srinagar businessmen and one of their assistants in a purportedly staged gunfight. Amnesty International said Parvez’s arrest was “yet another example of how anti-terror laws are being misused to criminalise human rights work and stifle dissent in India”. “Instead of targeting HRDs (human rights defenders), authorities should focus on bringing accountability for human rights violations,” Amnesty said. A spokesperson for the NIA confirmed Parvez’s arrest on Tuesday, Reuters reported. An arrest memo served to the family by the agency mentions that he has been booked under eight sections of the UAPA and the IPC. The UAPA sections slapped on Parvez are 17 (raising funds for terror activities), 18 (punishment for conspiracy), 18B (commission of a terrorist act), 38 (offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation) and 40 (offence of raising fund for a terrorist organisation). The IPC sections under which the rights defender has been booked are 120B (criminal conspiracy), 121 (waging war against the government of India) and 121A (punishment for conspiracy to wage war against the government of India). Parvez, who lost a leg in a militant blast that also claimed the life of his colleague Asiya Geelani, is the best known rights defender from the Valley. He is a recipient of the Reebok Human Rights Award 2006. Parvez is coordinator of the J&K Coalition of Civil Society and chairperson of the Asian Federation Against Involuntary Disappearances. In 2016, he had been arrested by the then Mehbooba Mufti-led government and kept in custody for two and a half months before being released on court orders. Two days before Parvez’s latest arrest on Monday, the immigration authorities had refused to let him board a flight to Geneva, where he was scheduled to address the United Nations Human Rights Council on India’s human rights record. Family sources said he was questioned by the NIA at its Srinagar office through the day. The family was informed only in the evening. “The family was called to bring clothes to the NIA office and were told he was being shifted to Delhi. His wife and son handed over his clothes to officials. The family was in utter shock but Khurram told them not to worry,” an acquaintance told this newspaper. Parvez is known for being a bitter critic of the government but had been maintaining a low profile after the 2019 scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status after allegedly facing harassment at the hands of the agencies. His last tweet was on August 30 on International Day of the Disappeared, where he said that members had pledged during a programme of the Asian Federation Against Involuntary Disappearances “that truth will not be buried, the disappeared won’t be ever forgotten and perpetrators will never be forgiven”. Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement on Tuesday that using “authoritarian tactics against outspoken critics and journalists needs to stop”. “India faces serious security challenges, but instead of addressing the problems in a rights-respecting manner, the authorities appear determined to crush peaceful criticism and calls for accountability,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Government exploring leeway on pension contribution ||The government is exploring the possibility of allowing increased contribution under the Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS) to make room for enhanced pension. The Central Board of Trustees of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), chaired by labour minister Bhupender Yadav, has set up a committee under labour secretary Sunil Barthwal to go into the matter. “The CBT has formed an expert committee to examine if members can contribute more than the ceiling so that they can get higher pension,” said Ramendra Kumar, leader of CPI labour arm Aituc who attended Saturday’s CBT meeting. Employer and employee now contribute 12 per cent of the employee’s salary each to the EPFO. Of this, an amount equivalent to 8.33 per cent of the salary goes to the EPS subject to a ceiling of Rs 15,000 a year, and the rest to the Provident Fund. Members receive a pension after turning 58, the amount depending on their contribution. The maximum pension is Rs 7,500 a month. The government has fixed a minimum monthly pension of Rs 1,000 and makes up the balance if a low-paid employee’s pension comes to less than this. In addition, the labour and employment ministry contributes an amount equivalent to 1.16 per cent of a member’s salary to the EPFO if the salary is less than Rs 15,000 a month. “There are demands for a higher pension under the EPS. It’s not possible unless the contribution is raised,” a labour ministry official said. He said the committee headed by the labour secretary would also explore a separate pension scheme for low-wage employees. The Centre spends around Rs 7,500 crore a year contributing to the EPS for low-paid workers. This fiscal’s budget allocation towards the EPS is Rs 7,364 crore. The parliamentary standing committee on labour, headed by Bhartruhari Mahtab, had in a report in March 2020 recommended raising the minimum pension to at least Rs 3,000 a month. But the labour ministry is not keen. Its officials suggested an alternative to the House panel: allow retired employees to take out their entire EPS balance and still receive the minimum pension of Rs 1,000. The panel report quoted the labour secretary as saying that raising the minimum pension to Rs 3,000 would cost the government an additional “Rs 14,000 crore to Rs 15,000 crore”. But the committee stuck to its recommendation. “The committee… desire(s) that earnest efforts be made for addressing the drawbacks or limitations of the scheme, and at the same time ensure that the worker’s interest(s) are protected by way of ensuring a reasonable monthly pension of at least Rs 3,000,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri sugar milss cancel invite to Ajay Mishra||Two sugar mills in Lakhimpur Kheri have cancelled their invite to Ajay Mishra to flag off the cane-crushing season after farm leader Rakesh Tikait said farmers would boycott the mills if the Union minister turned up. A Thar jeep owned by Mishra, the junior home minister, had run over and killed four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Mishra’s son Ashis is in custody over allegations that he was in the vehicle at the time of the massacre. Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills Ltd at Sampurna Nagar said in a statement on Tuesday: “The sugarcane crushing session of (the unit) will start on November 24 (Wednesday) by district magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh at 11am.” (Sic) A similar statement was issued by Sarju Sahkari Chini Mill Ltd at Belrayan Kheri. Sources close to Mishra said he had some other engagements and would not be able to attend the events at the two mills on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||SC asks NTA to rectify injustice met to disabled girl denied extra time in NEET ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the National Testing Agency (NTA) to “rectify within one week” the injustice caused to a student with a learning disability that impedes writing whose answer sheet was snatched by invigilators during the medical entrance exam. The court told the government’s NTA, which conducts the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), that rules permit persons with disabilities an extra hour to write the exam. “The NTA is directed to consider what steps could be taken to rectify the injustice within a period of one week. Further, it shall take necessary consequential measures,” the court ruled. The direction came a day after the top court ordered the creation of a special seat for a Dalit student at IIT Bombay as he could not pay the admission fee on time due to technical problems. The petitioner in Tuesday’s case is Avni Prakash, who suffers from dysgraphia, a learning disability that causes unclear, irregular, or inconsistent handwriting, transcription difficulties, slows down the pace of writing and also results in diminished coherence. Avni had appeared for the undergraduate NEET on September 12. Citing her “persons with disabilities” status, she had sought an additional hour to complete the paper. Her exam centre, Thakur College of Engineering and Technology at Kandivali in Mumbai, is one of the respondents in the case. Avni’s answer script was snatched away by the college authorities after the end of the allotted three hours on the ground that no special benefits could be granted to her. She had moved Bombay High Court, which on October 29 dismissed her plea. According to Avni, dysgraphia is a specified disability listed in Entry 2(a) of the Schedule to the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, 2016, and she had been diagnosed with 40 per cent permanent disability, falling within the statutory definition of a “person with benchmark disability” under Section 2(r) of the same law. Avni had argued that as a person with disability, she was entitled to reasonable accommodation and certain relaxations. Among them is the benefit of “inclusive education” by a suitable modification to the exam, as mandated by Section 17(i) of the Act. The ministry of social justice and empowerment had issued guidelines for conducting “Written Examination for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities” on August 19, 2018. The guidelines provide the following entitlements: Allowing Avni’s appeal, a Supreme Court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and A.S. Bopanna said: “The appellant has suffered injustice by a wrongful denial of these relaxations and a lack of remedy by this court would cause irretrievable injustice to the life of the student. The RwPD Act, 2016, prescribing beneficial provisions for persons with specified disabilities would have no meaning unless it is scrupulously enforced. “In our view, the first respondent (the NTA) cannot be allowed to simply get away when confronted with the situation in hand whereby injustice has been caused to a student by standing behind the situation of a large competitive examination. Individual injustices originating in a wrongful denial of rights and entitlements prescribed under the law cannot be sent into oblivion on the ground that these are a necessary consequence of a competitive examination.” The court noted that the NTA was duty-bound to comply with the guidelines on written exams dated August 29, 2018, prescribed by the government. “The grievance of the appellant is that she was deprived of the compensatory additional one hour for attempting the examination, simply because the second respondent (the exam centre) was unaware of the rights of PwD (persons with disabilities)…. “This state of affairs reflects the responsibility of the first respondent (NTE) to ensure that personnel at examination centres are trained and provided with clear guidelines for the implementation of the provisions made for PwD. In the absence of adequate training, rights conferred on candidates with specified disabilities by Parliament are set at nought,” the court said. Justice Chandrachud who authored the judgment said education played a key role in social and economic inclusion and effective participation in society. “The Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities recognises that inclusive education systems must be put in place for a meaningful realisation of the right to education for PwD. Thus, a right to education is essentially a right to inclusive education,” the apex court said. “In India, the RPwD Act, 2016, provides statutory backing to the principle of inclusive education….” The court noted that Avni had secured an all-India rank of 1,721 among 2,684 candidates who had cleared the NEET in the PwD category. The NTA had argued that approximately 15.4 lakh candidates had appeared for the NEET and that the list for counselling had been sent to the Union health ministry on November 9. It was submitted that alteration of the results at this stage would prejudicially affect other candidates who were ranked above Avni. Rejecting the argument, Justice Chandrachud observed: “The first respondent must remember that all authority under the law is subject to responsibility, and above all, to a sense of accountability. The first respondent is governed by the rule of law and by the constitutional requirement of observing fairness. Behind the abstract number of ‘15 lakh students’ lies human lives that can be altered due to the inadvertent, yet significant, errors of the first respondent.” The court, however, rejected Avni’s plea for re-examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Galwan hero Col B. Santosh Babu posthumously awarded Mahavir Chakra||Colonel B. Santosh Babu, the commanding officer killed in the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese soldiers last year, was on Tuesday posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, the country’s second-highest wartime military gallantry honour. Col Babu was awarded for displaying extraordinary courage and leadership by President Ram Nath Kovind in an investiture ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Babu’s wife B. Santoshi and mother B. Manjula received the award. On June 15 last year, 20 Indian soldiers including CO Babu had died in hand-to-hand combat with the Chinese during a “de-escalation process” at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. Four days later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had declared that none had forcibly entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts — a remark never retracted. This allowed Beijing to claim ownership of territory taken over by China and instead call India the aggressor. Col Babu was the CO of the 16 Bihar infantry battalion of the Indian Army. He had been tasked to ensure that the Chinese move back beyond Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley. The President on Tuesday also awarded the Vir Chakra to five other Galwan soldiers who had fought off the numerically stronger Chinese troops. Four of them were awarded posthumously. The posthumous Vir Chakra awardees were Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, Havildar K. Palani, Naik Deepak Singh and Sepoy Gurtej Singh. Havildar Tejinder Singh was the only living recipient of Tuesday’s honour. Following the Galwan clash, several Indian soldiers had been captured as prisoners of war by the Chinese army. All of them were later released. Shortly after the clash, India had announced that 20 of its soldiers had been killed. Beijing, however, had acknowledged that the clash had resulted in casualties but did not confirm if any Chinese soldiers had died. In February this year, the Chinese military said that four People’s Liberation Army soldiers were killed at Galwan. The scuffle between the two sides on June 15 last year was triggered by an argument over the position of Chinese soldiers who were pitching a tent on the southern bank of the Galwan river near Patrolling Point-14 on the Indian side along the LAC. The situation turned violent after the PLA troops, all of them armed with clubs, rocks and barbed wire, attacked the Indian soldiers led by Col Babu. The wartime honours given on Tuesday had been announced by the government on Republic Day this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||'Ghar wapsi’ drive for Veerashaiva community in Karnataka||The influential Veerashaiva community in Karnataka has embarked on a mission to collect data on its members who have embraced other faiths, ahead of the BJP government’s plan to table an anti-conversion bill in the Assembly. The 117-year-old Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha, to which all members of the community owe allegiance, has issued a circular to its local units to gather data on religious conversions with the aim of bringing them back to the community in a possible “ghar wapsi (homecoming)” drive to be planned later next month. The secretary of the organisation, H.M Renukaprasanna, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that the idea was to find out how many Veerashaiva members had been “lured or coerced” to convert. “Our local units have been informing us about conversions through offers of free education and equal status, especially to Christianity. But since we don’t have accurate data we have asked all our local units to report any conversions through coercion or allurement,” Renukaprasanna said. On whether the Mahasabha was planning a “ghar wapsi”, he said the final decision would be taken at the next working committee meeting of the organisation likely in the second week of December. “We will consult the mutts to decide everything,” he said, asked where in the caste strata would the returnees be placed. A leader of a significant part of the larger Veerashaiva-Lingayat community has blamed the Veerashaivas for the conversions. Retired IAS officer and general secretary of the Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha, S.M. Jamdar, questioned why those from the lowest strata had been embracing other faiths. “Yes, it is a fact that lower divisions among Lingayats (such as Dalit Lingayats) are getting converted to Christianity. But the point is 95 per cent of them are the so-called Dalits who are not treated equally,” he said. While the community is quite often called Veerashaiva-Lingayat, the numerically stronger and more powerful Lingayats are spread across much of southern India and Maharashtra. The key difference between them is that while the Veerashaivas follow the Vedas and Brahminical practices like astrology and the four-fold caste system, the Lingayats go by the teachings of its founder Basaveshwara, fondly called Basavanna, the 12th century reformer-saint who founded the community as a way out of the caste-ridden Vedic fold. In a longstanding battle for identity, the Lingayat community treats itself as a separate religion, while the Veerashaivas see themselves as part of Hinduism. “Basavanna founded the Lingayat religion to provide equality to everyone. But the saddest thing is the Veerashaivas brought chaturvarna (four-fold caste system) to our religion by following the Vedas and the Puranas, which itself is against Basavanna’s teachings of vachanas,” Jamdar said. “If they are so bent on ‘ghar wapsi’, let them do it. But in what caste would they induct the returnees? Will they be made Veerashaiva Brahmins or just be pushed down the social strata as Dalits?” Jamdar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Kerala HC issues notice to Centre on PM's photo on jab certificate||Kerala High Court on Tuesday served notice on the Union ministry of health and family welfare after formally admitting a petition from a senior citizen who had sought removal of the picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from his Covid vaccine certificate. Justice N. Nagaresh has directed the Union health ministry and the Kerala government to file their arguments, the petitioner’s counsel, Ajit Joy, told The Telegraph. The petitioner, RTI activist Peter Myaliparambil from Kottayam district, had in early October moved the court on the ground that the presence of the Prime Minister’s picture on his vaccine certificate was violative of his fundamental rights since it was a personal health document. “This (issuance of notice) means the court has found sufficient material to admit the petition. It will come up for arguments once the Union and state governments file their responses,” Joy said. The petitioner had contended that the certificate containing personal data was his private document and hence the “State has no right to access that space, any more than the petitioner consents to it”. Myaliparambil had explained that he had to pay Rs 750 for a shot of Covishield vaccine at a private hospital since he could not get any slot for a free jab. The petitioner had stated that the Covid vaccination certificate was being used as a propaganda tool. “The petitioner has a right to be left alone. The petitioner has a right not to be subject to messaging that to the petitioner appears no more than propaganda and publicity for an individual,” Myaliparambil’s petition had stated. He had submitted copies of vaccination certificates from France, Germany, the US, Indonesia, Israel and Kuwait to show that none of them carried pictures of their respective heads of state or government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Tripura: SC refuses TMC plea to postpone civic polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday warned the Tripura police brass and the home secretary of “coercive action” if they failed to ensure free and fair civic elections on November 25, dealing with a plea filed by the Trinamul Congress. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Vikram Nath passed the directions while declining to entertain Trinamul’s plea seeking postponement of the polls in view of alleged attacks on its workers by the ruling BJP. Senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Gopal Sankarnarayan, representing Trinamul, had pleaded that the elections be held only after adequate central paramilitary forces and other security measures were in place. Gupta also submitted that in several wards the Left parties had withdrawn their candidates due to fear of attacks from the BJP and that the local police were conniving with the ruling party. Justice Chandrachud, dictating the order in open court, said: “While we are not inclined to accede to the prayer for postponing the elections…, we are equally of the view that it is the duty of the director-general of police, the inspector-general of police (law and order) and the home secretary of the state of Tripura to assuage any misgivings about the fairness of the law-enforcement machinery in supporting the electoral process. “The law-enforcement agencies must discharge their duties in an even-handed and non-partisan manner to obviate the grievance which has been urged before this court that candidates and supporters of the AITC (Trinamul) are being unfairly targeted by contesting political groups. “When a compliance affidavit is filed before this court, it shall contain a detailed elaboration of the steps which have been taken to (a) preserve law and order; (b) ensure security for political workers, voters and contesting candidates; (c) protect the electoral process leading up to the counting of votes and the declaration of the results; and (d) deal with criminal offenders in accordance with law. “The director-general of police and the home secretary to the state of Tripura shall observe these directions scrupulously so as to obviate the need for the court to adopt coercive steps in the event that a breach of its directions comes to light.” The Tripura government, represented by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, rebutted the allegations. The court pointed out that the poll process had begun and postponing elections was a “matter of last and, even extreme, recourse”. The court said the grievances could be redressed by issuing peremptory directions. Lawlessness: MLA A BJP MLA from Tripura on Tuesday blamed the “childish state leadership” for the “complete lawlessness” in the state. Five-time MLA Sudip Roy Barman said: “The childish behaviour of the state leadership is really costing a lot and is bringing a bad name to the Prime Minister and other leaders at the national level because we are going to face crucial elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab. This ruckus is obviously going to be an election issue.” “It is high time the police act against those indulging in hooliganism, beating the common man and arson. There is complete lawlessness in our state... The police have to act independently.” Additional reporting by Umanand Jaiswal in Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
24-11-2021||India||Lalu Prasad exempted from court presence due to ill health||The CBI court in Patna on Tuesday exempted Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad from further physical appearances in a fodder scam case, taking note of his ill health. “I am mostly unwell. My medical treatment is going on. Please exempt me from physical attendance in the case,” Lalu appealed to the court. The court allowed the request and asked the former Bihar chief minister to send his advocate to represent him in the future. The next hearing has been scheduled on November 30. The case pertains to alleged fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 46 lakh from the Banka district treasury. Lalu had arrived in Patna on Monday evening with wife Rabri Devi and eldest daughter, Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, after being summoned by the court. Lalu’s advocate Prabhat Kumar said his client had been told to be physically present in court on Tuesday as this was the first hearing in the case. “This is a 25-year-old case. The FIR was registered in 1996. A total of 28 people have been charged and the trial is starting now. The court had called for the physical appearance of all of them because it wanted to know who among the accused were alive,” Kumar said. No hearing could be conducted because lawyers of the Patna lower court abstained from work in protest against the assault on Jhanjharpur additional district judge Avinash Kumar allegedly by police officers on November 18. However, the strike by the lawyers did not hinder Lalu’s appearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
