25-11-2021||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia on connectivity and development||Aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia supported the choice of Jewar for Uttar Pradesh's next international airport, saying it will bring development to the area. Critics have slammed the choice of location — more than 75 km from Delhi in Gautam Budh Nagar, one of the remote corners of the district that is being developed as an industrial hub. "The days when areas were developed first, and then a need was felt to have connectivity, are long gone," Scindia told NDTV in an exclusive interview. "The trend has reversed, where connectivity propels development and in that context the Noida international airport is going to change the way we look at Jewar and surrounding areas," he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the international airport, which is expected to be operational by September 2024 with an initial capacity to handle 1.2 crore passengers per year. On the occasion, he took a swipe at the opposition, saying, "So many projects in UP shelved by previous governments because. This too was suggested to be shelved... but then came the BJP's double-engine government and development picked up." With a series of assembly elections around the corner, including one of the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, this was PM Modi's second big inauguration in as many weeks. Last week, inaugurating the Purvanchal Expressway, he said for previous Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh, "development was limited to where they had their homes only". "The previous governments did not care about any connectivity in UP... Roads were in bad condition. Reaching Lucknow for people of eastern Uttar Pradesh was like winning the battle of Mahabharata… Who can forget many power cuts? Who can forget the law order condition and the medical facilities? I knew that the way people of UP were treated unfairly by the then government," he said. "Discrimination was done in name of development so their interest can be served," he added, peppering his speech with many references to "dynastic leaders". Asked about allegations of using a government stage for politics, Scindia said, "It is a fact that subsequent governments could not deliver on the promise of this airport and it is only the dynamic leadership of the Prime Minister and of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh who could make this a success". Scindia, whose defection to the BJP along with 22 loyalists crashed the Kamal Nath-led Congress government, was elevated to PM Modi's council of ministers earlier this year. After his exit, he had complained that "talent and capability find little credence in the Congress".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
25-11-2021||India||Foreign ministers of Russia-India-China to hold virtual meeting ||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will hold talks in the virtual format on Friday. The meeting, being held under the Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral framework, will be chaired by Jaishankar, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). "The 18th meeting of the foreign ministers of the Russian Federation, Republic of India and People's Republic of China will be held in digital video-conference format on November 26," it said. The three foreign ministers are expected to deliberate on regional issues of mutual interests including the situation in Afghanistan. "The foreign ministers are expected to discuss further strengthening of RIC trilateral cooperation including exchange of views on various regional and international issues of importance," the MEA said in a statement. India took over the chairmanship of the RIC after the last meeting of the trilateral in Moscow in September last year. Following Friday's meeting, Jaishankar will pass on the chairmanship of the RIC to the Chinese foreign minister for the next one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||New Covid variant: Govt advisory to states, UTs for foreign travellers||The Centre on Thursday asked all states and union territories to conduct rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana, where a new Covid-19 variant of serious public health implications has been reported. In a letter to additional chief secretaries or principal secretaries or secretaries (Health) of the states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked them to ensure that samples of travellers turning positive are sent to the designated IGSLS or genome sequencing laboratories promptly. It has now been reported by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) that multiple cases of a Covid-19 variant B.1.1529 have been reported in Botswana (3 cases), South Africa (6) and Honk Kong (1 case), Bhushan said in the letter. "This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations, and thus, has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel. "It is therefore imperative that all international travellers travelling from and transiting through these countries, (they are part of the 'at risk' country category of international travellers coming to India) and also including all other 'at risk' countries indicated in the revised Guidelines for International Arrivals issued by this ministry dated November 11, 2021, are subjected to rigorous screening and testing, as per MoHFW Guidelines," he said. The contacts of these international travellers must also be closely tracked and tested as per MoHFW guidelines. "You are also requested to ensure that samples of travellers turning positive are sent to the designated IGSLS promptly as per the INSACOG Guidance Document issued by this Ministry dated 15 July, 2021," the letter said. Bhushan said state surveillance officers must also establish close coordination with their designated/tagged IGSLS for expediting results of genomic analysis, so that necessary public health measures may be undertaken by the states and union territories in case presence of variant of concern or variant of interest is reported by the INSACOG network. "It is critical for the states and UTs to adhere to the overarching Test-Track Treat-Vaccinate principle to ensure stringent implementation of containment measures as per MoHFW guidelines, and to prevent the spread of VoC/Vols and formation of clusters of cases," he said. The new variant of Covid-19, feared to have a high amount of spike mutations unseen before, has been detected in South Africa, with authorities there confirming 22 positive cases associated with it on Thursday. Dr Tom Peacock, a virologist at Imperial College London, had posted details of the new variant classed as B.1.1.529 on his Twitter account earlier this week, following which scientists have been weighing in on what is being considered a variant of concern though it is yet to be formally categorised in the UK. Scientists the world over will be watching the new variant for signs of gaining momentum or spreading more widely and rapidly. The high number of spike mutations are concerning from the point of view of both higher transmissibility and immune evasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||BJP building airports only to sell them off, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said the BJP is laying the foundation stone of Noida International airport while selling other existing airports in the country. Addressing a rally organised by Janwadi Party (Socialist), an SP ally, near Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow, Akhilesh said "How can the BJP be believed when on one hand it is making new airports, and on the other hand selling the existing ones?" The Lucknow airport was given on lease to a private company earlier. The SP chief's comments came on the day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Jewar International Airport in Greater Noida. "One government airport was sold and the other is being made. I fail to understand the reason. BJP said the poor with slippers will travel in aircraft, the poor should let the BJP know how many of them have travelled in planes," he said. He said the BJP government is engaged in disposing of airports and asked who is profiting from these airports, when even the Delhi Airport is suffering losses. He asked what will happen to the rights and honour of the people in a country where public property is sold off. "In a country where things are sold off, government institutions are sold off, what will happen to the rights and honour for which Ambedkar gave us the Constitution, what will happen to the future generations? Who will give them jobs, livelihood and reservation?" said the former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister at the Janvadi Jankranti Maharally'. During his address, he asked the Chauhan community to extend its support to him, saying if it comes along the BJP will suffer a historic defeat in the upcoming elections. JPS is considered to have an influence over voters of Nonia community, concentrated largely in 15 districts of Purvanchal, including Ghazipur, Chandauli, Azamgarh, Mau and Ballia region. There are around 1.26 per cent Nonia voters in the state. JPS president Sanjay Singh Chauhan had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on an SP ticket against BJP's Mahendra Nath Pandey and had lost by a margin of around 14,000 votes. Chauhan had bagged more than 4 lakh 96 thousand votes in the Lok Sabha Elections. Akhilesh also criticized the BJP-ruled UP government for publishing big advertisements but failing to address people's issues. He attacked the government over its pre-poll promise of doubling farmers' income by 2022, asking whether it has been done. He also asked it whether it was able to provide fertilizers to the farmers and procure their paddy. He raised the issue of rising prices of fuel across the country to accuse the BJP of prioritizing big industrialists over the common man. "BJP's wrong policies are responsible for inflation and unemployment, he said. The future of youth is bleak with no jobs. Their education prospects are ruined because of the BJP's failure to give them good education. Even if somehow they complete their studies, there cannot find jobs," he added. He gave his assurance to the people that if the SP comes to power, it will give people ummeed se zyada rahat (relief more than the expectations). He said the SP has brought together various other parties to ensure people's rights are protected. Besides JSP, SP has brought along SBSP's Om Prakash Rajbhar, Mahan dal, and Krishan Patel of Apna Dal with it. Criticising the UP Chief Minister, Akhilesh said Yogi Adityanath has not been able to score any big achievements in his tenure except changing names and expropriating previous government's works. "Ever since the Baba CM' has come, UP has been ruined. Promises made by him are yet to be fulfilled. Has any big work been done? he asked the people. The only work of this government is to change names, change colours. And they are changing names even now when their government is on its way out. People have decided to change those who are changing names and the new CM will also have a new name," he claimed. Addressing the farmers' crisis, Akhilesh promised farmers mandis to sell their produce if it comes to power. He said though the Center has repealed the three contentious farm laws, it is yet to enact law on Minimum Support Price, adding the SP will keep on fighting for the poor till it comes about. He repeated the allegation that the government repealed the laws because farmers had banned its leaders' entry in their villages voting with their feet. Accusing the BJP of trying to kill the Ganga-Jamuni (composite) culture, he said the party had nothing but hatred to offer. "No other government had given so many problems to people as has the BJP government," he said. The leader also raised the demand for a caste-based census in his address.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||Foreign ministers of India, Russia, China to hold talks on Friday||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's will hold talks in the virtual format on Friday. The meeting, being held under the Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral framework, will be chaired by Jaishankar, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). "The 18th meeting of the foreign ministers of the Russian Federation, Republic of India and People's Republic of China will be held in digital video-conference format on November 26," it said. The three foreign ministers are expected to deliberate on regional issues of mutual interests including the situation in Afghanistan. "The foreign ministers are expected to discuss further strengthening of RIC trilateral cooperation including exchange of views on various regional and international issues of importance," the MEA said in a statement. India took over the chairmanship of the RIC after the last meeting of the trilateral in Moscow in September last year. Following Friday's meeting, Jaishankar will pass on the chairmanship of the RIC to the Chinese foreign minister for the next one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||NIA combs Kashmir to probe Al-Qaeda links||According to an official, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday carried out searches at five locations in Kashmir in connection with its investigation into a case related to an Al-Qaeda group's planning to launch terror attacks in India. “The case was initially registered in Lucknow by Uttar Pradesh's Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on July 7 and subsequently taken over by the NIA for an in-depth investigation on July 29,” a spokesperson of the agency said. The NIA said, “The raids were carried out at five locations in south Kashmir's Shopian district and central Kashmir's Budgam district. A large number of incriminating documents and digital devices were seized.” The case pertains to Umar Halmandi, an Al-Qaeda operative, who along with other accused persons, had been radicalising and recruiting vulnerable persons for Al-Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) and trying to raise Ansaar Gajwatul Hind' (AGH) to carry out terrorist acts, for which they had already arranged arms and explosive substances, the spokesperson said. Further investigation in the case is continuing, the NIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||Stir will continue till farmers' demands are met: Rakesh Tikait||The farmers' agitation will continue till their demands, including a legal guarantee for MSP, are fulfilled and also until the Centre holds parleys with them, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said here on Thursday. BKU national spokesperson said they (BJP government) announced repealing of the three farm laws, but it will not solve the issues. There are several issues of farmers that need to be resolved. "The farmers' protest will continue till the central government resumes talks on their demands, including Minimum Support Price (MSP) guarantee law," Tikait told reporters here. Tikait and other farmer leaders took part in a 'Maha Dharna' organised by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC)-Telangana unit here, marking one year of the countrywide agitation by the famers against the three contentious agri laws. Reacting to Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's announcement of ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh each to the kin of around 750 farmers, who died died during the protests, Tikait said the Centre should also provide ex-gratia to them. Also, the central government should discuss with the farmers the issues relating to seed bill, pesticide, implementation of recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee, he said. If the government gives legal guarantee for MSP then farmers here (in Telangana) will also benefit, he noted. Earlier, addressing the Dharna, Tikait alleged that the Narendra Modi government is being run by companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||Sacrilege & drug abuse: Sidhu swears to go on hunger strike if reports are not made public ||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday threatened to go on an indefinite fast if his party's state government does not make public the SIT report on the drug menace. Sidhu also once again questioned the state government over the steps taken for ensuring justice in desecration cases. "If the Punjab government does not make (STF) report public, then Sidhu will proceed on fast unto death," he said taking on his own government while addressing a gathering in Moga's Baghapurana. "Thousands of youth got destroyed due to drugs, mothers lost their sons. There is no court order which bars making the report public. Who stops you from making the report public," Sidhu asked. "We need to know why the previous chief minister sat on this report," he added. On cases related to the desecration of a religious text in 2015, he said, "Sidhu is again seeking justice for sacrilege." The Congress leader had recently demanded that the report of the special task force on the drug menace be made public and a time-bound probe be initiated to catch the "big fish responsible for narco-terrorism". During a press conference earlier this month, Sidhu had questioned the state government over the steps taken for ensuring delivery of justice in desecration cases. On the STF report, Sidhu had said, "Hon'ble HC supplied a copy of STF report on drugs to the government. But instead of proceeding as per law, we are sitting on the STF report since February 2018. Even we have failed to extradite the other accused in this multi-crore drugs case. The solution is to catch and punish the big fish." Sidhu had earlier been at loggerheads with Amarinder Singh, who had quit the Congress recently after his unceremonious exit as the CM. After Charanjit Singh Channi took over reins, Sidhu opposed the appointment of A P S Deol as the state's advocate general as he had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 police firing incidents after the desecration of a religious text. Recently, Deol was replaced as the AG. Sidhu had even stepped down as the Punjab Congress chief over appointments of Deol and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the director general of police. Later, Sidhu withdrew his resignation but put a precondition that he would resume the charge the day a new advocate general was appointed and a panel for the appointment of a new director general of police came from the UPSC. On November 9, Channi had announced that the resignation of Deol had been accepted after which new AG was appointed. On November 16, Sidhu resumed the charge at the party's state office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||'Roads like Katrina Kaif' remark: BJP seeks action against Rajasthan minister||The Opposition BJP in Rajasthan on Thursday demanded action against a state minister, who had compared roads to the cheeks of actors Hema Malini and Katrina Kaif. The remark was allegedly made by Minister of State for Panchayati Raj and Rural Development Rajendra Singh Gudha on Tuesday during a government camp at a village in Jhunjhunu district. In a purported video of the event, Gudha is heard saying in local dialect that roads should be like the cheeks of Hema Malini but added that she is "too old". He then went on to say roads should be like "Katrina Kaif's cheeks". Targeting the minister, BJP spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said,"Giving such a statement for women is indecent. The CM should take strict action. Culture and tradition of Rajasthan has not been such that a person sitting on a constitutional post gives such a statement." Sharma said Gudha is the same leader who had in the Assembly polls said that he gave money to get ticket and votes. Gudha was among the 15 ministers who took oath on Sunday in a Cabinet reshuffle. He is one of the four newly inducted ministers of state. He represents Udaipurwati constituency of Jhunjhunu and was elected as a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA. Gudha was one of the five BSP MLAs who quit the party and joined the Congress later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||Country has to decide if Jinnah's followers will cause mischief, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the country has to decide if the sweetness of sugarcane will grow or the followers of Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah will cause mischief in the state, in a veiled attack on the Samajwadi Party (SP). Adityanath trained his guns at the Opposition as he joined the foundation-laying ceremony for the Noida International Airport in the Jewar area of Gautam Buddh Nagar in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said Uttar Pradesh is moving on the path of development and highlighted various efforts of the government. The BJP leader also thanked the over 7,000 farmers who gave consent for the acquisition of their land for the airport without any controversy. He said the ceremony was a "much-awaited" moment for western Uttar Pradesh and important because this is where farmers had taken forward the initiative to add sweetness in the region with sugarcane cultivation. "Some people had tried to add bitterness in the sugarcane region of Uttar Pradesh with a series of riots. Now the country has to decide if the sweetness of sugarcane will grow or Jinnah's followers will cause mischief," Adityanath said as he addressed the gathering of thousands. SP leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had last month equated Jinnah with Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru, saying all of them helped the country achieve independence. His remark had invited severe criticism from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), among others. Uttar Pradesh is scaling new heights under Modi's leadership, whether it is the public welfare schemes reaching everyone without any discrimination or creating new infrastructure for development or respecting people's faith, Adityanath said. "The whole perception of Uttar Pradesh has changed that the state can progress and develop," he added. Citing various infrastructure projects worth thousands of crores of rupees in Noida and Greater Noida of Gautam Buddh Nagar, the chief minister said lakhs of job opportunities would be generated in the region in the coming days. He thanked the prime minister for the "gift" to western Uttar Pradesh in the form of the Noida International Airport. The airport is being developed by Swiss concessionaire Zurich International Airport AG's subsidiary Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL). The entire project is planned in a 5,000-hectare area with a cost of around Rs 30,000 crore and billed to be the biggest airport in Asia upon completion. In the first phase of the project, over 1,300 hectares of land will be developed at a cost of over Rs 10,000 crore and the airport is scheduled to open by September 2024, according to project officials. Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, local MLAs Dhirendra Singh, Pankaj Singh and Tejpal, central as well state ministers were among those who attended the foundation-laying ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||All sections with BJP, says Jitin Prasada; predicts thumping win in Uttar Pradesh polls||Uttar Pradesh minister Jitin Prasada said the BJP has the support of every section of society and dismissed claims that Brahmins in the state are upset with the party.  He also predicted a comprehensive victory for the BJP in next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, saying the ruling party will surpass its previous tally.  A former Union minister, Prasada had joined the BJP earlier this year after quitting the Congress.  His induction into the BJP was seen as part of efforts by the party to strengthen its support among the Brahmins, an electorally dominant section constituting 13 per cent of the UP population.  The BJP, Samajwadi Party and the BSP had earlier held "sammelans" to woo Brahmins ahead of the Assembly polls.  When in the Congress, Prasada had started a campaign for the "honour and self-respect" of the community through the Brahmin Chetna Parishad.  When asked about claims that Brahmins are unhappy with the BJP, Prasad said, "Let those saying this continue to say. I can say with full confidence that the majority of every section of society is with the BJP and its one-sided."  "As far as Brahmins are concerned, we are in public life and we take everyone along, but if someone talks about the community, if someone is being harassed, then we are ready to provide justice and help as far as possible," the UP technical education minister told PTI in an interview.  Prasada said he was sure that the BJP will surpass its previous tally in the Assembly polls scheduled early next year. The BJP had won 312 of the 403 seats in the 2017 polls.  "The trend is clear and I can say with hundred per cent surety that the previous record of crossing 300 (seats) will be surpassed by the BJP," he said.  When asked about the basis of his claim, he cited improvement in law and order.  "Earlier, we used to ask people to come to UP, they used to say that they will go to South India as they do not get security and a business-friendly environment here," he said.  "But now investment is coming, five international airports are in UP and this is a big achievement in itself. This will prove to be a milestone for the future of UP in the times to come," the minister said.  He said UP is being "transformed through expressways".  "I am sure that we will get the blessings of people and you will see that UP will be on top on every scale," he claimed.  When asked about quitting the Congress despite being close to the Gandhis, Prasada said, "I had earlier also said that after much deliberation, I decided to change the party. It was not a momentary decision. It was not that you got angry with anyone after denial of ticket or not getting any post."  "I considered various points. I took this decision after being influenced by the strong and powerful leadership of the prime minister," he said.  "He believes in resolving problems by taking public support," Prasada said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has become the "most famous PM" of the world.  "It's a matter of pride that the PM of India has world class acceptance," he added.  When asked about leaving central politics and his experience with CM Yogi Adityanath, Prasada said, "I consider myself lucky that I am getting the privilege of working with such great leaders under their guidance."  "The Centre or state does not matter much. The aim is to serve people and protect their interests. It was a privilege that I was given responsibility in my own state," he said.  Prasada said that within two months of taking over the ministry, he visited 20 districts and had an interaction with students of polytechnic and engineering colleges.  On complaints about fee and harassment of students in private schools and colleges, he said, "It has been only a few days for me and you are correct. Arbitrariness in the matter of fee will not be tolerated. I myself am committed to this matter."  The minister says he has given instructions that the institutions should make their fee structure public, put it on their websites and if any complaint is received from a student, then a portal should be made for that.  He said his focus is to make technical education job oriented and students self-reliant. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
25-11-2021||India||Indian candidate elected to top committee of INTERPOL||CBI Special Director Praveen Sinha was on Thursday elected as a delegate from Asia to the executive committee of the INTERPOL, official sources said.  The Indian candidate emerged victorious in a tough election that saw contestants from China, Singapore, the Republic of Korea and Jordan vying for two posts in the elite panel, they said.  The elections were held in Istanbul during the ongoing 89th INTERPOL (International Criminal Police Organisation) General Assembly.  "Today's victory is the result of an intense and well-coordinated election campaign across the world," said a source.  The sources said crucial support of friendly countries was sought at bilateral engagements at different levels and Indian embassies and high commissions regularly followed it up with their host governments. Ambassadors and high commissioners in Delhi were similarly reached out, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Previous regimes kept UP in deprivation and darkness: PM||Taking a swipe at previous governments, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh was kept in deprivation and darkness earlier but it is now getting what it always deserved and is making its mark internationally under a "double-engine" BJP rule.  After laying the foundation stone for the Noida International Airport at Jewar in Uttar Pradesh, which would one of the largest aerodromes in Asia, Modi highlighted the development activities in the poll-bound state and said the new airport will help the state become an export-centre whereby even MSMEs will have easier access to overseas markets.  He said the Noida International Airport, slated to be completed by 2024, will become the logistics gateway for North India.  He asserted that infrastructure is "not politics for us but part of national policy. We are making sure that the projects do not get stuck, do not keep hanging. We try to ensure that the infrastructure work is completed within the stipulated time," Modi said.  In an apparent dig at the Opposition, Modi said some political parties in the country have always kept their self-interest paramount.  "The thinking of these people is self-interest, their own development and that of their family," Modi said.  "Whereas, we follow the spirit of Nation First... Sabka Saath - Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas - Sabka Prayas is our mantra," Modi said.  He said that for the first time in seven decades, Uttar Pradesh has started getting what it has always deserved.  "With the efforts of the double engine government, today Uttar Pradesh is turning into the most connected region of the country," Modi said.  Taking a dig at previous governments in UP and at the Centre, he said Uttar Pradesh, which the previous governments kept in deprivation and darkness, to which they showed false dreams, that same state is now making a mark not just nationally but also internationally.  The airport, the second international aerodrome in Delhi-National Capital Region, is expected to be operational by September 2024 with an initial capacity to handle 1.2 crore passengers per annum.  The airport, spread over 1,330 acres of land, will be developed by Zurich Airport International AG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Nadda urges Goans to keep Trinamul Congress, Aam Aadmi Party away||Targeting the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which have decided to fight the upcoming Goa Assembly elections, BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday urged the people of the state to shun these parties and walk on the path of development by strengthening the BJP. The elections in Goa, where the BJP is currently in power, are due early next year. Addressing a BJP workers' convention at Valpoi Assembly constituency in North Goa, Nadda praised the Pramod Sawant-led Goa government for its performance. Apart from CM Sawant, Union minister Shripad Naik and local MLA Vishwajit Rane, who is also the state health minister, were present on the occasion. "If we look at the parameters like number one (state) in crime against women, deteriorated law and order situation and overall crime rate, then all these things are present in West Bengal," Nadda said, taking aim at the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. "If we speak about Delhi, then we realise that whichever systems that are needed to be put in place, the local government pushes it on the Centre," he said while referring to the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP dispensation in the national capital. "Except for the advertisements, they are not doing any other kind of politics," he said. Nadda then appealed to people of Goa to walk on the path of development and shun these forces. "I appeal to you all to contribute in strengthening the BJP in the state," he said. The saffron party chief praised chief minister Sawant saying that he has been walking on the footsteps of late CM Manohar Parrikar, "who had dedicated his life for the people of Goa". Nadda recalled that Parrikar, although ailing and despite being on a life support system, had asked 'How's the josh' during the opening of Atal Sethu bridge (built across River Mandovi in Panaji). "I can see that the BJP workers are still maintaining the same josh (enthusiasm) to go forward in the right direction," the BJP leader added. He congratulated Goa for being the first state in the country to achieve the target of 100 per cent administration of the first dose of anti-coronavirus vaccines, and expressed confidence the entire eligible population in the state will soon become fully vaccinated. Vaccination has helped the coastal state in the resumption of the tourism sector, which has seen an increase in the tourist footfalls from 15 lakh to 80 lakh. Nadda said the central government supported the people of the country during the pandemic. "Hundred years back, when such a pandemic had struck, more people had died because of hunger than the disease," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Senior RSP leader Abani Roy passes away||Senior RSP leader and former MP Abani Roy passed away on Thursday. He was 84 years old.  He died at RML Hospital in Delhi. His body will be brought to RSP MP NK Premachandran's residence where leaders will pay their tributes. His cremation will be at Lodhi Road Crematorium at 5 pm, party sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||North East||Shah asks industries to invest in Northeast||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday asked industries to invest in the Northeast and said the Narendra Modi government has created a conducive environment for the industrial growth of the region.  Addressing the annual session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce virtually, Shah said peace has been restored in the Northeast in the last seven years, militancy has come to an end and there is political stability in all the eight states in the region.  He said massive development work has been going on in the Northeast, infrastructure has been improved a lot, road, rail and air connectivity has also been improved.  By 2024, the Modi government will connect capitals of all the eight states by air, seven of the eight state capitals will be connected through rail, and a network of roads is operational.  "Time has come to invest in the Northeast, empower the Northeast, give a boost to the Northeast and bring the Northeast into the nation's development trajectory," Shah said.  The home minister said he understood that making investment is a big issue for any businessman but the Modi government has created an environment for investment in the Northeast with proper infrastructure.  He assured the industries that all the state governments will cooperate if they come to invest in the region.  Shah said there are opportunities in sectors like tourism, Information Technology, agriculture and organic food, which the industries can explore in the Northeast.  He said the prime minister's vision of making India a USD 5 trillion economy and global power house by 2024-25 will be successful only when the entire eastern region is developed at par with the rest of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Delhi Assembly panel summons Kangana over her remarks on Sikhs||Delhi Assembly's peace and harmony committee has summoned Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut over her alleged hateful posts on social media, panel chairperson Raghav Chadha said on Thursday. The committee issued a notice to Ranaut summoning her on December 6 over complaints citing an alleged offensive and derogatory Instagram story posted by her, said a statement from the panel. "The committee has received numerous complaints eliciting inter alia, outrageously offensive and derogatory Instagram stories/posts allegedly published by yourself on 20.11.2021 over your official Instagram account..." the committee said in a notice signed by its deputy secretary to Ranaut. The summons document said Ms Ranaut's "blanketly labelling (Sikhs) as Khalistani terrorists... has the potential to engender disharmony as well as cause wounding humiliation to the entire Sikh community."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Pollution: SC re-imposes ban on construction in Delhi-NCR||Taking note of worsening air quality, the Supreme Court has re-imposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi and national capital region (NCR) and directed the states to provide subsistence to workers from the funds collected as labour cess for the period during which such activities are prohibited. A special bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, in an interim order uploaded Wednesday night, also directed the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and Adjoining Areas to "commission a scientific study of air quality based on available data of previous years bearing upon recorded levels of air pollution". "We direct that instead of waiting for the air quality to deteriorate before initiating action under the graded response plan, necessary measures must be put into place in anticipation of a deterioration of air quality. For this purpose, it is necessary for the commission to engage expert agencies with domain knowledge in meteorological data and statistical modelling," said the bench which also comprised justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant. Asking the commission on pollution and NCR states -- Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan -- to continue with their measures to curb the spike in pollution, the bench reversed the decision to allow construction activities from November 22 in view of improved ground situation in air pollution level. "In the meantime, as an interim measure and until further orders, we re-impose the ban on construction activities in the NCR subject to the following two conditions: Non-polluting activities relating to construction such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry are allowed to be continued. "The states shall use the funds which have been collected as labour cess for the welfare of construction workers to provide them subsistence for the period during which construction activities are prohibited and pay wages notified under the Minimum Wages Act for the respective categories of workers, the order said. The order took note of the submissions of solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that a plan for graded response has been prepared in pursuance of which measures are identified to be taken progressively on the basis of worsening levels of ambient air pollution. The bench said as of now, the action is proposed after air quality has deteriorated and directed the commission to take preventive advance measures to deal with the rise in the air pollution. Asking the panel to undertake a study, the order said such a study "must factor in seasonal variations and other relevant parameters". "Once a scientific model is available, which factors in wind velocity as well as natural and man-made phenomena, the graded response plan can be modulated to provide for measures being taken in advance, based on anticipated changes in air quality without waiting for the air quality to deteriorate. "On this basis, steps can be planned at least a week in advance and even earlier, based on anticipated levels of air pollution in the foreseeable future. The Commission shall carry out the above exercise within a month and report the steps taken for compliance with this direction," it said. The apex court, which fixed the plea for hearing November 29, directed that in the meantime, the central government, Delhi-NCR states and the commission to take appropriate steps to deal with the situation. Asking why Delhiites should suffer very poor air quality, the bench on Wednesday called for advance preventive steps to deal with the situation before it becomes severe, observing that any dip in pollution is because of the wind, an "act of God", which too may come to zero by the end of the day. The court also wondered what signal the country was sending to the world when the national capital was hit by air pollution, and told the Centre and the National Capital Region(NCR) states to continue with their measures to curb air pollution. The order has been passed in a plea filed by Aditya Dubey seeking urgent steps to improve the air quality of Delhi-NCR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Tripura municipal polls: SC directs MHA to provide two companies of Central Armed Police Forces ||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to provide two additional companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to secure every polling booth during the Tripura municipal polls.  The opposition Trinamool Congress and CPI(M) in the state told a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath that since the polling started in the morning, its candidates and supporters have not been allegedly allowed to cast their votes and there is a serious breach of law and order.  The bench directed the DGP and Tripura Home Secretary to immediately review the security arrangements during the municipal polls and make requisition to MHA for additional CAPF, if required.  Each company of CAPF has 100 troops.  It directed the Tripura State Election Commissioner (SEC), DGP and home secretary to ensure polling booths are manned by sufficient CAPF personnel to ensure free and fair elections and every polling official can take help of those personnel, if any exigency arises.  The bench noted that since the state government has submitted before the high court that there is no coverage of CCTV cameras in polling booths, it is allowing unhindered access of print and electronic media during the civic polls.  It clarified that CAPF personnel will remain deployed in securing the ballot boxes till counting of votes on November 28.  On November 23, the top court had refused the TMC's plea for postponing of municipal elections in Tripura and said it is an extreme recourse and last resort to do in a democracy and passed a slew of directions to the state police to ensure free and fair elections.  The top court was hearing a plea of TMC and intervention application of CPI (M) seeking direction to the Tripura government and other officials for ensuring free and fair elections in the Municipal polls.  Polling began in the morning at 770 booths of Tripura civic polls and the counting of votes will be held on November 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||HC commutes to life term death penalty awarded to three in 2013 Shakti Mills gangrape case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday commuted to life imprisonment the death penalty awarded to three convicts in the 2013 gangrape case of a 22-year-old photojournalist inside the defunct Shakti Mills compound in central Mumbai, saying that they "deserve imprisonment for life to repent the offence committed by them."  A division bench of Justices Sadhana Jadhav and Prithviraj Chavan refused to confirm the death penalty awarded to Vijay Jadhav, Mohammad Qasim Shaikh and Mohammad Ansari, and commuted their sentence to life imprisonment for the remainder of their lives.  The bench, while pronouncing its order said that it cannot ignore the fact that the offence has shocked the collective conscience of the society and rape is a violation of human rights, but the sentence of death is irrevocable.  It added that courts have a duty to consider cases dispassionately and cannot ignore the procedure laid down by the law.  "Death puts an end to the concept of repentance. It cannot be said that the accused deserved only death penalty. They deserve imprisonment for life to repent the offence committed by them," the bench said.  It added that the convict shall not be entitled for parole or furlough as they cannot be allowed to assimilate in the society and as there is no scope for reformation.  In March 2104, the trial court had convicted four persons for gangraping a 22-year-old photo-journalist inside the abandoned Shakti Mills compound in central Mumbai on August 22, 2013.  The court had then imposed death penalty on three of the convicts - Jadhav , Bengali and Ansari - as they were also convicted for gang-raping a 19-year-old telephone operator at the same place months before raping the photojournalist.  The trio was awarded death penalty under the amended section 376 (e) of IPC which says maximum sentence of life or death can be awarded to repeat offenders.  The fourth convict, Siraj Khan, was sentenced to life imprisonment, and a minor accused was sent to a correctional facility.  In April 2014, the trio had approached the high court challenging the validity of section 376 (e) of IPC and contended that the sessions court acted beyond its power in awarding them the death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Param Bir Singh lands in Mumbai, appears before crime branch||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, declared a proclaimed offender by a Mumbai court, arrived in Mumbai on Thursday to join the investigation as directed by the court, an official said. Singh flew in from Chandigarh, the official said. He has come to join the investigation with the orders of the court and will co-operate the investigation, he added. "I will join the investigation as directed by the court," Singh told media on arrival. After leaving the airport, Singh appeared before the Mumbai police crime branch unit-11, where his statement in connection with an extortion case registered at Goregaon police station here will be recorded, the official said. The IPS officer, who is facing several extortion cases in Maharashtra, had told news channels on Wednesday that he was in Chandigarh. Singh has not reported to work since May this year, after his transfer from the post of Mumbai police commissioner and his subsequent allegations of corruption against then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The Supreme Court has granted Singh protection from arrest. He was transferred after Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze was arrested in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, 'Antilia' and the subsequent suspicious death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
25-11-2021||India||Active Covid cases in India lowest in 539 days||India logged 9,119 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,44,882 out of which 3,39,67,962 people have recuperated from the disease while the active cases declined to 1,09,940, the lowest in 539 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,66,980 with 396 more fatalities, including 308 from Kerala, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 48 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 151 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.32 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.33 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,541 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.79 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 52 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.90 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 62 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 119.38 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 396 new fatalities include 41 from Maharashtra. Of the 308 deaths in Kerala, 35 were reported over the last few days and 273 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a state government release said on Thursday. A total of 4,66,980 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,807 from Maharashtra, 38,353 from Kerala, 38,185 from Karnataka, 36,415 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,419 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Five taken to hospital after complaining of itching in eyes allegedly due to gas leakage in Delhi||Five people were taken to the hospital after they complained of itching in their eyes allegedly caused by leakage of gas at Ekta Vihar in southwest Delhi's RK Puram area, police said on Thursday. They said all the people, who are residents of a slum cluster in RK Puram area, are stated to be safe, they said. Police said an investigation is underway to ascertain if the people were affected due to exposure to any gas because preliminary enquiry revealed that no gas cylinder was on fire and no fumes were found emanating from anywhere in the area. According to police, at 9:15 pm on Wednesday they received information that there was leakage of gas in Ekta Vihar area and SHO of RK Puram police station, along with his staff and investigation officer, reached the spot immediately. Two fire tenders and as many ambulances also reached the spot along with the DDMA team after they were informed about the call, police said. Atul Garg, Director of the Delhi Fire Service, said, "On Wednesday, we were informed about the incident at 9.20 pm and accordingly fire tenders were sent. It was reported that some gas leaked but the source of the leakage could not be traced. No casualty was reported." Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Gaurav Sharma said "Five people who complained about itching in their eyes were sent to Safdarjung Hospital. All are safe and normal." "During initial enquiry, no fire was found in any gas cylinder and no fumes were seen emerging from any place in the area. The situation remained normal due to the timely action of police and further necessary action is being taken," he added. An FIR has been registered against unknown people under section 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code, police said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Project to take TMC beyond Bengal minted by Prashant Kishor||The effort to take the Trinamul Congress footprint beyond Bengal is a project minted by Mamata Banerjee’s political strategist Prashant Kishor. The central assumption of the strategy is that the Gandhi-led Congress is in “irretrievable decline” and can, therefore, no longer be the pivot of the Opposition. Kishor is convinced that the Bengal chief minister can become the axis around which an “effective and credible” opposition to the Narendra Modi-led government can be built, especially so after her emphatic victory in the Assembly polls this summer. Former JDU leader Pavan Varma, who joined Trinamul on Tuesday, has articulated the need for building a “non-Gandhi-led Congress” repeatedly in recent weeks. Varma, known to work and strategise closely with Kishor, has been making two important points — that an effective Opposition is essential to the functioning of a democracy and that the Congress, because of its internal problems and organisational stagnation, is no longer capable of appearing as a credible Opposition, either to non-BJP parties or to the public at large. Kishor, who has earlier worked closely with the Congress leadership, is said to share the view that the Gandhis are not amenable to imagining or implementing strategies that are required to take on the Modi dispensation. There was speculation a few months ago that Kishor was negotiating an arrangement with the Congress to work towards a blueprint for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, but nothing came of it. Kishor’s sense, according to those who work closely with him, is that the Gandhis are not only indecisive but also unwilling to provide new, and required, organisational impetus to the party. One of the chief symptoms of this, the Kishor camp argues, is the prolonged uncertainty that has attended the leadership question: an ailing Sonia Gandhi is active party boss; Rahul Gandhi has taken no decisive steps towards taking ownership as leader or having an effective leader other than himself or anyone in his family installed. It is moot whether the Trinamul Congress can evolve into India’s new GOP under Mamata, but manoeuvres undertaken in recent weeks and months clearly demonstrate that such ambition has been triggered into action. The wooing of Sushmita Dev from the Congress on the promise that she would be the Trinamul face in Tripura, the acquisition by the party of prominent Goan leaders and the bid for power on unfamiliar territory, and the near open invitation to Congress people of all hues to join the Mamata camp are all indicators that the Kishor project is to ramp up Trinamul from a regional party to a national player. As Mamata herself indicated on Wednesday in Delhi, she will probably begin to reach out to other regional players who could, potentially, become part of a loose Opposition coalition. Over the last few years, Kishor has become a widely networked entity with close links to the Thackerays of Maharashtra and the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, M.K. Stalin and Jagan Mohan Reddy. It is also learnt that Kishor is working the lines with several disgruntled elements within the Congress and several may join Trinamul in the weeks and months to come. That Mamata did not seek an appointment with Sonia on her current trip to Delhi — the two continue to maintain cordial personal relations — is indicative of the truth of soured ties. Mamata is willing to poach on the Congress; the Congress evidently isn’t pleased with the way she is being projected as the emerging national alternative. Kishor isn’t someone who plays with too many cards revealed, but it is increasingly apparent that Mamata is the trump he is playing the political table with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Mamata invites Modi to inaugurate Bengal business summit||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had accepted her invitation to inaugurate Bengal’s business summit in April, stressing the need for the Centre and the state government to work together despite political differences. The Trinamul Congress chief also sought to justify her foray into national politics, saying she was not out to “break” any political party and was offering help to other regional forces to take on the BJP. She mentioned Uttar Pradesh where polls are due next year. A perception has gained ground that Trinamul’s thrust in states where the Congress is the principal challenger to the BJP could end up strengthening Modi and the BJP. On the third day of her visit to Delhi, Mamata met the Prime Minister and raised several issues relating to Bengal, including a demand for withdrawal of the order extending the jurisdiction and powers of the Border Security Force. “I raised another issue, relating to Centre-state relations in a federal structure. I told (the Prime Minister) that political differences would remain. Your party’s ideology is different from ours. But it should not impact Centre-state relations,” the Bengal chief minister said, briefing reporters after meeting Modi. “The Centre will develop only if the states develop. For this, I invited the PM to inaugurate the BBGBS (Biswa Bangla Global Business Summit) in Calcutta in April,” Mamata said. Asked about the Prime Minister’s response, she said: “The PM has accepted my invitation and agreed to inaugurate.” Mamata said the business meet would take place on April 20 and 21 and went on to elaborate how synergy between the Centre and the states was necessary during the pandemic to ensure wider participation at the business summit, which would give a much-needed impetus to industry and generate more jobs. Mamata appeared to be striving to pre-empt any political motives being attributed to her meeting with Modi, with whom she had had an acrimonious battle during the Bengal elections earlier this year. She said the business summit couldn’t take place in the past two years because of Covid and hence the need had arisen for the Centre and the state to join hands and make the upcoming edition a success. Asked about the possibility of a meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Mamata said she had no such plans for this trip and had not sought an appointment. “I have not sought time from anybody. I only sought time from the PM to raise issues concerning my state,” Mamata said. The Trinamul chief said she had not asked to meet Sonia because she knew the Congress leadership was busy with the Punjab polls. “Let them (the Congress) work for their party,” she said. When reporters kept asking her repeatedly about meeting Sonia, stressing that she had met the Congress president and Rahul Gandhi during her earlier visit to Delhi in July, Mamata appeared to lose her cool at one point. “Is there a constitutional provision to meet everyone? I know they are busy with the Punjab polls,” she replied. Mamata was also asked about Trinamul’s expansion efforts outside Bengal, against the backdrop of some present and former Congress leaders joining her party. Mamata stressed that she was not breaking other parties. “We are not breaking any party. If individual leaders want to join us and they feel Trinamul is fighting for the country, they are welcome,” she said, underlining that her party had opened units in Tripura, Goa, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The Trinamul chief said she was ready to extend support to regional parties fighting the BJP. Mamata said she could campaign in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh if invited by Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party. “Trinamul will not fight everywhere. Let regional parties fight. If Trinamul can help defeat the BJP in UP, we will go. If Akhilesh wants our help, we will give,” Mamata said. She said she would travel to Mumbai in November-end to meet Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar. On Tuesday, former Congress leader and Rahul aide Ashok Tanwar, a Dalit leader from Haryana, ex-Congress leader Kirti Azad and sacked JDU politician and one-time Nitish Kumar confidant Pavan Varma had joined Trinamul in Mamata’s presence. Earlier, Congress leaders Sushmita Dev (Assam) and Luizinho Faleiro (Goa) had switched to Trinamul, triggering tensions between the two parties because of a perception that Mamata was looking to emerge as a potential challenger to the BJP at the national level at the cost of the Congress. During her meeting with the Prime Minister, Mamata also lodged a protest against the Centre’s move to widen the jurisdiction of the BSF and said it was an infringement on the state’s powers. She demanded that the notification be withdrawn. “We love the BSF but under the federal structure, law and order is a state subject and should not be tinkered with,” Mamata said. Modi heard the chief minister out patiently but didn’t give any assurances, Mamata said. Ahead of Mamata’s meeting with Modi, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy met her. Later, Swamy, who has been persistently attacking the BJP leadership and government, said he was not joining Trinamul but was with Mamata. “Of all the politicians I have met or worked with, Mamata Banerjee ranks with J.P., Morarji Desai, Rajiv Gandhi, Chandrashekhar and P.V. Narasimha Rao who meant what they said and said what they meant. In Indian politics that is a rare quality,” Swamy tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Congress asks Centre to give Rs 4 lakh to kin of Covid victims||The Congress on Wednesday launched a campaign to press the Narendra Modi government to pay Rs 4 lakh as compensation to the family of each Covid dead, asking why it cannot do so when it can spend thousands of crores on a new aircraft for the Prime Minister and give relief of lakhs of crores to top industrialists. “The Congress has two demands: 1. Reveal the true Covid death numbers. 2. Give the families that have lost a loved one to Covid a compensation of Rs 4 lakh. If you are the government, you have to alleviate the people’s suffering. They should get the compensation,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Accompanying the tweet was a video of conversations with families of Covid victims in BJP-ruled Gujarat, in which they spoke of how they had struggled in vain to get medical help on time and had spent lakhs of rupees trying to save the lives of their loved ones. The videos were filmed during the Nyay Yatra in which Congress workers went door to door to collect data on Covid deaths. “The Gujarat government claims there were only 10,000 deaths. But we have gathered information about three lakh deaths in Gujarat. The Gujarat model is publicised all over. But whoever we talked to, they said they didn’t get hospital admission, oxygen or ventilator support on time. When the government was supposed to help people, it didn’t,” Rahul said. “Now the government says there is no money for compensation. What kind of a government is this? They are giving Rs 50,000 each to 10,000 families. Families of all three lakh victims (in Gujarat) should get compensation,” the Congress leader added. “Lakhs of people died all over India. The Congress demands that the families of all of them get Rs 4 lakh each. Top industrialists were given relief of lakhs of crores during Covid. The government wants to hand over the whole of India to two-three industrialists but the poor won’t get compensation.” The Modi government had told the Supreme Court it could not pay Rs 4 lakh as Covid compensation in response to a petition seeking the sum assured to victims of disaster under the Disaster Management Act. Covid had been declared a disaster, the petition had argued. However, the Centre said it could only pay Rs 50,000 to each famliy. In the video, Rahul said Prime Minister Modi had the resources to buy an aircraft worth Rs 8,500 crore for himself but his government says there is no money to pay compensation to the poor. The Congress also referred to the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project, which the Centre has pressed ahead with despite the pandemic. Rahul on Wednesday appealed to people to join the campaign for compensation by registering on www.4lakhdenahoga.com while promising the families of the Covid dead that the Congress would fight on till the objective had been achieved. The Congress had collected details from the bereaved families during the Nyay Yatra, documenting the chain of events and recording videos. Most people who spoke argued that Rs 50,000 was a pittance given that the families had spent lakhs on treatment and had to carry on with their lives after the death of their breadwinners. The Gujarat Congress runs a website — www.wewillremember.in — on which people can create memorial profiles of Covid victims. The party has collected similar data in other states as well but the Gujarat exercise was the most methodical and elaborate. The party plans to raise the Covid tragedy during the election campaigns in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, two-BJP ruled states that drew national attention for the sufferings of their people. The morbid spectacle of bodies floating down the Ganga and dotting riverbeds in Uttar Pradesh had triggered outrage, and the Gujarat government had attracted repeated judicial rebuke for mismanaging the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Non-profit uncovers social media plot to malign farmers’ protest||A British non-profit that previously uncovered crimes against humanity in Myanmar as well as Chinese propaganda from fake social media handles has now exposed a coordinated plot to link India’s protesting farmers to Khalistanis through inauthentic social media posts. The provocateurs have not been identified but what links the fake handles is propaganda that supports the Indian government’s narrative on the farmer agitation, separatism in Punjab and the glorification of Indian troops. The report titled “Analysis of the #RealSikh Influence Operation”, published online by the Centre for Information Resilience (CIR), found a network of 80 fake social media accounts conducting the propaganda. “In the content produced by the fake network, many of the memes and text are promoting the narrative that the Khalistani movement was ‘trying to hijack the farmers protest’ which is an attempt to delegitimise the farmers movement and shift the debate away from the farmer laws and into what the accounts claim is an issue about ‘terrorism’ and ‘Khalistan’…. “The fake accounts do not show signs of automation, but rather appear to be human-operated, acting as ‘sock puppet’ accounts with the same personas replicated over multiple platforms and repeating the same content,” the report says. The report said there was a “coordinated influence operation” on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram using fake personas acting as influencers within the Sikh community to discredit the farmer movement. In a section titled “Implications for India’s political and social cohesion”, the report says: “Continuation or expansion of the network’s activity therefore risks reducing cohesion within the Sikh community, weakening trust and understanding between India’s different religious communities, and increasing social divisions that could undermine the stability of one of the world’s largest and most diverse democracies. “The network’s advocacy that supporters of Sikh independence are extremist or terrorist, and that Indian nationalists must take action against them, may contribute to an environment in which some actors consider intimidation of, or violence towards, the Sikh community as legitimate.” Several BJP politicians, including ministers, at the Centre and in the states too have described the farmers opposing the three new farm laws as Khalistani terrorists and Maoists backed by Pakistan and China. The Union ministry of home affairs and that of electronics and information technology are yet to respond to queries from this newspaper on whether any action would be taken on the findings. Earlier this year, Twitter had revealed that a quarter of all the requests it received from public authorities to remove content came from India. In the past, similar probes by foreign and Indian groups have put the Indian government under the scanner for allegedly backing disinformation campaigns from inauthentic entities to counter Pakistan and promote its own narrative on world affairs. Campaigns from fake Facebook and Twitter handles were exposed also during the 2019 parliamentary polls. CIR said that Twitter and Meta — which runs Facebook and Instagram — had suspended fake accounts it had reported to them. A Meta spokesperson told The Telegraph: “We removed these accounts for violating our inauthentic behaviour policies. They misled people about the origin and popularity of their content and used fake accounts to spam people and evade our enforcement.” However, neither Meta nor Twitter responded to this newspaper’s question whether the source of the disinformation had been identified. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been leading the farmers’ movement, responded to the revelations saying it was “concerned about the divisive agenda being promoted in this manner, and asks citizens to be extra alert about this virtual strategy to pit citizens against each other”. “The BJP and its supporters have not hesitated to use various strategies to attack the peaceful movement, even as the government went out of its way to suspend and stop the accounts of supporters of the protesting farmers,” the Morcha said. The online campaign seems to have had a degree of success. Ravinder Singh, CEO of Khalsa Aid, an international non-profit that supports victims of natural and man-made disasters, tweeted: “Most of the FAKE accounts are so obvious and yet our own genuine guys join them to attack fellow Sikh activists!!” The CIR added: “The core of the network are accounts positioning themselves as true Sikhs, whilst their content is amplified by accounts self-identifying as Indian nationalists. This suggests the influence operation may be targeting audiences within both Sikh and Hindu communities. The profiles of the fake accounts, their adoption of common Sikh names, their use of similar if not identical spam hashtags and content, and our analysis of their interactions with other Twitter users, suggests their activity is coordinated.” Among the hashtags used were #Khalistanis, #RealSikhsAgainstKhalistan, #SikhsRejectKhalistan and #ShameOnKhalistanis. The fake accounts used several images of Punjabi celebrities and even a Pakistani celebrity. The researchers observed little content in Punjabi. “This may either be due to the targeted audience of the network being non-language specific (using English rather than specifically Punjabi or Hindi), or because the people operating the Sikh influencer accounts are not able to write sufficient text in Punjabi,” they said. Food policy analyst Devinder Sharma tweeted: “Suspending these fake accounts is no solution. They need to be apprehended and punished.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||India’s top educational institutions rise in employability ranking||The world’s perception of the employability of graduates from some of India’s top educational institutions has improved amid the harrowing Covid-era employment scene in the country. Seven Indian institutions figure among the top 250 ranked globally by the London-based agency Times Higher Education (THE), which looked at the employability perception among 10,928 international recruiters from 23 countries. IIT Delhi is the top Indian institution at number 27 — the same as last year — in this year’s Global Employability University Ranking and Survey. The other Indian institutions ranked are the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIM Ahmedabad, Amity University and Bangalore University. A media release from THE said the recruiters placed digital and soft skills and subject specialisation above academic excellence while assessing employability. “Indian universities see clear rise for first time in years due to strengths in subject specialisation and graduate skills,” the release said. The IISc ranks 61 (up from 71 last year), while IIT Bombay ranks 97 (from 128), IIM Ahmedabad 162 (from 184) and IIT Kharagpur 170 (from 195). Amity has improved its position from 236 to 225 while Bangalore University (249) has made it to the top 250 for the first time. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology tops the rankings and the California Institute of Technology is second, in a swap of last year’s positions. Harvard University and Cambridge University have retained their third and fourth positions while Stanford University has risen from seventh to fifth. Several top global institutions trail IIT Delhi. Among them the University of California, Berkeley (32), University of Chicago (33) and the London School of Economics and Political Science (35) are there. The unemployment rate in India was 11.84 per cent in May this year after crossing 20 per cent during lockdown-hit May 2020, according to the private research agency Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. However, would-be employers’ perceptions about graduates from the leading Indian educational institutions have remained largely unaffected. For example, IIT Delhi attracted top firms like Microsoft, Texas Instruments, Bajaj Auto, Isro, Alphonso, Intel, Qualcomm, Barclay, Goldman Sachs, Honeywell, Mastercard, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Tata Steel, Adobe, Quadeye, Oracle, Walmart, American Express, Uber and Accenture during the placement season last December. IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao attributed his institute’s success in the rankings to the students’ “broad outlook” and innovative skills, developed partly by talking to people and trying to solve their problems. “Society connect is a key factor that helps our students broaden their outlook…. (They) have a fair understanding of societal problems and how best they can use their skills to solve (technologically) the problems (such as drinking water),” Rao said. He said IIT Delhi connected with people under the government’s Unnat Bharat Abhiyan scheme for higher education institutions. “Besides, the different (Union) ministries provide projects to IIT Delhi to find technological solutions for various issues. The students get involved in projects too,” Rao said. He said 600 start-ups had come up in IIT Delhi over the past few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Cabinet nod to bill repealing farm laws mere formality: Farmers||Farmer leaders on Wednesday described the Union cabinet approval for a bill repealing the contentious farm laws as “just a formality” and asked the government to resolve their other demands, such as legally guaranteed minimum support prices for crops. They welcomed the cabinet decision but said this was only the farmers’ first victory and that their agitation would go on. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, approved after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that the three laws would be revoked, is to be introduced in the Lok Sabha during the winter session of Parliament, which begins on November 29. “Today’s cabinet approval of a bill repealing the three farm laws, of which the announcement had already been made by Prime Minister Modi, was just a formality,” Shiv Kumar “Kaka” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKM) told PTI. “It is just a process. Now, what we want from the government is to take up our other demands. Ideally, after they finally decided to repeal the laws they should have had another round of talks with us during which we would have discussed the MSP issue as well. This way the government could have gone ahead with both the bills — repealing the farm laws and legalising MSP — simultaneously.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmer bodies that is leading the movement, had on Sunday written to the Prime Minister urging immediate talks on the farmers’ remaining six demands. These include the dismissal and arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage, withdrawal of false cases against farmers, and compensation for farmer deaths during the agitation. The farmers also want withdrawal of an electricity bill and the scrapping of provisions in an anti-pollution law that punish stubble burning. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait tweeted on Wednesday that he would declare victory only when farmers start getting the “right price” for their crops. “This protest will not end yet. We have a meeting on November 27 after which we shall take further decisions,” he posted in Hindi. “Modiji has said the farmers’ income would double from January 1, so we will ask him how it can be done. The farmers’ victory will be ensured when they get the right price for their crops.” Another farmer leader, Kavita Kuruganti, termed the Union cabinet nod a “logical step” in the process of tabling the bill that she said “doesn’t hold any more significance than what they have already stated on November 19” — the day Modi announced repeal of the three laws. “We will wait for the other demands to be addressed,” Kuruganti, a Morcha member, said. However, farmer leader and Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sabha representative Abhimanyu Kohar said the cabinet approval for the repeal of the three laws marked a “big day” since it made the government decision “official”. ”This is a welcome step, and a big day for not only our movement but for democracy as well. Because, don’t forget this was a fight for democratic rights as well,” he said. “Our victory gives the stamp of approval to the Gandhian way of non-violent movement where people from every caste, creed, sex and religion participated. That said, our stand is clear and we’ll continue fighting till all our demands are met.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||SC asks Centre, states to continue with measures to curb pollution||The Supreme Court on Wednesday chided the Centre, Delhi and the NCR states for resorting to ad hoc measures to tackle pollution and asked bureaucrats to work out a permanent solution by interacting with scientists and farmers. “As a government lawyer and we judges are discussing this, what is the bureaucracy doing? Why don’t they go to the field, talk to farmers and scientists and take a decision?” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during a hearing. The bench, also comprising Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice Surya Kant, said though pollution levels in the Delhi-NCR regions of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan reached alarming levels every winter, the authorities never bothered to take pre-emptive measures. The bench said the statutory commission set up by the Centre last year to deal with the pollution crisis should conduct a scientific study. “We take measures when the weather becomes severe. These measures have to be taken in anticipation….” Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||BJP workers hurl eggs at Odisha chief minister's convoy||Eggs were hurled at Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s carcade on Wednesday while he was returning from Puri after attending the foundation stone laying ceremony of the ambitious Shree Mandira Parikrama project. The project is aimed at developing a heritage corridor around the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple. Patnaik’s convoy was pelted with eggs by BJP workers at the Medical Square in Puri, as they were protesting against the chief minister’s refusal to act against minister of state for home, Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is facing allegations of trying to shield the main accused in the murder of Kalahandi teacher Mamita Meher. Police detained several BJP workers who also tried to show black flags to Patnaik. Saffron party activists staged a dharna in front of Kumbharpada police station, seeking release of detained party activists. The foundation stone for the project in the pilgrim city was laid by Gajpati Dibya Singh Deb, scion of the Puri royal family, in the presence of the chief minister. Apart from having religious significance, the project is also seen as politically important since the Shree Jagannath culture is deeply connected with the Odia psyche and no government can afford to ignore the shrine. The heritage corridor project envisages development in around the 75-metre radius of the Shree Jagannath temple. It aims at developing mutts, restructuring the age-old amenities for devotees, a reception centre and integrated command and control centre for enhancing the security system around the shrine. A lodging system for around 6,000 devotees will also be developed. Inaugurating the project, Patnaik said, “It’s indeed a historic day for the Jagannath bhakts from all over the world. And indeed a sacred day for people of Odisha.” The project is a part of the Augmentation of Basic Amenities and Development of Heritage and Architecture (ABADHA) scheme   which aims to promote Puri as a world-class heritage city. In order to acquire enough land for the project, the state government has bought land from 115 temple servitors. It is one of those rare projects whose inauguration drew all political parties. No party wanted to stay away from the event, as that would have sent a wrong message. The temple is the spiritual nerve centre of Odisha and lord Jagannath the identity of Odia culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
25-11-2021||India||Lalu Prasad inaugurates stone lantern at RJD office||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad inaugurates a stone lantern at the party headquarters in Patna on Wednesday. The lantern is the election symbol of the RJD. At the programme, Lalu said: “The RJD is the largest party in Bihar and it will certainly come to power in the state. We will keep fighting against oppression and injustice. We will destroy the illusion created by chief minister Nitish Kumar.” The former chief minister and Union minister pointed out that a hurricane lantern was the symbol of light that is not extinguished in storms. It will show the way to the poor and the downtrodden, Lalu said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
25-11-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: 3 ‘militants’ killed in encounter in Srinagar||Three suspected militants were shot dead by security forces in a crowded locality near Srinagar’s city centre on Wednesday, triggering protests in the area. Police said the three were killed in a brief shootout in Rambagh, around 1km from the city centre. The place is 3km from Hyderpora where a controversial gunfight last week killed two businessmen and an office assistant, the reason Wednesday’s killings at Rambagh sparked outrage and claims that this trio too were innocent civilians. The police, however, said the three were militants. “Police #neutralised 03 #terrorists in #Srinagar. Identification & affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained. Further details shall follow,” Jammu and Kashmir police tweeted. Eyewitnesses said the police stopped a vehicle, dragged its occupants out and shot them. They said that while two of them died instantly, another was shot again and killed when he tried to escape after being hit by a bullet in the leg. As the three bodies lay motionless on the busy road, some residents rushed to wash away the blood. Multiple videos of the incident showed angry women shouting slogans against the police. They claimed that the three were not carrying any weapons. “My son is three years old. Am I raising him so that one day he becomes the casualty of a gunfight while going somewhere?” a woman cried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
25-11-2021||India||SC notice to Centre, IITs on quota ‘flout’ in faculty recruitments||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre and the 23 IITs on a petition alleging that these institutions were not offering reservation to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes while recruiting teachers or admitting research students. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, B.R. Gavai and B. Nagarathna, however, made it clear that it was seeking a response only on the limited issue of non-implementation of the quota policy, and not on the claim of the petitioner that a large number of IIT students had committed suicide because of harassment and his demand that the performance of faculty members be evaluated and non-performers sacked. The petition has been filed by Dr Sachchidanand Pandey a geothermal energy researcher. In his petition filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, Pandey has alleged that the process followed by the country’s 23 IITs to admit candidates to research programmes and appoint teachers is “completely unconstitutional, illegal and arbitrary. The Respondents 2-24 are not following the guidelines of reservation as per the constitutional mandate.” These IITs are also not following a transparent recruitment process, which opens up opportunities for non-deserving candidates to join the premier tech schools by exerting influence, the petitioner alleged. Such an appointment process increases the chances of corruption, favouritism and discrimination and has a telling effect on the institutions’ rankings and technological growth and is one of the reasons for the country’s technological backwardness, Pandey alleged. According to the petitioner, the Union government had on June 9, 2008, written letters to the directors of the IITs of Kharagpur, Madras, Bombay, Kanpur, Roorkee and Guwahati, asking them to implement reservation for SCs, STs and OBCs while recruiting assistant professors for science and technology courses and all ranks of teachers for the humanities and management streams. In November 2019, the Centre extended the quota benefits to all posts in all disciplines. However, the IITs have been violating the quota policy that provides for 15 per cent reservation for SCs, 7.5 per cent for STs and 27 per cent for OBCs, the petition alleged. Pandey claimed that the IITs in Madras, Bombay, Gandhinagar, Tirupati, Dhanbad, Kharagpur, Kanpur, Roorkee, Guwahati, Hyderabad and Bhubaneswar had only 68 SC, 10 ST and 194 OBC teachers among a cumulative faculty strength of 3,581, while the remaining were general candidates. He also submitted that the number of faculty members from north Indian states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh is low compared to their overall population. Pandey claimed that the information he has submitted in court was based on replies to his RTI queries. “…The RTI replies received by the petitioner from the respondents (the respective IITs) itself shows that the percentages of faculty belonging to the abovementioned states are around 4.91 per cent, 7.92 per cent and 27.65 per cent in IIT Tirupati, IIT Madras and IIT Gandhinagar, respectively,” the petition said. The percentage at IIT Kharagpur is 13.77, according to the petition. “The remaining IITs didn’t provide the state and category-wise data requested by the petitioner in his RTI application,” Pandey said. Alleging opacity in the recruitment process, Pandey said in the petition: “…The Respondents No. 2-24 have never exposed about the standards set by the IITs for recruiting its faculty members….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
25-11-2021||India||Hate campaign launched against halal food in Kerala||Hindu and Christian Right-wing groups have launched a vitriolic communal campaign against halal food in Kerala, making unsubstantiated claims on the hygiene standards and besmirching the state’s long-cherished syncretic culture. The campaign that started with a trickle on social media platforms have since become a raging controversy in the state where even halal jaggery sourced to make prasadam at the Sabarimala temple has become the subject of a court case. Kerala BJP president K. Surendran went as far as to allege that the halal food culture in the state was “part of a larger agenda”, while a purportedly Christian group called Soldiers of Cross has been campaigning through its Facebook page against anything halal. The group has been posting lists of non-halal restaurants, claiming they serve food sans “spit and mucus” — implying that edibles are made halal by spitting into them. Kerala BJP general secretary P. Sudhir equated halal food with “a social evil like (instant) triple talaq” and sought a ban on halal boards outside restaurants. The apparent trigger for the campaign was a video that showed a qazi blowing into freshly cooked rice. The video was circulated widely on social media with the claim that he was spitting on the rice. But fact-check portal altnews.in debunked the claim and said it was a religious ritual wherein the Sunni scholar, Fazal Koyamma Thangal, had recited Quranic verses before blowing — and not spitting — into the rice later served to attendees of an event in memory of his father in Kerala. The Kerala Hotels and Restaurants Association has written to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking the state government’s intervention to stop the hate campaign. The chief minister’s office has forwarded the complaint to the director-general of police. The general secretary of the KHRA, G. Jayapal, told The Telegraph on Wednesday: “Food is something that should ideally unite the people instead of dividing them. We will not tolerate this kind of communal campaign.” “We do buy halal meat from our suppliers. What is wrong with that? Halal food doesn’t hurt us at all, but this kind of hate campaign does,” Jayapal added. The hugely popular non-vegetarian restaurant chain Calicut Paragon based in Kozhikode has got caught in a counter-campaign by some Muslim groups. “We were called sanghis although the meat we source is indeed halal,” managing director of the chain, Sumesh Govind, told this newspaper. “The counter-propaganda started after Soldiers of Cross listed us among non-halal restaurants. But none of this has affected our business,” said Govind, who has lodged a police complaint. Syed Mohammed Imran, head of operations at Halal India Private Ltd, a Chennai-based company that helps manufacturers get halal certification, said: “Halal means hygienic, non-toxic and ethical for mankind to consume…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
25-11-2021||India||Heavy discounts threaten existence of traditional shop salesmen||For eight straight days, household goods salesman Vipresh Shah has failed to sell a single pack of Dettol soap to the storekeepers who have been buying from him ever since he took over his family business as a teenager, 14 years ago. Shah is an official distributor for Britain’s Reckitt Benckiser in Vita, near Sangli city, around 320km south of Mumbai. But he said once-loyal customers now point to an app — JioMart Partner —on their smartphones showing prices up to 15 per cent lower, instead of placing orders. “As Reckitt’s distributor, I used to be like a prince in the market,” said Shah. “Now the buyer tells me, ‘See how much you’ve been ripping us off!’” The 31-year-old said he lost $2,000 (Rs 1,48,919) of his own money as he discounted products to match prices on JioMart, the app rolled out by Reliance Industries billionaire Mukesh Ambani in his drive to revolutionise retail distribution in India. Up and down India in places like small town Vita, the mom-and-pop stores that account for four-fifths of a near $900 billion retail market — more than $700 billion — are increasingly turning to JioMart to stock up on foreign and domestic brands. Just as Ambani has disrupted the country’s telecom industry, the tycoon is intent on shaking up retail distribution, taking on US e-commerce giants like Amazon and Walmart Inc, expanding fast in India. The country has around 4,50,000 traditional distributors, who have legions of salespeople to service every corner of the vast nation, including 600,000 villages. They typically earn a margin of 3 to 5 per cent on product prices and mostly take orders physically once a week, making deliveries to retailers within a couple of days. But Reliance’s model throws a wrench in that supply chain: the mom-and-pop stores, known as kiranas, can order goods on JioMart Partner with deliveries promised within 24 hours. Reliance also offers training on ordering, credit facilities and free product samples for affiliated kiranas’ customers. That means hundreds of thousands of salesmen representing consumer giants like Reckitt, Unilever and Colgate-Palmolive, face an existential threat to their business, according to interviews with salespeople, 20 distributors and a trader group with members across India. Many of the distributors contacted by Reuters said they had slashed their workforce or vehicle fleet, seeing their sales from door-to-door agents drop 20 to 25 per cent in the last year as shopkeepers partner with Reliance. In Vita, salesman Shah said he had had to lay off half of his staff of four. He fears the 50-year-old family firm might not last beyond the next six months. The scale and speed of the disruption have triggered tensions between traditional distributors and Reliance that have boiled over into physical confrontation in some cases. In Maharashtra — home to Vita — and Tamil Nadu, traditional salesmen have organised blockades of some JioMart delivery vehicles. “We will employ guerrilla tactics,” said Dhairyashil Patil, president of the All India Consumer Products Distributors Federation, which represents 400,000 agents of local and foreign consumer firms. “We will continue to agitate,” he told Reuters, “we want (consumer goods) companies to realise our value”. Reliance remains undeterred in pushing ahead with Ambani’s “new commerce” retail venture, first announced in 2018. Last year it raised funds from marquee investors, including Silver Lake Partners and KKR and Co Inc, as it seeks to integrate mom-and-pop stores in what it has touted as a more inclusive approach to digital commerce. That push is widely seen countering the likes of Amazon, which have for years faced — and denied — claims in India of favouring select big sellers at the expense of smaller retailers. A source close to Reliance said the company was determined to keep expanding its business for mom-and-pop stores. It believes its model can co-exist alongside the traditional approach in one of the world’s biggest retail markets, the person said, declining to be identified because of lack of authority to disclose company plans. Ambani in 2018 said he eventually wanted to connect 30 million small merchants to the Reliance network. So far, it has 3,00,000 merchant partners in 150 cities who order consumer goods from Reliance, but the transformation will be magnified many times over if it meets a target of adding 10 million partner stores by 2024. Reliance did not respond to requests for comment for this article. Colgate declined to comment, while Reckitt said its customers and distributors were an integral part of its business but it does not comment on its relationship with them. Unilever’s India arm, Hindustan Unilever, did not respond to a request for comment. The traditional distribution methods remain important to the consumer goods makers, even amid the disruption, industry watchers say. Himanshu Bajaj, former Asia consumer and retail head at consulting firm Kearney, said CEOs of consumer firms he met in September raised concerns about Reliance’s strategy upsetting the traditional distribution chain. “The companies don’t want to kill their own distributors. The worry is real,” he said. Asked about Reliance’s model and concerns among distributors, Sunil D’Souza, CEO of Tata Consumer Products, told Reuters in an interview last month it “can’t afford to sit back and ignore” any major distribution channel, but Tata was trying to minimise conflict and strike a balance. Jefferies in March estimated kiranas will “steadily increase the share of procurement” from Reliance “at the cost of traditional distributors”. Such sales for Reliance could mushroom to $10.4 billion by 2025 from just $200 million in 2021-22, Jefferies estimates. One executive who works for a rival to Reliance said Ambani “was spreading his wings very fast” in servicing kiranas and already has an edge on negotiating prices, due to long-standing relationships with consumer goods makers which have for years counted Reliance and its 1,100 supermarkets as a big client. With kirana partners, Ambani is adding another, major vertical. “Brands cannot afford to sideline Reliance, it’s just their sheer purchasing power,” said the executive, who declined to be identified as he wasn’t authorised to speak with the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
