26-11-2021||India||India, Russia, China call for 'truly inclusive' govt In Afghanistan||In a significant move, India, Russia and China on Friday called for ensuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used to attack any country, pitched for the formation of a "truly inclusive" government and pressed for immediate and unhindered humanitarian assistance to the war-torn country. The foreign ministers of the three countries, at a virtual meeting held under the Russia-India-China (RIC) framework, also reaffirmed their support for the basic principle of an "Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process. The ministers stressed the necessity of "urgent elimination" of UN Security Council proscribed terrorist groups such as al Qaeda, ISIL and others for lasting peace in Afghanistan and the region, the joint communique said. The meeting was chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and was attended by his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. The communique issued after the talks said the ministers called for the formation of a truly inclusive government that represents all the major ethnic and political groups of the country and emphasised on the central role of the UN in that country. "They stressed the necessity of urgent elimination of UN Security Council proscribed terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda, ISIL and others for lasting peace in Afghanistan and the region," it said. The ministers acknowledged the widespread and sincere demand of the Afghan people for lasting peace. "They reaffirmed the importance of ensuring that the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any other country and that no Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any other country," it added. Expressing concerns regarding dramatic change of the situation in Afghanistan, the ministers advocated a peaceful, secure, united, sovereign, stable and prosperous inclusive Afghanistan that exists in harmony with its neighbours. "They called on the Taliban to take actions in accordance with the results of all the recently held international and regional formats of interaction on Afghanistan, including the UN Resolutions on Afghanistan," the communique said. "Expressing concern over the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the Ministers called for immediate and unhindered humanitarian assistance to be provided to Afghanistan. The Ministers also emphasised the central role of UN in Afghanistan," it said. The communique said the foreign ministers of China and Russia reiterated the importance they attached to the status of India in international affairs and supported its aspiration to play a greater role in the United Nations. The foreign ministers of Russia and China congratulated India for its successful Presidency of the UNSC in August. The three countries also decided to step up efforts in jointly countering terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and trans-border organised crime under the framework of SCO-Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure. Mr Jaishankar, Mr Wang and Mr Lavrov also condemned terrorism in all its manifestations and said that it must be comprehensively countered to achieve a world free of terrorism. They called on the international community to strengthen UN-led global counter-terrorism cooperation by fully implementing the relevant UN Security Council (UNSC) resolutions. In this context, they called for the early adoption of the UN Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism. "The ministers stressed that those committing, orchestrating, inciting or supporting, financing terrorist acts must be held accountable and brought to justice in accordance with existing international commitments on countering terrorism," the communique said. It said terrorists must be brought to justice under relevant UN Security Council resolutions and the FATF standards, international treaties, including on the basis of the principle "extradite or prosecute". The RIC foreign ministers also expressed strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||Tomatoes may get cheaper from Dec with fresh crop arrival: Govt||All India average retail tomato price, which has shot up by 63 per cent to ₹ 67 per kg over the last year due to unseasonal rains, are likely to soften from December with the arrival of fresh crop from northern states, the government said on Friday. In the case of onions, retail prices have substantially subsided below to the level that prevailed in 2020 and also 2019, it said. "Tomato arrivals from north Indian states will start from the beginning of December itself, which will add to availability and lead to fall in prices. In December, arrival is expected to be at par with last year," the Food and Consumer Affairs Ministry said in a statement. Arrivals in November this year were only 19.62 lakh tonne compared to 21.32 lakh tonne in the year-ago period, it said. Explaining the reasons for the spike in tomato prices, the ministry said retail tomato prices have risen from September-end due to unseasonal rains in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh which led to crop damage and delay in arrival from these states. Delayed arrivals from north Indian states was followed by heavy rains in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, which disrupted the supply and also resulted in crop damage, it said in a statement. Stating that tomato price is highly volatile, the ministry said any slight disruptions in supply chain or damage due to heavy rains results in spurt in prices. Conversely, bulk arrival and logistics problems have the potential of creating a situation of glut in the market and resultant dip in retail prices, it said. As on November 25, the all-India average price of tomato was ₹ 67 per kg, which is 63 per cent higher than that of last year. As per the Agriculture Ministry, kharif (summer) production of tomato in the current year is at 69.52 lakh tonne as against 70.12 lakh tonne produced last year, it added. However, in case of onions, the ministry said prices have substantially subsided and the level is below that of the retail prices in 2020 and also 2019. On November 25, all-India average retail price of onion was ₹ 39 per kg which is 32 per cent lower than that of the last year. The ministry said it released buffer onion stock of 2.08 lakh tonne built under the Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF) in a calibrated and targeted manner to states and cities where prices were increasing over the previous month and also to such markets like Lasalgaon and Pimpalgaon to augment the availability. Further, states have been offered onion at ₹ 21 per kg ex-storage locations. Nagaland and Andhra Pradesh have taken onion from the buffer. The government's Mother Dairy Safal units have also been supplied onion at ₹ 26 per kg inclusive of transportation cost. "The aggressive releases of onion from the buffer have contributed to stability in prices," the ministry said. The kharif and late kharif production of onion is estimated at a robust 69 lakh tonne. Kharif onion has already started arriving in the market. Retail tomato price on Friday shot up to ₹ 75 per kilogram in the national capital while the rates in some parts of South India softened but were still high, according to government data. In Chennai, retail tomato price declined to ₹ 63 per kg on Friday from the peak of ₹ 100 per kg on November 22. Similarly, in Thiruvananthapuram, the price dropped to ₹ 80 per kg from ₹ 103 per kg in the same period, the data maintained by the Consumer Affairs Ministry showed. On Friday, in Puducherry, tomato price declined to ₹ 45 per kg from ₹ 100 per kg on November 22. However, in Hyderabad, the price softened to ₹ 72 per kg from ₹ 90 per kg that prevailed during two days. In Bengaluru, tomato price in retail markets continued to rule high at ₹ 88 per kg. At Port Blair, the price jumped to ₹ 143 per kg on Friday from ₹ 113 per kg on November 22. According to the data, the retail tomato price in the national capital increased to ₹ 75 per kg on Friday from ₹ 63 per kg on November 22. However, retail prices of onion and potato in Delhi showed signs of softening. Retail onion prices were ruling at ₹ 35 per kg and potato at ₹ 20 per kg. The average all India maximum retail price of tomato rose to ₹ 143 per kg on Friday from ₹ 113 per kg on November 22 while all India modal price was ruling at ₹ 60 per kg as against ₹ 67.5 per kg in the same period, as per the government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||BJP to form govt in Maharashtra in March, claims Narayan Rane||Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday claimed that the BJP will form government in Maharashtra in March.  Rane's statement came on a day when state BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil as well as NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his party colleague Praful Patel were in the national capital, sparking speculation.  Incidentally, the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete two years on Saturday.  Fadnavis met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi, sources said.  Speaking to reporters in Jaipur, Rane said, "BJP will form government in Maharashtra in March." Asked to elaborate, he said toppling and forming governments is done in secrecy and it can not be discussed in public.  ''State (BJP) president Chandrakant Patil has spoken about this and I hope it comes true,'' Rane said.  Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole told reporters in Nagpur that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government will complete its full term.  "BJP keeps making big predictions and they don't come true....Nobody believes BJP,'' he said.  Sources in the BJP and NCP played down the significance of the visits of their respective leaders to the national capital at the same time. Fadnavis and Patil were in Delhi to discuss "organizational matters" with the central leadership, said a BJP leader.  Pawar traveled to Delhi to attend a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on defense and his schedule had been planned a week ago, an NCP source said. The MVA government was formed in November 2019, after Assembly elections, as the Shiv Sena walked out of its decades-old alliance with the BJP over the issue of sharing the chief minister's post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||Russian President Putin to visit India on Dec 6 for summit with PM||Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit India on December 6 to hold annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during which they will review the status of bilateral ties and discuss regional, multilateral and international issues of mutual interest, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday.  The MEA also announced that the first '2+2' foreign and defence ministerial dialogue between India and Russia will be held in here on December 6 as well.  The Modi-Putin summit is expected to produce specific outcomes in further expanding ties in areas of defence, trade and energy, officials said.  It is learnt that the two sides are going to firm up a number of agreements in the areas of defence, trade and investment, and science and technology at the summit.  "President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin will pay an official visit to New Delhi on December 6 for the 21st India-Russia annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi," MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing.  It will be the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after their talks on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Brasilia in November 2019.  There have been six telephonic conversations between the two leaders since November 2019, to date apart from virtual meetings for multilateral summits.  The last India-Russia annual summit was held in September 2019 during the visit of Modi to Vladivostok. The annual summit could not take place last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  "The leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries," Bagchi said.  "The summit will also afford an opportunity to exchange views on regional, multilateral and international issues of mutual interest," he said  He said the visit will provide further impetus to the India-Russia special and privileged strategic partnership.  On the '2+2' dialogue, Bagchi said Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu will be visiting India from December 5 to 6.  "The 2+2 Dialogue is being held pursuant to the agreement reached between Prime Minister Modi and Russian President Putin during their telephonic conversation on 28 April. The agenda for the dialogue will cover political and defence issues of mutual interest," he said.  Lavrov and Shoigu will hold the talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.  "The establishment of a new mechanism of 2+2 dialogue is expected to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries," Bagchi said.  So far India has the '2+2' ministerial format of dialogue with the US, Japan and Australia.  A framework for military-technical cooperation is set to be renewed for the next decade at the summit besides announcing a joint commission on technology and science.  India and Russia have also reached the final phase of negotiation for a logistics support agreement and it is likely to be signed either during the two-plus-two talks or at the summit.  The pact will allow militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies, besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation.  Russia has been a time-tested partner for India and the country has been a key pillar of New Delhi's foreign policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||India's growth story being disrupted by forces with colonial mindset, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said India's growth story is being disrupted by forces with a colonial mindset, including in the name of freedom of expression.  Addressing a Constitution Day event organised by the Supreme Court, he said a colonial mindset still exists, years after the end to colonialism, and these forces are putting obstacles in the path of growth of the developing nations.  "We are the only country that is in the process of achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement ahead of time and yet, in the name of environment, various pressures are being created on India. All this is the result of a colonial mindset," the prime minister said.  "But the unfortunate thing is that in our country too, due to such a mindset, obstacles are being put in the path of development, sometimes in the name of freedom of expression and sometimes with the help of something else," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||Laddoo, bhangra, blood donation mark farm law protest anniversary at Singhu border||Tractors bedecked with lights and posters rolled through the Singhu border protest site and loud Punjabi and Haryanvi celebratory music filled in the air on Friday as farmers marked one year of the protest against the three farm laws the government is set to withdraw formally.  Farmers flaunting colourful turbans, sunshades, long beards and twirling moustaches danced on the roofs of tractors, distributed sweets and hugged each other to mark the occasion that seemed like a festival.  Thousands of them flocked to the site over the last few days, buoyed by the government announcement to repeal the farms laws, to mark the completion of one year of a dogged protest that saw a long dusty patch of the Delhi-Karnal road between Delhi and Sonepat turned into a makeshift town with bamboo huts and all basic amenities one could think of.  Children and elderly, men and women, carried flags of their farmer unions and raised slogans of victory "Inquilab Zindabad" and "Majdoor Kisan Ekta Zindabad" amid passionate non-stop beating of drums.  The assembly area near the centrestage saw a large gathering like the early days of the protest.  The attendees included businessmen, professionals, lawyers, teachers, among others, belonging to families of farmers.  Sarender Singh, 50, from Pataila spent six months at the protest site managing crowd near the centrestage.  "It is a special day. It is like a festival being celebrated. It is after long that such a large number of people have gathered here. We also have Punjabi singer Babbu Mann among us," he said.  The special day also called for a special breakfast.  "Aaj jalebi, pakode, kheer and chole poori bane hai!!" Sarender said enthusiastically.  On Friday morning, farmers held special prayers to pay tributes to those who died during the course of the protest.  A notice board outside a tent served as a grim reminder of the sacrifices made during the protest. "732 people have died in the last one year," it read.  Lakhan Singh, 45, from Barnala in Punjab was protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border when he lost his father early this year.  "It would have better had he been here today. But I know his soul will be at peace now," he said.  Bhagwan Singh, 43, from Mavi village in Patiala lost his friend Najar Singh, 35, in the seventh month of the protest and burst into tears remembering him.  "My friend, the sole breadwinner of his family, left behind three small daughters and elderly parents. We miss him," he said.  Farmers remembered how they walked and cycled for days to reach the site of the protest a year ago and kept the fire burning despite the government "trying to scuttle the movement".  Kirpal Singh, 57, who reached the Singhu border in December last year, showed an injury mark on his right leg which he got from police baton.  "Batons, barricades, treats, nails ... nothing could stop us, we won!" he said.  Harpreet Kaur, 45, and her husband brought their specially-abled son to Singhu border in a wheelchair.  "He has been here twice. We could have left him with his grandparents, but it would not have been the right thing. He cannot convey his feelings in words, but I know he is happy," Kaur from Ludhiana said.  On loudspeakers, farmer leaders and activists could be heard asking people not to slacken.  Near the centrestage, a group of farmers celebrated the farm law protest anniversary by donating blood.  Sukhdev Bhullar, 42, from Anantpur Sahib said farmers have nourished the protest with their blood. "My blood is a tribute to all of them," he said.  "Celebrate the win but do not get carried away with it. We won't move an inch until all our demands are met," farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said, reiterating the demand for legislation for MSP law and compensation to families of the 732 farmers.  Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadhuni said more than 700 people would have been alive here had Prime Minister Narendra Modi rescinded the farm laws earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||Why plea not filed against blanket bail to ex-DGP Saini: Sidhu's poser to Punjab govt||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu once again on Friday questioned his party's government in the state, asking why it has not filed in the apex court a plea against the blanket bail to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. He also took a swipe at his predecessor Sunil Jakhar, saying he also did not raise the issue, prompting the former Punjab Congress chief to reply in a sarcastic tweet. Saini is an accused in a case involving alleged police firing on people protesting the desecration of a religious text in Punjab's Faridkot in 2015. Speaking to reporters in Amritsar, Sidhu questioned the government over the steps taken for justice in desecration cases and making the STF report on drug issue public. "I keep giving reminders on a regular basis. What is my interest. Yesterday, I said this from stage (in Moga). The earlier president keeps tweeting but did he ever raise these issues, Sidhu asked taking a swipe at Jakhar. Jakhar responded with a couplet, which means the "idol" is calling him an "infidel". Sidhu said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed that the probe into the Kotkapura police firing incident should be completed, preferably within six months, which have passed. "Why a special leave petition has not been filed against the blanket bail given to Saini, one of the accused in the police firing incidents," he asked. "If that accused has got a blanket bail then how will the investigation complete," he questioned. "Everyone including me asks what is the government's intent. If Saini got a blanket bail, did you file a SLP. On September 10, he got a blanket bail, was the SLP filed against it," he asked questioning his party's government. On the special task force report on drugs, he asked the state government who stopped it from making it public. He asserted that he appreciated when any good work is done by the state government. Replying to a question, Sidhu said there was good coordination between the party unit and the state government, though he added he will keep raising public issues. Sidhu said he had talked about reduction in power, fuel and sand prices, which have now been lowered. The High Court in April had quashed the probe by a Punjab Police SIT into the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident. The court had quashed the probe by the SIT headed by the then IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. He later took premature retirement. Following the order, a new special investigation team was formed on May 7 this year. The new SIT was led by Additional Director General of Police L K Yadav. The state had witnessed incidents related to the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing on people protesting over the issue in Faridkot in 2015. One incident of police firing had taken place at Kotkapura and second one at Behbal Kalan in Faridkot||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to address Congress rally against price rise, inflation on Dec 12||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will address a public rally here on December 12 as part of her party's drive against price rise and inflation.  The Congress president and the party have decided to draw the country's attention to price rise and inflation' by holding a massive "Mehngai Hatao rally" in Delhi on December 12, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said.  The rally will be addressed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders from across the country.  "It will give a decisive warning to the present Modi Government to stop its loot and reduce the backbreaking prices. We shall continue our struggle until the Modi Government backs down," he said in a statement.  The Congress leader said "Modi and 'Mehngai' have become the bane of people's lives" and the unprecedented price rise and inflation have demolished the earnings, the household income and budget of every family in the country.  He said the people of India are suffering unbearable cruelty and untold misery on account of the BJP government-driven price rise and inflation.  The budget of every household bleeds, even minimum nutrition suffers and people are finding it difficult to buy and consume day-to-day food articles as also other consumables, he alleged.  "The Modi government remains oblivious to this insurmountable pain and suffering of people. Backed by a section of the electronic media, the only solution offered by Modi government is a divisive religious discourse or sporadic diversionary statements to reset the agenda from fundamental issues affecting the lives of the people," he said in the statement.  The Congress has been protesting on the issue of price rise and inflation and have called for a check on them.  The Congress leader said the real issues affecting the people of India are the backbreaking prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, which have had a spiralling effect on the prices of all foods and other consumable items.  He said every home is affected by the merciless rise in prices of cooking oil, pulses and other food items and it is perhaps for the first time, price of tomato has surpassed the price of petrol and diesel in India.  He also alleged that price of construction material such as cement, iron and steel has seen a rise of nearly 40 per cent to 50 per cent.  "Everything is gradually going out of the reach of the common man. Modi government either remains indifferent to the woes and agony of ordinary Indian or mocks it on other occasions," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||All MPs, from ruling party or Opposition, defenders of dignity of Parliament: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said all MPs, whether representing the ruling party or the Opposition, are defenders of the dignity of Parliament and competition should not be confused with rivalry. Addressing the Constitution Day celebrations here, he said there may be differences of opinion but no difference should be so great as to hinder the real purpose of public service. "The Opposition is, in fact, the most important element of democracy," he said. "Without an effective Opposition, democracy becomes ineffective. It is expected that the government and the Opposition, despite their differences, continue to work together in the best interests of the citizens. Our constitution makers had envisioned this and it is also necessary for nation-building," he said. Kovind said it is natural for members of the ruling party and the Opposition to compete but this competition should be about being better representatives and doing better things for the public good. "Only then will it be considered healthy competition," he said, adding that the competition in Parliament should not be confused with rivalry. "We all believe that our Parliament is a 'Temple of Democracy'. Therefore, it becomes the responsibility of every parliamentarian to conduct themselves in this temple of democracy with the same spirit of reverence with which they do in their places of worship," Kovind said. "All Members of Parliament are defenders of the dignity of the Parliament, whether they represent the ruling party or the opposition," he said at the event organised by the Indian Parliamentary Group in the Central Hall of Parliament House. He said elected representatives of the Gram Sabha, the Vidhan Sabha and the Parliament should have only one priority. That singular priority lies in working for the welfare of all the people of their constituencies and for the interest of the nation, Kovind was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Kovind said that if MPs look at their responsibility as an extension of the ideals of the freedom struggle, they would remain mindful of their duty towards strengthening the legacy of the framers of the Constitution. If they realise that they are occupying the places where once our constitution makers used to sit, they would naturally feel a deep sense of history and sense of duty, Kovind said. Speaking about the release of the digital version of the debates, the calligraphed version of the Constitution and the updated version of the Constitution as well as the launch of online quiz on constitutional democracy, Kovind said in the Constituent Assembly debates we get glimpses of the greatness of human thought and consciousness channelled for nation building. "With the digital version of the debates made available, people in the country as well as in the whole world, especially the younger generation, would get to know about the greatness and potential of India and would also get guidance for the future," he said. "In the calligraphed version of the Constitution, people would get to see the finest examples of the excellence of our art, culture and ideals contained in our history and legend. And with the updated version of the Constitution, citizens, especially students would get knowledge about the journey of our constitutional progress so far," he said. "The initiative to conduct an online quiz on the subject of constitutional democracy would be very effective in promoting constitutional values among our citizens, especially the younger generation, the statement said. Kovind said, "We have recently observed the year-long 150th birth anniversary celebrations of the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi. We are now celebrating the 75th anniversary of our Independence. It is a matter of happiness for all of us that people from all over the country are actively participating in various programs organised as part of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. It is evident from the enthusiasm of ordinary citizens that they carry within their hearts deep respect for those known and unknown freedom fighters whose sacrifices made it possible for us to breathe the air of freedom."  He urged all to rededicate themselves to follow those great national ideals in our daily lives. Kovind said that by following these ideals, we would further enhance our stature on the world stage and would be equipped to face any challenge effectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
26-11-2021||India||India to resume scheduled international flights from Dec 15||Scheduled international flights to and from India will be resumed from December 15, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Friday.  Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year. However, special passenger flights have been operating since July last year under air bubble arrangements with around 28 countries.  The Civil Aviation Ministry wrote a letter to aviation regulator DGCA asking it to take "further necessary action" for the resumption of scheduled international flights.  "The matter of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services to and from India has been examined in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and it has been decided that scheduled commercial international passenger services to and from India may be resumed from December 15, 2021.  "Resumption of commercial international passenger services would imply reversion to bilaterally agreed capacity entitlements and termination of air bubble arrangements," the Civil Aviation Ministry said.  If a country wants to operate scheduled passenger flights to another nation, a bilateral air services agreement has to be negotiated to decide how many airlines, ports of entries and total flights (or seats) weekly can be allowed between the two.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) issued a formal notification about the resumption of scheduled international passenger flights after the receipt of the Aviation Ministry's letter.  The countries that the Health Ministry has identified as not "at-risk" of COVID-19 will get "full capacity entitlements according to the bilateral air service agreements", the Aviation Ministry noted.  In a circular on Friday, the Health Ministry has put countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom, and South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel under the 'at-risk' category.  The Aviation Ministry said if a country has been identified to be "at-risk" of COVID-19 and has an air bubble agreement with India, then "75 per cent of pre-COVID scheduled international flight operations of Indian or foreign carrier whichever is higher or a minimum of seven frequencies per week subject to availability of entitlements under bilateral agreements will be permitted".  For a country that has been identified to be "at-risk" of COVID-19 and does not have an air-bubble agreement with India, then only "50 per cent of bilateral capacity entitlements or 50 per cent of pre-COVID operations of Indian or foreign carrier, whichever is higher", will be permitted.  Under an air bubble agreement between the two nations, airlines of both countries can operate special flights between their territories with certain restrictions.  The Aviation Ministry said on Friday: "The seats under air bubble arrangement which have already been sold by airlines, which are more than the capacity entitlements under bilateral air service agreements available with the airlines, will be allowed to be operated till December 14, 2021."  "Such airlines will restrict their operations to capacity entitlements enter bilateral air service agreements available with airlines with effect from December 15, 2021," it added.  All scheduled international flights will have to strictly adhere to the Union health ministry's protocols for international travel issued on November 11 this year, it mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||Bihar, Jharkhand, UP emerge as poorest states in India: Niti Aayog||Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh have emerged as the poorest states in India, according to Niti Aayog's first Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) report.  As per the index, 51.91 per cent population of Bihar is poor, followed 42.16 per cent in Jharkhand, 37.79 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. While Madhya Pradesh (36.65 per cent) has been placed fourth in the index, Meghalaya (32.67 per cent) is at the fifth spot.  Kerala (0.71 per cent), Goa (3.76 per cent), Sikkim (3.82 per cent), Tamil Nadu (4.89 per cent) and Punjab (5.59 per cent) have registered the lowest poverty across India and are at the bottom of the index.  Among union territories (UTs), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (27.36 per cent), Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh (12.58), Daman & Diu (6.82 per cent) and Chandigarh (5.97 per cent), emerged as the poorest UTs. Puducherry having 1.72 per cent of its population as poor, Lakshadweep (1.82 per cent ), Andaman & Nicobar Islands (4.30 per cent) and Delhi (4.79 per cent) have fared better.  Bihar has the highest number of malnourished people followed by Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.  Bihar is also placed at the bottom when it comes to percentage of population deprived of maternal health, percentage of population deprived of years of schooling, school attendance and percentage of population deprived of cooking fuel and electricity.  Uttar Pradesh ranked the lowest in child and adolescent mortality category, followed by Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, while Jharkhand performed the worst when it comes to percentage of population deprived of sanitation, followed by Bihar and Odisha.  According to the report, India's national MPI measure uses the globally accepted and robust methodology developed by the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).  Importantly, as a measure of multidimensional poverty, it captures multiple and simultaneous deprivation faced by households, it added.  The report said India's MPI has three equally weighted dimensions, health, education and standard of living - which are represented by 12 indicators namely nutrition, child and adolescent mortality, antenatal care, years of schooling, school attendance, cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, housing, assets and bank accounts.  The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) framework, adopted by 193 countries in 2015, has redefined development policies, government priorities, and metrics for measuring development progress across the world.  The SDG framework, with 17 global goals and 169 targets, is significantly wider in scope and scale relative to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), its predecessor.  Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar in his foreword said, "The development of the National Multidimensional Poverty Index of India is an important contribution towards instituting a public policy tool which monitors multidimensional poverty, informs evidence-based and focused interventions, thereby ensuring that no one is left behind."  Kumar further said this baseline report of India's first ever national MPI measure is based on the reference period of 2015-16 of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS).  The national MPI measure has been constructed by utilising 12 key components which cover areas such as health and nutrition, education and standard of living, he said.  The report said the national MPI, an aggregate measure which defines poverty, in simple terms, as the deprivation in crucial and basic parameters of health, education, and living standards, is a significant departure from the way poverty has been understood and conceptualised historically.  "While this report is an indispensable first step in mainstreaming MPI, it is based on a dataset which is five years old. The success of numerous development interventions in the recent past have resulted in progress in key parameters on health, education, and standard of living," it added.  In early 2020, the Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India, identified 29 global indices to monitor, analyse and evaluate with the aim of improving India's position in global rankings.  Under this mandate, also known as the Global Indices for Reforms and Growth (GIRG) mandate, Niti Aayog was identified as the nodal agency for the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||Cong skipped Constitution Day event in protest against BJP's authoritarian functioning: Spokesperson||The Congress on Friday said it did not participate in the Constitution Day event in the Central Hall of Parliament in protest and to remind the country that the Constitution is not being respected and is being undermined instead. Senior spokesperson of the Congress Anand Sharma said the protest was against the "authoritarian" functioning of the BJP government as laws are enacted bypassing parliamentary scrutiny and parliamentary democracy is insulted. "Our protest today is based on fundamental principles. We have protested to remind the country that the Constitution is not being respected, the Constitution is being undermined, parliamentary democracy is being undermined and insulted with the enactment of laws bypassing scrutiny which is creating enormous problems, because each law enacted by Parliament impacts the masses," he told reporters. The Congress and several other parties, including the Left parties, TMC, NCP, DMK, Shiv Sena, IUML, RSP and the RJD, did not attend the Constitution Day event in Parliament's Central Hall. Speaking at the event, Prime Minister Narendra Modi hit out at family-run parties and said they are danger to democracy as they go against the spirit of democracy. Hitting back at the prime minister, Sharma said he wants to change history itself and obliterate the memory of those who sacrificed for the freedom of the country. "The BJP had no role in the freedom struggle which Mahatma Gandhi led. All leaders were Congressmen. The BJP is seeking out these leaders. They know their ancestors had no role in the freedom struggle. Rather, they were complicit with the British who crushed the freedom movement," he said. The Congress leader said India has diversity and national and regional parties are there which work under India's Constitution. "The prime minister should introspect.... He should not give sermons to other parties. It would be better if the Election Commission continues to do its work," he said, noting that democracy has strengthened since 1947 to 2014 when Modi became prime minister through free and fair elections. "Had democracy been in danger, had Constitution not been respected, Modi could not have become PM in 2014 through a free and fair election...(It was) only because democracy had thrived and flourished in India," he said. The Congress leader said the criticism of the opposition by the prime minister and his colleagues is unwarranted. "They need to reflect upon the manner in which they have conducted themselves and taken decisions. They owe an explanation why they have taken measures which are violative of the Constitution and even the directives on many issues of SC (Supreme Court) to evade transparency in governance and accountability of government to the Parliament," he said. Sharma said the Congress has taken a conscious decision and have coordinated with like-minded parties who also collectively decided to oppose this authoritarian trend and functioning of the BJP government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||CBI gets sanction to prosecute retired Allahabad High Court judge in corruption case||The CBI has got the sanction to prosecute retired Allahabad High Court Judge Justice S N Shukla in a corruption case for allegedly favouring a private medical college in his orders, officials said. The CBI had applied for a go-ahead from the high court to prosecute the retired judge on April 16 this year, in accordance with the Prevention of Corruption Act, they said. With the high court giving its nod, the CBI can proceed with a chargesheet against the retired judge. Besides Justice Shukla of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court, the agency had also named retired Chhattisgarh High Court judge I M Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav and Palash Yadav of the Prasad Education Trust, the trust itself and private persons Bhavna Pandey and Sudhir Giri in the FIR, they said. The accused were booked under Section 120B of the IPC (criminal conspiracy) and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. In order to to get a favourable order, illegal gratification was allegedly paid to one of the accused named in the FIR by the trust, the officials said. The CBI does not need sanction to prosecute Quddusi as he was a retired judge at the time the alleged offence took place and allegedly acted in the capacity of a private person. Shukla joined the Allahabad High Court on October 5, 2005 and retired on July 17, 2020, according to the High Court website. After filing the FIR, the CBI had conducted searches at multiple locations in Lucknow, Meerut and Delhi. It is alleged that the Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences was debarred by the Centre from admitting students due to substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of the required criteria in May 2017, along with 46 other medical colleges that were also debarred on similar grounds, the officials said. The decision to debar was challenged by the trust before the Supreme Court through a writ petition, they added. Subsequently, a conspiracy was hatched by those named in the FIR and the petition withdrawn with the court''s permission. Another writ petition was filed before the Lucknow bench of the high court on August 24, 2017, the officials said. It was further alleged in the FIR that the petition was heard on August 25, 2017 by a division bench of the court comprising Justice Shukla and a favourable order was passed the same day, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||India asks Pak to expedite trial in 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks case||India on Friday summoned a senior diplomat of the Pakistani High Commission on the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, and pressed for an expeditious trial in the case, saying the families of 166 victims from 15 countries are still awaiting closure. In a note verbale handed over to the diplomat, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also asked Pakistan to abide by its commitment to not allow territories under its control for terrorism against India. "A note verbale reiterating India's call for an expeditious trial in the Mumbai terror attacks case, and calling on the Government of Pakistan to abide by its commitment to not allow territories under its control for terrorism against India was handed over to him," the MEA said. "It is a matter of deep anguish that even after 13 years of this heinous terror attack, the families of 166 victims from 15 countries across the globe still await closure, with Pakistan showing little sincerity in bringing the perpetrators to justice," it said in a statement. The MEA asserted that the terror attack was planned, executed and launched from Pakistani territory. "We once again call on the government of Pakistan to give up double standards and to expeditiously bring the perpetrators of the horrific attack to justice," it said. "This is not just a matter of Pakistan's accountability to the families of the innocent victims who fell to terrorists, but also an international obligation," the MEA said. It said India will continue to make every effort to seek justice for the families of the "victims and the martyrs" of the attack. "On the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terrorist attacks, the government and people of India somberly remember the victims of this dastardly attack and the valiant security personnel who laid down their lives to protect ours," the MEA said. On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai. India and 14 other countries lost their nationals in the attack. "Indian Missions in these countries are organising memorial events remembering the victims, both national and foreign, reminding the world of the continuing global threat of terrorism," the MEA said. Senior government representatives from the host governments, family members of victims and survivors will be participating in these solemn events, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||An example of getting success through hard work: Gaurav Chauhan||We all hear the name Gaurav Chauhan, who is known as a photographer as well as a travel company owner. He is the one who gives strength to a lot of young stars who are never able to trust themselves and always think negatively. He proves that if you want something and do your best you can achieve your goal. Like another middle-class boy, Mr. Gaurav Chauhan has a different story that inspires everyone. Nowadays we see a successful man. But do you know how he became this successful? Then here is your answer. He always wanted to be a photographer. But in the beginning, he didn't have a lot of money to become a photographer. So he made a different plan. He started a tour agency. We all hear the name of the famous travel agency Krishna travel. It is the first Agency which developed. Through their unique ideas, he makes his company more developed. And slowly it has become one of the best travel agencies. When you look for a traveling platform then absolute confidence you'll get a huge list. In India at gift numerous International and countrywide manufacturers are energetic withinside the global of the tour. But Gaurav is a visionary guy who set up Krishna in keeping with the personalized wishes of the local travelers. It is a one-forestall tour vacation spot because it gives global excursion packages, home excursion packages, railway, and bus price tag bookings in addition to flight tickets at a large discount. Krishna Travels turned into the primary successful commercial enterprise task through Gaurav. When the Krishna Agency became one of the best agencies he thought about the Passion of his photography. Gaurav Chauhan started his new business with a perfect business idea that could provide wings to his passion. This passion for photography and his unique style of photography create a new fashion in the world of photography. Since he was curious and very interested in this field from his childhood, he did not pay much attention to exploring his skills as a photographer. Given the opportunity to set up his own photography platform called Gaurav Chauhan Photography, it was his destiny. And his journey is still going on. He is the one who just created another world of photography with his amazing clicks. After some time when he explored his expertise in wedding photography, he created his own business and named Wedding Chimes. Wedding Chimes now become one of the most reputed wedding photography platforms which provide highly customized pre and post-wedding photography options according to the requirements of the people. On this platform, you'll locate high-quality picture alternatives for your diverse needs. If you're searching for a style photographer or a product photographer or simply looking for a professional for some other sort of photo shoot, you may hook up with Gaurav Chauhan to get your pictures executed with utmost perfection. You can also see him as a kid photographer too. The portfolio of kids' photography can surprise you. He gained huge success in his life. But he never shows off his success. Gaurav Chauhan always loves to and has the same enthusiasm to learn new things. According to him, "The enthusiasm of learning new things is the key to success". In Spite of that, he is always humble and lives like a normal person. He is too polite and always behaves like a kid. That is why everyone loves him. Success has not gone over his head and this man is still attached to the roots. He constantly progresses in his professional and personal life. In spite of this, he is also a kind-hearted person who always loves animals. Since childhood, he has always loved to protect animals. When he saw any injured animal he always helped them. He also gives food to those folks. To help them Mr. Gaurav Chauhan created an NGO named PET HELP OUT. For helping him he found more people like him. This NGO helps all the animals.  his team, he always cares for street animals. His unconditional love, and respect, create a legacy of caring. Gaurav Chauhan is really a different type of person who always loves every kind of person. He always tries to help everyone. He always says, " he does what God helps him to do". This polite nature makes him the most incredible young entrepreneur. He is an inspiration for the young generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||Farmers in hundreds descend at Delhi-UP border on protest anniversary||Hundreds of farmers in tractors started arriving at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border as Friday marked one year of the ongoing farmers' protest against the central laws. Many of them brought along vegetables, sacks of flour and lentils, spices and cooking oil on their tractor-trollies, saying they have come prepared for a long haul. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year. The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a farmers' collective, which is spearheading the protest for withdrawal of three contentious farm laws and for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) of crops. "It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness. We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait tweeted in Hindi. The outfit's office-bearers claimed the police have been strengthening the barricading at Ghazipur border - both on the Delhi-Meerut elevated highway patch and at the UP Gate down below it -- since Thursday, even as they said the crowd would swell at the protest site by evening Friday. "We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday," BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay said. He said, "Supporters in large numbers started reaching the border early Friday morning and by evening we are expecting over 50,000 people at Ghazipur alone." A BKU supporter who reached Ghazipur in the morning from Muzaffarnagar on a tractor in a group said they have come to the protest with arrangements for food and accommodation. Hundreds of farmers have been encamped at Delhi's Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders since November 26, 2020, with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for crops. PM Modi had last week announced his government's decision to withdraw the contentious laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||Dynastic parties matter of concern to people committed to Constitution, says Modi||Dynastic parties are a matter of concern to people committed to the Constitution and are against the spirit of democracy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday at a Constitution Day event in Parliament. Modi also paid tributes to security personnel who lost their lives during the November 26, 2008, terror attacks in Mumbai. "Dynastic parties are matter of concern to people committed to the Constitution Look at dynastic political parties from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, this is against the democratic spirit," Modi said. "Party for the family, by the family...do I need to say more? If a party is run for generations by a family and the entire party system is with a family then that is the biggest problem for a healthy democracy," he said in an apparent reference to Congress. "The spirit of the Constitution has also been hurt, every section of the Constitution has also been hurt, when political parties lose their democratic character in themselves. How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy?" PM Modi asked. The event, which was organised as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to celebrate 75 years of India's independence, was boycotted by opposition parties. Modi, however, said the function was not organised by the government, but by an institution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||Farmers' movement will be remembered for arrogance of BJP govt: Priyanka||With the protests against the Centre's farm laws completing a year, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said the agitation will be remembered for the farmers' unshakable 'satyagraha', the "martyrdom of 700 farmers" and the arrogance of the "ruthless" BJP government. Farmers have been protesting against three central agri laws on various borders of Delhi since November 26 last year. "One year of farmers' movement. Will be known for the unshakable satyagraha of farmers, the martyrdom of 700 farmers, the arrogance of the ruthless BJP government and the atrocities on 'annadatas'," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. But farmers have always been hailed in India and will always be, the Congress general secretary said. "The victory of the farmers' struggle is proof of this," she said and added, 'Jai Kisan'. Farmer leaders have said the protesters will stay put at border areas of Delhi until the Centre formally repeals the farm laws in Parliament after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise announcement last Friday. The Prime Minister during an address to the nation had announced repeal of the three laws, which were enacted in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||India logs over 10,000 fresh Covid cases, 488 casualties in a day||India logged 10,549 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,55,431, while the active cases rose to 1,10,133, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,67,468 with 488 fresh fatalities, including 384 in Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 49 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 152 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.32 per cent of the total infections while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.33 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 193 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.89 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 53 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.89 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 63 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33977830, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 120.27 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 488 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra. Of the 384 deaths in Kerala, 56 were reported over the last few days and 328 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a state government release said on Friday. A total of 4,67,468 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,857 from Maharashtra, 38,737 from Kerala, 38,187 from Karnataka, 36,432 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,430 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
26-11-2021||India||Karnataka college in Covid grip: 182 students and staff test positive after cultural program||A medical college in Karnataka's Dharwad has become a Covid-19 cluster after the number of staff and students infected with coronavirus went up to 182 today from 66 a day before, officials said, according to NDTV.com. They were found to be positive after a routine Covid test following the annual cultural festival at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in central Karnataka city. Most of the infected people at the College were fully vaccinated against coronavirus, officials said. On Thursday, the Covid test result of 66 fully vaccinated students and staff of the college had turned out to be positive following testing of over 300 students. More people from the college are being tested today. The samples of the infected people will be sent for genome sequencing. "The students were fully vaccinated... We will be sending a few samples for genome sequencing to check if there's a new variant," NDTV quoted health commissioner D Randeep as saying. The health commissioner said a freshers' party at the college on November 17 is responsible for the outbreak. The infected have been put under quarantine inside the campus itself and the two hostels have been sealed as a precautionary measure, officials said. "Most of them have got both doses of the vaccine. All of them have been isolated in the campus itself," Dr Yashwant, district health officer of Hubli-Dharwad, said. The Covid positive patients have mild or no symptoms and are undergoing treatment inside the campus, officials said. The state health department has decided to test around 3,000 staff and students at the college and hospital (clinical and non-clinical) today. At least 1,000 people have been tested till now, and their reports are awaited. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, who visited the campus on Thursday, told reporters that the decision to shut down the hostels was taken as the positive cases had been accommodated in the buildings. He said all those who had tested positive had already received two doses of vaccine and were all first-year MBBS students from other states. A college source, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph that police had been deployed to ensure no one left or entered the sealed hostel blocks. “The health department is in touch with us to ensure those who are in isolation and quarantine are provided food and medical care,” he said. Karnataka is among the several states where the number of Covid cases has decreased in the last few weeks. The state reported 306 new cases today, with a positivity rate of 0.36 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Air pollution levels in Delhi up again||Air pollution levels in Delhi worsened on Friday morning due to unfavourable meteorological conditions -- low temperature and slow wind speed -- and the air quality index read 403 at 9 am, which falls in the severe category. Low temperatures and slow surface winds allow accumulation of pollutants. The city's 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) read 400 on Thursday evening. The air quality in the capital has remained very poor or severe on most of the days in November so far. Delhi recorded lowest air pollution levels -- in terms of 24-hour average quality index -- on November 1 (AQI 281) followed by November 23 (AQI 290). Neighbouring Faridabad (417), Ghaziabad (373), Greater Noida (378), Gurgaon (361) and Noida (383) also saw a dip in air quality on Friday morning. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 28 degrees Celsius. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor SAFAR, no relief is likely till Monday. Local emissions and weather are likely to be the dominant factors controlling air quality, it said. The Delhi government on Thursday reimposed the ban on construction and demolition activities following the Supreme Court order in this regard. The apex court reimposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi-NCR on Wednesday until further orders. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the workers affected by the ban on construction activities in the national capital will be provided a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each and his government will also compensate them for the loss of minimum wages. The ban on construction and demolition activities was lifted on Monday in view of an improvement in the air quality and the inconvenience caused to the workers. The Delhi government had on Wednesday decided to resume physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions and reopen government offices from November 29. The ban on the entry of trucks, barring those engaged in essential services, will continue till December 3. However, "CNG and electric trucks will be allowed to enter Delhi from November 27". On November 13, the city government had ordered the closure of all educational institutes, banned construction and demolition activities and asked its employees to work from home to combat air pollution and minimise its health effects. Four days later, it extended the restrictions, besides banning the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Mumbai: Tributes paid to martyrs on 13th anniversary of 26/11 terror attack||Floral tributes were paid on Friday to the martyrs who laid down their lives while fighting terrorists who attacked Mumbai on November 26, 2008. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and state Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil paid their respects at the memorial at the police headquarters in south Mumbai. The martyrs' memorial has been relocated from the original site at Police Gymkhana in Marine Drive to the police headquarters at Crawford Market because of the ongoing work on the Coastal Road project, an official said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating in a Mumbai hospital after spine surgery, also remembered the 26/11 martyrs. The 13th anniversary of the deadly terror attack was attended by a limited number of people in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Family members of some of the martyred police personnel also paid tributes at the memorial. Thirteen years have passed yet their courage in face of extreme adversities still inspires us. Remembering Mumbai's saviours on the anniversary of 26/11, tweeted Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, who along with Maharashtra Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey paid floral tributes at the memorial. "We will forever carry their unyielding spirits in our hearts. Their sacrifice will always be remembered," tweeted Mumbai Police. Union home minister Amit Shah saluted the bravery of the security personnel who fought the terrorists and made the supreme sacrifice. The entire country is proud of your bravery and will always remember your sacrifice, Shah tweeted. On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring over 300 others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai. The then Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai's Additional Police Commissioner Ashok Kamte, Senior Police Inspector Vijay Salaskar and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble were among those killed in the attack. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists. Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country's elite commando force. Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh polarisation ritual begins ahead of Assembly polls||An Uttar Pradesh BJP leader with a junior minister’s rank has said he would shut down all the madrasas in the country if he could because they “produce only terrorists”, prompting accusations that the party is attempting polarisation ahead of the Assembly elections. “If God blessed me ever, I would shut down all the madrasas in the country. The madrasas are dens of terrorists, training centres for terrorism. Whoever studies there becomes a terrorist,” Raghuraj Singh, chairperson of the state labour and employment committee, told reporters in Aligarh on Wednesday evening. Singh claimed the number of madrasas in Uttar Pradesh had risen to 22,000 from 250 in some unspecified past but did not cite the source of the purported data. “They produce only terrorists,” the relatively minor politician, who has hardly ever been in the limelight before, repeated. More than 24 hours later, there has been no official clarification from the BJP. State Congress spokesperson Surendra Singh Rajput asked: “From which madrasa did Nathuram Godse get the training of terrorism to assassinate Mahatma Gandhi?” Godse, a Hindu Mahasabha member, had previously been with the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent. Samajwadi Party lawmaker Anurag Bhadauriya said: “The BJP has nothing to show the voters ahead of the Assembly elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Expectedly, they are trying to divert the voters’ attention to communal issues.” Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party president Om Prakash Rajbhar, a former BJP ally who tied up with the Samajwadis in 2019, said: “They will say more such things ahead of the elections. Soon, they will start speaking more and more against Pakistan, kabristan (graveyards) and mosques to win the votes of the fanatics.” Aligarh, a western Uttar Pradesh city, is a favourite spot for BJP leaders to make Muslim-baiting remarks since it houses Aligarh Muslim University, a premier campus the party likes to demonise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Internet shut to nip backlash on Srinagar killings||The authorities on Thursday snapped Internet in parts of Srinagar after an impromptu shutdown and clashes with security personnel against the killing of three “militants” near the city centre on Wednesday evening. Police have said they shot dead the three militants from The Resistance Front (TRF), including Mehran Yaseen, in a brief gunfight at the crowded Rambagh locality of Srinagar. The killings triggered immediate protests with several eyewitnesses claiming that the three were slain in a “one-sided shootout”. Some claimed that the trio were innocent civilians. The protests continued for the second day as Srinagar’s old city observed a shutdown against the killings. The move was seen as a rebuff to the administration, which claims militants do not enjoy popular support. The police have said the trio had been involved in some of the recent killings of civilians, including a Hindu and a Sikh schoolteacher, in Srinagar. A police spokesman said the three were travelling in a car that had been signalled to stop. “The militants did not stop and instead opened fire, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter,” the spokesman said. Several eyewitnesses said the trio were dragged out of the car and shot in front of them. Protests broke out in the old city against the killings, leading to clashes with the security forces. A large number of security personnel were deployed and they resorted to tear-gas shelling to quell the agitation. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti joined other protesters in questioning the police claim. “After yesterday’s alleged encounter at Rambagh, legitimate doubts are looming over its authenticity. As per reports & witnesses, it seems that the firing was one-sided. Again the official version far from truth is not in line with ground realities as seen in Shopian, HMT & Hyderpora,” the PDP chief tweeted. Three civilians were shot dead by the army in a fake gunfight in Shopian in 2019. The families of three men killed in the HMT locality of Srinagar last year had claimed that they were innocent, although the police had called them militants. In Srinagar’s Hyderpora last week, two businessmen and an office assistant were killed in an allegedly staged encounter, sparking condemnation in the Valley. Referring to the Rambagh shootout, National Conference spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said: “This is a serious allegation at a time when we are yet to get clarity from @JmuKmrPolice on the Hyderpora ‘encounter’. We have another shootout in the city centre with all the ingredients of murkiness.” The two other alleged militants killed on Wednesday were identified as Arafat Ahmad Sheikh of Nikloora village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama and Manzoor Ahmad Mir of Babhar in Pulwama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Protesting farmers hope to send strong message to Centre ||The protesting farmers hope to send a strong message to the Centre on Friday with a big mobilisation to mark the first anniversary of their siege of the capital while they await a response to their letter to the Prime Minister seeking talks on their remaining demands. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been providing collective leadership to the movement, sent an open letter to Narendra Modi on Sunday night urging the government to start discussions with them on their six demands. However, the government has made no effort to reach out to the farmers since Modi’s surprise announcement on November 19 about the three contentious farm laws being repealed during the winter session of Parliament, scheduled from November 29. The government has listed the repeal bill for introduction in Parliament. The Congress parliamentary party leadership, which met on Thursday under party president Sonia Gandhi, demanded the farm laws’ repeal on the first day of the session. The BJP has issued a whip to its members in the Rajya Sabha to be present in the House the entire day. However, given that the Opposition is against the three farm laws, the passage of the repeal bill is unlikely to give the BJP any real trouble. The Congress has also decided to raise the farmers’ demand for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price for every crop. If the government had hoped to weaken the farmers’ movement, or at least the momentum of the mobilisation for the anniversary programme, with the repeal announcement, it does not seem to have worked. Farmers have been heading for Delhi’s borders from neighbouring states on tractors, trucks and newly resumed trains to celebrate their victory in getting the government to back down on the farm laws and to reaffirm their determination to fight on till their remaining demands have been met. In a statement, the Morcha said: “The fact that such a long struggle has to continue is a clear reflection on the insensitivity and arrogance of India’s government towards its toiling citizens.” It thanked the people who have supported the movement, including the Opposition parties. Besides the mobilisation at Delhi’s borders, protests have also been lined up elsewhere. These include the blocking of key highways in Karnataka, dharnas at district headquarters in Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, tractor rallies in Raipur and Ranchi, and rallies in all the districts of Bengal. While the farmers were pleasantly surprised by the Prime Minister’s November 19 announcement, the joy at winning this battle has been somewhat clouded by the continuing efforts to malign the movement. The “godi media” (lapdog media) draws as much anger at the farmers’ protests as the BJP governments at the Centre and in the states, many of which have registered “false cases” against protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Congress chief ministers write to Narendra Modi on Covid payout||Congress chief ministers have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging his government to pay a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the Covid dead, describing the promised Rs 50,000 as insufficient in the face of unprecedented death and suffering. The party announced a nationwide agitation to highlight the “insensitivity” of the Centre towards Covid victims. Following Rahul Gandhi’s declaration on Wednesday that the Congress would hold the Modi government to its responsibility as the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) mandates that the compensation amount be Rs 4 lakh, the chief ministers of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh wrote to the Prime Minister offering to deposit the states’ share of the compensation in the bank accounts of the victims’ families. Under the NDMA, the Centre pays 75 per cent of the compensation while the state shoulders 25 per cent. If a compensation of Rs 4 lakh is paid, Rs 1 lakh will be the state’s share. The Congress has written to the chief ministers of its alliance partners in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. The Congress expects Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin and Hemant Soren to write to the Prime Minister. In identical letters, the three Congress chief ministers stressed the need to stand by citizens in times of distress and entreated the Prime Minister to grant a compensation of Rs 4 lakh, saying the Rs 50,000 the Centre has pledged in the Supreme Court was insufficient. Punjab chief minister Charajit Singh Channi wrote: “The welfare model of our Constitution provides our citizens with the basic right to education, health and other essential services. Along with this, our Constitution empowers every citizen to claim these as their constitutional right from the state. “The Covid pandemic has heavily affected majority of the population in the country. People have died untimely deaths, businesses have shut down, people have been forced to migrate. Families have lost their earning members and the out-of-pocket treatment expenses incurred in private hospitals during the pandemic have brought them to the streets. Families have lost all their savings and are in huge debts. “We demand that the Central Government implement its earlier order notified on March 14, 2020, issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, where the Government made a commitment to disburse ex-gratia payment of Rs four lakh per deceased. The Central Government later revised this notification and reduced the ex-gratia payment to Rs 50,000. We feel at such times of distress, it is imperative that special consideration should be made to fulfil the earlier commitment of four lakh by the Government.” Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel sent similar letters to Modi. The letters underlined that the Centre continued to collect huge revenues by taxing petroleum products but refused to provide relief to the poor even as corporate entities were being given massive tax relief. The Congress on Thursday also demanded a Covid Commission to study the gamut of problems caused by the pandemic, apart from ascertaining the correct number of deaths. The party announced that there would be demonstrations throughout the country on November 26, 27 and 28 in support of the demand for a compensation of Rs 4 lakh. Memorandums will be submitted to the authorities in every district and state capital in support of the demand. The party on Wednesday launched the website www.4lakhdenahoga.com and urged citizens to register with it to seek increased compensation. Indicating that the issue will figure prominently in the upcoming Assembly elections and Parliament session, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “This is not just a threat. Our track record shows that we blocked the government’s move to kill the Land Acquisition Act, we forced the government to give free vaccines to the people after repeated vacillations by the Prime Minister and finally the farm laws had to be withdrawn.” He added: “Modi can arrange for compensation by stopping the Central Vista project, by cutting down on publicity blitz, by avoiding giving tax relief to crony capitalists.” The Congress spokesperson alleged that the deaths during the second Covid wave were caused by the Modi government’s mismanagement. Vallabh claimed that Modi didn’t understand the problems of the country and wanted to cut down on expenditure meant for the poor while providing assistance to the rich and powerful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Poached, Congress smells a plot but ignores key issues||On a day that the Congress lost nearly its entire legislature group in Meghalaya, the party reacted not with concern over unabated shrinkage but with cries of unholy conspiracy against it. That probably sums up what has brought India’s grand old party to passages that have become less and less grand; it speaks of a setup grievously in denial of its own failures and fault lines, and its refusal to effect correction. For more than two years now, the Congress has been helmed by an ailing — and probably reluctant — Sonia Gandhi while Rahul Gandhi has bumbled and fumbled between whether he wants to remain former president of the party or is willing to give the title a future shot. The Congress isn’t quite the state of Denmark, but something is rotten in it. The trouble is, the leadership is too high-nosed for the stink to reach it. Those that can sense it probably fall into two categories — those that are so loyal they are holding their breath, and those that are calling the stench and being labelled disloyal for it. “It says something about what the Congress has reduced itself to, that the party of power in this country, the party that held power the longest is petulantly complaining about much small parties pecking at it,” said a senior, though disgruntled, Congressman. “If we cannot mind our house, others will come to prey.” He made it a point to make mention of the departure of Ahmed Patel, astute backroom player, closest aide to Sonia and probably the mover of key levers of a party going through a rather prolonged and testing transition. Since Patel’s passing, differences between the Rahul camp, party elders who continue to favour Sonia’s ways, and the bitter ginger group christened the G-23 have sharpened and spilled into the open. The leader of an old Congress ally pointedly complained about the persisting uncertainties in the party: “The perception has set in that the party is in perpetual stagnation. This is a time for the leading Opposition to give dynamic direction; instead, it is bogged down in its own crises.” He was referring not only to the frequent feuding between factions in the Congress-ruled states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh but, in the main, to the unresolved leadership question. Several front organisations of the Congress have again begun drumming up the demand that Rahul resume reins of the party. A schedule for organisational elections was unveiled at the party’s last working committee meeting in October, but it offered no clarity whether Rahul will even offer himself for a contest in August-September of 2022. “Well-placed sources” in the party were only willing to go as far as to give the assurance that Rahul “would consider” the top job. The de facto truth, though, is that Rahul is leader of the party, its chief spokesperson and campaigner and, for the better part, its chief arbiter. Rahul may not be anybody in the hierarchy of the Congress party, but he cannot be nobody in the hierarchy of the Congress party. He stands at the core of the Congress, its crisis and its resolution, one way or another. If the critical issue of the formal leadership of the party — to be decided at an election whose dates remain undecided but cannot be forever put off — lies unresolved, it is also because Rahul has chosen not to resolve it. That leaves him comfortable leeway in terms of commitments to public life and its requirements over and above the imperatives of his personal life, which, evidently, he holds too dear to sacrifice. He will not categorically say he is prepared to lead the party, he will not categorically say he will not. That leaves the Congress, and Congressmen across the country, uncertain and shot through with a sense of being unled. No wonder others are able to nibble at them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Karnataka: Covid-19 outbreak shuts two hostel blocks||A medical college in Dharwad, Karnataka, has closed down two of its hostel blocks after 59 students and seven teaching staff tested positive for Covid-19. They were found to be positive after a routine Covid test following the annual cultural festival at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in the central Karnataka city. Dharwad district health officer Dr Yashwanth A. Madinkar told The Telegraph on Thursday that all of them had mild symptoms. “They have all been isolated at the college hostel itself. Their primary contacts have also been quarantined as a precautionary measure,” he said. The two college blocks accommodating them have been sealed until further orders. “Although there is nothing to worry, we are closely monitoring the situation,” Madinkar said. Around 400 students and staff were tested for Covid-19 a few days ago after the three-day event. “More results are awaited by tomorrow (Friday) evening,” Madinkar said. Physical classes have been suspended until further notice. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, who visited the campus on Thursday, told reporters that the decision to shut down the hostels was taken as the positive cases had been accommodated in the buildings. He said all those who had tested positive had already received two doses of vaccine and were all first-year MBBS students from other states. A college source, who declined to be named, told this newspaper that police had been deployed to ensure no one left or entered the sealed hostel blocks. “The health department is in touch with us to ensure those who are in isolation and quarantine are provided food and medical care,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Delhi High Court junks plea to ban Salman Khurshid’s book||Delhi High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition to stop the publication, circulation and sale of Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s book Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood In Our Times, asking what it could do if people were “feeling so sensitive”. The court was hearing a plea by lawyer Vineet Jindal who claimed the book  “impinges upon the faith of others” as it compares Hindutva to radical groups like the Islamic State and the Boko Haram. “Ask people not to buy the book or read it. Tell people it is badly authored, read something better,” Justice Yashwant Varma said. The petitioner’s counsel had claimed the book could result in a breach of public peace and it was the duty of all persons to maintain peace. “What can we do if people are feeling so sensitive?” Justice Varma remarked and dismissed the petition. On November 17, an additional civil judge in New Delhi had refused to grant an ex-parte injunction on a lawsuit by Hindu Sena president Vishnu Gupta to stop the publication, circulation and sale of the book for allegedly hurting sentiments of a large section of society. While declining interim relief, the trial court had said the author and the publisher had the right to write and publish the book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
26-11-2021||India||Narendra Modi condemned Gujarat riots: SIT to Supreme Court||The special investigation team probing the 2002 Gujarat pogrom has denied any larger conspiracy, telling the Supreme Court that army troops were flown in within three hours of the riots erupting and then chief minister Narendra Modi had “outrightly condemned” the violence. Representing the SIT, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi told the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravi Kumar on Thursday that the “chief minister outrightly condemned the violence”. “The army personnel were airlifted…. If the allegations of conspiracy are true, the army would not have been called within three hours of the riots erupting,” he said. The bench is hearing a petition from Zakia Jafri, wife of former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri who was burnt alive with 68 others at Gulbarg Society, challenging the clean chit given to Modi, other ministers and police officers from complicity in the riots. The SIT, which had probed the riots following an apex court directive, filed a closure report in February 2012, which the trial court accepted in December 2013. Gujarat High Court upheld the order. The arguments will continue on December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||AWBI asks movie producers not to use animals for film shootings||A film set is a frightening and distressing environment for animals, the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) has said while asking movie and television show producers to replace them with technology. In an advisory issued to the Film Producers Association of India, OTT Platform Associations and the Film Chamber of Commerce, the AWBI said: “It is advisable that effective methods such as computer graphics, visual effects and animatronics should be prioritised instead of involving live animals in films/advertisement films in order to prevent unnecessary pain and suffering to animals during exhibition and training.” PETA India on Thursday lauded the AWBI’s move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Shakti Mills rape: HC commutes death penalty of 3 convicts to life  ||Bombay High Court on Thursday commuted to life sentence the death penalty awarded to three convicts in the gang rape of a 22-year-old photojournalist inside the defunct Shakti Mills compound in central Mumbai in 2013. The court said the convicts “deserve imprisonment for life to repent the offence committed by them as death puts an end to the concept of repentance”. Terming rape as a “serious blow to the supreme honour and dignity of a woman”, the court said the convicts “do not deserve to assimilate with the society, as it would be difficult to survive in a society of such men who look upon women with derision, depravity, contempt and objects of desire”. A division bench of Justices Sadhana Jadhav and Prithviraj Chavan refused to confirm the death penalty awarded to Vijay Jadhav, Mohammad Qasim Bengali Shaikh and Mohammad Ansari, and commuted their sentence to imprisonment for the remainder of their lives. The judgment comes seven years after a trial court in Mumbai handed the death sentence to them. The high court noted that although the offence was “barbaric and heinous”, it could not be said that the convicts deserved only the death penalty and nothing less than that. “A sentence of death is irrevocable and therefore, the basic principle in sentencing policy would be life imprisonment as a rule and death penalty as an exception,” the court said. The bench noted that as a constitutional court it would not be proper on its part to “eliminate or extinguish the flame of the life of the convicts without following due procedure established by law”. “We cannot allow our emotions to outweigh the principles of criminal jurisprudence and the procedural mandate of the statute.… We are of the opinion that the convicts deserve the punishment of rigorous imprisonment for… the whole of the remainder of their natural life in order to repent for the offence committed by them,” the judgment said. “The accused do not deserve any leniency, empathy or sympathy. Everyday the rising sun would remind them of the barbaric acts committed by them and the night would lay them with a heavy heart filled with guilt and remorse,” it added. The court said the convicts should not be entitled to remission, furlough or parole. At the time of the crime in 2013, Jadhav was 19 years old, Qasim Shaikh 21 and Ansari 28. “Every case of rape is a heinous offence. The damage done to the victim far outweighs the public conscience. A rape victim does not suffer just physical injury but what is affected is her mental health and stability in life,” the court said. Rape is tantamount to a serious blow to the supreme honour and dignity of a woman and is a violation of human rights, it added. The court, however, noted that a constitutional court could not award punishment by taking into consideration only the public outcry. It added that courts had a duty to consider cases dispassionately and could not ignore the procedure laid down by the law. “Death puts an end to the concept of repentance, any sufferings and mental agony. It cannot be said that the accused deserved only death penalty,” the court said. The bench noted that while dealing with confirmation of death penalties, it had to remind itself of the cardinal principle — the courts have to be aware that the harsher the punishment, the higher should be the standards. The court noted that the conduct of the convicts and their bold confession to the survivor at the time of the incident that she was not the first one to satisfy their lust was sufficient to hold that there was no scope for reformation or rehabilitation. Quoting poet Khalil Gibran in the judgment, the high court said: “And how shall you punish those whose remorse is already greater than their misdeeds? Is not remorse the justice, which is administered by that very law, which you would fain serve? Yet you cannot lay remorse upon the innocent nor lift it from the heart of the guilty.” The bench started its 108-page judgment with a quote by women’s rights activist Lucretia Mott that says: “The world has never yet seen a truly great and virtuous nation because in the degradation of women the very fountains of life are poisoned at their source.” The court went on to add that women were the backbone of every nation and deserved their due respect and honour. “Honour and respect for women are the marks of a civilised society,” it said. In the order, the court also deprecated the practice of prosecutors asking the victim/survivor to give minute details of the act of rape despite their statement recorded by the police. The court appreciated the survivor for seeking justice not only for her alone but for victims like her who had gone through the same experience. The high court said the victim would be entitled to compensation under the Maharashtra State Victim Compensation Scheme. In March 2014, the trial court had convicted four persons for gang-raping the 22-year-old photojournalist inside the abandoned Shakti Mills compound in central Mumbai on August 22, 2013. The court had then imposed death penalty on three of the convicts as they were also convicted for gang-raping a 19-year-old telephone operator at the same place months before raping the photojournalist. The trio was awarded death penalty under the amended section 376 (e) of the IPC, which says maximum sentence of life or death can be awarded to repeat offenders. The high court in its judgment noted that both the cases were tried simultaneously and the conviction in both the cases was pronounced on the same day (March 20, 2014), one after another, consecutively in succession. “A highly pedantic approach was adopted by the trial court while considering that the conviction in the case of the rape of the telephone operator amounts to previous conviction,” the HC said, adding in the present case section 376 (e) could have been applied if one trial preceded the other. The fourth convict, Siraj Khan, was sentenced to life imprisonment, and a minor accused was sent to a correctional facility. In April 2014, the trio had approached the high court challenging the validity of Section 376 (e) of IPC and contended that the sessions court acted beyond its power in awarding them the death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Congress accuses Mamata of poaching MLAs in Meghalaya||The Congress on Thursday accused Mamata Banerjee of poaching its MLAs in Meghalaya but it is not open to dispute that the leadership’s neglect of the Northeast over the past decade has pushed the party into decline. Trinamul was not in the picture when the Congress government shifted to the BJP lock stock and barrel in Arunachal Pradesh in 2016, a rare phenomenon in Indian politics when a party with barely a footprint in a state took power overnight. While Congress MLAs were pilfered one after another in Manipur, the party got decimated in Tripura and Nagaland. Its slide seems irreversible in Assam. While the Congress has no strong leader in the entire Northeast after the death of veteran Tarun Gogoi, the general secretaries looking after the states had left the organisation to fend for themselves. General secretaries such as C.P. Joshi, who minded the Northeast a few years ago, rarely visited the states under his charge, remaining a mute spectator when the brazen MLA heist took place in Arunachal. The passing of Ahmed Patel a year ago and Rahul Gandhi’s resignation as Congress president triggered a much deeper drift, but the party responded with apathy, assigning the northeastern states to greenhorns who are not even general secretaries. While Manish Chatrath, who used to handle clerical work at the Delhi headquarters, is now in charge of the Meghalaya and Arunachal units of the Congress, former IPS officer Ajoy Kumar, who left the Congress to join AAP and then return, is looking after Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim. Assam is under the charge of Jitendra Singh, another leader who lacks organisational experience. Luizinho Faleiro, who was in charge of the northeastern states for a long time, has joined Trinamul. Congress leaders in Meghalaya led by former chief minister Mukul Sangma were upset because Vincent Pala, a former Lok Sabha MP close to Rahul, was made the state unit chief. Many leaders in Delhi knew Sangma was in a rebellious mood but the crisis was not defused in time. The Congress on Thursday chose to hide behind anti-BJP rhetoric instead of dispassionately analysing the infirmities and disinterest that have almost killed political management in the party. Spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “Anybody who is trying to weaken the Congress is strengthening the BJP. This conspiracy against the Congress is being done by BJP proxies. The TMC is doing this because that’s their mandate. If you are ideologically committed, you don’t stay here today and go elsewhere tomorrow….” Sangma said on Thursday that his move to switch to Trinamul with 11 MLAs was a “conscious decision”. He pointed to the MLAs’ “inability to effectively play the role of the Opposition while in the Congress”. Additional reporting by Umanand Jaiswal in Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Delhi panel summons Kangana over Instagram posts against Sikhs||The Delhi Assembly’s Committee for Peace and Harmony has summoned actress Kangana Ranaut on December 6 over her Instagram post linking farmers to Khalistani separatists after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three controversial farm laws. A day after Modi’s announcement last Friday, Ranaut had posted an Instagram story, which was cited by the committee in its notice to her. The post says: “Khalistani terrorists may be arm twisting the government today. But let’s not forget one woman. The only woman prime minister ne inn ko apni jooti ke neeche crush kiya tha. No matter how much suffering she caused to this nation... she crushed them like mosquitoes at the cost of her own life.... Lekin desh ke tukde nahi hone diye… even after decades of her death... aaj bhi uske naam se kampte hain yeh…. Inko vaisa hi guru chahiye....” On Tuesday, Mumbai police had filed an FIR against Ranaut under IPC Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), based on a complaint by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and the Shiromani Akali Dal. The committee’s chairman is AAP, which is the main Opposition in Punjab, has supported the farmers’ agitation, and chairman of the committee Raghav Chadha is the co-in-charge of its Punjab unit. In the absence of police power, which comes under the lieutenant governor appointed by the Centre, the committee is the party’s tool to intervene against hate speech as it enjoys an absolute majority in the House. The summons says that multiple complaints have been received against Ranaut for causing “immense agony, distress and gravely hurting the religious sentiments of the people from Sikh Community, thus potentially leading to a situation of disruption of peace and harmony in the NCT of Delhi by allegedly disrespecting the entire community and purportedly instigating threats to the life and liberty of the people from the aforesaid community”. In a press release, Chadha said: “The Supreme Court vide its judgment in Ajit Mohan & Ors. vs. Legislative Assembly of Delhi & Ors wherein the Supreme Court has observed that the capital of the country cannot afford any episode of communal violence and thus the concerns of the Committee regarding restoration of peace and formulating preventive measures through examining various issues were neither illegitimate nor misconceived.” The committee, at the most, has the power to recommend criminal prosecution of Ranaut to the police if she is found guilty. In an Instagram story on Thursday, Ranaut said: “Kangana nowhere mentioned ‘Sikhs’ in her post…. Is Kejriwal’s AAP referring to all Sikhs as Khalistanis?” On Wednesday, a British non-profit revealed a plot to discredit farm protesters as Khalistanis using fake handles on social media. Several BJP leaders, including ministers, had also alleged that the protesters harboured sentiments in favour of the creation of Khalistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Navy eye on China-Pakistan warship bonhomie||India’s navy is closely watching the defence cooperation between China and Pakistan, particularly Beijing’s export of ships and submarines to Islamabad, the chief of India’s naval staff said on Thursday. Admiral Karambir Singh said India had to stay prepared since the development would affect the security dynamics in the region. “We are closely monitoring the defence cooperation between China and Pakistan. The recent procurements by Pakistan from China may change the security dynamics, so we need to remain cautious and be prepared for this,” he said. Singh, attending the commissioning of INS Vela, a Scorpene-class submarine, at the Mumbai naval dockyard, was answering a question on China delivering to Pakistan its largest and most advanced warship earlier this month. India’s security establishment has been hinting at a joint threat from Pakistan and China amid the border standoff in Ladakh. According to an Intelligence Bureau report, several sites in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are witnessing rapid construction to install military infrastructure with Chinese help. One of the projects is a surface-to-air missile defence system near Lasadanna Dhok in PoK. Admiral Singh said that INS Vela had the capability to undertake an entire spectrum of submarine operations. “Given today’s dynamic and complex security situation, its capability and firepower will play a crucial role in enhancing the navy’s ability to protect India’s maritime interests,” he said. In a statement, the navy said INS Vela was the fourth in a series of six submarines envisaged by Project-75. “The submarines are extremely potent platforms, they have advanced stealth features and are also equipped with both long-range guided torpedoes as well as anti-ship missiles. These submarines have a state of the art SONAR and sensor suite permitting outstanding operational capabilities,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Apex court re-imposes construction ban in Delhi, NCR to curb pollution  ||The Supreme Court has re-imposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) because of worsening air quality and directed the states to provide subsistence to workers from the funds collected as labour cess. A special bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, in an interim order uploaded on Wednesday night, also directed the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and Adjoining Areas to “commission a scientific study of air quality based on available data of previous years bearing upon recorded levels of air pollution”. “…Necessary measures must be put in place in anticipation of deterioration of air quality. For this purpose, the commission must engage expert agencies with domain knowledge in meteorological data and statistical modelling,” said the bench, which also had Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant. Asking the commission on pollution and the NCR states — Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan — to continue with their measures to curb the spike in pollution, the court reversed the decision to allow constructions from November 22 because of the improved air quality at that time. “In the meantime, as an interim measure and until further orders, we re-impose the ban on construction activities in the NCR subject to the following two conditions: Non-polluting activities relating to construction such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry are allowed to be continued. “The states shall use the funds which have been collected as labour cess for the welfare of construction workers to provide them subsistence for the period during which construction activities are prohibited and pay wages notified under the Minimum Wages Act for the respective categories of workers,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Nitish govt to administer mass oaths for abstinence from liquor||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar is preparing to administer mass oaths for lifelong abstinence from liquor to all its employees at a time the dry state is beset with hooch deaths, but ally BJP has demanded an end to prohibition. The oath will be administered to around 9 lakh government employees, including schoolteachers and police personnel, at their respective offices on the occasion of Prohibition Day on November 26. They will also have to submit a signed pledge to adhere to the liquor ban. This is not the first time that Bihar government employees are being administered such an oath and told to give an undertaking. It has been done four times since Nitish imposed prohibition in April 2016 by bringing a law, considered “draconian” by legal experts for having harsh punishments such as the death sentence. However, the difference this time is that the oath will be to never drink or indulge in related activities till death. The signed pledges will be stamped by the head or in-charge of the respective offices and kept as records. Several government employees wondered how the oath would help curb rampant smuggling, manufacturing, trade and consumption of illicit liquor in the state when it did not have any impact earlier. “The chief minister has some mercy left, so he did not ask us to make our family members also take the oath against drinking. But who knows, he might do it next year. Repeated oaths have been administered but liquor proliferation has only increased. We have even seen police officers selling liquor from police stations or their houses,” a senior government official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. Another official pointed out that the need to administer repeated oaths was proof of the failure of prohibition. The BJP has upped the ante on the liquor ban with two of its legislators demanding its withdrawal because of its “harmful impact” on society and the state’s coffers. “The liquor ban law should be withdrawn just like the farm laws have been taken back. Whatever Nitish Kumarji had thought about the 13 crore people of Bihar has gone wrong. The enforcers and protectors have become thieves and robbers. The common people — engineers, doctors, teachers, students and hardworking men — are going to jail for consuming liquor but the mafia who sell it are not,” BJP lawmaker from Bisfi, Haribhushan Thakur Bachaul, said. Bachaul suggested alternative measures such as selling liquor legally at five times the normal rates because prohibition has only resulted in “lakhs of people and their families suffering after being arrested or implicated in cases for flouting the ban”. “The police and other enforcement agencies are in a nexus with the liquor mafia. I request the government to take back prohibition,” the MLA said. Just when leaders of Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) returned fire on Bachaul by reminding him about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appreciation of prohibition in Bihar, another BJP MLA, Kundan Kumar from Begusarai, came out against the liquor ban. “The mafia have roped in children for ‘home delivery’ of liquor in the state. An entire generation is getting destroyed. The state is also losing revenue. Use of narcotics has also skyrocketed since prohibition. A large number of people with links with the liquor mafia contested panchayat polls this time,” Kundan said. The Begusarai MLA asked why liquor was illegal and criminalised in Bihar when no such action had been taken in neighbouring Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. He urged Nitish to review the ban. Bihar has been losing Rs 5,000 crore in revenue every year because of prohibition and another Rs 20,000 crore due to the consequent fallout on allied activities, which has left a large number of people unemployed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
26-11-2021||India||Odisha: Director of ponzi firm arrested for duping investors||The economic offence wing of the Odisha crime branch on Thursday arrested one of the directors of a ponzi firm for allegedly duping investors to the tune of Rs 3 crore. The EOW in a press release said the ponzi firm director Sudarsan Senapati, absconding since 2013, was arrested on Thursday under different sections of the Odisha Protection of Interests of Depositors (in financial establishment) Act, 2011. “The above referred case has been registered on the basis of a written complaint filed by one Debendra Kumar Nayak on the allegation that M/s Akash India Multi Complex Ltd. represented through its MD Kedar Nath Sahoo and other directors had duped a large number of investors to the tune of crores in the pretext of returning high rate of interest on their deposits under various schemes launched by the company,” the release said. It said investigation has revealed that M/s Akash India Multi Complex Ltd, incorporated with Registrar of Companies, Cuttack had a registered office at Dumuduma, Khandagiri, Bhubaneswar and had branch offices at Niali, Charichhak, Puri, Astaranga, Panikoili, Bramhagiri and Jagatsinghpur in Odisha. During the investigation, it has come to light that “the accused Sudarshan Senapati along with other accused persons during 2011-2016, had collected approximately Rs 3 crore from the general public under different schemes. On the other hand, Odisha vigilance sleuths on Thursday conducted raids on the house of an assistant engineer Santosh Kumar Das posted at the Integrated Tribal Development, Baripada in Mayurbhanj district for amassing huge properties disproportionate to his known source of income. In a press release, the vigilance said during the raid on Das’s house they have seized Rs 13.6 lakh in cash. They have also found two four-storey buildings one each in Bhubaneswar and Balasore, two flats in Bhubaneswar and three plots in Balasore. The vigilance has detained Das at his residence in Baripada and he is likely to be arrested. The raid is still on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
