27-11-2021||India||Covid 19: Two South Africans test positive in Bengaluru amid threat of new variant ||Amid fears of the spread of new Covid strain 'Omicron' looming large, two South African nationals have tested positive for the coronavirus, and their samples have been sent for further tests to ascertain about the variant, a top official said on Saturday. Both of them have been quarantined and there was no need for worry, he said. "From (November) 1 to 26, a total of 94 people have come from South Africa, out of them two have tested positive for regular Covid-19. So people need not worry," Bengaluru Rural Deputy Commissioner K Srinivas, under whose jurisdiction Kempegowda International Airport comes, said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, both the infected persons have been quarantined, are being monitored by the authorities and their samples have been sent for further tests to ascertain the variant. Noting that ten countries have been identified as high risk, the DC said all those coming from there are made to compulsorily undergo tests, and those tested positive are being quarantined. As many as 584 people have arrived in Bengaluru from ten high-risk nations from November one to 26, he said. Observing that cases of the new variants have been detected in the last one week in countries like Botswana, South Africa, Hong Kong and Israel, state Health Minister K Sudhakar earlier today said guidelines have been given to airports stating those travelling from these countries to the city have to undergo a test despite having negative Covid test report, and they will be allowed outside the airport only after testing negative. "Even after testing negative they will have to remain at home and after seven days they will have to undergo a test once again, and after getting a negative report, one can go out," he added. The new potentially more contagious B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 24, and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong, Israel and the UK. It was on Friday designated as a Variant of Concern by the WHO, which named it Omicron . A variant of concern is the WHO's top category of worrying COVID-19 variants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||PM files in aircraft worth Rs 8,000 cr to address rally but can't waive farmers' debt: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked PM Narendra Modi, saying he flies in an aircraft worth Rs 8,000 crore to address a rally but can't waive debt of farmers. Addressing her party's "Pratigya Rally" in this Bundelkhand district, she also promised debt waiver for farmers and free gas cylinders to women if the Congress comes to power in next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Targeting the PM, she accused him of doing nothing for farmers. "Do you know the income of PM's big industrialist friends? They earn Rs 10,000 crore daily and you are earning Rs 27 a day, and this government is doing nothing for you," she alleged. "Do you know the cost of the aircraft used by him? It is Rs 8,000 crore. He comes here to give a speech but your income is not raised. He comes in that aircraft but cannot waive debt of farmers," Priyanka said apparently referring to the PM's recent visit to Mahoba. "If they have money to buy aircrafts, then why not for you," she asked. "If the Congress government is formed in Uttar Pradesh, then the entire loan of farmers will be waived and women will be given three domestic gas cylinders free of cost in a year," she added. On promises made by the Congress if it comes to power in the state, she said a Bundelkhand development board having its own budget will be set up while promising a policy for mandis, industry and tourism. Priyanka, who recently visited the region to meet families of the farmers who died in queues for fertilisers, said mounting debt on them has added on to their woes. "Even the fertilizer distribution system here is not working properly," she claimed. Promising to deal with the stray cattle menace, she regretted that this problem is yet to be recognised by the government. This problem existed in 2019 but nothing has been done to redress it, she said. She also recalled the migration after the coronavirus outbreak, saying when her party arranged buses for people, the government did not take help. "Now, when they have meetings, they bring crowd in buses. When your brothers and sisters were walking back home, where was this government? Where were the buses," she asked. She further accused UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and PM Modi of indulging in false publicity. During the foundation laying ceremony of an airport in Noida's Jewar, its advertisement carried a picture of a Chinese airport without caring for truth, she said. Stressing that the people of Bundelkhand have the right over the resources in the region, she accused the PM and Adityanath of betraying them, alleging that the government has no plan for the development of the area. Priyanka also cited various works done by her party's governments in the past, stressing that the Congress is answerable to people and its intention is honest. "You have seen the BJP, they made false promises, SP looted and the BSP did nothing. Their intention has not been clear," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Covid Omicron variant: Delhi hospitals on alert, Baijal instructs officers to prepare for emergency||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal instructed senior officials to ensure strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour at public places and preparedness at hospitals to deal with any emergency situation, official sources said on Saturday.  The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in its meeting on Monday, is likely to take a call on RT-PCR testing of passengers deboarding from international flights, and quarantining of passengers from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Hong kong and other countries where a new variant of Covid has been reported, they said.  The meeting chaired by the Lt Governor will be attended by experts and civil aviation ministry representatives, sources said.  Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights coming to India from those countries which are affected by the new variant of the coronavirus.  In a tweet, he emphasised that the country had "recovered" from the COVID-19 pandemic with "great difficulty".  "I urge Hon'ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India," Kejriwal tweeted.  Modi was on Saturday briefed about the new 'Omicron' variant of the coronavirus, and he asked officials to review the plans to ease international travel restrictions in light of the "emerging new evidence".  The new variant of COVID-19, feared to have a high amount of spike mutations unseen before, has been detected in South Africa, with authorities there confirming 22 positive cases associated with it on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||64 per cent Indians want govt to reconsider decision on international flights, finds survey ||As much as 64 per cent of respondents in a survey conducted over the government's decision to allow scheduled international operations to and from India from December 15 want the Modi dispensation to reconsider it in the wake of a new Covid variant.  Conducted immediately after the government announced the resumption of scheduled international flight services, which remain suspended since March 2020 due to the pandemic, the survey carried out by the online platform LocalCircles, also revealed that some 72 per cent of Indians want the government to implement mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid at boarding as well for international travellers coming from countries with high TPR.  The government on Friday announced revising travel guidelines for international travellers. As per the latest notification issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, scheduled commercial international passenger services to and from India will resume from 15th December 2021 barring 14 countries classified as at risk .  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has categorised these international countries into three categories "not at risk", "at risk", and air bubble, with separate restrictions and bubble flight arrangements, will continue as is with some capacity changes.  The revised travel guidelines, however, come as several other countries are reimposing travel restrictions in view of the newly discovered and possibly vaccine-resistant Covid-19 variant B.1.1529, as per LocalCircles.  WHO designated this variant as a variant of concern and named it Omicron within an unusually short window of 48 hours after several scientists and epidemiologists around the world raised the red flag.  Data suggests that the variant has 32 mutations and a 500 per cent advantage over the base or alpha variant of COVID, according to the LocalCircles.  Taking cognisance of the revised guidelines for International, LocalCircles decided to conduct a survey to understand the pulse of citizens on restarting international flights from December 15, 2021, and to understand what should be the approach for international travellers coming from these countries, it said.  The survey received over 16,000 responses from citizens resident over 309 districts of the country.  Of this, 66 per cent of respondents were men while the remaining 34 per cent were women. Besides, 49 per cent of respondents were from tier-I, 33 per cent from Tier-II and the remaining 2 per cent were from tier-II/IV and rural districts.  The first question asked citizens if the Government of India needs to reconsider starting international flights from Dec 15.  In response, 64 per cent of citizens said Yes, better to be safe than sorry, while 25 per cent of citizens said that it is important to restart international flights and 11 per cent couldn't say anything, according to LocalCircles. `  The government had exempted travellers from 99 countries from mandatory quarantine requirements and instituted a mandatory RT-PCR test at arrival. Recently, a stringent screening and tracking requirement has been put in place for countries classified at risk by India which includes South Africa, Hong Kong and several others, LocalCircles said.  However, according to citizens, the overall risk from international flights has risen post the identification of this new variant and increased risk mitigation is the need of the hour if international flights are to continue.  The question in the survey asked citizens, Given the new variant B.1.1.529 and a recent major increase in Covid cases in many countries around the world, what should be India's approach towards travellers from these countries?  In response, 51 per cent of citizens said, Continue with current rules and permit them without quarantine but require an RT-PCR test within 24 hours before boarding and upon arrival, it said.  Breaking down the poll, LocalCircles said, 21 per cent said permit travellers from these countries but implement RT-PCR at boarding and arrival and implement a 14-day mandatory quarantine.  Further, 14 per cent said the government should continue with current rules and permit travellers from these countries without quarantine , and 12 per cent said temporary suspend all existing flights from countries with TPR of 2 per cent or higher while 2 per cent did not have an opinion.  On an aggregate basis, 72 per cent of respondents want the government to implement mandatory RT-PCR testing at boarding and arrival for international travellers coming from countries with high COVID test positivity rates, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Rajnath Singh takes a dig at Akhilesh and Mayawati in UP||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh here on Saturday said Uttar Pradesh does not want "bua or babua", apparently referring to BSP supremo Mayawati and Samajwadi Pary chief Akhilesh Yadav.  The state wants only "baba", he added referring to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at a convention of BJP booth presidents here, just months ahead of the UP Assembly polls.  On the occasion, Rajnath also slammed the Congress, accusing it of not taking any strict measure to check terrorism after the Mumbai attack on November 26 in 2008.  "The state does not want 'bua' and 'babua'. It only wants 'baba'," he said addressing BJP workers.  About the Congress, he said its senior leader Manish Tewari has written in his book that his party's government did not take the required action after the Mumbai attack.  "After our government was formed, terrorism is completely under control. Terrorists are being killed on the border," Rajnath claimed.  "We will not disturb anyone, but if someone disturbs us, we will also not leave them," he said speaking on the country's security.  He also praised the tenure of Yogi Adityanath for development, employment generation, social harmony and crime-free environment.  On this occasion, Adityanath said people should not forget the elements responsible for the Partition of the country.  "These are the same people who attacked the faith through riots when they were in power before 2017. They had hindered the development of the state by spreading corruption," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Pak using drones to drop explosives, ours meant to serve humanity: Union minister||Unlike Pakistan which uses drones to drop weapons and further terrorism in Indian territory, India uses its drones to serve humanity, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Saturday at the launch of operations of an unmanned aeriel vehicle to deliver COVID-19 vaccines to areas along the international border in Jammu and Kashmir. The indigenously built medium-class multicopter unmanned ariel vehicle (UAV) took off from the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine Complex here and successfully delivered 50 vials of COVID-19 vaccines along with syringes to a public health centre in Jammu's Marh area near the India-Pakistan border. "Pakistan is using drones to drop explosives to cause harm to human life and further terrorism, but our drone will act as a carrier of 'Sanjeevani Boti' for the betterment of humanity and is going with a message of peace," Singh, who is Union minister of state in the Prime Minister's office, said. He said health workers engaged in COVID-19 vaccination are facing problems in reaching families in remote and mountainous regions, and difficult terrains of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and elsewhere. The use of this type of drones will be of great help and also aid in fulfilling the government's resolve of 100 per cent vaccination, Singh said. The GPS-guided beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) Octacopter UAV has been developed by the National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL), a constituent of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and has a range of 55 kilometres, an official said, adding that it can carry a payload of 20 kilograms. The UAV is integrated with a powerful on board embedded computer and latest generation sensors for versatile applications like agricultural pesticide spraying, crop monitoring, mining survey and magnetic geo-survey mapping, he said. On restrictions on use of drones in Jammu and Kashmir, the minister said there is no need to be concerned as all necessary security measures have been taken and permissions sought from authorities concerned. The civil aviation ministry had granted conditional permission to CSIR-NAL for conducting BVLOS flight trials on September 13. Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a spurt in drone activities from Pakistan over the past one year with terrorists using the technology to drop bombs at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu in June. Following the bombing, authorities ordered ban on storage, sale or possession, use and transport of the flying machines in various districts. Singh, who is also the vice president of CSIR, said it is a proud moment for the country as the Mangalore-born drone will be used as a new "Covid-warrior" in the fight against the pandemic. "After the country reached the successful milestone of 100 crore vaccinations under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he came out with the 'Har Ghar Dastak' Covid-19 inoculation campaign. This device will prove very beneficial in this direction as we will be successful in reaching families which are living in the remotest region and mountainous areas," the Union minister said. He said some days back, a trial of the BVLOS UAV was conducted in Bhaderwah valley of the hilly Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir, and "vaccines were dropped successfully within half an hour which otherwise would have taken three hours." The UAV is made out of light weight carbon fiber and is a foldable structure that allows ease of transportation. It has unique features like autonomous guidance with advanced flight instrumentation systems, the official said. The UAV can fly at an operational altitude of 500 metres above ground level and at a maximum speed of 36 kmph, he said. Its regulatory compliance includes DGCA-NPNT, geo fencing and digital sky with 360 degree collison avoidance making it one of the best UAV in its class, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Unidentified persons conducted recce of my residence, claims Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday claimed that some unidentified persons tried to conduct a recce of his residence in Mumbai and also tried to gather information about himself and his family members. He also alleged that some Central agencies are trying to implicate him in false cases. Addressing a press conference here, Malik said he will file a formal complaint with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale in this regard. "I have proof that my house and my family members are being watched. When I was in Dubai last week, two persons with a camera tried to conduct a recce of my residence. They were trying to collect information about my home, schools, office, grandchildren. When they were stopped by some people and questioned, they fled," Malik alleged. He also claimed that one of the two persons writes against him on Koo handle. Malik, also a spokesperson of the Nationalist Congress Party, further claimed that some officers from Central investigating agencies were preparing a Whatsapp draft of a complaint against him to be sent through email. "I have proof of Whatsapp chats about this. If Central agencies are planning to lodge false cases against ministers then this is a serious matter and it will not be tolerated," he said. Malik has been targetting the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede after the anti-drugs agency raided a cruise ship and claimed to have recovered some contrabands last month. Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan and others were arrested in connection with this case. They were later granted bail by the Bombay High Court. Malik had claimed that the raid conducted by the NCB was a ploy to extort money from Aryan Khan and this conspiracy was hatched by a purported BJP functionary of which Wankhede was part.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Govt to introduce bill in Lok Sabha on Monday to repeal contentious farm laws||To repeal the three contentious farm laws, the government on Monday will introduce in Lok Sabha a new bill, which states that though "only a small group of farmers are protesting" against these legislations, the need of the hour is to take along everyone for inclusive growth. The bill has been listed for introduction and passage in Lok Sabha on the first day of the Winter Session of Parliament on Monday. The bill was passed by the Union Cabinet after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an announcement that all three farm laws will be repealed in the Winter Session. The bill will be introduced by the Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in the house. The ruling BJP and main opposition party Congress have issued whips to their MPs to be present on the day. "Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar will move for leave to introduce a Bill to repeal the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodites (Amendment) Act, 2020 and to amend the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Also to introduce the bill," Lok Sabha's list of business for November 29, states. Despite the prime minister's surprise announcement to repeal the bills, farmers' unions have announced that they will continue with their protest until their other demands are not met. However, they have called off their proposed tractor March to Parliament on Monday. "To enable the farmers to sell their produce at higher prices and benefit from technological improvements, farmers have been provided access to agriculture markets which will help them increase their income. With this objective three farm laws...were enacted, as a part of the government's endeavour to improve the condition of farmers including small and marginal farmers," the bill to repeal three farm laws states. It also says that even though "only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws, the government has tried hard to sensitise the farmers on the importance of the farm laws and explain the merits through several meetings and other forums". Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to farmers, new avenues were provided for trade of their produce, the proposed legislation states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Aircel-Maxis case: Court summons P Chidambaram, son Karti on December 20||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the chargesheets filed by the CBI and the ED against former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti in the Aircel-Maxis case and summoned them on December 20. Special Judge MK Nagpal passed the order after noting that there was sufficient evidence to summon Chidambaram and the other accused in the corruption and money-laundering cases lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) respectively. The CBI and ED had earlier informed the court that letters rogatory were sent to the United Kingdom and Singapore, seeking certain information regarding the probe, and there were some developments in that regard. Letters rogatory are formal communication in writing sent by the court in which action is pending to a foreign court, requesting judicial assistance. The most common remedies sought by letters rogatory are service of process and the taking of evidence. While the ED was represented by Special Public Prosecutor N K Matta, advocate Noor Rampal appeared for the CBI. The cases relate to alleged irregularities in the grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval in the Aircel-Maxis deal. The approval was granted in 2006 when Chidambaram was the Union finance minister. The CBI and the ED had alleged that as the finance minister, Chidambaram had granted approval to the deal beyond his capacity, benefitting certain persons, and received kickbacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||TMC 'disinterested' to coordinate with Congress in winter session of Parliament||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday said it is "disinterested" in coordinating with the Congress during the upcoming winter session of Parliament but maintained that it would cooperate with other Opposition camps on various issues concerning people's interest, a party leader said on Saturday. The TMC "most probably will not attend" the Ppposition parties' meeting convened by Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on November 29, he said. The TMC's rebuttal to the Congress came days after Kharge, the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, had said the grand old party would coordinate with all Opposition camps, including the TMC, during the winter session. Amid the strained relationship between the two, the TMC advised the Congress that it should have "proper internal coordination and set their own house in order". "We are disinterested in coordinating with the Congress during the winter session. Congress leaders should first coordinate among themselves. They should set their own house in order and then think about coordinating with other camps," a senior TMC leader privy to the party's decision told PTI on condition of anonymity. Asked whether the TMC would coordinate with other Opposition parties, he said, "We will raise several issues concerning the people's interest and will coordinate with them. We most probably will not attend the Opposition parties' meeting convened by the Congress." Speaking about aversion to the Congress in the fight against the BJP, he said, "their leaders lack the determination to take on the saffron camp". The TMC will hold its national coordination committee meeting on November 29 at West Bengal Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee's residence here. The party will discuss various issues, including its strategy in the winter session of Parliament, the TMC leader said. Mamata, in July, was unanimously chosen as the chairperson of the TMC parliamentary party. TMC's Rajya Sabha party leader Derek O' Brien, while listing out the topics that the party would raise during the winter session, said the issues "self-select themselves". "The issues to be taken in the winter session of Parliament self-select themselves. For example, we will raise the issues of repealing farm laws, legislation to ensure MSP, extension of tenures of ED and CBI directors, BSF's increased jurisdiction, weakening of the federal structure, fuel prices and bank privatisation," he said. The Trinamul Congress has been up in arms over the Congress' alleged failure to fight against the BJP. Recently, it had termed the Congress as an "incapable and incompetent" party and asserted that Mamata Banerjee-led TMC can't be blamed for their leaders jumping the ship. Last month, the relationship between the two camps reached a new low after Mamata's party took a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, wondering whether the Congress would erase it through a Twitter trend. The bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC was strained recently after the latter's mouthpiece Jago Bangla claimed that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
27-11-2021||India||Farmers defer Parliament march two days before tabling of farm laws repeal bill ||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has suspended its November 29 tractor march to Parliament and it will hold a meeting next month to decide its future course of action, farmer leaders said on Saturday. The decision to suspend the march comes two days ahead of the commencement of the Winter Session of Parliament, during which a bill to repeal three central farm laws is slated to be introduced. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions protesting against the laws for the past one year, also said it wants an assurance in Parliament on their demand for a legislation guaranteeing farmers Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their crops. SKM leader Darshan Pal, while addressing a press conference, said, "We are suspending the Parliament march on Monday. We had written to the prime minister for withdrawal of cases against farmers, allotment of land for building a memorial for farmers who lost their lives (during the protest), suspension of Ajay Mishra Teni' from the Union Cabinet over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, along with other issues." He said that a reply is awaited and SKM will hold another meeting on December 4. The SKM also demanded that the government should initiate a dialogue with them in a respectful way. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the three farm laws would be withdrawn. Though farmer unions have welcomed the government's move, they said their protest would continue until the laws are totally and formally withdrawn and other demands, including legal guarantee of MSP, are met.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||South Africa arrivals to undergo quarantine, genome sequencing at Mumbai airport||Amid growing concerns over the new variant of Coronavirus, all passengers arriving at Mumbai airport from South Africa will be quarantined, the city's mayor said on Saturday. If found positive, genome sequencing of passengers will also be done, the mayor said, according to a report by NDTV. The move for genome sequencing amid worries over the new variant, called Omicron, comes after several nations announced flight bans on South Africa arrivals. "There are concerns in Mumbai about the new variant of coronavirus. Genome sequencing of (positive) passengers coming from South Africa will be done. There is no restriction on outbound flights in any way. But this decision has been taken keeping in view past experience," Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said today. "There is an increased risk of COVID-19 in other nations, so those coming from abroad will have to undergo genome test. I request everyone to maintain social distancing and wear masks so that this new menace can be stopped," Pednekar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||Bengaluru-Patna flight makes emergency landing at Nagpur airport due to engine glitch||A Patna-bound GoAir flight from Bengaluru with 139 passengers on board made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport on Saturday after suffering a glitch in one of the engines an official said. The flight made a safe landing at the airport at 11.15 am, the official said. "The pilot of the GoAir flight contacted Nagpur ATC to inform that one of the engines of the plane is facing a problem, and made a request for emergency landing at Nagpur airport," director of the airport, Abid Ruhi, told PTI. There were 139 passengers on board apart from the crew members, he said. "We made all requisite arrangements by declaring it as full-scale emergency, which includes making available runways, fire tenders, doctors, ambulances and requires coordination with the police. Fortunately, the flight made a safe landing," Ruhi said. The passengers are waiting at the GoAir terminal and further arrangements are being done for them, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||All political parties in Goa in cahoots with BJP, alleges Mahua||Trinamul Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra on Saturday alleged that all political parties in Goa were in cahoots with the ruling BJP, and also accused the Congress of doing nothing all these years. Addressing a press conference, Moitra also slammed BJP chief J P Nadda, saying that since his party was rejected in West Bengal, he was targeting the TMC in Goa. The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC has decided to contest the Assembly polls in BJP-ruled Goa, which is just a few months away. "All the parties in Goa are in cahoots together...If you want to defeat the BJP, the Congress has not done nothing all these years," she said. "(Senior Congress leader) P Chidambaram coming here one day and walking on the road is not going to do something. I am here everyday. Chidambaram comes here for a day and goes," TMC's Lok Sabha member said. She was referring to the Congress's rally against inflation taken out recently in the state, in which Chidambaram, who is Congress's election observer for Goa, took part. Moitra talked about three issues in Goa - destruction of environment for three linear projects in Mollem forest area, renovation of Kala Academy project and illegal structure at archaeologically protected area of Old Goa. She said that all the political parties in Goa have not done anything on these issues. "Congress raises every issue, but we have not seen sustained question and answers from them," she alleged. Moitra said that TMC is here to question the BJP in a sustained manner and put pressure on it. "TMC will raise these issues in Parliament," she stated. When asked about Nadda's recent statement against the TMC over its rule in West Bengal, Moitra asked, "J P Nadda ji hai kaun? (Who is J P Nadda?)...He is president of some national party, why should we comment on him." Nadda, during his recent visit to Goa, had alleged that the law and order situation in West Bengal is deteriorating under the Mamata Banerjee government. Moitra further said, "Nadda went to Bengal and made accusations. But what happened? People of Bengal rejected him. Now, he can't go to Bengal, so he is commenting in Goa. So why should I comment on some other party's national president? I wish him good luck."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||Mayawati condemns murder of Dalit family in UP's Prayagraj||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) President Mayawati on Saturday termed the recent murder of four members of a Dalit family in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj as shameful and blamed the poor law and order situation under the BJP government for the incident. In a series of tweets in Hindi, the BSP chief said, "Very sad and shameful murder of four people of a Dalit family in Prayagraj, UP recently. This incident also shows the poor law and order of the government. It seems that the BJP is also following in the footsteps of the SP government in this matter." In a related tweet, she said, "After this incident, a BSP delegation led by Babulal Bhanwra that had reached there said 'dabangs' (gangsters) in Prayagraj are terrorising the people due to which the murder happened." The BSP demands that the government should take strict legal action against all the gangsters who are guilty of this crime, the former chief minister said. Four members of a Dalit family were brutally murdered in Gohri village under Phaphamau police station area of Prayagraj district on Wednesday night. The head of the family, around 50; his 45-year-old wife, 16-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son were sleeping in the house when the incident happened. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had visited the village and met the bereaved family in Prayagraj on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||India's total active cases down to 1,07,019, lowest in 541 days||India saw a single-day rise of 8,318 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,63,749, while the active cases have declined to 1,07,019, the lowest in 541 days, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,67,933 with 465 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 50 continuous days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 153 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 1,07,019 comprising 0.31 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.34 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 3,114 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.86 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 54 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.88 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 13 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,88,797, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.35 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 121.06 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 465 new fatalities, include 388 from Kerala and 34 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling COVID-19 deaths for the past few days resulting in a high death tally in the state. For Maharashtra, the total cases came down by 1,234 after reconciliation of positive cases while comparing data with the COVID portal due to omission of duplicate cases in certain districts and corporations. A total of 4,67,933 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,891 from Maharashtra, 39,125 from Kerala, 38,193 from Karnataka, 36,443 from Tamil Nadu, 25,095 from Delhi, 22,909 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,439 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||Omicron: PM asks officials to review plans for easing of international travel restrictions amid global concerns||Amid mounting global concerns over new coronavirus strain 'Omicron', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday stressed the need to be proactive and directed officials to review plans for easing of international travel restrictions in light of the "emerging new evidence".  Modi, who chaired a comprehensive meeting to review the situation related to COVID-19 and vaccination in the country, was briefed by top health officials about 'Omicron', described by WHO as a "variant of concern", with its characteristics and the impact seen in various countries.  Its implications for India were also discussed during the meeting, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement.  A World Health Organisation panel has named the new COVID strain 'omicron' and classified it as a highly transmissible variant of concern, the same category that includes the delta variant.  During the meeting which lasted for about two hours, Prime Minister Modi spoke about the need to be proactive in light of the new variant and urged people to be more cautious and take proper precautions like masking up and maintaining social distance, the PMO said.  The Prime Minister highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified 'at risk'.  He also asked "officials to review plans for easing of international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence", the statement said.  Modi's directive to officials comes a day after the Civil Aviation Ministry announced the resumption of scheduled international flights to and from India from December 15 after 20 months of coronavirus-induced suspension.  India's decision to resume scheduled international passenger flights has come at a time when various countries such as Britain, Germany, Singapore, Israel, France and Italy have restricted air travel from southern Africa where the cases of new coronavirus variant of serious health implications have been reported.  However, the countries deemed 'at risk' of COVID-19 by the Union Health Ministry will be allowed to operate only a certain percentage of their pre-Covid scheduled flights, the Aviation Ministry stated.  The Centre on Thursday asked all states and union territories to conduct rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana, where the variant has been detected.  In a tweet after the meeting, Modi said, "reviewed the COVID-19 and vaccination-related situation. In light of the new variant, we remain vigilant, with a focus on containment and ensuring increased second dose coverage."  During the meeting, the Prime Minister was also given an overview of the sequencing efforts in the country and the variants circulating in the country, the statement said.  Modi directed that genome sequencing samples be collected from international travellers and community as per norms, tested through the network of labs already established under the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) and early warning signals identified for Covid-19 management, the statement said.  Prime Minister Modi also spoke about the need to increase the sequencing efforts and make it more broad-based.  Officials briefed the Prime Minister about the global trends on coronavirus infections and highlighted that countries across the world have experienced multiple COVID-19 surges since the onset of the pandemic.  The PM also reviewed the situation in the country relating to COVID-19 cases and test positivity rates, the PMO said.  Modi was also apprised of the progress in vaccination and the efforts being made under the 'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign, and he directed that there is a need to increase the second dose coverage.  He also stressed that states need to be sensitised on the need to ensure that all those who have gotten the first dose of the COVID vaccine are given the second dose timely.  Officials also apprised Modi of the sero-positivity in the country from time to time, and its implications in public health response.  The Prime Minister also directed officials to work closely with state governments to ensure that there is proper awareness at the state and district level.  He told officials that intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and required technical support be provided to states which are reporting higher cases presently, the PMO said.  Emphasising that awareness needs to be created about ventilation and air-borne behaviour of the virus, Modi instructed officials to coordinate with states to ensure that there are adequate buffer stocks of various medicines, the statement said.  He also asked officials to work with the states to review the functioning of medical infrastructure including pediatric facilities.  During the meeting, officials also briefed the Prime Minister that they are following a facilitative approach to newer pharmaceutical products.  Prime Minister Modi also asked officials to coordinate with states to ensure the proper functioning of PSA oxygen plants and ventilators.  Among others, the meeting was attended by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, NITI Aayog, Member (Health) Dr VK Paul, Home Secretary A K Bhalla, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary (Biotechnology) Rajesh Gokhale, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava and Principal Scientific Advisor to the government of India K Vijay Raghavan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||India steps up vigil as alarm grows over new heavily mutated Covid-19 Variant  ||India has stepped up screening of travellers arriving from abroad amid mounting worries about a new, fast-spreading Coronavirus variant that’s moving rapidly from southern Africa to other countries around the globe and that may be able to evade prior immunity better than earlier strains. The World Health Organization late Friday designated the variant, to which it had assigned the Greek letter Omicron under its classification system, as a highly transmissible virus “of concern.” Stock markets in India and other parts of the world tumbled and commodity prices slid on the back of widespread fears that the new b.1.1.529 variant could hit economic growth just as the global economy is showing signs of recovery. India has imposed travel restrictions on passengers from southern African countries and has said it will maintain “high vigilance levels” at airports. It has also ordered states to send test samples to Insacog (the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics). "Potentially, it can be worse than the (highly infectious) Delta variant. It’s probably spreading faster than Delta. So it may be breaking through vaccination-induced immunity,” says Dr Jacob John, a top virologist and former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore. No cases of the new variant have been detected in India so far. The government has asked states and Union territories to conduct rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through affected regions – South Africa, Botswana, Hong Kong and elsewhere. 'Seems to be spreading quickly' It is not known yet if Omicron is more lethal than earlier variants. But Tulio de Oliveira, director of the Centre for Epidemic Response & Innovation in South Africa, tweeted that the new variant “seems to spread very quickly. In less than two weeks, it now dominates all infections following a devastating Delta wave in South Africa.” The Delta variant originated in India and drove the country’s catastrophic second Covid-19 wave. It is currently the most prevalent worldwide. Besides South Africa and Botswana, other countries including Belgium and Israel have reported cases and are considering strong action to curb infections. Israel’s new prime minister Naftali Bennett said his country was on the verge of declaring a state of emergency. Two cases have been reported in Hong Kong. India so far has decided to screen and test all international passengers arriving from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa, Hong Kong and Israel. Omicron has rung alarm bells around the world because it has around 50 mutations, out of which 32 are in the spike region. That’s where the virus attaches to human cells and also where vaccines focus to block the infection. Evades existing vaccines? Imperial College London virologist Dr Tom Peacock said Omicron has an “incredibly high amount of spike mutations”. These 32 mutations, coupled with its extremely long branch length, could make it very difficult for the existing COVID-19 vaccines to combat this variant. Due to the high number of mutations, the variant is the most significantly different to the one that surfaced in China in late 2019, sparking the pandemic. "It is the most heavily mutated version of the virus we have seen to date. This variant carries some changes we've seen previously in other variants but never all together in one virus. It also has novel mutations," said Lawrence Young, a virologist at the UK’s Warwick Medical School. Young called the variant "very worrying." Travel bans in Europe European countries, which are fighting a resurgence of the Delta variant, have announced travel bans on travellers arriving from southern Africa. The UK has suspended all flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho and Eswatini. Singapore, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Israel, Jordan have all announced curbs on travellers from the African region. The European Union is also planning to ban flights from South Africa. The US will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other countries starting Monday. Says John: “There is an immunity breakthrough potential so it has to be watched. Until we know more I don’t think we need to be anxious but we should be cautious.” John says the government needs to give increased heed to getting vaccinations done and also giving booster shots. He adds: “It is a wake-up call for increasing our vaccination coverage so that people will be protected. Some 82 per cent of the eligible population over 18 is single-jabbed while 44 per cent have received both vaccinations. Some 17 crore people though have yet to receive their first injection." Alarm about the new variant sent the Bombay Stock Exchange tumbling 1,687 points or nearly three per cent with companies across sectors losing ground on Friday. In New York, the Dow Jones Index also fell sharply by 879 points or 2.46 per cent. Markets in Asia and Europe also fell sharply. Oil prices also dipped with worries that a further round of Covid-19 would impact economic growth. Dramatic surge in cases One South African official said the country has seen a “dramatic and exponential” rise in new infections over the last four or five days, where “the new variant appears to be driving the spike in cases”. Covid-19 infections have leapt in the last week from 200 new cases a day to 1,200 on November 24 and 2,645 on November 25. Because Omicron “can be detected by a normal test… it will make it easy for the world to track it,” said South Africa’s Oliveira. “We estimate that 90 per cent of the cases in (the South African province)  Gauteng” are the Omicron variant, he tweeted. Omicron has cropped up in cases mainly involving young people who are the least vaccinated in South Africa. Health experts are particularly concerned about Omicron's impact on treatment and on the efficacy of current vaccines in protecting against Covid-19. “We have every indication that the vaccines are still effective in preventing severe disease and or complications,” said a South African government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||Communal torture: SC to examine petition seeking police action||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine a petition seeking police action and protection, filed by an elderly Delhi resident who alleged that he was abused, assaulted, stripped and robbed by four men inside a car in Noida in July only because he was “visibly Muslim”. Kazeem Ahmad Sherwani has told the court he has received no help in the past four months from the police, who have told him not to “politicise” the matter by calling it a hate crime based on religious identity. He said he and his family felt traumatised, not only because the attack had been on their “very identity as equal citizens of this country” but also by the refusal of law enforcement to even recognise it as a hate crime. Sherwani, 62, has urged the court to have the perpetrators arrested and provide him with protection since he fears a threat to his life. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravi Kumar requested that the matter be placed before Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, whose bench is already hearing petitions seeking action against those who deliver hate speeches. The apex court asked senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi to ensure that copies of the petition were served on the state of Uttar Pradesh, where Noida is located, and other authorities concerned. Sherwani, a resident of Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, said the incident took place on July 4, but instead of registering an FIR, Uttar Pradesh police were pressuring his family not to “politicise” the matter. According to Sherwani, he is “visibly Muslim” inasmuch as he wears a beard and a skullcap and his attire makes his identity as a practising Muslim obvious. Sherwani said he had “always felt secure in his Muslim identity in his own motherland”. “On the morning of July 4, 2021”, he had gone to Noida’s Sector 37 to catch a bus to Aligarh when the driver of a white van offered him a lift. Sherwani said he had felt grateful and offered to pay the driver. He saw three men in the rear seats. When he tried to take an empty seat in the middle row, the men told him to get into the back row. Two men were already seated in the back row and Sherwani said he felt uncomfortable, but by then he had been pushed inside and blocked from all sides. He felt trapped and said he wanted to get out, but they forcibly pulled him back and the driver centrally locked the doors. “The petitioner was heinously tortured over the next 15 minutes. He was attacked and repeatedly called a ‘mullah’ and many other derogatory words related to his religious identity. He was told that ‘mullahs’ had no right to remain in this country. He was humiliated: his beard was pulled by the perpetrators, and then he was stripped and insulted about his circumcision,” the petition, filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rahman, states. “He was physically attacked while being called a ‘mullah’, threatened that he would be blinded with a screwdriver, and finally hit with it on the nose. He was also looted and abused. The incident of that day has left the petitioner and his family completely traumatised because it attacked their very identity as equal citizens of this country.” Sherwani was thrown out of the car after being driven around for around 15 minutes. “Just before they pushed him out, one of the perpetrators also grabbed his purse and took his money, amounting to about Rs 1,200,” the petition says. Sherwani’s ordeal allegedly did not end here. He says that when he regained consciousness, he was helped by a stranger who put him on a rickshaw and sent him to Gautam Buddha Nagar police station in Sector 37. Sherwani said the policemen present there only asked his name, address and his father’s name but did not take down his complaint. They refused to even hear the complaint, the petitioner alleged. Neither did the cops offer any medical help. Sherwani then visited the home of a niece, who is a doctor in Delhi’s Okhla, and received medical aid. According to the petitioner, the local media reported the attack on him over the course of the day. Around 1.30am on July 5, a posse of policemen from Uttar Pradesh visited the home of Sherwani’s niece. Instead of recording Sherwani’s statement, the cops tried to convince him and his family that they were blowing the incident out of proportion, according to the petition. Without taking down his complaint, they declared this was not a hate crime but only a roadside robbery, and that the money snatched from him would be retrieved. Since then, Sherwani claimed, he has received several telephone calls from Noida police urging the family not to explore the hate crime angle and “needlessly politicise” the matter. Sherwani wrote to the police commissioner and district magistrate of Noida on July 6, informing them of the hate crime. “However, no action was taken to the knowledge of the petitioner,” the petition says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||India to resume scheduled international flights from Dec 15||Scheduled international flights to and from India will resume on December 15 after a gap of around 20 months. The resumption of flights will be based on the coronavirus risk levels of individual countries, according to a government order. The aviation ministry’s order has divided countries into three groups on the basis of the Union health ministry’s Covid analysis. Countries not at risk: Flights in line with bilateral air service agreements or the pre-Covid schedule. This group includes the US and Canada. Countries at risk but with which India has an air bubble agreement: Flights to be kept at 75 per cent of pre-Covid times. Countries at risk and with which India does not have an air bubble: 50 per cent of pre-Covid times. As of now, the health ministry’s list of countries at risk include those in Europe — including the UK — South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and Singapore. India has air bubbles with several of these countries like those in the EU, the UK and Mauritius. The UK, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and Singapore are the 14 countries that are high-risk either because of a resurgent Covid wave or the number of active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
27-11-2021||India||New coronavirus variant sparks fear among health authorities ||A new coronavirus variant first detected in Botswana earlier this month has stirred concern among scientists and health authorities across the world because of its unusually large count and class of mutations and speed of spread. The variant designated B.1.1.529 — and expected to get a Greek letter tag from the World Health Organisation — has mutations that appear to make the virus stronger against the human immune system than earlier strains, researchers said. Amid the emergence and global spread of multiple Covid-19 variants — alpha, beta, gamma and delta — over the past year, scientists have been speculating whether the coronavirus could mutate sufficiently, making itself fitter and stronger — something like a supervirus. Over the past two weeks, B.1.1.529 has also spread in South Africa frighteningly faster than earlier variants, including the delta variant that was first spotted in India last year and had fuelled the country’s deadly second wave, while simultaneously spreading worldwide. Botswana’s health authorities have said four cases of the B.1.1.529 variant detected in the country earlier this week had been fully vaccinated against Covid-19, an indication that the variant can cause breakthrough infections. The variant has prompted countries worldwide, including India, to announce stricter border controls in different ways. The Indian health ministry had on Thursday asked states to ensure rigorous screening and testing of travellers arriving from all “at-risk” countries. In just two weeks, the proportions of B.1.1.529 among genomes sequenced in South Africa have shot up from 0 per cent to more than 75 per cent, suggesting that it is outcompeting delta, which had caused a devastating third wave in that country. Scientists have documented over 50 mutations in B.1.1.529’s whole genome, including 30 in its critical spike protein that the virus uses to enter human cells and that is also the target for several Covid-19 vaccines. Among the 30 spike mutations, 10 are on the so-called receptor binding domain that the virus uses to dock with molecular gateways on human cells. In contrast, the delta variant had two mutations in the receptor binding domain. “We know some mutations (on B.1.1.529) can impact transmissibility and immune evasion, but many others have been rarely observed until now and are not well characterised,” said Tulio de Oliveira, director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation, South Africa. “So the full significance is uncertain,” he said during a media briefing on Thursday. Researchers caution that the full impact of the mutations seen on B.1.1.529 remains unclear. “Disease severity is what is most critical from the public health standpoint — and nothing is known for B.1.1.529 yet on this,” said Vinod Scaria, a doctor turned genomics researcher at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. Scaria and his colleagues have for over a year been cataloguing mutations on the coronavirus, including those associated with immune escape capabilities. But many virologists believe that B.1.1.529 is very worrying. “It is the most heavily mutated version of the virus we have seen to date,” said Lawrence Young, a virologist at the University of Warwick in the UK. “Some of the mutations that are similar to changes we’ve seen in other variants of concern are associated with enhanced transmissibility with partial resistance to immunity induced by vaccination or natural infection,” Young said. Reports from health authorities in Botswana, Hong Kong and Israel suggest that B.1.1.529 “can indeed cause” breakthrough infections, Scaria said on Twitter on Friday. Evidence from India has shown that the delta variant too can cause breakthrough infections. But researchers caution that it is too early to forecast the implications of B.1.1.529 on the current vaccines. Ravindra Gupta, a professor of clinical microbiology at the University of Cambridge in the UK, said in a tweet that he believed “there will be vaccine protection”, though it would depend on an arm of the immune system involving so-called T cell immune response. “This needs to be tested experimentally and will take some weeks. Still need to vaccinate and boost, now with added urgency,” he wrote, referring to the need for fully vaccinated people to be administered booster shots. But health experts say that first and second doses to the eligible populations should be the priority over booster shots. India, where about 45 per cent of adults have been fully vaccinated so far, has not yet announced a policy on boosters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Constitution Day: CJI extolls 'debate and discussion'||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Friday extolled “debate and discussion” and tied it to India’s progress while Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested the country’s growth story was being disrupted “in the name of freedom of expression”. The Opposition has been accusing the government of railroading bills through Parliament without proper discussion, such as with the triple farm laws and labour reforms. “The Constitution of today, built upon the foundations laid by the framers, is a richer and more complex document than what it was when it was adopted in 1949. This is a result of the dialogue that took place both inside and outside the courtroom, resulting in novel and unique interpretations,” the Chief Justice said at the Constitution Day celebrations organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association on the apex court lawns. “Perhaps, the most important feature of the Indian Constitution is that it provides a framework for debate. It is through such debate and discussion that the nation ultimately progresses, evolves, and achieves higher levels of welfare for the people. The most direct and visible players in this process are, of course, the lawyers and judges of this country.” Modi, later addressing the same event, suggested that internal and external forces with a “colonial mindset” were obstructing India’s progress, sometimes by citing the right to free speech, a PTI report said. “We are the only country that is in the process of achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement ahead of time and yet, in the name of environment, various pressures are being created on India. All this is the result of a colonial mindset,” Modi was quoted as saying. “But the unfortunate thing is that in our country, too, due to such a mindset, obstacles are being put in the path of development, sometimes in the name of freedom of expression and sometimes with the help of something else.” Almost the entire Opposition boycotted a Constitution Day event in Parliament, accusing the Modi government of undermining the Constitution. Justice Ramana, speaking at the apex court event, urged advocates to assist judges and judicial institutions in upholding constitutional values and protecting them from motivated attacks. “We are all ultimately part of one large family. Protect the institution from motivated and targeted attacks. Do not shy away from standing up for what is right, and against what is wrong,” the Chief Justice said. “I would like to quote Dr B.R. Ambedkar: ‘Men are mortal. So are ideas. An idea needs propagation as much as a plant needs water. Otherwise, both will wither and die.’ On this Constitution Day, let us all pledge to propagate the ideas that form the basis of the Constitution: freedom, equality and justice in all of (their) facets for all people. I expect all of you to guide the nation to an ever brighter future.” Justice Ramana said he was happy to be part of a legal community that had contributed heavily to the freedom struggle and the drafting of the Constitution. “None can forget the contributions of lawyers such as Mahatma Gandhi, Dr B.R. Ambedkar, Jawaharlal Nehru, Lala Lajpat Rai, Sardar Patel and Alladi Krishnaswamy Iyer, whose dedication and sacrifices for the cause of the people are legendary. All of us here are successors of that glorious legacy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Constitution Day celebration rings ‘hollow’: Congress||The Congress on Friday contended that a government event to celebrate Constitution Day meant nothing if the government deliberately undermined democracy and constitutional values. The Congress had earlier led an array of Opposition parties in boycotting a Constitution Day event at Parliament’s Central Hall, prompting an angry Prime Minister to lambast parties “run for generations by a family”. Congress spokesperson Anand Sharma defended the boycott: “It is important today to remind the government that mere observance of this day as a government function and disrespecting the spirit and essence of the Constitution is a very poor reflection on the state of affairs.” Sharma alleged that the Narendra Modi government had violated every norm and aspect of constitutional rule. Rahul Gandhi too implied that constitutional principles were not being respected under the current government. He tweeted: “Justice and rights for every citizen should be equal and the same. It is the responsibility of all of us to ensure Constitution is not reduced to a piece of paper.” Congress members, as well as activists and students across India and in some foreign countries, publicly read out the Preamble to the Constitution in protest against the Modi government’s 2019 citizenship amendment law. The Congress, which has announced a rally in Delhi on December 12 to highlight the savage rise in the prices of essentials, ran a social media campaign through the day alleging reckless subversion of the constitutional spirit under Modi’s rule. It alleged that freedom of speech was being systematically attacked, criticism of the government was being treated as sedition, democratic protests were being curbed and the participants punished, secularism and equality were being eroded, and the people’s mandate was being sabotaged through money power and coercion. Among the several messages the party posted, one said: “Our Constitution promises ‘liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship’. However, in the last seven years the Modi government has decimated this integral right. We must fight back.” Another said: “When the secular fabric of our nation begins to rip, the very DNA of India begins to fall part.” Sharma said: “Our protest is also about the manner in which the government is conducting the state of affairs, enacting laws, taking decisions. Every single constitutional institution has been subverted…. “Lawmaking has become most undemocratic and the government has now firmed up a dangerous trend to make laws through ordinance. Ordinances are brought in matters of critical importance to vast sections of our citizenship.” Sharma cited the example of the contentious farm laws that the Opposition says were passed with hardly any discussion. “These are flawed bills pushed through using the (government’s) brute majority in brazen disregard of established parliamentary principles and practices, which demand stakeholder consultation and parliamentary scrutiny,” he said. “We had warned the government when they came up with these farm laws. India saw a yearlong agitation, tension and conflict; 700 farmers died. We have protested to remind our country that the Constitution and parliamentary democracy are being undermined.” Sharma sought to answer Modi’s attack on dynastic parties, suggesting obliquely that authoritarianism posed the real threat to democracy while the bogey of dynasty was being raised to divert people’s attention. “The Prime Minister has raised certain points. He should do some introspection instead of lecturing other parties. They have been talking about dynasty for decades. But I want to remind Modi that democracy got strengthened (between) 1947 and 2014,” he said. “If dynasty posed such a threat to democracy, and the Congress didn’t uphold constitutional and democratic principles, Modi would not have become Prime Minister in 2014. He came to power because the Congress nurtured and strengthened democracy.” Sharma also highlighted the Congress’s pantheon of freedom fighters to disparage the BJP. “The RSS-BJP want to change history. They don’t remember the freedom fighters who made supreme sacrifices,” he said. “There is a reason for that. All the stalwarts — Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Maulana Azad, Rajendra Prasad, Lala Lajpat Rai — were from the Congress. Those who were in the RSS don’t have any contribution.” Sharma said the forebears of today’s BJP leaders had no role in the freedom struggle. “They aligned with the British and contributed to the attempts to crush the freedom movement.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Nothing could stop us, we won: One year of farmers' movement||At the Singhu border, Kirpal Singh showed a scar on his right leg — the legacy of a police baton. “Batons, barricades, threats, nails... nothing could stop us, we won!” said Kirpal, 57, who has been at the protest site since December last year. Farmers from across north India converged on Delhi’s borders on Friday to mark their movement’s anniversary, celebrate their success in forcing the government to agree to repeal the three contentious laws and reaffirm their determination to fight on for their remaining demands. For the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the collective leadership spearheading the agitation, the mobilisation was also an occasion to test the farmers’ mood before Saturday’s crucial meeting that is likely to chart the next course of action. This time the arriving farmers were spared the obstacles put up last year, when the first lot of protesters headed for Delhi’s borders had to brave water cannons and push past boulders placed on their way by Haryana’s BJP government. What had begun in answer to a two-day “Dilli Chalo” call by Punjab’s farmers for November 26 and 27 last year has not only stretched to a full year but has spread across the country, galvanising agricultural communities in almost every state. As a result, besides the large gatherings at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur on Delhi’s borders, protests were held in Karnataka — where farmers blocked highways — as well as Bengal, Bihar, Chhattisgarh Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. The farmer protest in India has drawn worldwide attention. The La Via Campesina — an international movement of peasants, small and medium farmers and the landless across 81 countries — issued a statement of solidarity and urged civil society the world over to express online and offline support for Indian farmers. Friday’s anniversary mobilisation had been planned before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise announcement on November 19 of a decision to repeal the three controversial farm laws. The farmers have six more demands, including a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for all farm produce. In the morning, the farmers held special prayers in tribute to those who died during the protest. A notice board outside a tent at Singhu served as a grim reminder of the sacrifices made during the protest. “732 people have died in the last one year,” it read. Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadhuni said more than 700 people would have been alive here had Modi agreed to rescind the farm laws earlier. Lakhan Singh, 45, from Barnala in Punjab was protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border when he lost his father early this year. “Having him here today would have been better. But I know his soul will be at peace now,” he said. Bhagwan Singh, 43, from Mavi village in Patiala, who lost his friend Najar Singh, 35, in the seventh month of the protest, burst into tears remembering him. “My friend, the sole breadwinner of his family, left behind three small daughters and elderly parents. We miss him,” he said. Harpreet Kaur, 45, and her husband had brought their specially abled son to Singhu border in a wheelchair. “He has been here twice. We could have left him with his grandparents, but it would not have been the right thing. He cannot convey his feelings in words, but I know he is happy,” said Kaur, from Ludhiana. On loudspeakers, farmer leaders and activists could be heard asking people not to slacken. Near the centre-stage, a group of farmers celebrated the farm law protest anniversary by donating blood. Sukhdev Bhullar, 42, from Anantpur Sahib said farmers had nourished the protest with their blood. “My blood is a tribute to all of them,” he said. “Celebrate the win but do not get carried away by it. We won’t move an inch until all our demands have been met,” farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said, iterating the demand for an MSP law and compensation for the families of the dead. Referring to the “historic agitation”, La Via Campesina said: “It is an inspirational account of what people’s power can achieve even in the most adverse conditions…. India’s farmers have inspired the world with their resilience. They have shown us what a united struggle of the working class and the peasantry can achieve even in the face of all adversities. “Over the last year, this protest has stitched alliances with workers unions and other social movements and issued inspiring messages of solidarity, communal harmony and unity among rural societies.” According to the Morcha, solidarity events are being planned in various countries. These include a “kisan demonstration” outside the Indian high commission in London on Friday, followed by an anniversary rally and vigil on Saturday, a “kisan sleep-out” in Letchworth city (England), a car rally in New York on Saturday, and a car and truck rally in California next weekend. Similar programmes have been lined up in Canada where the farmers’ movement has drawn support from the government and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The Morcha shared with the media messages of solidarity it had received from various civil society groups -- a reflection of how the movement has found wide resonance and been strengthened by its vilification at the hands of the government and its ecosystem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Trinamul Congress moves SC for urgent hearing on Tripura polls||The Trinamul Congress on Friday moved the Supreme Court alleging its Thursday’s order on ensuing “peaceful and transparent” civic polls in Tripura was violated with impunity as Opposition candidates were not allowed to enter booths and even the direction for requisitioning additional two battalions of paramilitary forces was not complied with by the state. “…There is complete mayhem…what has transpired is horrendous,” senior advocate Kapil Sibal representing Trinamul told a bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud while seeking urgent listing of the matter. However, Justice Chandrachud who was sitting with Justice A.S. Bopanna expressed inability to list the matter for urgent hearing because of non-availability of the bench which had passed the order on Thursday. Justice Surya Kant and Justice Vikramnath were part of the bench. Sibal pleaded that the matter be taken up at 4pm on Friday or at least on Saturday though the court is closed on Saturday. Justice Chandrachud said it may not be possible because of the pressing judicial work and also because of the two day tight schedule on account of the Constitution Day celebrations scheduled for Friday and Saturday. Hence, the matter may come up on Monday. In an order on Thursday, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath said: “...we direct that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to provide additional two companies of any CAPF (central armed police force) as expeditiously as possible, having due regard to the fact that polling has already commenced and in order to secure the polling booths so that polling can take place without any disturbance or dislocation.” In the absence of CCTV cameras at the polling booths, print and electronic media should be provided unhindered access, the court said. The bench had directed the DGP and the Tripura home secretary to immediately review the security arrangements and make a requisition to the Union home ministry for additional forces, if required. “We direct the State Election Commission, the director-general of police and the secretary, home affairs, Tripura, to ensure that every polling booth is manned by a sufficient strength of CAPF personnel, bearing in mind the sensitivity of the polling station and the need for a requisite number of personnel to guard the polling booths to ensure free and fair elections,” the bench said. It is these directions which Sibal alleged have been violated by the State. The AITMC and the CPM have both earlier moved the top court alleging largescale violence and intimidation of its cadre by the ruling clique and sought postponement of the elections, until foolproof security arrangements were in place for free and fair conduct of the fiercely fought civic elections in the State where Mamata and her brigade is seeking to make deep inroads into the BJP’s bastion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Karnataka: Covid-19 cases shoot up to 182 at medical college ||The number of Covid-19 cases shot up to 182 on Friday at a medical college in Karnataka’s Dharwad where a cultural festival had been held recently, while a residential school in Bangalore reported 34 infections. After 59 medical students and seven teaching staff tested positive at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital on Thursday, another 116 samples threw up a positive result on Friday as 700 more tests were conducted on students, faculty members and non-teaching staff. None of the patients, who are quarantining in two hostel blocks, have severe symptoms. All of them had taken two doses of Covid vaccine. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil told a media conference that all the 3,500 employees and students of the medical college and hospital were being tested and the results were expected by Saturday. “About 1,000 students and staff have already undergone Covid tests and we are doing the rest of the 2,500 tests today,” he said. Additional teams have been rushed from neighbouring Hubli to man the three laboratories at Dharwad where Covid tests are conducted. “We have a capacity to test 3,000 samples a day. So we will get the complete picture tomorrow (Saturday),” the officer said. “We are also doing genome sequencing to check what virus strain they have been infected with,” Patil added. The district administration has taken several steps to prevent a larger outbreak by sealing the two hostel blocks where the infected people have been kept. “We have instructed the medical college hospital not to allow any visitors, permit bystanders only for aged patients in need of assistance, and admit only emergency cases until all the results are available,” Patil said. Dharwad, 430km from Bangalore, had been reporting few cases for several days before the outbreak, which began after students and staff of the medical college hospital participated in an annual cultural festival held on the campus on November 17. The district administration on Friday kept shut all schools and anganwadi centre within a 500-metre radius of the medical college. The Dharwad health department is checking the travel history of all those who have tested positive. “The students come from all over India and they had travelled to various places during the recent holidays,” Patil said. While efforts are on to trace all primary and secondary contacts within the college campus, Patil urged all those who have come in contact with the 182 Covid patients outside to come forward and get tested. “Apart from the cultural festival on November 17, there was a wedding (at the campus auditorium) on November 19. We urge all of them to get tested immediately,” the official said. Dharwad district health officer Dr Yashwanth A. Madinkar told The Telegraph that the situation was under control. “We are maintaining full transparency in reporting the actual numbers and taking all precautions to prevent any further spread,” he said. “Before this sudden surge, Dharwad had been reporting zero to five cases daily for many days. We can easily handle this situation since we don’t have too many cases,” Madinkar said. A residential school, The International School Bangalore, reported 34 Covid cases on Friday, 33 of them students below 18 who are not eligible for vaccination and a hostel staff. Bangalore district surveillance officer Dr N. Manohar told this newspaper that only the hostel employee was fully vaccinated. “But all of them are asymptomatic and there is nothing to worry. We have tested all 497 students and staff and 67 results are awaited,” he said. While 22 students have been isolated at the school’s infirmary, the rest are quarantining at their homes. “The school will remain closed for seven days, after which we will do some more tests before taking a call on allowing physical classes,” said Manohar, who was among the officials who visited the school before sealing the campus. It is suspected that two day scholars who live in Mahadevpura, a Bangalore suburb, may have triggered the outbreak since they had attended classes with mild Covid-like symptoms. “We tested the remaining students and staff after these two students tested positive for Covid,” said a school source who declined to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Modi slams ‘dynastic parties’ of pushing country towards crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday accused “dynastic parties” of pushing the country towards a crisis and said this had become a concern for people committed to the Constitution and democracy, taking an apparent dig at the Congress and some regional parties. Modi was speaking in the Central Hall of Parliament at an event to mark Constitution Day. Over a dozen Opposition parties led by the Congress boycotted the event, accusing the government of flouting the Constitution. “India is heading towards a kind of crisis, which is a matter of concern for those who have faith in the Constitution and democracy; and this is because of dynastic parties,” Modi said. He said such parties were present from “Kashmir to Kanyakumari”, taking no names but making his principal target clear. “Party for the family, by the family... do I need to say more? If a party is run for generations by a family and the entire party system is with a family then that is the biggest problem for a healthy democracy,” the Prime Minister added. Modi, whose party is accused of being run by a duopoly of himself and Amit Shah, said the spirit of the Constitution gets “wounded” when political parties lose their democratic character. He asked how parties that lose their democratic character can protect democracy. The Prime Minister sought to distinguish between dynastic parties and dynasties in politics, aware that the BJP too had several dynasts. He said multiple members of a family joining politics on the basis of “merit” did not make their political party dynastic. “The problem arises when the party is controlled by one family for generations.” Modi and other BJP leaders have in the past too flagged the issue of dynasty rule to target the Nehru-Gandhis. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla too addressed the event, attended mostly by MPs from the BJP and its allies, with just a handful of Opposition members present. Modi betrayed his annoyance at the boycott, stressing that the event belonged not to any government or party but to all Indians governed by the Constitution. He said his government had faced protests when Constitution Day was first celebrated in 2015. ‘“Why are you doing it (hold the yearly event)? What’s the need?’ They (Opposition) had asked (the government),” Modi alleged. He added: “The day was meant to offer our respects to B.R. Ambedkar for what he did for the country.” Outside Parliament, BJP president J.P. Nadda sought to take the political attack further by accusing the Congress and other Opposition parties of “insulting Dr Ambedkar” and terming them “anti-Dalit”. In the Central Hall, Naidu urged “tolerance towards the people’s mandate”, obliquely chiding the Opposition. The Modi government in 2015 started marking November 26 as Constitution Day. On this day in 1949 the Constituent Assembly had adopted the Constitution, which came into effect on January 26, 1950. Modi invoked Mahatma Gandhi while arguing that “duties” were more important than “rights”. He claimed Gandhi had tried to prepare the country for the duties that came with freedom, while the Congress had wrongly focused on “rights”. Modi has increasingly been emphasising the supremacy of “duty” since coming to power. He recently said that people should chant the mantra of “duty, duty and only duty” for8 the next 25 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Resident docs call for strike over delay in NEET-PG counselling 2021||Resident doctors will boycott OPD (outpatient department) services from Saturday in hospitals across the country to protest the delay in counselling for admission to master’s courses, an association at a Delhi hospital and an umbrella outfit have said. The resident doctors’ association of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences and Dr RML Hospital in New Delhi and the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) have written to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya urging the government to expedite the legal process in the Supreme Court for which the counselling for postgraduate and undergraduate medical courses are on hold. The court is looking into a matter related to quotas and has made certain queries to the Centre. In identical letters, the RML Hospital association and the FORDA have warned of an escalation in protests if the matter is not addressed. Resident doctors, many of whom are studying MD and MS courses and want fresh batches to come in through counselling so that the pressure on them eases, handle much of the workload at the OPDs. The association at RML Hospital and the FORDA claim to have the support of other outfits of resident doctors across the country. The associations said resident doctors constituted the backbone of the healthcare system. “They have been waiting patiently till date for some positive outcome of the Supreme Court proceedings in matter of already delayed NEET PG 2021 counselling. However, there is no respite to their physical and mental distress, with the next court hearing scheduled on 6th January, 2022,” said the RML Hospital association letter to the health minister, signed by its president Dr Atul Krishna Tripathi. The counselling was to be held in the last week of October but the government has put the process on hold till the time clarity emerges in the court case. “To mark our protest against these repeated delay and postponement in counselling, resident doctors are going on protest from Saturday. This is a pan-India protest. We are in touch with resident doctors’ associations of all hospitals. All will join this protest,” Tripathi said. “We will continue our other duties, including ward duties,” he added. The letters said: “Following discussions with representatives of multiple Resident Doctors Associations across the nation, we have decided to withdraw from our Out Patient Department services, Saturday, 27th November, 2021, onwards.” The letters added: “We hereby urge the Union government and the Supreme Court of India to take note of the grievance of resident doctors and take necessary measures for expediting the NEET PG 2021 counselling as well as the admission process and to fast track the court proceedings on an urgent basis. “In case there is no positive response from either side, we will be forced to escalate our protest. The onus of any such unfortunate situation affecting the healthcare services will be on the concerned authorities.” The results of the postgraduate NEET were announced a month ago. Counselling for the undergraduate NEET, whose results were declared two weeks ago, is also on hold. The Supreme Court is hearing a case related to the introduction of the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections (EWS) and the 27 per cent reservation for other backward classes (OBC) within the all-India pool medical seats in state medical colleges from this year. The court has directed the government to file an affidavit explaining why the same income criteria of Rs 8 lakh per annum has been used to determine EWS quota eligibility and also identify the creamy layer among OBCs for exclusion from the 27 per cent OBC quota. The central government told the court on Thursday that it would revisit the criteria over the next four weeks. The court will hear the case again on January 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||India summons Pakistan diplomat over 26/11 trial ||India on Friday summoned a diplomat of the Pakistan High Commission to press for an expeditious trial in the Mumbai terror attacks case on a day the government and Indian missions across the world held memorial events. “It is a matter of deep anguish that even after 13 years of this heinous terror attack, the families of 166 victims from 15 countries across the globe still await closure, with Pakistan showing little sincerity in bringing the perpetrators to justice,” the external affars ministry said in a statement. Later, briefing the media, ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said New Delhi was examining Pakistan’s offer to allow 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat and medicines to be ferried across Pakistani soil into Afghanistan for humanitarian assistance. “We believe that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” Bagchi said without specifying what the conditionalities were.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||CBI gets sanction to prosecute retired Allahabad High Court judge||The CBI has got the Centre’s sanction to prosecute retired Allahabad High Court judge S.N. Shukla in a corruption case for allegedly favouring in his orders a private medical college that had been barred from admitting students because of poor infrastructure, officials said. The CBI had applied for a go-ahead on April 16 in accordance with the Prevention of Corruption Act, they said. The agency also named in the FIR retired Chhattisgarh High Court judge I.M. Quddusi and the Prasad Education Trust, among others, officials said. The CBI does not need sanction to prosecute Quddusi as he had already retired at the time of the alleged offence. Justice Shukla, heading a division bench, had allegedly defied restraint orders passed by a Supreme Court bench led by the Chief Justice to permit private colleges to admit students for the 2017-18 session. Then CJI Dipak Misra had constituted a committee to look into the allegations. The committee had concluded there was sufficient substance in the allegations to call for removal proceedings. Justice Misra in 2018 asked Justice Shukla to resign or seek voluntary retirement but he refused, and judicial work was taken away from him. It is alleged that the Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences was debarred from admitting students  in May 2017. The trust challenged the decision in the Supreme Court, but later withdrew the petition. Another writ petition was filed before the  high court on August 24, 2017, the officials said. The petition was heard on August 25, 2017, and a favourable order passed the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
27-11-2021||India||Nitish lends support to cops raiding weddings for liquor sans warrant||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday lent support to the police who have been barging into wedding ceremonies in search of liquor without any warrant and women police officers or constables. He also hit out at industry leaders for suggesting that liquor should be given to visitors to the state. “The police paid a visit to a marriage ceremony and there was much brouhaha over it. People started saying that  no women constables were present. Won’t the police go to any place if there are intelligence inputs about liquor? Is it a crime? I am telling you that the police will go there,” Nitish said. “What is the problem if nothing is recovered? Can intelligence inputs be cent per cent correct? And if nobody is indulging in liquor consumption, then what is the worry?” the chief minister asked. The chief minister was speaking at a Prohibition Day event in Patna, where he led the oath-taking ceremony of government officials. Over 9 lakh government employees across the state took the oath of lifelong abstinence from liquor. This was the fifth time the officials took such an oath and submitted a signed pledge. “We are administering the oath again to strengthen the minds of the people with regard to prohibition,” Nitish said. Bihar went dry in April 2016, though the availability of liquor never stopped. It went underground with racketeers smuggling in the booze. A spate of hooch incidents claimed around 50 lives in November this year and led to the criticism of prohibition by all sections of the society and the Opposition parties. It forced the Nitish-led government to order a crackdown on the manufacturing, trade and consumption of illicit liquor. In compliance with the order, the police have been conducting widespread raids. Over 50 weddings without any warrant. In many cases, the  police allegedly barged into the rooms of brides without the presence of any woman officer or constable. None of the searches at the marriage ceremonies has yielded any liquor so far. The police have been raiding hotels and residences too without search warrants. In some instances, the police managed to seize liquor and arrest several persons. As people from all walks of life decried such police highhandedness, some officers said they were following orders. “While reviewing the implementation of prohibition, I asked officers to pay special attention to Patna because the maximum problem was here. I told them that the entire state will be under control the day you control Patna,” Nitish said. On the suggestion by entrepreneurs and leaders of industry and commerce that visitors from other states be allowed to consumer liquor, Nitish said: “Such statements show that there is something wrong in the minds of these people.” Nitish attacked the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), whose leaders Lalu Prasad and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav have described the prohibition as a failure. “They (Lalu Prasad and Tejashwi) have forgotten that they were with us when liquor was banned in the state. They supported it. At that time, the BJP was not with us, but it also supported the step,” Nitish said. Asserting that there has been no loss of revenue because of  prohibition, the chief minister said the ban  benefited the society and the economy. He directed officials to publicise the dangers of consuming liquor. “We must publicise that if you drink secretly, somebody will pass on poisonous liquor and you will die,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
