28-11-2021||India||Rajya Sabha to take up bill to repeal farm laws after its passage in LS||The bill to repeal three farm laws is likely to be taken up in Rajya Sabha on Monday itself after it is passed by Lok Sabha on the first day of the Winter Session, sources said on Sunday. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill-2021 has been listed in Lok Sabha for consideration and passage. Sources said after the bill is passed in Lok Sabha, it will be taken up in the Upper House of Parliament. The bill seeks to repeal the three farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year now. The bill's objects and statement says that "as we celebrate the 75th year of Independence -'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', the need of the hour is to take everyone together on the path of inclusive growth and development." "In view of the above, the aforesaid farm laws are proposed to be repealed. It is also proposed to omit sub-section (IA) of section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955) which was inserted vide the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 (22 of 2020)," the bill further states. The opposition has demanded that the bill should be taken up on the first day of the Winter Session of Parliament starting Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
28-11-2021||India||14-day history, surveillance in new rules for international travellers||International passengers must submit 14 days' travel history and upload negative Covid test results, the government said. The Union Health Ministry has revised travel guidelines for international passengers in view of 'Omicron' - a new variant of Covid that has been classified as a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation. Passengers will have to submit a self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal and include travel history for the past two weeks. They will also be required to upload a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report, which should have been conducted within 72 hrs of the journey. A declaration with respect to the authenticity of the Covid test report will also be required, manipulated reports will make the passenger liable for criminal prosecution. The new guidelines will come into effect from December 1, 2021. Travelers from 12 at-risk countries will be subjected to testing and extra surveillance. They will need to take the Covid test post-arrival and wait for results at the airport before leaving or taking any connecting flights. If the test is negative, they'll follow home quarantine for 7 days, re-test on the 8th day and if negative again, further self-monitor for the next 7 days. Travellers from countries excluding those 'countries at risk' will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. A sub-section (5% of total flight passengers) shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
28-11-2021||India||UP police claim twist to Prayagraj murders, blame Dalit man||A 23-year-old Dalit man has been arrested in the case involving the murder of a Dalit family in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj. The local police claim that he carried out the murders along with unidentified accomplices. The police also said the daughter, who was raped and killed, was not a minor and the Sections of the POCSO Act are being removed from the case The police said the man, whom they have arrested, lives in a brick kiln behind the victims’ house. He was harassing the young woman. The bodies of the family of four were found at their home on Thursday morning. The Police said they were attacked with a sharp weapon. The girl’s body was found in a room inside the house, the other three bodies were found in the courtyard. A senior police official in Prayagraj, Prem Prakash, tweeted details of the fresh arrest, saying the name of the 23-year-old was Pawan Saroj and that he had sent a “I hate you” message to the woman hours before her death. The woman, born in 1996, was a promising student, he said in another tweet. “She was preparing for various exams after graduating degree from a local university,” the tweet read. The relatives of the family suspected that the murders were committed by a neighbouring family, involved in a property-related dispute with the victims. The alleged assailants family belonged to the so-called upper castes. After they lodged a complaint, 8 people from the upper caste family were arrested. The police said they are yet to find any evidence implicating this family. Investigations against them are still on. A relative of the victims had alleged that the police were trying to force a compromise between the two families in the land dispute case. “The police were forcing the murder victims to compromise. Sushil Kumar (a police constable) used to come to us and pressure us to compromise. The police used to sit at their (accused) homes. The local inspector also told us to compromise,” the family member had told the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
28-11-2021||India||School, colleges closed as rain batters Chennai||Amid continuing monsoon rains, residents of Chennai and suburbs are grappling with inundation, with many roads and subways being closed for traffic, while surplus water continued to be released from reservoirs. Traffic diversions were enforced at many places and barricades put up to caution road users. While there were disruptions in the state-run local bus services, suburban railway services were unhindered. Vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, were found stranded on several roads covered under sheets of water. According to an NDTV report schools and colleges in seven districts of Tamil Nadu, including state capital Chennai, will be closed tomorrow in anticipation of heavy rains. The India Meteorological Department has indicated “very heavy” rainfall in Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts tomorrow and ‘heavy’ rainfall in Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi, added the report. According to news agency PTI reservoirs, including Poondi and Chembarambakkam here that cater to the drinking water needs of Chennai, released over 10,500 cusecs of surplus water in view of continuous showers in catchment areas, authorities said. The release of surplus from Poondi dam in Tiruvallur district was stepped up (from an initial 4,253 cusecs to about 8,000 cusecs) in a phased manner upto about 12,000 cusecs by evening. Towards rescue, relief and mitigation initiatives as many as 54 inflatable boats were deployed, besides excavators and heavy duty pumps in Chennai Corporation areas, an official release said, adding that police shifted people from the flooded Perumbakkam-Ezhil Nagar suburb to a relief centre. Of the 464 areas here that have witnessed water stagnation, flood water was bailed out from 86 localities and work was on in full swing in other areas, authorities said, adding that fallen trees were also removed and efforts were on to restore traffic in affected places. Rain water entered several houses in low lying suburban areas off Urapakkam and Guduvancherry and electricity connection was switched off in such places. Using inflatable boats, people were rescued from flooded suburban localities of Pallikaranai and Varadharajapuram by police and National Disaster Response Force personnel respectively. Roads and bylanes in the city and suburban neighbourhoods, including Rajamannar Salai in KK Nagar, brimmed with flood water, while subways, including the Madley and Rangarajapuram and an underpasss at Tambaram were closed for traffic. Water logging upto one feet was seen in most locations and road margins, including the arterial GST Road, while water stagnation was about two feet in some parts of areas like Madipakkam and over two feet in locations that fall under suburbs like Peerkankaranai. The flood waters have brought insects and tadpoles into homes and vacant plots serve as breeding grounds, some residents said. On Sunday, Chennai city and suburbs that fall under Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts witnessed heavy rains. Chennai Police said 2,181 people living in low lying and flooded areas were evacuated and housed in 31 temporary relief centres. An advisory issued by city police said traffic from Medavakkam to Sholinganallur has been restricted and diverted via the Kamakshi Memorial Hospital route. At Valasaravakkam, traffic was closed at the Thiruvallur Salai point and diverted towards Keshavardhani to reach Arcot Road. Traffic was closed from Vani Mahal to Benz Park Hotel points and diverted towards Habibullah Road and Raghavaiah road. To facilitate work to drain water at Anna Main Road in front of the K K Nagar Hospital, traffic towards Udhayam Theatre junction has been allowed in the opposite direction. Similarly, at Udhayam junction, heavy vehicles proceeding from the Kasi point and towards Anna Main Road has been diverted towards Ashok Pillar. From October 1 to November 28, Chennai received 109.76 CM rainfall while 61.16 CM is the normal, that showed an excess of 79 per cent, according to Regional Meteorological Centre's report. For assistance, people may call the 24 x 7 toll free number 1070 (state-level control room in Chennai) or 1077, the number for control centres in districts. Also, residents in Greater Chennai Corporation areas may call 1913 to register complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Trinamul part of 'united Opposition', but stands clear from Congress||The Trinamul Congress (TMC) has promised to be a part of the united Opposition, despite expanding at the cost of the Congress, with party MP Derek O' Brien clarifying that it had a different equation with the Congress unlike with other Opposition parties. "I also must point out that there is a distinction between the RJD, DMK, RJD and the CPM - they are all electoral allies of the Congress. The NCP-Shiv Sena and JMM run a government with the Congress. The Congress is not our electoral ally nor are we running a government with them. That's the difference," he was, reported ndtv.com. Meanwhile, the Congress on Sunday said it is up to TMC to attend the meeting of Opposition party leaders convened by it to discuss key issues to be taken up during the upcoming Winter Session of Parliament. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said it is a party tradition that the leader of opposition calls everyone ahead of every session. However, if anyone feels that by joining hands with the Congress they will be seen as opposing the government, they need not do so. Chowdhury's remarks came a day after TMC said it "most probably will not attend" the meeting called by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday morning, the first day of the Winter Session. Kharge has called the meeting to ensure unity and synergy among opposition parties during the session. "Anyone who wishes to come (to the meeting) can come. If one does not want (to come), it is their wish. There is no compulsion. It is a tradition of Parliament and the Congress goes by that tradition," Chowdhury said. "It is our duty to call opposition parties to discuss the issues before (the) Parliament (session), but if they feel that by joining hands with us they will be seen as opposing the government, they need not do so. Those who do not want to fight the government may not attend," he said when asked about the TMC's decision. "It is up to the TMC to attend or not," he added. Chowdhury said those who are in Opposition are invited for an exchange of views and to articulate the views of the Opposition in Parliament. In the last session, too, the TMC had participated in such discussions and as a gesture of sobriety and courtesy, it has been invited again this time, he said. Asked about TMC's stand, Kharge told PTI, "We have talked to Derek O'Brien, who said they have a working committee meeting tomorrow (Monday) and most of their MPs would be busy there." "Mr Sharad Pawar will also not be attending the opposition meeting tomorrow as he is busy with the wedding of a Shiv Sena MP's daughter," he said. The TMC and the Congress have been growing distant of late, with the Mamata Banerjee-led party poaching the latter's leaders in several states in the recent past. The Winter Session will conclude on December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Govt to review decision on resuming international flights, issues SOP for incoming passengers||The government on Sunday decided to review the decision on resuming scheduled commercial international passenger services as well SOP on testing and surveillance of incoming passengers, especially from countries identified as 'at risk', in the wake of the emergence of the new Covid-19 variant of concern 'Omicron'. The decisions were taken at an urgent meeting chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended by various stakeholders, an official spokesperson said. The meeting was held a day after a high-level review by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the new Covid-19 variant of concern 'Omicron'. After a long hiatus of more than 20 months, the government had on November 26 announced the resumption of scheduled international commercial flights from December 15. The home ministry spokesperson said at the meeting, chaired by the home secretary, the overall global situation in the wake of the Omicron virus was comprehensively reviewed and various preventive measures in place and to be further strengthened were discussed. The government will review the decision on the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services as per evolving global scenario, the spokesperson said. The new, potentially more contagious B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 24 and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. It was on Friday designated as a "Variant of Concern" by the WHO, which named it Omicron. A variant of concern is the WHO's top category of worrying COVID-19 variants. "Government to review Standard Operating Procedure on testing and surveillance of incoming international passengers, especially for those countries identified 'at risk' category," the spokesperson said in a series of tweets. The government has also decided that the genomic surveillance for variants will be further strengthened and intensified and Airport Health Officials (APHOs) and Port Health Officials (PHOs) will be sensitised for strict supervision of testing protocol at airports and seaports. "Decision on effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passengers service, to be reviewed, as per evolving global scenario," the spokesperson said. A closer watch on the emerging pandemic situation within the country will be maintained, the spokesperson said. The meeting was held with various experts including V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to Prime Minister, senior officers from Health, Civil Aviation and other Ministries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Karnataka seeks travel ban on travellers coming from nations hit by Covid Omicron variant||The Karnataka government has requested the Centre to impose a travel ban on passengers coming from South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana in view of the detection of the new variant of COVID-19 -'Omicron', Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday.  "A new strain of the COVID-19 has appeared abroad, which is mainly seen in South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana. European nations have imposed restrictions and the WHO has also raised an alarm against this new variant by calling it a matter of concern," Bommai told reporters here.  "We have also requested the Union government to ban travellers from the three countries (South Africa, Hongkong and Botswana)," he added.  Stating that there were no details available about the impact of the new variant, Bommai pointed out that he has learnt that it is a super spreader and hence, India is on the alert.  "India is on the alert. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened a meeting and given a slew of directions. Keeping that in mind, we too had convened a meeting on Saturday in the state. So far we have not come across the new strain in the state," the Chief Minister said.  Bommai said he has ordered restrictions at the airport for people coming from countries, which are in contact with people from nations where the new Omicron variant has been detected.  "The travellers will be let go only if they test negative for the COVID-19 or else they will be sent to the containment zone. Earlier, there was a system that the travellers were allowed to go after collecting samples and then they were quarantined after testing positive," Bommai said.  Underlining that there was high prevalence of COVID among people coming from Kerala, the Chief Minister said he has ordered precautionary measures in Dakshina Kannada, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts bordering Kerala, which will be in effect round-the-clock.  "People coming from Kerala will be let in people only after they test negative for COVID-19. They should have taken two doses of COVID-19 vaccine. This way we have given direction for round-the-clock monitoring in these districts," the Chief Minister explained.  He also said people who came from Kerala in the last 14 days will have to undergo tests again.  Speaking about the rising cases in some clusters in Dharwad, Bengaluru and Mysuru, he said precautionary measures have been taken.  "We are conducting tests in SDM Medical College. We are conducting tests on doctors, nurses, patients and others. We have stopped the entry of outpatients," Bommai said, referring to the outbreak of COVID among students and staff of SDM Medical College in Dharwad.  Sources in the Health department said on Sunday said that 25 more COVID infected people were detected. With this, 306 people have found COVID infected out of 3,973 people who underwent tests. The infected are said to be asymptomatic or having mild symptoms.  Stating that the government is keeping a close watch on the developments, Bommai said not only more tests are going on but also treatment to COVID infected people is given.  The Chief Minister also said that his government will seek permission for giving booster doses to the health workers.  Along with it, the government will make sure that people working in malls, public places and government offices took double doses of COVID-19, Bommai said, adding the state also plans to arrange vaccination camps in malls and government hospitals.  To a query on restrictions on new year celebrations, Bommai said no decision has been taken regarding it.  However, the government will wait for a week to take a stand on the issue after watching the COVID-19 related developments, he added.  Asked about restrictions during the MLC election campaign, the Chief Minister said though the gathering will not be huge, he has given directions to abide by COVID appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and social distancing.  Regarding COVID-19 vaccine stock, Bommai said the state has 80 lakh vaccines.  According to him, Karnataka's first dose coverage is 91 per cent, which is reaching saturation.  "Now we are focusing on second dose. We are aiming to achieve 70 per cent vaccination by December-end. Presently we have reached 58 per cent," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||UPTET cancelled after paper leak, exam to be within a month; 23 arrested||The UPTET scheduled to be held on Sunday was cancelled after a question paper for the exam was leaked, an officer here announced shortly before the exam was to begin.  The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) arrested 23 people last night using technical and other intelligence from different cities of the state, Additional Director General Law and Order Prashant Kumar said here.  UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the culprits will be booked under the National Security Act and Gangster Act.  He also ordered reconvening of the exam within a month.  "A question paper was leaked. I issued an order to cancel the examination and arrest the entire racket. Instructions were also given to conduct the exam within a month, and that no candidate should be charged additional fee, he said addressing a function in Deoria district on Sunday.  He said orders were given to transport the students back to their home towns in UPSRTC buses free of cost on the basis of their admit cards.  "Those who have committed this act should listen that cases will be registered against them under the Gangster Act and the National Security Act, he said.  Later in a tweet in Hindi, the CM said properties will be seized by the government of those involved in the leak.  Close to 20 lakh candidates were to appear for the Uttar Pradesh Teachers Eligibility Test (UPTET) on Sunday.  Earlier in the day, the ADG said that those arrested included four from Lucknow, 13 from Prayagraj, three by the Meerut STF and one from Kaushambi district.  "A photocopy of the question paper was obtained from them, which was shared with the government. It came to light that the copy bore the same set of questions as did the official question paper, he said.  "Immediately it was decided by the government that the exam needs to be cancelled and reconvened in the coming one month.  All expenses for the exam will be borne by the government. The candidates will not have to pay the fees or fill the examination form," he added.  The officer said the matter will be probed by the UP STF, and people or organisations involved in the leak will not be spared.  The question paper of the examination had not reached the examination centres till Sunday morning.  Items seized from accused included mobile phones and photocopy of question papers.  "Apart from UP, some people of Bihar have also been caught in this matter. Either the solver gang leaks the question paper, or a solver (person impersonating the candidate) appears instead of the candidate," Kumar said, adding more arrests will be made.  The situation at centres was under control and announcements were made there to urge the candidates to go back to their homes, added the officer.  Adityanath in a tweet said, "The state government is standing with the candidates of UPTET, and a re-exam will be held in a transparent manner within one month."  "Those who have played with the future of our young brothers and sisters will not be spared. People who have caused inconvenience to you will be definitely punished. Your government is committed to conduct the exams in a fair and transparent manner, he said in another tweet.  UP's Basic Education minister Satish Dwivedi said the exam - in both shifts -- was cancelled immediately after the leak came to surface and promised a strict action against the culprits.  Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav blamed the BJP government for the leak saying such incidents have become a norm under its rule.  "Cancellation of the UPTET examination due to the leak of the question paper is like playing with the future of nearly 20 lakh aspirants. Paper leaks, cancellation of the examination is common in the BJP government, he said in a Hindi tweet.  Corruption in education in UP is at an all-time high. The unemployed will usher in a revolution, and there will be a change in 2022.  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too alleged that corruption in education and recruitment has become common under the BJP.  "Corruption in recruitment, leaking of question papers has become the identity of the BJP government, she said in tweet posted in Hindi.  Today the efforts of lakhs of youths have gone in vain following leak of the question paper. Every time there is a question paper leak, the government of Yogi Adityanath saves the top dogs. This is the reason corruption is at its peak," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Honour killing: Casteism not annihilated even after 75 years of independence, says SC||Incidents of caste-motivated violence show that casteism has not been annihilated even after 75 years of independence and it is high time civil society reacts and responds with "strong disapproval" about the ghastly crimes committed in the name of caste, the Supreme Court has said. The apex court, which delivered its verdict on a batch of pleas in a 1991 Uttar Pradesh honour killing case, in which three persons, including a woman were killed, said it had earlier issued several directions to authorities to take strong measures to prevent honour killings. Those directives should be carried out without any further delay, it said. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao also said that to avert trial getting tainted and "truth becoming a casualty", the State has a definite role to play in protecting witnesses, to start with, at least in sensitive cases involving those in power who have political patronage and could wield muscle and money power. It said that "bigotry" perpetuated by caste-based practices, which are prevalent even today, impedes the Constitution's objective of equality for all citizens. "Two young men and a woman were physically assaulted for nearly 12 hours and killed by the accused for violating caste-ridden societal norms. These episodes of caste-motivated violence in the country demonstrates the fact that casteism has not been annihilated even after 75 years of independence," the bench, also comprising justices Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai, said. The top court, while upholding the Allahabad High Court verdict with regard to conviction of 23 accused in the case, acquitted three persons in view of ambiguity in their identity. Referring to the aspect of witness protection, the bench noted that 12 prosecution witnesses in the case turned hostile. "Even if the witnesses have turned hostile, their evidence can be accepted, if they are natural and independent witnesses and have no reason to falsely implicate the accused," it said. The apex court said the right to testify in courts in a free and fair manner, without any pressure and threat whatsoever, is "under serious attack today", and if one is unable to testify in courts due to threats or other pressures, then it is a clear violation of the rights under articles 19 (1) (a) and 21 of the Constitution. "Right to life guaranteed to the people of this country also includes in its fold the right to live in a society which is free from crime and fear, and the right of witnesses to testify in courts without fear or pressure," it said. The bench said one of the main reasons why witnesses turn hostile is that they are not accorded appropriate protection by the State. It is a "harsh reality", particularly, in cases where the accused are influential people and are tried for heinous offences and they make attempts to terrorise or intimidate witnesses, the bench said. "This unfortunate situation prevails because of the reason that the State has not undertaken any protective measures to ensure the safety of these witnesses, commonly known as 'witness protection'," it noted while referring to an earlier judgment of the Supreme Court. The bench said that as a protector of its citizens, the State has to ensure that during a trial a witness can safely depose the truth, without any fear of being haunted by those against whom he or she has deposed. It noted that according to Dr B R Ambedkar, inter-caste marriage is one remedy to get rid of casteism in order to achieve equality. "His vision for ensuring justice and equality to all sections of society, especially to the repressed segments, is well enshrined in the preamble of the Constitution," the bench said. "Though the number is a tad less, honour killings have not stopped in this country and it is high time that the civil society reacts and responds with strong disapproval about the ghastly crimes committed in the name of caste," it said. Referring to an earlier verdict of the apex court, the bench said honour killings, pursuant to the decree of 'khap panchayats, have been strongly criticised by the top court in its earlier verdict. It said harsh punishment was recommended to those "brutal and feudal minded persons" who commit atrocities in the name of castes. "The Law Commission of India in its 242nd report suggested the legal framework on prevention of interference with the freedom of matrimonial alliances in the name of honour and tradition," the bench noted. The 'panchayatdars' or caste elders have no right to interfere with the life and liberty of young couples whose marriages are permitted by law. They cannot create a situation whereby such couples are placed in a hostile environment in the village or locality concerned and exposed to the risk of safety, it said The bench said in the interest of "liberty and dignity" of young men and women in choosing their life partners and in the interest of peace, tranquillity and equality in society, it is imminently necessary that directions issued by the apex court earlier should be carried out by states without any further delay. It also referred to the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018, which was approved by the apex court earlier. In the 1991 Uttra Pradesh honour killing case, a trial court in November 2011 had convicted 35 accused. The high court had acquitted two while conviction of remaining persons were upheld by the high court. However, the high court had commuted the death sentence awarded to eight convicts to life term till the end of natural life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Centre should bring law to guarantee MSP to farmers, demands Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday demanded that the Centre bring a law to guarantee Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops to protect the interest of farmers in the country.  In Mumbai to participate in the 'kisan mahapanchayat' (farmers' mega conclave) at the Azad Maidan under the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM) banner, Tikait said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a supporter of the MSP when he was the chief minister of Gujarat and wanted a nationwide law to ensure farmers' interests were guaranteed.  He accused the Modi-led central government of running away from a debate over the issue.  "The Centre should bring a law to guarantee MSP to farmers. There are several issues related to the agriculture and labour sectors that need attention and we will travel all over the country to highlight them," he said.  Tikait also demanded that financial aid be given to the kin of farmers who died in the year-long protest against the Centre's three agri marketing laws.  Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the government's decision to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers.  Many farmers were encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law enacted to guarantee the MSP on crops.  The Centre, which held several rounds of talks with the protesting farmers, had maintained that the laws were pro-farmer, while the protesters claimed they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Prime Minister skips all-party meeting, Opposition launches blistering attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, gave an all-party meeting called ahead of the Winter session of the Parliament, a miss much to the chagrin of the Opposition. "We were expecting that the Prime Minister will attend the meeting and will share something with us. We wanted to ask more about the farm laws as there are some apprehensions that these three farm laws may again come in some other form," Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha was quoted by NDTV. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi refuted allegations that the Prime Minister contravened a tradition by skipping the meeting. "There was no tradition of Prime Minister attending the all party meeting it was started by Modiji. He couldn't attend the today's meeting," said Joshi as quoted by NDTV. According to PTI, most Opposition parties demanded a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row, price rise and unemployment. Sources aware of the deliberations at the meet said Opposition leaders also raised the issue of extended jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in some states, including West Bengal. Trinamul Congress leaders Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O'Brien are learnt to have raised the issue of bringing laws on minimum support price and disinvestment of profitable PSUs. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), however, walked out of the meeting, claiming it was not allowed to speak. AAP leader Sanjay Singh said he walked out as he was not allowed to raise issues related to farmers, especially on a law on MSP. The prominent Opposition leaders present at the customary session-eve meet included Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Anand Sharma from the Congress, T R Baalu and Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Sharad Pawar from the NCP, Vinayak Raut from the Shiv Sena, Ramgopal Yadav from the Samajwadi Party, Satish Mishra from the BSP, Prasanna Acharya from the BJD and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah. The Winter Session of Parliament will begin on Monday and conclude on December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||India leading the world in field of start-ups: Modi||Asserting that this is an era of start-ups, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India is leading the world in this field with more than 70 start-ups having crossed the valuation of USD 1 billion. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast, the prime minister also said that he wants to be in service of people and not be "in power". "I am not in power even today and I don't want to be in power in future also. I only want to be in service; for me this post, this prime ministership, all these things are not at all for power, they are for service," he said when an Ayushman Bharat beneficiary wished him to remain in power. Modi said that in the many works of the government, amidst the many schemes of development, things related to human sensitivities always give a different kind of joy. "With the efforts of the government, with the schemes of the government, the way a life changed... what is the experience of that changed life? When we hear this, we too are filled with empathy. It also gives satisfaction to the mind and gives inspiration too to take that scheme to the people," he said. Modi spoke with two people who got their treatment done with the help of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, which, they said changed their life for the better. The PM also cautioned people that coronavirus has not gone yet and "it is the responsibility of all of us to take precautions". In his broadcast, Modi said that in any country having a large population of youth, three things - ideas and innovation, passion to take risks and the 'can do' spirit-- matter a lot. When these three things come together, unprecedented results are achieved and miracles happen, he said. "These days we hear all around us, start-up, start-up, start-up. It is true that this is the era of start-ups and it is also true that in the field of start-ups, in a way, India is leading the world," Modi said. He noted year after year start-ups are getting record investments and this sector is growing at a fast pace. "Even in small cities of the country, the reach of start-ups has increased. Nowadays the word unicorn is much in discussion. Unicorn is a start-up whose valuation is one billion dollars, around Rs 7,000 crore," Modi said. "Till the year 2015, there used to be nine or ten unicorns in the country, you will be very happy to know that now India is flying high in the world of unicorns as well. According to a report, a big change has come this year. In just 10 months, a unicorn is being raised in India every 10 days," he said. This is a big thing because the youth of the country achieved this success in the midst of the Covid pandemic, he said. "Today, there are more than 70 unicorns in India, that is, more than 70 start-ups have crossed the valuation of USD 1 billion," Modi said. Due to the success of start-ups, everyone has noticed them and they are getting support from investors from all over the country and abroad, he said, adding that just a few years ago no one could have imagined this happening. Indian youth are also contributing to the solution of global problems through start-ups, he noted. Modi also spoke to a youngster, who has tried to put forward a solution to the problem of pollution by introducing technology by which he managed to reduce emissions of buses by 40 per cent. In his broadcast, the prime minister also noted that in the month of December, Navy Day and Armed Forces Flag Day are celebrated, and on December 16, it will be the Golden Jubilee year of the victory in the 1971 War. "On all these occasions, I remember our armed forces, our soldiers, especially the brave mothers who gave birth to these warriors," he said. Modi also recalled that in the pervious edition of Mann Ki Baat, he had referred to three competitions one on writing patriotic songs; one on drawing rangolis on events connected with patriotic fervour and the freedom movement and one on scripting lullabies that nurture dreams of a grand India - and hoped that people must have sent in their entries. Asserting that it is not necessary that bravery should be displayed only on the battlefield, Modi narrated how people of Jalaun in Uttar Pradesh revived the Noon river which was on the verge of extinction. The people of Jalaun took the initiative to change this situation and formed a committee, he noted. "Thousands of villagers and local people spontaneously volunteered to join this campaign. The panchayats started working together with the villagers, and today in such a short time, and at a very low cost, the river has come back to life again," Modi said. "Apart from the battlefield, this example of bravery shows the determination of our countrymen, and it also tells that if we take a resolve, nothing is impossible and that is why I say - 'Sabka Prayas'...everyone's effort," he added. In the radio programme, Modi also referred to a viral photo of a boat in Meghalaya, saying "when we look closely at this boat floating in the air, we come to know that it is moving on the river water". "The water of the river is so clear that we can see its bed and the boat seems to be floating in the air. There are many states in our country; there are many areas where people have preserved the colours of their natural heritage," he said. These people have kept the lifestyle of living in harmony with nature alive even today and this is an inspiration to all of us too, the prime minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Omicron: Centre asks states to beef up containment ||ln view of the possible threat that the new COVID-19 variant can pose to the nation, the Centre has asked all states and UTs to focus on intensive containment, active surveillance, enhanced testing, monitoring of hotspots, increased coverage of vaccination and augmentation of health infrastructure.  Listing a series of measures which states and UTs should undertake, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also stressed on rigorous surveillance of international passengers, ensuring prompt dispatch of samples for genome sequencing and strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour to effectively manage this Variant of Concern (VoC).  As a proactive step, the government has already placed nations, where this VoC has been found, in the category of 'at risk' countries for additional follow-up measures of international travellers coming into lndia from these destinations, he said in a letter dated November 27.  "ln view of the possible threat that this VoC can pose to the nation, it is imperative that the intensive containment, active surveillance, increased coverage of vaccination and Covid- appropriate behaviour must be enforced in the field in a very proactive manner to effectively manage this VoC," Bhushan said.  The health secretary said it is essential that the disease surveillance network in the country is geared up for rigorous follow-up of international travellers from all countries, especially those designated as 'at risk'.  There is already a reporting mechanism for obtaining past travel details of passengers coming through international flights, he said, adding this should be reviewed and the protocol provided by the ministry should be strictly ensured, including testing on disembarkation of travellers coming from 'at risk' countries and sending all positive samples for genome sequencing to INSACOG labs in a prompt manner.  Emphasising that ample testing infrastructure need to be operationalised to tackle any surge due to this mutated virus, Bhushan said it has been observed that the overall testing as well as the proportion of RT-PCR tests have declined in some states.  "ln the absence of sufficient testing, it is extremely difficult to determine the true level of infection spread. States must strengthen the testing infrastructure and strictly implement the testing guidelines," he said.  Bhushan also stressed on continued monitoring of hotspots, the areas where recent cluster of positive cases have emerged.  "ln all such 'hotspots', saturation testing and sending of positive samples quickly for genome sequencing to designated INSACOG labs must be ensured in collaboration with Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of lndia, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). States should keep a close check on the emerging trend of cases and the positivity in an area and quickly delineate hotspots for effective containment of COVID-19," he said.  The health secretary said states should aim at achieving positivity rate below 5 per cent while focusing on increasing the number of tests and share of RT-PCR tests to aid in early identification.  "Having adequate availability of health facilities across the state is essential to ensure that there are no delays in providing care," he said, adding that trained human resources, infrastructure, logistics and procurement should be planned and strengthened, considering the geographical spread of the pandemic, and there shall be no compromise in providing prompt, quality treatment to patients.  Bhushan urged the states to optimally utilise the financial support provided by Government of lndia under ERCP 1 and 2 diligently.  INSACOG has been established to monitor the circulating variants in the country, he said, underlining it is important that states must significantly increase sampling from the general population for genome sequencing by sending these samples to INSACOG lab network as per the policy.  He also urged states and UTs to hold regular press briefings.  "We have seen in the last surges in the country that discourse on Covid is often influenced by misinformation leading to anxiety in the masses. To address this, all states should proactively and regularly address the concerns of community through press briefings and state bulletins providing evidence-based information," Bhushan said in the letter.  States may also ensure that the community is well-informed regarding the measures undertaken and be advised to follow measures like Covid-appropriate behaviour and getting vaccinated.  He said it is critical for states and UTs to adhere to the overarching 'Test-Track-Treat Vaccinate and Covid-appropriate behaviour' principle to ensure stringent implementation of containment measures as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) guidelines.  "I'm sure that under your continued leadership we will be able to maintain the momentum and build on the progress made so far to address the latest threat of the pandemic. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare assures of all requisite support to the states and UTs," Bhushan said.  The new, potentially more contagious B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 24 and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel.  It was on Friday designated as a "Variant of Concern" by the WHO, which named it Omicron. A variant of concern is the WHO's top category of worrying COVID-19 variants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
28-11-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal urges PM Modi to stop flights from countries affected by Covid Omicron variant||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights coming to India from countries affected by a new variant of coronavirus with immediate effect.  "Our country has fought a tough fight against corona for the last one and half years. With great difficulty and due to the selfless service of millions of our Covid warriors, our country has recovered from coronavirus," he wrote in the letter.  In view of the new Covid variant, a number of countries, including the European Union, have suspended travel to the affected regions, he said.  "We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant of concern, recently recognised by the WHO, from entering India... I urge you to stop flights from these regions with immediate effect. Any delay in this regard may prove harmful, if any affected person enters India," the letter read.  As concerns grow over the new COVID variant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for a proactive approach and a review of plans for easing of international travel curbs, and urged people to be more cautious while several states moved quickly to take precautionary measures and remain vigilant.  Modi, who was briefed by officials about the recently discovered variant Omicron during a comprehensive meeting here to review the public health preparedness and COVID-19 vaccination, also highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified 'at risk'.  The Centre on Thursday had asked all states and Union territories to conduct rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana, where the variant of serious public health implications has been reported.  Meanwhile, the Delhi government has called a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Monday to discuss steps that need to be taken in view of threat of the new COVID-19 variant, Kejriwal had said on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Bengaluru police deny permission to Munawar Faruqui's show||The Bengaluru police have denied permission to Munawar Faruqui's stand-up comedy show in the city on Sunday amid protest by the Hindu right wing outfits who alleged that the artist had hurt the Hindu sentiments in one of his shows.  "Yes, we have denied him permission. He will not perform any public show today," a senior police officer told PTI on condition of anonymity.  Faruqui also shared a statement on social media confirming that his Bengaluru show that had sold "600 plus" tickets was cancelled Sunday in the wake of the "threats to venue vandalism" and said he was "done".  "My name is Munawar Faruqui. And that's been my time, you guys were (a) wonderful audience. Good bye, I'm done," he said.  The proceeds from the show were supposed to be donated to late Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's charitable organisation.  In the same statement, the 29-year-comic said they initially did not want to reveal that the show was for charity.  "Putting me in jail for the joke I never did to cancelling my shows which has nothing problematic in it. This is unfair. This show has gained so much love from people in India irrespective of their religion. This is unfair (sic)" he added in his Twitter statement.  Faruqui claimed that his 12 shows were called off in the last two months because of the threats to the venue and audiences.  The comedian also claimed they have a "censor certificate of the show", which proves there was "nothing problematic" in the stand-up act. Faruqui, however, found support in actors Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub and Swara Bhasker.  Ayyub urged the comic to not lose hope.  "And WE Failed once again as a society . looking forward to see you back on stage.." he tweeted. Bhasker described the turn of events as "heartbreaking and shameful" and apologised to Faruqui. "A project of hate & bigotry twill always hate an articulate, rational, educated, charming, talented & funny Other' who connects beyond identity with a heterogeneous public.. make no mistake Munawwar, Umar Khalid & other such articulate Muslims are a huge threat to Hindutva," she wrote on the microblogging site. "Also.. it's heartbreaking & shameful how we as a society have allowed bullying and gaslighting to become normalised. I'm sorry Munawwar!" she said in a follow-up tweet. According to reports, Faruqui had planned a performance 'Dongri To Nowhere' on Sunday evening. The show was organised in Bengaluru by Vishal Dhuria and Siddharth Das of New Delhi-based Curtain Calls Event.  However, various right wing organisations including Sriram Sena and Hindu Janajagruti Samiti, had lodged a complaint with the Bengaluru city police Commissioner against the comedian charging him of hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus by allegedly insulting Hindu Gods.  The inspector of the Ashokanagar police station in the city under whose jurisdiction the Good Shepherd Auditorium falls wrote a letter to the organisers on Saturday to call off the event as the comedian is a controversial figure.  "It is learnt that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure..... Many states have banned his comedy shows. It is learnt that a case has been registered against him in the Tukoji police station in Indore of Madhya Pradesh," the inspector said in his letter.  He also stated that many organisations are opposing his show, which may cause chaos, disturb peace and harmony and create a law and order problem.  "Therefore, it is suggested that you should cancel Faruqui's stand-up comedy show," the letter said.  Earlier this year, Faruqui was arrested by the Indore Police in a case for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and was in jail for almost a month. The comic, who has alleged heavy trolling against him on social media in the past, was released from the Indore central jail on February 7 after the Supreme Court granted him bail in the case.  Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's day.  The Apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Gautam Gambhir receives another death threat; third in six days||Former cricketer and BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Sunday received another death threat allegedly from 'ISIS Kashmir', the third in six days, police said. "Your Delhi Police and IPS Shweta (DCP) cannot uproot anything. Our spies are also present in the police. All the information is being received about you," the e-mail, which Gambhir received from isiskashmir@yahoo.com at 1.37 am, read. A senior police officer said they had received the content of the e-mail and were investigating the matter. The cricketer-turned-politician had received death threats on Tuesday and Wednesday. According to a police complaint filed by Gaurav Arora, Gambhir's personal secretary, the MP received the first death threat on his official e-mail ID at 9.32 pm on Tuesday. The e-mail, allegedly from ISIS Kashmir, read, "We are going to kill you and your family." "On receiving the complaint, the district police increased (Gambhir's) personal security as well as the security of his residence in Rajinder Nagar area. The police are currently inquiring into the source of the complaint," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Shweta Chauhan had said. Soon, the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit of the Special Cell wrote to Google seeking information on the account handlers and the registered e-mail ID through which the alleged mails were sent. Police said the DCP was informed over a phone call about the second death threat from the same e-mail ID at 2.32 pm on Wednesday. According to the complainant, the second e-mail was attached with a video of Gambhir's residence. "We intended to kill you, but you survived yesterday. If you love the life of your family, stay away from politics and Kashmir issue," the second e-mail read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Two Covid positive South Africans in Bengaluru infected with Delta variant: Official||The two South African nationals who tested positive for COVID-19 were found to be infected with the delta variant, an official said.  Both the South African nationals were infected with the delta variant, the Bengaluru Rural district official said requesting anonymity.  He further said the duo was tested positive on November 11 and November 20 debunking the fear of any possible spread of the new COVID-19 variant 'Omicron', which has become a new cause of worry globally.  According to him, from November 1 to 26, 94 people had come from South Africa, out of them two were tested positive for regular Covid-19.  The official also said the two infected persons have been quarantined, are being monitored by the authorities and their samples have been sent for further tests to ascertain the variant.  The new potentially more contagious B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 24, and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong, Israel and the UK.  Amid fear of Omicron variant of COVID-19, Karnataka has decided to intensify screening of international passengers at airports and make RT-PCR test report compulsory for those arriving from Kerala and Maharashtra, an official statement said.  "The Chief Minister has instructed the officials to go on an aggressive campaign to trace those who have not taken the second dose of the vaccine and cover them at the earliest," the statement read.  It was also decided to impose a temporary ban on cultural programmes in schools and colleges, make second dose of vaccination compulsory for those working in government offices, malls, hotels, cinema halls, zoos, swimming pools and libraries.  The slew of decisions taken by the government include strict vigil in the areas bordering Kerala and Maharashtra, the RT-PCR negative report compulsory for those entering the state from Kerala and Maharashtra, compulsory RT-PCR test again for students from Kerala who arrived in the last 16 days and students in hostels who have got negative RT-PCR test report would have to get the test done again on the seventh day after the first report.  The government also instructed to conduct more intense testing for students in medical and nursing colleges and intensify screening of international travellers at airports.  It also decided not to let in people who test positive for COVID-19 and they will be sent to hospitals for treatment.  The state has also decided to give booster dose of the vaccine to prevent the third wave of COVID-19.  "We have urged the union government to allow the state to administer the booster dose, especially for frontline workers. We may get the go ahead from the Centre in a week," Revenue Minister R Ashoka was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Opposition 'completely directionless' in 2 years of MVA govt: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday claimed that the two years of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government saw a "completely directionless Opposition", which has not been able to dislodge the three-party ruling alliance led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, but is still giving new dates for toppling it.  In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana on the completion of Thackeray's two years in office, Raut said falsehood doesn't always succeed in politics. In the last two years, Thackeray stood firm despite all efforts to "malign" his government, the Rajya Sabha member said.  Taunting the Opposition BJP, he said the early morning swearing-in of Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister in November 2019 (before the formation of the MVA government) also completes two years. ''Even though the Opposition has not been able to topple the government, it still gives new dates of dislodging the MVA. This is a joke," said Raut, who is the executive editor of Saamana.  The Shiv Sena snapped ties with the BJP after the 2019 state Assembly polls over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. Subsequently, Fadnavis was sworn in as the chief minister in a hush hush ceremony at the Raj Bhavan with NCP leader Ajit Pawar as his deputy.  After the four-day-old Fadnavis government collapsed, the Shiv Sena formed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government with ideological rivals NCP and the Congress as its partners.  Raut said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is currently in hospital (after undergoing spine surgery earlier this month) and his health is fine, but the "opposition has become directionless".  ''The opposition left no stone unturned to corner him. Thackeray braved all below the belt attacks and still stood firm,'' he said.  Raut further said Shiv Sena leaders were being threatened with action by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), while those close to the Pawars (of the NCP) were raided by the Income Tax department.  The BJP also instigated workers of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), who are currently on strike, and the riots in Amravati, Raut alleged.  ''What the BJP is doing is not politics, but it is conspiring out of desperation," he claimed.  Raut said Thackeray has a clean image and is popular among people.  ''(NCP chief) Sharad Pawar, (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have given Thackeray a free hand and there is no interference," he said, adding that the BJP could not break even a single MLA from the ruling alliance.  He said the BJP won the Pandharpur Assembly bypoll (earlier this year) due to NCP's "mistake", but the opposition party could not breach the impregnable wall put up by (Congress leader) Ashok Chavan in the Deglur Assembly bypoll.  The Shiv Sena won the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha bypoll, he said,while noting that the BJP "did not do well" in the recent byelections in 13 states.  In satirical comments, Raut also listed the opposition BJP's ''achievements'', saying it levelled baseless allegations of corruption and irregularities, gave political colour to the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and "maligned" the state government and the Thackeray family, resulting in the unnecessary entry of the CBI into the case (of Rajput's death).  He also claimed that the BJP did not leave any opportunity to lower the morale of the state police.  Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh (currently facing multiple cases of extortion), as the then Thane police chief, had ''worked hard'' for the BJP in the Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation elections, he claimed.  "Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde and others will tell how much effort he (Singh) made to split other parties and bring their leaders into the BJP-fold. The Devendra Fadnavis government had appointed him the Thane police commissioner and then the chief of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB)," he said.  It is clear who is behind the allegations (of corruption) levelled by Param Bir Singh against (former state minister and NCP leader) Anil Deshmukh, Raut said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Need to be 'proactive’, says PM as 2 from SA test positive for Omicron in Bangalore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stressed the need to be “proactive” against the new Omicron Covid-19 variant as two South Africans tested positive in Bangalore for the highly mutated lineage. Modi, who on the weekend chaired a meeting with top government health officials to review Covid-19 precautions,  asked officials to review plans to ease international travel restrictions in mid-December, citing “emerging new evidence” of Omicron’s spread across the globe. Modi also emphasised vigilance in monitoring of international arrivals, with a specific focus on countries identified as “at-risk” for the variant first detected in southern Africa. His statement came as Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to Modi to halt flights from those countries reporting cases of Omicron. “With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We should do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India,” Kejriwal said. In the view “of the threat” from the new variant, people need to be more cautious and take precautions like “masking up and maintaining social distance,” Modi said. He added there needed to be increased urged health authorities to step up the administration of second vaccine doses. Two South Africans tested positive in Bangalore for Omicron as alarm bells went off around the world over the spread of the new lineage. Karnataka stepped its Covid-19 vigilance ordering heightened surveillance at airports and told all medical college students across the state to undergo coronavirus tests after 281 students tested positive for what was believed to be the Delta variant at an institution in Dharwad in the northern part of the state. In Bangalore, government officials said 584 people had entered the country from 11 countries in southern Africa. Passengers from these countries will have to stay in quarantine for 10 days even if they have tested negative at the airport, a Karnataka state minister said. In good news, South African medical officials said worry over the variant might be overdone as symptoms of those patients detected with the illness seemed to be mild even if it seems to be far more contagious. However, more serious symptoms can surface with Covid-19 later during the course of infection. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) urged people not to panic about the new variant but told them to get vaccinated as soon as possible. “We have to wait and watch in order to figure out how the emergence of this new mutant evolves and plays out at the population level," said Samiran Panda, who heads the ICMR’s communicable diseases department. Suspected cases of the new Omicron variant, which was first detected in the southern African nation of Botswana, have been reported in many different countries from ermany and the UK to Hong Kong and  Australia. There have so far been just a small number of cases identified globally so little is known definitively about the strain. The variant was first reported to The World Health Organization (WHO) by South Africa on November 24. “So far, we have detected that those infected do not suffer the loss of taste or smell,  South African Medical Association chairwoman Angelique Coetzee said. “They might have a slight cough. There are no prominent symptoms. Of those infected, some are currently being treated at home,” she said. South African officials said most of the patients hospitalised with Omicron were unvaccinated. But Omicron does appear to be even more contagious than the highly infectious Delta variant which devastated India and other parts of the world. South African Health Minister Joe Phaahla said: “Although it’s still very early days, it shows that it may be spreading much quicker and catching younger people.” He added though that Omicron appears to result “in mild disease without prominent symptoms.” The Washington Post’s virus tracker said that cases in South Africa, where just 35 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated, had jumped 592 per cent week over week.    The WHO also says there appears to be an “increased risk of reinfection” with Omicron compared to other variants. South Africa has an extremely robust testing system and cases have zoomed from 200 a day last week to 1,200 on November 24 and 2,645 on November 26. It is not known yet how many of the cases were of the Omicron variant. In Amsterdam, 61 out of 600 passengers on planes from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19 and now are being tested to see whether they have the Omicron variant.  Two cases have tested positive in the United Kingdom, one in Germany and another in the Czech Republic. In the US one person suspected of suffering from the newest version of Covid-19 is undergoing testing. After being blamed for not acting quickly enough in other Covid-19 waves, politicians globally have been keen to get ahead of the virus, even if it turns out they overreacted. In Europe and the US, fears surround the quick transmissibility of the new variant and also because it has 50 mutations, out of which 32 are in the spike region. The spike region is where the virus attaches itself to the human cells. Travel restrictions are “going to buy us some time,” top US government health official Dr Antony Fauci said. “It’s not going to be possible to keep this infection out of the country. The question is: Can you slow it down?” he said. “Even though the numbers are still small, the doubling time is pretty rapid and the slope of the increase is really rather sharp,” he told The New York Times. In South Africa, Professor Tulio de Oliveira, director of the KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform appealed to the world not to isolate his country. “We Identified, made data public, and raised the alarm as the infections are just increasing. We did this to protect our country and the world in spite of potentially suffering massive discrimination." The European Union, the UK, Israel, Singapore, the US, Canada and many other countries have temporarily banned the entry of foreign travellers who have recently been in South Africa or any of the neighbouring countries. In the UK, the government has ordered that mask-wearing will be compulsory in public transport and all shops and supermarkets. Prime Minister Boris Johnson ignored resistance from right-wing members of his Conservative party who insist that wearing masks is an infringement of their freedom of choice. The UK added four new countries – Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and Angola – to what is called its Red List and the UK and Irish citizens arriving from these places will be forced to undergo a 10-day quarantine. Scientists fear that the new variant may be better at escaping vaccines and that Omicron presents a higher risk of reinfection. So far, scientists say early indications are that the vaccines are still effective in preventing severe disease. The IMCR’s Panda said, “vaccines which have been directed towards spike protein of the virus may find difficulty in mounting adequate immunity against the mutated version because of the structural changes in the viral genome.” In the event it is necessary to tweak the vaccines to make them more effective against Omicron, vaccine-makers Pfizer and BioNTech said in a statement they “expect to be able to develop and produce a tailor-made vaccine... in approximately 100 days, subject to regulatory approval.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Bangladesh's nod awaited for 24x7 exim trade through Petropole land border||The 24x7 export and import trade between India and Bangladesh to eliminate delay in consignments through Petrapole land border is awaiting the neighbouring country's notification to keep their border gate open round the clock, an official said. The detention period for trucks at the border has crossed more than 40 days and has reached 55 days, trade bodies said. FICCI has also flagged the long detention issue with Union Commerce secretary BVR Subrahmanyam. The Government of India had issued an order on October 25 that the Petrapole-Benapole border to be operational 24x7 on a trial basis for three months. "We had held a meeting with the stakeholders and the Bangladeshi government. We are completely ready in our end to begin 24x7 operation from our side and awaiting notification from the Benapole border from the Bangladeshi side," Petrapole land port manager Kamlesh Saini told PTI. Indian exporters at the India-Bangladesh border have expressed discontent over the long waiting period of trucks carrying consignments to Bangladesh, at Petrapole and Ghojadanga land borders, apprehending disruption of shipments. With sudden increase in imports of soya from Bangladesh, the congestion on the Indian side has increased leading to slow exports. FICCI said the space available for warehousing at the border on the India side meant for carrying out export to Bangladesh has reduced significantly and hence has reduced the number of export units per day from 500 units to currently 300 units (goods truck + auto chassis) per day. It further said the queue time at Kalitala parking has increased from 15 days to 40 days resulting in an increase in the per day per truck amount payable to Kalitala Municipality. The delay has pushed the detention cost of each truck or chassis from Rs 5,100 to Rs 13,200 resulting in inventory carrying costs and loss of exports to Bangladesh. Exporters in the past also flagged that Kalitala parking is one of the perennial problems for slow exports including slow customs clearances. Petrapole in North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal is the largest land trade border with Bangladesh with a total trade of over Rs 20,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Delhi environment minister to hold meeting on Monday to review air pollution situation||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will hold a high-level meeting on Monday to review the air pollution situation in the capital, officials said.  The minister will take stock of the situation with senior officials of the departments concerned and discuss steps that could be taken in addition to the existing restrictions on construction and truck entry, an official said.  The Supreme Court will also conduct a hearing on a public interest litigation pertaining to high levels of air pollution in Delhi-NCR on Monday.  The Delhi government had on Thursday re-imposed the ban on construction and demolition activities following the Supreme Court order in this regard.  Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the workers affected by the ban on construction activities in the national capital will be provided a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each and his government will also compensate them for the loss of minimum wages.  Physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions will resume and government offices will reopen from Monday.  However, the ban on the entry of trucks, barring those engaged in essential services, will continue till December 3. CNG and electric trucks are allowed to enter Delhi.  On November 13, the city government had ordered the closure of all educational institutes, banned construction and demolition activities and asked its employees to work from home to combat air pollution and minimise its health effects.  Four days later, it extended the restrictions, besides banning the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||India reports single-day rise of 8,774 new Covid cases, 621 fatalities||India saw a single-day rise of 8,774 new coronavirus infections, taking the country's total tally to 3,45,72,523, while the active cases have declined to 1,05,691, the lowest in 543 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll has climbed to 4,68,554, with 621 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 51 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 154 consecutive days now.  The active cases have declined to 1,05,691 comprising 0.31 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.34 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said.  A decrease of 1,328 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.80 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 55 days  Weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.85 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 14 days, according to the health ministry.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,98,278, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.36 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 121.94 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 621 new fatalities include 554 from Kerala and 17 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths for the past few days, so the death tally of the state is high.  A total of 4,68,554 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,908 from Maharashtra, 39,679 from Kerala, 38,196 from Karnataka, 36,454 from Tamil Nadu, 25,096 from Delhi, 22,910 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,450 from West Bengal.  The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Covid: WHO urges South Asian countries to expand jab coverage||The World Health Organisation on Saturday urged South Asian countries including India to scale up surveillance, strengthen public health measures and expand vaccine coverage, cautioning about Covid-19 surges elsewhere and a new variant of concern. The WHO’s Southeast Asia regional office said these countries must enhance surveillance for Covid-19 and increase genome sequencing of coronavirus samples even though Covid-19 cases were declining in most countries in the region. The appeal, directed at a region where hundreds of millions of people are yet to be vaccinated, comes amid concerns triggered by the highly mutated B.1.1.529 variant that has spread fast in South Africa and turned up in several other countries including the UK. The WHO named the variant “omicron” on Friday. “The earlier the protective measures are implemented, the less restrictive they would need to be in order to be effective,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director of WHO Southeast Asia region, said. She called for comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures to prevent transmission. Singh said 31 per cent of the Southeast Asia region’s population had been fully vaccinated as of Saturday, while nearly 48 per cent or about a billion people were yet to receive even a single dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. They continue to be at risk of developing severe Covid-19 and spreading the virus. Experts guiding India’s surveillance and sequencing efforts said on Saturday that health authorities in states across the country should be looking out for any unusual clusters of cases and rapidly sequence samples if such spikes emerged. “This is what we should be doing anyway,” said a medical expert in a central government lab involved in sequencing coronavirus genomes. “What we need is heightened awareness across the health system and among the public.” Scientists are worried about omicron because it has an unusually large set of mutations that appear to make the virus stronger against the human immune system than any of the earlier known variants. The health ministry had earlier this week directed the states to enhance surveillance and continue to screen travellers arriving in India, with special requirements for travellers from “high-risk” countries, including those where omicron has turned up. Sections of public health experts believe that India’s response thus far has been measured in contrast to the actions of several other countries that have blocked travel from South Africa and other nations where omicron has emerged. Omicron has so far been reported from Botswana, South Africa, Hong Kong, Israel, Belgium and the UK. Authorities in Germany and the Czech Republic have also said they have suspected cases. But experts believe the virus has likely already spread to other countries and will get detected only through high-quality surveillance and genome sequencing. “Imposing travel restrictions and restricting entry from a few countries is not going to help either prevent or control the spread of omicron,” Giridhar Babu, a public health specialist in Bangalore, tweeted. “It is akin to closing the stable door after the horse has bolted.” Instead, Babu wrote, health authorities should be looking out for clusters of cases of recent origin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
28-11-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s tractor march on hold for now||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday decided to put on hold for a week its plan to take out a tractor march on all days of the upcoming winter session of Parliament in view of the Narendra Modi government’s decision to repeal the three farm laws and indications that some of their other demands may also be met. However, the ongoing protests will continue till the government gives an assurance on the floor of the House that it will bring a law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for all crops and get all the BJP-ruled state governments to withdraw “false” cases filed against protesting farmers. The SKM’s collective leadership, which has been spearheading the protests for over a year now, will meet again on December 4 to take stock of the situation and decide on the future course of action. The decision to suspend their Parliament march for a week was taken after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar made a fresh appeal earlier in the day to the farmers to end their protest and return home. “After the announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, there is no point in continuing the farmers’ agitation. I urge the farmers to end their agitation and go home,” Tomar told the news agency ANI, adding that farmers should respect the announcement made by the Prime Minister. The minister said that the government had accepted the farmers’ demand for decriminalising stubble burning. On the demand for an MSP law, Tomar said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced the constitution of a committee to deliberate on the issues of crop diversification, zero-budget farming and making the MSP system more transparent and effective. This committee will have representatives from farmers’ organisations. With the constitution of this committee, the farmers’ demand on the MSP stands fulfilled.” As for the withdrawal of cases, the minister said: “It comes under the jurisdiction of state governments and they will take a decision on the basis of the severity of the cases. The issue of compensation too comes under state governments.” Reacting to Tomar’s remarks, the SKM said the farmers want an assurance on the MSP law in Parliament and then they can consider participating in the committee to decide on the nitty-gritty. The SKM pointed out that the government had given verbal assurances on the NCR pollution law and the electricity bill during the negotiations earlier but went back on them eventually. “Statements don’t count much, we need written assurances,” SKM leaders said. Unhappy with the unilateral announcements being made by the government — while apparently continuing with efforts to break the movement by reaching out to some farmer leaders to win them over — the SKM, in a statement, referred to their letter to the Prime Minister on November 21 and urged the government to restart the dialogue process and discuss the pending issues. “The Morcha condemned the government’s attempts to bypass bilateral discussions and sidestep crucial issues. In a democracy, it is the duty of the elected government to consult the protesting farmers and resolve the disputes amicably,” the statement said. As for Tomar’s claim that the cases filed against farmers are outside the Centre’s jurisdiction and a state issue, the SKM leaders shot back: “It is no secret that the BJP today is Modi and Shah. They can direct the state governments to withdraw the cases filed by the states and the railways to take back its cases against farmers.” Regarding the continuing boycott of BJP leaders, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, SKM leader Darshan Pal said: “If they accept all our demands, then why should we continue to boycott them? We have no personal enmity with the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||Indian ministers’ tweets gift ammunition to China and Pakistan||The “enemy” lurks within, Mr Modi. Guess who have provided ammunition to China and Pakistan to ridicule India this time? Some of your own ministers. Beijing’s propaganda machinery has seized with alacrity a boiler-plate video in tweets uploaded by several Indian ministers that show a Chinese airport as part of a drive to extol the magnificence of an airport whose foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Jewar in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, on Thursday. “Errr.... Shocked to know that Indian government officials had to use photographs of China Beijing Daxing International Airport as proof of their ‘achievements of infrastructure’ (three emojis denoting a facepalm moment),” tweeted Shin Shiwei, a production editor of the state-run China Global TV Network (CGTN), on Saturday. Under the control of the propaganda department of the Chinese Communist Party, CGTN has been tasked by Xi Jinping to “tell China’s story well”. The Indian ministers who have provided the script to the latest “China story” had not responded to the taunt till late on Saturday night although at least one minister had quietly deleted his tweet with another video on the airport. Several Twitter users and fact-checking portals had pointed out that images that resembled a Korean airport or a Chinese airport had been used to depict how the Jewar airport may look when ready. One of the tweets in the panel that Shin shared was from the office handle of Anurag Thakur, Union information and broadcasting minister. It is not clear why the video, which originated from the electronics and IT ministry-run citizen engagement platform MyGov, included the image of what Shin said was a Chinese airport. In the absence of clarity, many social media users assumed that the video was passing off the image as an impression of what the Jewar airport would turn out to be. Thakur’s handle stood out. Less than a fortnight ago, on National Press Day, he had tweeted: “On this day, I call upon my friends from media to make all efforts to curb the menace of fake news and fake narratives. The government on its part has taken measures like establishment of fact check unit at Press Information Bureau (PIB) which has gained popularity.” The Pakistanis have jumped in too. Chaudhry Fawad Hussain, Thakur’s Pakistani counterpart, re-tweeted Shin’s post lampooning the Indian government. Several Indians have been charged under stringent laws for celebrating Pakistan’s victory on the cricket pitch, presumably because it showed India in a poor light. It is not known if Union home minister Amit Shah’s department would proceed against his colleagues under the same laws for giving China and Pakistan a chance to maul India’s reputation. Shin did not stop with a solitary tweet. In another message that dripped with scorn, he wrote: “Errr.... Indian government ministers handle are not only passing off design pictures of China’s Beijing International Airport as a proof of their ‘achievements of infrastructure’, but also using South Korea capital’s Incheon International Airport as India’s Noida Airport.” On November 24, MyGov had uploaded a video of the under-construction Jewar airport that had an image that resembled South Korea’s Incheon airport. Soon, agencies of the Union information and broadcasting ministry, the Gandhi Smriti and the Darshan Samiti under the culture ministry, as well as ministers Arjun Munda and B.L. Verma and other BJP leaders and MPs tweeted the MyGov video. MyGov has since deleted the video. Verma’s tweet is no longer visible, either. On November 25, however, after Modi had laid the foundation stone, MyGov came up with another video, this time having an image that Shin said was of Daxing airport. Thakur, the PIB and ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Arjun Ram Meghwal tweeted the second MyGov video. Thakur’s Twitter handle had posted along with the video on the Jewar airport: “As Asia’s largest airport, Noida International Airport is also going to bring with it an investment of Rs 35,000 crore. This will provide employment to more than one lakh people and will also accelerate the pace of development in the region.” Although MyGov has deleted this video too, it remained on the handles of Thakur and the PIB till late on Saturday night. Neither the electronics and IT ministry nor the information and broadcasting ministry had responded to questions from this newspaper till Saturday night. Several claims made about the Jewar airport have also been challenged. Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s former aide, Sudheendra Kulkarni, rubbed the message in. “Din raat ‘Boycott #China’ chillaate rahate hain (they keep on shouting ‘Boycott China’). But come election time, they steal a photo of a brand new #Beijing airport and show it as their own. This is their fraudulent patriotism.” Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge tweeted: “In Arunachal Pradesh, BJP govt lets China build villages. In Uttar Pradesh, BJP govt showcases Chinese airport as its own. In Ladakh, BJP govt surrenders and cedes our territory to Chinese. BJP has transformed into Beijing Janata Party!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||NSUI members stage demonstration against Pradhan in Odisha||Members of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress, on Saturday staged a demonstration against Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s visit to Utkal University. Upset with the current national education policy, the NSUI members shouted “minister go back” slogans and tried to show black flags to Pradhan. They had a minor clash with the police followed by the arrest of 22 protesters who were released in the evening on personal recognizance bonds. Pradhan, who is an alumnus of Utkal University, was visiting his alma mater to attend its 79th foundation day ceremony. He had studied here in the 1990s. “The Centre’s education policy is anti-student. The Centre is doing everything to communalise education. We are a secular country. Though we observe Constitution Day every year, we never follow it in spirit. We will continue to protest against the Centre’s policy to denigrate our age-old education policy,” Yasir Nawaz, president of state NSUI, told The Telegraph. Yasir added: “An attempt has been made to privatise the education system through the PPT mode.  The new education policy is anti-student. Even efforts are being made to privatise the sainik schools set up by India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru.” Akhilesh Yadav, general secretary of NSUI, said: “Universities do not have adequate staff. Even the Central University has acute shortage of teaching and non-teaching staff. Unemployment figures are shooting up. The NEP of the Centre has become a no-employment policy” The protesters said as an alumnus of the university, Pradhan should give more attention to its development. “But we have not seen any effort in this direction from his side. We are protesting so that all these issues come to his notice,” one of the protesters said. Addressing the students on the foundation day, Pradhan emphasised on teaching through mother tongue. However, he made it clear that English as a global trade language should be learnt by all. Lauding the contribution of Utkal University in nation-building, Pradhan said: “The university is a laboratory for building great minds that run the state and nation. I have fond memories of this institution.” He said the national education policy had helped in employment generation besides bringing universities to the international level. He said Utkal University should think about teaching the rich history of Lord Jagannath and the history of the 12th century Jagannath temple. The minister was critical of the state government’s efforts to rein in the activities of the university. Pradhan called upon the Odisha government to reconsider the amendments that restricted the autonomy of the university. Vice-Chancellor of Utkal University, Prof Sabita Acharya recalled the university’s role in nation-building since inception and its contribution to the development of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir has lower fertility rate: Central govt survey||A central government survey has shown that Jammu and Kashmir has a lower fertility rate than any state barring tiny Goa and Sikkim, a finding that challenges Right wing claims about runaway Muslim birth rates. The National Family Health Survey (2019-21) reveals a sharp fall in the total fertility rate (TFR) --- the average number of children a woman bears in her lifetime --- in Jammu and Kashmir from 2.0 to 1.4, far below the national average of 2. In comparison, Uttar Pradesh has a TFR of 2.4, Bihar 3, Madhya Pradesh 2.0, Jharkhand 2.3, Punjab 1.6, Odisha 1.8, and Kerala 1.8. Only two states – Sikkim (1.1) and Goa (1.3) – and the Union Territories of Ladakh (1.3) and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (1.3) have TFRs below Jammu and Kashmir’s. The survey does not give religion-wise TFR breakups. However, since Jammu and Kashmir is the only large region in India with a Muslim majority, the findings test the Right-wing propaganda about a high birth rate among Muslims. Many in the Valley partly attribute the 2019 constitutional changes made in Jammu and Kashmir to the Right-wing’s demographic concerns, suggesting the idea was to pave the way for changing Kashmir’s Muslim-majority character. “It (the survey) proves that the Muslim population, at least in Jammu and Kashmir, is growing only on WhatsApp,” People’s Democratic Party leader Firdous Tak said. Using the bogey of a fast-increasing Muslim population, Right-wing groups have been urging Hindus to have more children. “These parties rely on lies to spread fear among the majority community that the Muslims’ numbers are growing,” Tak added. In September, the US-based Pew Research Center had said the Muslim fertility rate in India had plummeted by 1.8 from 4.4 to 2.6 between 1992 and 2015, against a fall of 1.2 among Hindus from 3.3 to 2.1. In 2016, at a Kutumb Prabodhan (an RSS project whose name means ‘family awakening’) event presided over by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, it was claimed that Hindus had a fertility rate of 2.1 against one of 8 within the “other community”. Hindus were further told their existence would be in peril in their “own country by 2025” if the situation persisted. Dr Farhat Jabeen, former head of obstetrics and gynaecology at the Government Medical College, Srinagar, said the survey’s findings, if true, showed that such claims did not fit the context of Jammu and Kashmir. “Previously, women’s only job was to produce children and take care of the family. With growing education, women (in Kashmir) are becoming more job-oriented,” she told The Telegraph. “They want to be on a par with men in every sphere of life. They don’t want to have a big family.” Dr Jabeen said her own experience suggested a rise in infertility, that is, the inability to get pregnant. “There are many reasons, like late marriages and (rising) obesity in Kashmir,” she said. Many in Kashmir believe that one reason for late marriages or women’s failure to find husbands is the increasing deaths among the youth because of militancy. Dr Jabeen, however, played down the idea that many women were remaining unmarried because there were not enough men. “Maybe that (militancy) is one of the reasons, (but) families (often) plunge into economic crisis and women become their breadwinners (delaying their marriages),” she said. Government officials portrayed the decline in the fertility rate as a rare success. “Our family welfare programme has been a success in J&K,” said Dr Saleem Ur Rehman, director-general, family welfare department. Dr Rehana Kausar, a consultant with the department, said the survey had shown that women had access to contraception and were increasingly opting for just two children while delaying the second birth. The national TFR has declined to 2.0 from the value of 2.2 found during the earlier NFHS of 2015-16. This is the first time India’s TFR has fallen below the so-called population replacement threshold of 2.1, at which a population is expected to replace itself exactly from one generation to the next under certain conditions. Sanghamitra Singh, a health scientist and senior manager with the NGO Population Foundation of India, however, said India’s population was expected to rise in the short term and peak at about 1.6 billion between 2040 and 2050 before starting to decline. Additional reporting by G.S. Mudur from New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||President Kovind expresses concern at huge backlog of cases ||President R.M. Kovind on Saturday said the independence of the judiciary was “non-negotiable” but expressed concern at the huge backlog of cases, which he said affected the country’s economy too. Kovind complimented the judiciary for sustaining the people’s faith in the institution. He suggested the establishment of an all-India judicial service to help appoint judges to the lower as well as higher courts. So far, the higher judiciary has jealously guarded the collegium system of appointing apex court and high court judges, with the Supreme Court in 2015 quashing a law that gave the government a bigger say in judges’ appointments. “At the risk of repeating myself, I would like to once again point to the cost of justice. In a developing country like ours, a very small section of citizens can afford to knock on the doors of the courts of justice,” the President said, delivering the valedictory address at the end of the two-day Constitution Day celebrations at Vigyan Bhavan. “From the lower courts to the Supreme Court, it becomes increasingly difficult for an average citizen to seek redressal of grievances. Fortunately, there are, of course, individuals and also institutions that offer pro bono services. The Supreme Court too has taken praiseworthy steps in this direction.” He added: “I wish to see increased access to legal aid and advisory services for all. It can take the form of a movement or the form of a better institutionalised mechanism.” Kovind then moved on to the huge pendency of cases, saying it had consequences for economic growth and development. He suggested that technology could help in the efforts to find a way out. Successive chief justices have argued that one reason for the huge case backlog was the government’s delay in filling vacant judges’ posts. Kovind too touched on the subject. “While we talk about the pendency of cases, another pertinent issue relates to appointments in the judiciary. I am of the firm view that the independence of the judiciary is non-negotiable. Without diluting it to the slightest degree, can a better way be found to select judges for the higher judiciary? For instance, there can be an all-India judicial service which can select, nurture and promote the right talent, right from the lower levels to the higher levels,” he said. “This idea is not new and has been around for more than half a century without being tested. I’m sure that there could also be other, better suggestions for reforming the system. Ultimately, the aim should be to strengthen the justice delivery mechanism.” So far, an all-India judicial service has been mooted mainly as a mechanism to appoint lower court judges. “It is indeed a creditable achievement that people repose faith in the judiciary. And the Indian judiciary must be complimented for this well-earned achievement,” Kovind said. “As a former member of the Bar, I always regarded it as a privilege to serve the cause of justice in my capacity as a lawyer. From this vantage position, I am also acutely conscious of obstacles in the path of justice delivery,” he added. “In the Indian tradition, judges are imagined as a model of rectitude and detachment, more akin to ‘sthitapragya’ (a serene and wise person). We have a rich history of legions of such judges known for their utterances full of sagacity and conduct beyond reproach, which have become hallmarks for future generations. I am happy to note that the Indian judiciary has been adhering to those highest standards.” Kovind said that justice, liberty, equality and fraternity lay at the core of the Constitution, whose Preamble expanded the notion of justice to include its social, economic and political aspects. “How far have we succeeded when compared to this ideal?” he asked. The President said that democracy revolved around the fulcrum of justice, and got strengthened if the judiciary, legislature and executive were in harmony. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, in his address, regretted that the “legislature does not conduct studies or assess the impact of the laws that it passes”. He cited the creation of commercial courts and the amendments to the Negotiable Instruments Act (cheque bounce cases) without the establishment of adequate infrastructure to take on an increased volume of cases. “The introduction of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act is an example. Now the already burdened magistrates are further burdened by thousands of these cases,” Justice Ramana said. “Similarly, rebranding the existing courts as commercial courts, without creating a special infrastructure, will not have any impact on the pendency. Therefore, the issue of pendency is multifaceted. I hope the government takes into consideration the suggestions received during these two days and resolves the prevailing issues.” The Chief Justice endorsed a suggestion from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal to set up four regional courts of appeal --- one each in the north, south, east and west --- to deal with challenges to high court orders. This, Justice Ramana said, would ease the burden on the Supreme Court, leaving it to deal with key constitutional issues rather than cases relating to matrimony, rent control and the like. Justice Ramana complimented Kovind for his constant encouragement of the judiciary, underlining how the President had always stressed the need to have more women judges. He said that while the Centre had been allocating substantial amounts towards the development of judicial infrastructure, some of the states were not doing their bit. “As a result, the central funds largely remain unutilised. That is the reason I am proposing a special purpose vehicle of a judicial infrastructure authority. I beseech the (law) minister to take this proposal to its logical conclusion. I also urge the hon’ble minister to expedite the process of filling judicial vacancies,” Justice Ramana said. Union law minister Kiren Riju announced a government decision to allocate Rs 9,000 crore to develop judicial infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||Cong seeks condolence resolution in House on death of farmers||The Congress on Saturday sought to put the Narendra Modi government on the defensive by demanding a condolence resolution in Parliament on the death of more than 700 farmers during the year-long movement against the three farm laws that will now be repealed. “On the eve of the coming Parliament session, I would sincerely request you that as a mark of respect towards our annadata (food-providers), the House may unanimously pass a condolence resolution for the farmers who lost their lives during the farmer agitation. The passing of the resolution in the House will convey our gratitude for the sacrifices that our farmer brethren have given to the nation,” the party’s Lok Sabha leader, Adhir Chowdhury, wrote in a letter to Speaker Om Birla. After a year of ignoring what has turned out to be one of the most inspiring movements in history, the Prime Minister suddenly announced the repeal of the three laws on November 19. The government plans to table the repeal bill in Parliament on the very first day of the winter session beginning on Monday, hoping to quickly bring the curtains down on an issue on which it has had to capitulate. But the Congress is in no mood to allow the focus to shift from the government’s mishandling of the farm protest and a whole gamut of other matters. Neither the Prime Minister nor any of his ministers has even mentioned the deaths of the farmers, let alone condole them, and his government had in previous sessions refused to consider the Congress plea for a condolence resolution in the House. In February, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had in a speech in Parliament noted this refusal to pay respects to the dead farmers, who then numbered around 200, and asked members of the House to join him in observing a two-minute silence in their memory. The Congress is supporting the farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for all farm produce, which the government appears reluctant to concede at this stage. The Congress plans to press for this demand in the upcoming session, besides  protesting against the continuance of minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni whose son is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of farmers. The chances of a turmoil in the House will considerably diminish if the government brings the bill to repeal the three laws on the first day as the Opposition will have to cooperate, BJP managers believe. The Congress plans to raise several other issues, including its demand for compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the family of every Covid dead, inflation, Chinese aggression and rising unemployment. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, has called a meeting of friendly parties on Monday. But Opposition unity, demonstrated so powerfully in the last session, seems to be in disarray this time. Trinamul MPs will not attend the meeting called by Kharge, and it is unlikely that a consensus will emerge among other parties on floor strategy because the Samajwadi Party too is trying to keep a distance from the Congress in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh elections. “Opposition unity isn’t the catchphrase this time,” conceded a senior Rajya Sabha MP, lamenting that “partisan aspirations” appeared to have overridden the larger national objective of fighting the BJP. This MP said: “We can’t say the Congress alone is to be blamed for the situation but there is no denying the fact that the party has to share the blame for this confused state of affairs. The leadership issue has cropped up because of casual handling of Opposition unity.” Another leader, however, countered this perception, saying: “The Opposition will remain united and the Trinamul Congress may be alone in charting its own separate course. We are sorry to say that Trinamul is behaving in an obnoxious manner. We all have our problems with the Congress, the party has doubtless not functioned as it should have. But we can’t unsettle Modi with such a fickle mindset. If the Congress cannot be the fulcrum of Opposition unity, Trinamul certainly can’t.” Rahul variant alert Rahul on Saturday asked the government to take the new coronavirus variant seriously. The Congress leader tweeted: “New variant is a serious threat. High time GOI gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen. Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo.” He posted a chart with the tweet that showed only 31.19 per cent of the total population had been fully vaccinated in India. It also showed that an average of 6.8 million daily doses were being administered while 23.3 million shots needed to be given every day to fulfil the Centre’s deadline to inoculate the entire adult population by year-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||Don’t vote for liars: Priyanka Gandhi urges Bundelkhand voters||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday urged the voters of backward Bundelkhand to reject political parties that lie to them and do nothing during their five years in power. “How long will you tolerate a party that makes false promises just to win an election?” the Congress general secretary asked a massive crowd at the Chhatrasal Stadium in Mahoba city, Mahoba district, Bundelkhand. “When will you understand that you have the power to defeat them if they believe that making fake promises is good enough to win an election? When will you be able to understand their nautanki (drama)?” Police and residents estimated a crowd of about 1 lakh people compared with the 60,000 to 70,000 who attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s November 19 rally on the city’s Police Line Ground. Apart from its size, Priyanka’s rally impressed Mayank Kumar, a resident, for another “unique” reason. “Women made up about 60 per cent of the crowd. I can say there were over 1 lakh people, who included 60,000 women,” he said. “The glowing saris and lehengas of the Bundeli women and their continuous chanting of Priyanka’s name made it an unusually colourful rally.” Priyanka told the crowd that the Prime Minister travelled by aircraft that cost Rs 8000 crore but didn’t do anything to increase the farmers’ income. “His industrialist friends earn Rs 10,000 crore per day but your earning is Rs 27 a day,” she said. She did not reveal the source of the information. Priyanka reminded the audience of the economic package that the Manmohan Singh government had in March 2011 awarded to Bundelkhand, an impoverished and parched region made up of seven districts of Uttar Pradesh and six of Madhya Pradesh. “You don’t have to trust the politicians who come, deliver false speeches and leave. But you must remember that the Congress (UPA) had opened a unit of Bhel (Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited) and the Parichha thermal power plant, Rani Laxmi Bai Central Agriculture University and a medical college (all in Jhansi district of Bundelkhand),” she said. “You must also remember our work to turn barren areas green.” The Rs 3,506-crore special package had been released to cover several of the projects Priyanka mentioned, including one for water resource management that included the construction of dams and wells. Priyanka did not mention the farmers’ protest on Delhi’s borders but said: “If voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, we shall waive all the loans of the farmers the way we had in the past.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
28-11-2021||India||Karnataka: Number of Covid-19 cases increase at medical college ||The number of Covid-19 cases at a medical college in Karnataka increased by another 99 on Saturday to reach 281. The SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad has become a Covid cluster after students and staff tested positive in hordes over the past couple of days against the backdrop of a cultural festival on the campus on November 17. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitish Patil said only six of the total cases reported so far were symptomatic. More than 1,800 test results are awaited. The district administration has sealed two hostel blocks and isolated those who have tested positive there. As many as 59 students and seven staff members had tested positive on Thursday, followed by 116 on Friday. Twelve nursing students at Spurthy Nursing College in Chandapura, a southeast suburb of the city, were found to have contracted the virus on Saturday. Barring the 33 school students who are all below 18 years of age and not eligible for the Covid vaccine, everyone else are fully inoculated. With educational institutions reopening for physical classes, sporadic outbreaks have been reported from other districts too. Around 62 nursing students from two colleges had tested positive in Mysore a week ago. While they were isolated, their college mates who had tested negative were tested again. The result was negative the second time too. Mysore deputy commissioner Bagadi Gautham told reporters that all precautions had been taken to isolate the affected students who were fully vaccinated and asymptomatic. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters on Saturday that he had called a meeting of officials from the health department to address the surge in Covid cases at educational institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
