29-11-2021||India||Centre expresses 'strong exception' over  Calcutta HC views on Alapan||The Centre on Monday took “serious exception” to certain observations made by the Calcutta High Court in its order passed on a plea filed by former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, and told the Supreme Court that these are coloured with “some political overtones”. The government told a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar that this matter relates to the service of one officer and these observations should have been avoided by the high court. The top court reserved its order on the Centre's plea challenging the October 29 order of the high court which had set aside an order of the principal bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) to transfer an application by Mr Bandopadhyay, challenging the proceedings initiated against him by the Centre, from Kolkata to New Delhi. The Centre objected to certain observations made in the high court order, including the one which said the “entire modus operandi adopted by the Union of India reeks of mala fides” and, unfortunately, the principal bench of the CAT “nurtured such efforts by passing the impugned transfer order, thereby paying obeisance to the diktat of the Union of India, which has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court and various High Courts not to be a favoured litigant.” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that “these are the observations coloured with some political overtone and should have been avoided,” Mehta said there have been judgements by the top court that say that the high courts will have to be very circumspect in making observations. He said personal views or political ideologies can never play any role in the exercise of the judicial function. “This is a matter of service of one officer. The chairman (of CAT) has the power to transfer the proceedings from one bench to another, without touching the merits, and the high court says this disturbs the federal structure,” Mehta said, adding, “I am taking very serious exception”. “I am posing a question to myself with all seriousness. Where the federal structure comes into the picture,” he said. Referring to one of the observations made in the order, the solicitor general said, “I (Union of India) am an applicant. I am before the authority having the jurisdiction. I am arguing the matter, the other side is being heard. Is it my diktat if I move my application as a respectable litigant.” Mehta also argued on the issue of territorial jurisdiction and said the Calcutta High Court could not have exercised its jurisdiction on a plea against the order passed by the principal bench of CAT which is in New Delhi. Senior advocate AM Singhvi, appearing for Mr Bandopadhyay, said the IAS officer has always been a resident of Kolkata and every part of the cause of action in the matter is in West Bengal. At the outset, Mr Mehta told the bench that he would not take longer to advance his submissions as he was aware that the bench might be required to get up a little early. “Get up early. On what basis you are saying this Mr solicitor? What information do you have?” the bench asked. “Your lordships are becoming a guest in my state (Gujarat),” Mehta said without elaborating further. “We knew that you are resourceful but so much resourceful that our moment is also tracked by you,” the bench said in a lighter vein. The solicitor general said that when the judges are visiting someplace, the protocol department inquires whether there are any specific requirements. “It's more for your lordship's convenience and if needed, any further assistance. That's all. There is nothing. It's not tracking,” the solicitor general said. On November 15, the Centre had told the top court that the high court has passed a “disturbing order” while setting aside the order of the principal bench of CAT. The top court was hearing a plea filed by the Centre against the high court order, which had also directed the Kolkata bench of CAT to expedite the hearing of Bandopadhyay's application and dispose of it at the earliest. Bandopadhyay had moved the Kolkata bench of CAT, challenging the proceedings initiated against him by the Ministry of Personnel and Public Grievance and Pensions in a matter relating to attending a meeting on May 28 at the Kalaikunda Air Force station that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the effects of cyclone Yaas. Mehta had told the top court on November 15 that Mr Bandopadhyay had challenged the initiation of departmental action against him by the Centre before the Calcutta Bench of CAT. Referring to the high court order, the law officer had said some “very disturbing” remarks have been made against the principal bench of CAT. “We can say that the disturbing remarks will be expunged,” the bench had observed. Bandopadhyay, who was not released by the state government, chose to retire on May 31, his original date of superannuation before having been given an extension of three months from that date. Proceedings were initiated against Mr Bandopadhyay by the Union government and an inquiry authority was appointed in this regard, which fixed a preliminary hearing on October 18 in New Delhi. He then moved the Kolkata bench of CAT, challenging the proceedings against him. The Union government had filed a transfer petition before the principal bench of CAT, which on October 22 allowed the transfer of Bandopadhyay's application to itself in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||Dead bodies of Covid victims 'rotting' in Bengaluru hospital for over one year||In a heart-wrenching incident, the bodies of two COVID-19 victims, who died in July 2020, are "rotting" in the Employees' State Insurance Corporation Hospital mortuary in the city for the past over one year.  According to hospital sources, a 40-year old woman and a man in his early 50s were admitted in the hospital in Rajajinagar with coronavirus in June 2020 and died a few days later in the following month.  Since then, their bodies are kept in the mortuary as the final rites were not performed for unknown reasons.  In this regard, Rajajinagar BJP MLA and former minister S Suresh Kumar has written to Karnataka Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar requesting him to get the matter investigated and punish those responsible for the "inhuman incident."  In his letter, whose copy he shared with reporters, Kumar said that during the first wave of COVID-19 two people died in the ESI Hospital in July 2020 and their bodies are still rotting in the mortuary of the hospital.  "The role of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanaara Palike and the ESI authorities is grave. In this regard, I request you order a high level probe, get the detailed inquiry report and initiate stringent action against those who are responsible for this inhumane act," Kumar wrote.  In his emotionally charged letter, Kumar said such incidents should never occur anywhere.  "During the peak of COVID-19, we came across various heart-wrenching incidents but the incident that came to the light in the ESI Hospital is most unfortunate. It is the height of irresponsibility and inhuman behaviour," Kumar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||SC asks states to give updates on steps to control air pollution||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab governments to provide information on measures taken by them in compliance with directions issued by Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas to control air pollution and sought compliance reports from them. A Bench of Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Surya Kant directed the Centre to respond to issues related to construction activities including the Central Vista project under its domain. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the petitioner, said that construction activities for big projects such as the Central Vista are going on in full swing and such a project cannot be "more important than the lives of citizens". The bench observed, “The question is how we are struggling as to how to control the pollution and whether it is Central Vista or polluting industries or the states... Do you think that we do not know anything? We also know everything. Don't flag certain issues which ultimately lead to a situation where the main issue is diverted.” Asking the solicitor general to respond on continued construction activities of Central Vista the bench said, "Vikas Singh has raised certain issues regarding construction activities in Delhi, we direct the Solicitor General to file an affidavit or get instructions about the areas which fall under the Central government domain." The apex court has sought the response of the Solicitor General on construction in Delhi aspect. It has now posted the matter for hearing on December 2. The top court was hearing a matter seeking emergency steps to control the worsening air quality situation in the national capital. The Bench also directed the State governments to show compliance with the directions issued by the Court on November 24 to disburse the welfare funds to construction workers, whose livelihoods get affected due to the ban imposed on construction activities. The top court observed that the intentions of the Commission are good and directions are given but the "result is zero". The court is hearing a plea seeking a curb on rising air pollution in Delhi. On November 24, the apex court had said that the air quality crisis in Delhi calls for a scientific study and suggested a statistical-based model on wind patterns to take advance measures to curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR before the situation deteriorates. It had said that advance measures must be taken to deal with Delhi's air quality crisis. The bench had also observed that when the weather becomes severe only then governments take measures to control it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||Advocacy against law like CAA not a crime: Umar Khalid tells court||Advocacy against the law like the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is not a crime, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid told a Delhi court on Monday, asserting that the police pressured the witnesses to give statements in the riots conspiracy case.  Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, also told the court that one of the protected witnesses had informed a police officer about the purported plans of the riots beforehand and asked why they took place if the police knew about it.  The lawyer made the remarks during the hearing in a case related to the communal violence that had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020, after clashes between the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control.  Arguing for Khalid's bail before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, Pais read out the statements of four protected witnesses and claimed that they were "written by the police and given to the witnesses to endorse."  In the last hearing, he had read the statements of two other witnesses and alleged that they were cooked up.  Today, he referred to one of the police allegations regarding an alleged secret meeting in Delhi's Seelampur area on January 23 and 24, 2020, in which Khalid had allegedly directed that the protests be escalated to riots and result in the spilling of blood of policemen and others.  For the Seelampur meeting, you [prosection] have six witnesses. One witness absolutely has nothing on me. Another witness had nothing on me in the police statement but introduced a provocative speech in a statement before the magistrate, he told the court.  The lawyer added, A third witness is a person who was miraculously in touch with the police since January and kept the SHO informed at every level but does nothing about it. One other witness is the only person who says there was a secret office and not a meeting. No witness calls it a secret meeting. These statements without any doubt are procured.  Pais told the court that a witness met the station house officer (SHO) in January 2020 and that the officer knew everything about the riots plan beforehand.  He says that I was regularly in touch with SHO who asked me to keep him updated. So, Seelampur SHO knew everything. How did we have riots in the city? This brilliant intelligence he had about this and he did not register an FIR. If you are in touch with the SHO, then why did you not ensure that nothing went on? he asked.  Besides this, the lawyer said that another witness did not speak of the alleged secret meeting in the statement given to the police, but seven days later, the witness miraculously mentioned it in a statement given before a magistrate.  Obviously, the statement did not suit the police and they could not go back and change it so they ensured that the witness goes to the magistrate and say this. Remember one thing, advocacy against a law is not a crime, he said referring to the opposition to the CAA.  To show more contradictions in the statement, the lawyer said that in one of the statements the witness claimed that co-accused Gulfisha asked women and children to carry chilly powder and acid to protest on Khalid's directions, but in another statement, they claimed that Gulfisha herself asked them to carry it.  Why would you believe this witness? The witness has clearly been pressured to give statements, he asserted.  The lawyer said even though the witness did not claim to be present in the meeting, it still gave granular details and claimed that JNU student Natasha Narwal was present there but her Call Data Record (CDR) showed otherwise.  He further said that one other witness did not speak about the alleged secret meeting or Khalid in his statement to the police on April 16 but suddenly recalled that the accused gave a provocative speech in a statement before the magistrate on April 24.  The lawyer said that the fourth witness did not speak about the meeting at all.  Delhi Police have given imaginary names to the witnesses such as Echo, Delta, Gamma, and Yanky, Sierra, and Smith to protect their identity.  In the last hearing, Khalid told the court that statements of the witnesses in the case were written by someone else and given to them as police did not have any evidence.  Umar Khalid and several others have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a stringent anti-terror law, and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 riots in the national capital which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||No delay in grant of Permanent Commission to women officers in Army: Govt||As many as 557 women officers have been granted Permanent Commission (PC) in the Indian Army following a judgement by the Supreme Court in February last year, the government said in Rajya Sabha on Monday. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, replying to a question, said there was no delay in granting Permanent Commission to any woman officer. He said, "557 women officers have been granted Permanent Commission in Indian Army after the Supreme Court judgment dated February 17." His reply came in response to a question on the number of women army officers who were granted Permanent Commission after the Supreme Court verdict. To a specific question on the timeframe by which all 72 women officers will be accorded the PC, Bhatt added that "63 eligible women officers have been granted Permanent Commission as on November 25 in compliance of the judgement of the Supreme Court." The Supreme Court in February last year had ordered the government to ensure that women officers are given a permanent commission (PC) in the Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||J&K: 1033 terrorist incidents reported in 3 years, says govt||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed 1,033 incidents of attacks by terrorists in the last three years with a maximum of 594 being reported in 2019, the government informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday. According to details provided by Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, the union territory reported 244 incidents of terrorist attacks last year while the number for the current year was 196 till November 15. The list included one such incident in Delhi taking the total number to 1,034 in the country from 2019 to mid-November of 2021. Bhatt said a total of 177 personnel including from Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) died in counter-terrorist operation during the period. Without specifying place of the fatal casualties, he said 80 personnel died in 2019, 62 in 2020 and 35 in the current year (till November 15) The minister was replying to a question on the number of terrorist attacks in the country during the last three years and the number of armed forces personnel killed in the attacks. Replying to a separate question, Bhatt said the government has taken a number of measures to strengthen coastal, offshore and maritime security. The steps listed by him to boost coastal security included capacity augmentation of maritime security agencies, enhancing technical surveillance of coastal and offshore areas and establishment of mechanisms for inter-agency coordination. Bhatt said Indian Naval ships and aircraft are regularly deployed on 'Mission Based Deployments' in the Indian Ocean Region to enhance maritime security. "It also undertakes surveillance to enhance maritime domain awareness and address contingencies that may arise," he said. "These are in consonance with Government of India's vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR) and the Maritime Security Strategy to build its role as the 'Preferred Security Partner' in our extended maritime neighbourhood," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||107 antique items brought back from different nation in last 20 years: Govt||As many as 107 antique items have been brought back from different countries in the last 20 years, the Union Culture Ministry informed the Lok Sabha on Monday. According to data shared by Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Development of Northeastern Region G Kishan Reddy in response to a question, 14 artefacts and antique items were stolen from various states between 2015 and 2021. From 2001-2021, 107 antiquities have been brought back to India from other countries. The highest number of antiquities were brought back from the US in 2021 when 63 such pieces were given back, the data showed. The other countries from where antiquities have been retrieved are -- Holland, France, Australia, Germany, the UK, Canada and Singapore. "The USA has handed over 157 antiquities related to Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism during the recent visit of the prime minister to the US. Out of 157 antiquities, the first lot of 63 antiquities has reached India. Nine antiquities have been retrieved from Australia," Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
29-11-2021||India||Bill for rehabilitation of sex workers to be placed in ongoing Winter Session: Centre to SC||The Centre on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it is bringing a bill in Parliament during the ongoing winter session to curb trafficking and rehabilitation of sex workers in the country.  The top court directed all the States and Union Territories to not insist on the requirement of ration cards or any other identity proofs from the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO) identified sex workers and provide them dry ration during the pandemic period in compliance with the earlier orders of the court.  A bench of Justices LN Rao and BR Gavai recorded the submission of Additional Solicitor General RS Suri that the centre has planned to bring in legislation during the ongoing winter session to curb trafficking and rehabilitation of sex workers.  The bench said, Right to Food has been recognised as a human right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Though there is some improvement in the situation caused by the COVID pandemic, we are of the view that there is the constitutional obligation of the States/UTs to provide basic amenities to its Citizens, which takes into its fold the sex workers, who are also entitled to dry rations .  The top court was hearing an application filed by an NGO in a 2010 petition seeking to address the problems of sex workers in the country.  The bench noted that this court has constituted a committee to submit its recommendations for the rehabilitation of sex workers in 2011 and the panel has submitted a detailed report with recommendations to the court.  It said that on February 27, this court was informed by the Additional Solicitor General that a group of ministers was seized of the matter and it is examining two draft legislation which will take into account the recommendation of the court-appointed committee.  The bench said that realising that the petition was pending since 2010 and the need for legislation, the court had asked the government to bring in the law at the earliest.  ASG RS Suri submits that legislation will be placed before the Parliament during the ongoing session of Parliament '', the bench recorded the submission and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks.  The top court also asked Suri to serve a copy of draft legislation after senior advocate Jayant Bhushan, who is a member of the court-appointed committee and amicus curiae, said that he wants to see whether the government has acted on at least one of the recommendations of the panel.  The bench said that Suri may also serve the copy of the draft legislation to other parties. It said that on October 28, 2020, the court had directed all the State governments and Union Territories to ensure distribution of the minimum quantity of dry ration to sex workers, who have been identified by the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO).  It said that the State governments and UTs were directed to take the assistance of District Legal Service Authorities (DLSAs) for identification of genuine sex workers, who could be entitled to distribution of dry ration.  It added that some States and UTs have filed compliance reports but some have not and senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for an NGO Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, submits that apart from West Bengal and Maharashtra, who has done considerable work concerning the distribution of dry ration, very few states have done any work in this regard.  It said that Bhushan has also submitted that States are linking it with ration cards or are saying that they do not have any schemes for the sex workers.  The bench said, The identification of sex workers by NACO and DLSAs would be sufficient for them to claim distribution of dry ration. States governments and Union Territories are directed to comply with the order dated October 28, 2020, without insisting upon ration card from the sex workers .  The top court said that status reports shall also be filed by the State governments and UTs before December 10.  On October 28, last year, the top court had pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for "delay" in identifying sex workers for providing dry rations during the COVID-19 pandemic, and said there should not be any further delay as it is a "question of someone's survival".  The apex court, which had directed all states and union territories (UTs) to implement its September 29 directions and ensure that dry rations are provided to sex workers identified by the NACO and district legal services authorities.  The NGO has highlighted the destitution faced by sex workers on account of COVID-19 and sought relief measures for over nine lakh female and transgender sex workers across India.  On September 29, last year, the top court directed all the states to provide dry rations to sex workers, who are identified by NACO and district legal services authorities, without insisting on any proof of identity.  The apex court had asked all the states to file a compliance report within four weeks giving details of the number of sex workers who got dry ration within this period.  Grover had earlier argued that a survey among 1.2 lakh sex workers in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana found that 96 per cent of them had lost their source of earning in the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||J&K statehood will be restored after selective killings end, says BJP||National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Monday said target killings reflect "collective failure" of the Union Government and Jammu and Kashmir administration as the local unit of BJP promised restoration of the statehood to J&K once the selective killings end.  On August 5, 2019, the Centre abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution granting special status to J&K and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh.  J&K BJP general Secretary (Organisation) Ashok Koul told reporters in north Kashmir's Bandipora district that statehood to Jammu and Kashmir will be restored once the selective killings end and the common people are able to move freely here.  Kaul said the BJP is concerned over the selective killings in Kashmir as its activists were targeted.  "In these selective killings, the BJP leaders are being killed here or the non-Kashmiris or non-Muslims, even some Muslims are also targeted. We are against every selective killing and no religion allows it, the BJP leader said.  He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home minister Amit Shah have on the floor of the Parliament said that the statehood of J&K will be restored and the BJP also supports the demand.  "When the situation in J&K becomes better, when it (situation) will be normal, the selective killings will end, and common people will be able to move freely, the statehood will then be restored," he said.  Reacting to the statement of the BJP leader, Abdullah said, So the people of J&K will be punished, by having our statehood withheld, because of the collective failure of the Union Government & the J&K administration?  They fail to protect people, they fail to manage the security situation & the rest of us are punished. What an idea sir ji!," Abdullah wrote on Twitter.  To a question on the conduct of the assembly elections, BJP leader Koul said the polls will be held soon after the delimitation commission submits its report.  "The delimitation commission has a time till March 6 (next year). When the commission submits its report under which 90 seats will be delimited, the elections will be followed soon after, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Situation being monitored for 'further decision' on int'l flights resumption: Scindia||Amid the emergence of a new COVID variant, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday said the situation is being closely monitored and reviewed in consultation with other ministries regarding "any further decision" on resuming scheduled international passenger services. On November 26, the government decided to restart scheduled commercial international passenger services to and from India from December 15. These services remain suspended since March 23 last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, on November 28, the government said the decision to resume the services will be reviewed in the wake of the cases of people getting infected with the COVID variant 'Omicron' in different parts of the world. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Monday, Scindia said the decision to resume the flights from December 15 was taken after recognising the increased vaccination coverage across the globe, changing nature of the pandemic and considering the health protocols, which have been put in place for international arrivals. "However, in view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new variants of concern, the situation is being closely monitored and reviewed in consultation with other Ministries, with regard to taking any further decision on the issue," the minister said. Currently, international passenger flights are being operated under bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries in a restricted manner. As on November 24, India had formalised air bubble arrangements with 31 countries. These arrangements provide air travel bubble arrangements provide direct/indirect connectivity to more than 100 countries, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said in a separate written reply to the Upper House. To a query on whether airfares for returning students and family members from Europe and North America are doubling and even quadrupling this winter, Singh said that as per details of fare submitted by airlines, the average fares for travel by economy class under the air bubble arrangements are comparable to the average fares during the Winter 2019 schedule. The minister's remarks in a separate written reply are based on the details of fares by Air India, the only Indian carrier operating to Europe and North America, United Airlines and Lufthansa. United Airlines operates services between India and the US, while Lufthansa has flights between India and Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Omicron: How much should we worry? May be mild, but we won't know for a few weeks, say doctors||India and the rest of the world are ramping up their defences against Omicron, the new highly mutated variant of Covid-19. The big question now is whether Omicron causes severe illness. The indications of how seriously we should take the virus will come over the next couple of weeks as doctors and scientists wait for reports of any significant rise in hospitalisations. So far, the early signs are reassuring but not definitive. The mainly younger people who have come down with the virus in South Africa have suffered mild symptoms and most of them were unvaccinated. But young people normally tend to have lighter Covid-19 cases. As Omicron moves through the population, hitting older people and people with underlying conditions like diabetes and obesity, it may turn out to be a different story. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Maan Ki Baat address on Sunday, “We have to take necessary measures to protect ourselves and our loved ones by following Covid appropriate behaviour.” Modi added, “Never forget that corona has not gone yet. It is our responsibility to take all precautions.” The Health Ministry has told states to carry out “intensive containment measures” and undertake “active surveillance” to ensure mask-wearing and social distancing as well step-up vaccination coverage. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a letter to Modi on Sunday, urged him to stop international flights from countries where Covid-19 cases are rising. “We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant… from entering India. A number of countries, including the European Union, have suspended travel to the affected regions,” he said. “I urge you to stop flights from these regions with immediate effect. Any delay in this regard may prove harmful,” he concluded. Too early for reliable data Doctors note that the variant was only reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) on November 24 and so there has been no time to properly assess the impact of the illness. The variant was first detected in Botswana and spread to South Africa and other nearby countries. “We know that getting a rapid understanding of disease severity with Omicron - particularly in vaccinated individuals and re-infections - is absolutely critical, but it's just too early for reliable data,” said South African infectious diseases doctor Richard Lessells. “Observations from clinicians on the ground are always important, and we lean heavily on them, but we need to be cautious about jumping on early reports that all cases with this variant are mild,” said Lessells, who coordinates clinical and epidemiological data for the South African Covid Variant Research Consortium. “So with this, and the time lag for infections to progress to severe disease and hospitalisation, we would only expect to see the impact on hospitalisations in the next few weeks,” he said. South African doctors report that most of those Omicron patients they have treated have kept their taste and smell and only had small coughs. May be more contagious The variant has been reported in more than a dozen countries though two South Africans in Bangalore who were thought to have it have since been found to be suffering from the Delta variant. The variants’ 32 mutations may make it even more contagious than the fast-spreading Delta lineage that devastated India and is still wreaking havoc in other parts of the world. Pharmaceutical company BioNTech, which developed a Covid-19 vaccine with Pfizer, says it will need two weeks to assess whether the vaccine is effective against Omicron. It said if required, it can tweak its vaccine against the new variant within six weeks and begin shipping the reformulated version to countries in 100 days. Moderna says it expects if the variant escapes vaccines the company can have a new version on the market early in 2022. “As most vaccines (work by) forming antibodies against the spike protein, so many mutations at the spike protein region may lead to a decreased efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines,” AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria told PTI. As a consequence, the efficacy of vaccines including those administered in India needs to be “evaluated critically,” he said. Infection potential high: Israel Israel’s chief of public health services, Dr Sharon Alroy-Preis has warned that the potential for being infected by Omicron appears to be extremely high. Speaking at the Israeli Parliament, she cited the example of a flight from South Africa to the Netherlands, where 62 out of 600 passengers were found to be infected. “This is very, very fast," Alroy-Preis said. Dr Dror Mevorach, head of the coronavirus department at Israel’s Hadassah University Hospital Ein Karem, agreed with South African doctors that the preliminary reports on the condition of people infected with Omicron were encouraging. “If it continues this way, this might be a relatively mild illness compared to the delta variant, and paradoxically, if it takes over, it will lead to lower infection rates,” and it will be easier to deal with globally,” the doctor said, according to the newspaper Haaretz. South Africa right now has some 3,220 people Covid-19 and there has been no significant increase in the number being hospitalised, Professor Barry Schoub, chairman of the country’s Ministerial Advisory Committee on Vaccine, told Britain’s Sky News. Angelique Coetzee, who heads the South African Medical Association, told the BBC that “what we are seeing clinically and remember, I’m at the epicentre -- that’s where I’m practising - is extremely mild. She said, though, that two weeks hence what she was saying about Omicron’s effects might be “something different.” WHO cautious The WHO, meanwhile, has sought to tamp down optimism that Omicron’s effects may be mild.  Understanding the level of severity of the Omicron variant will take days to several weeks,” WHO said in a statement on Sunday, adding that “there is currently no information to suggest that symptoms associated with Omicron are different from those from other variants.” One positive piece of news is that the current SARS-CoV-2 PCR diagnostics continue to detect this Omicron variant, WHO says. Meanwhile, China could face more than 630,000 Covid-19 infections a day if it dropped its zero-tolerance policies by lifting travel curbs, according to a study by Peking University mathematicians reported by Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||No case of Covid Omicron variant in India yet, but concerns mount||India has not reported any case of the Omicron variant of coronavirus yet but the Karnataka health minister Monday said the sample of one of the two recent South Africa returnees appears "different from the Delta variant", even as experts stressed vaccines remain a critical tool.  A senior government official said no case of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus has been detected in India yet and Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia INSACOG is closely monitoring the situation and expediting the results of genomic analysis of positive samples of international travellers. The WHO said it is "not yet clear" if the newly-detected variant is more transmissible or causes more severe disease, but authorities across states in India ramped up efforts to deal with the evolving situation.  Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said the situation is being closely monitored in consultation with other ministries regarding "any further decision" on resuming scheduled international passenger services.  A senior Central government official said in Delhi no case of the new variant has been detected in the country, but results of genomic analysis of positive samples of international travellers are being expedited.  In Maharashtra's Thane, a 32-year-old Merchant Navy engineer who tested positive for coronavirus after returning from South Africa has been kept in isolation and his sample sent for genome sequencing.  The result will be known after seven days, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation's (KDMC) epidemic control officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil said.  Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said, "Information on passengers coming from abroad should be received regularly so that they can be monitored and the infection can be prevented in time."  In Delhi, authorities ordered RT-PCR testing for all people arriving from 'high-risk' countries, genome sequencing of the positive cases and mandatory isolation.  Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told the media the new 'Omicron' variant was discussed by experts in the meeting and it was stressed that there should be no relaxation in preparation to deal with Covid infections and in monitoring the situation.  In Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur, health authorities have launched a search for a woman from Bostwana, named Khuno Oremeet Selyn, who visited the city on November 18.  "An official from the Bostwana Embassy told us over phone that she is in isolation at a military organisation in Jabalpur. We have asked him to share her mobile phone number and her local contact," Jabalpur Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Ratnesh Kurariya told PTI.  "The woman came to Jabalpur from Delhi, as per the record shared with us by the central government."  Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, meanwhile, said the sample of one of the two persons who arrived in Bengaluru recently from South Africa appears "different from the Delta variant", the currently dominant strain.  "There is a 63-year-old man whose name I should not disclose. His report is a bit different. It appears different from the delta variant. We will discuss with the ICMR officials and will let people know by the evening what it is," the minister said.  Experts Monday said the Omicron variant carries "concerning" mutations that may make it more transmissible and allow it to evade immunity, but stressed vaccines are still a critical tool.  The B.1.1.529 Covid variant, first detected in South Africa last week, was designated by the World Health Organisation as a Variant of Concern (VOC).  Public policy expert Chandrakant Lahariya noted that Omicron has around 50 mutations. Of these, 32 are in spike proteins, which the virus uses to enter the human cells, and 10 are mutations of high relevance.  "These include H655Y, N679K and P681H mutations which potentially increase the transmissibility. The mutations R203K and G204R are being considered to be associated with higher infectivity. Similarly, there are deletions at NSP6, which could result in immune escape," Lahariya, also a physician and epidemiologist, told PTI.  Immunologist Satyajit Rath added that the emergence of the new variant suggests that "we need to stop treating the Covid pandemic as a short-term crisis that needed short-term measures but has already passed".  "I would guess that it will probably turn out to be very good at spreading, it will likely not cause more severe disease, current vaccines will probably show some reduction in their potency against it but will not be 'ineffective', and current drugs will quite likely work well against it," Rath told PTI.  Upasana Ray, a senior scientist at Kolkata's CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), agreed.  "The most important tool against this variant is to follow COVID-19 appropriate health guidelines and getting vaccinated. Vaccines should provide at least partial protection against progression of the infection to severe COVID," Ray told PTI.  In Chandigarh, a 39-year-old resident who returned from South Africa has been home quarantined even as the authorities dismissed as "rumours" anyone having tested positive for the new variant.  "He was RT-PCR negative on his arrival at the airport. He was quarantined at home on his arrival in Chandigarh," an official statement said.  It further said another RT-PCR test has been conducted on the person on November 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Ad shoot at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib: Delhi Sikh panel urges Centre to take up issue with Pak ||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Monday wrote to Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, demanding him to take up with the Pakistan government the issue of a business promotion agency using the premises of Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib for promotion of women apparel. In pictures shared on social media, a model can be seen posing for an advertisement for a women's clothing brand at the gurdwara in Punjab province of Pakistan. The founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak Dev, is believed to have spent his last days in the gurudwara from 1521 to 1539. "We urge the Government of India to immediately take up this serious issue with the Pakistan government considering the sentiments of the community," DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa wrote in the letter. A Pakistani business promotion agency used the premises of historical Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib, Pakistan, for promotion of ladies clothes. This act of agency/model has deeply hurt the religious sentiments of Sikh community worldwide. It is unfortunate that the local administration allowed an agency to use the religious place of worship for such promotions (sic), the letter read. Sirsa said many complaints have been received from the Sikh Sangat regarding people using the gurdwara premises as a picnic spot or to shoot TikTok videos wearing indecent clothes which hurts our sentiments. "This behaviour is totally unacceptable ... We demand strict action against those who disrespect the sanctity of gurdwara sahibs; just like the Pakistan government acted against actress Saba Qamar for shooting a dance video in a historical mosque," the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Done in good humour, says Tharoor after selfie with six women MPs tweet sparks row||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday posted a selfie with six women MPs on Twitter with a caption:"Who says the Lok Sabha isn't an attractive place to work?", triggering a controversy with many netizens accusing him of sexism.  Tharoor later apologised for offending "some people" and said the "whole selfie thing" was done at the women MPs' initiative in "great good humour and it was they who asked me to tweet it in the same spirit".  "Who says the Lok Sabha isn't an attractive place to work? With six of my fellow MPs this morning," he said and posted a picture of himself with Supriya Sule, Preneet Kaur, Thamizhachi Thangapandian, Mimi Chakraborty, Nusrat Jahan Ruhi and Jyothimani.  His tweet sparked controversy with many accusing him of "sexism" and "objectification". Reacting sharply, National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma tweeted, "you are demeaning their contribution in parliament and politics by making them an object of attraction. Stop objectifying women in parliament".  "Incredible that someone, as exposed to equality discourse, as @ShashiTharoor would attempt to reduce elected political leaders to their looks, and centre himself in the comment to boot. This is 2021, folks, " tweeted Karuna Nandy, a Supreme Court advocate.  Responding to Nandy's tweet, badminton player and Arjuna awardee Jwala Gutta tweeted, "not really Karuna. I think we need to take a few things in a lighter note..and not see everything with a magnifying glass..And this was a compliment to all the women in the Parliament which is generally stereotyped!! just my opinion."  Commenting on Tharoor's remark, a Twitter user said, "women in the Lok Sabha are not decorative items meant to make your workspace 'attractive'. They are parliamentarians and you are being disrespectful and sexist."  No man seems to be beyond casual everyday sexism, another netizen said.  After the online backlash, Tharoor tweeted, "the whole selfie thing was done (at the women MPs' initiative) in great good humour & it was they who asked me to tweet it in the same spirit."  "I am sorry some people are offended but I was happy to be roped into this show of workplace camaraderie. That's all this is," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.  However, TMC MP Mauhua Moitra defended Tharoor and tweeted "not surprised that a bunch of ugly trolls attacking @ShashiTharoor on a non-issue to detract attention from this non-attractive government's decision to not allow a discussion on the farm act repeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Repealing of farm laws without dialogue shows govt is terrified, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that the repealing of the three farm laws without debate shows that the government is "terrified" of having a discussion and knows that it has done something wrong. After Parliament passed 'The Farm Laws Repeal Bill' to rescind the three contentious agri laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, Gandhi told reporters his party had predicted that the government will have to take back the farm laws as it knew that the "power of three-four crony capitalists cannot withstand the strength of farmers and labourers". He said the repeal of the laws is a success of farmers and also of the country. "What is unfortunate is how the bills have been repealed, without any discussion, without any conversation. We wanted to have a discussion about forces behind these bills because these bills do not just reflect the view of the prime minister, these bills reflect the forces behind the prime minister and that is what we wanted to discuss," Gandhi said. "We wanted to discuss MSP (issue), we wanted to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, we wanted to discuss the 700 farmers who died in this agitation and unfortunately that discussion has not been allowed," the former Congress chief said. It is a reflection of the fact that this government is "terrified" of having these discussions and "wants to hide". "What is the point of Parliament if discussions are not allowed," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||12 Opposition members suspended from Rajya Sabha for remaining part of winter session||Twelve Opposition members in Rajya Sabha, including Congress MP Chhaya Verma, Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi and TMC's Dola Sen were on Monday suspended for the remaining part of the winter session for their misconduct and unruly behaviour during the last session. NDTV quotes a note stating that they willingly obstructed the business of the house through "unprecedented acts of misconduct, contemptuous, violent and unruly behaviour and intentional attacks on the security personnel" on the last day of the Monsoon session." Among the suspended members, six are from the Congress, two each from the TMC and Shiv Sena and one each from the CPM and the CPI. The Upper House had witnessed ugly scenes when the Opposition members were protesting against the three farm bills and the Pegasus snoopgate during the Monsoon session. Owing to the pandemonium, the Monsson session ended two days before schedule in August. On the concluding day, the Opposition MPs allegedly rushed to the officials' table, climbed up there and even waved black cloths and scattered files as the House was about to begin a discussion on farmers' stir. In fact there were also allegations that that they 'manhandled' security men. But the MPs refuting such allegations said they were beaten up by the security. Taking a note of the ruckus, Rajya Sabha Chairperson Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla decided to take stern action against the ones behind such unruly scenes inside the Parliament. The six suspended members from the Congress are - Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh. Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of TMC, Elamaram Kareem from CPM and Binoy Viswam from CPI are the other members suspended for the rest of the session. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh announced the suspension of the members and adjourned the House till Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Ban on construction, demolition activities to continue till further orders, says Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai Monday said a ban on construction and demolition activities in the city will continue till further orders because of the high air pollution levels.  The ban on the entry of trucks, barring those engaged in essential services, will continue till December 7, while CNG and electric trucks will be allowed to enter Delhi, he said after a review meeting with officials of the departments concerned.  According to experts, low temperature and low wind speed have led to stagnant conditions and Delhi's air quality is likely to remain very poor in the coming days. The situation can improve if it rains, as predicted by the India Meteorological Department, the minister said.  "Considering the situation, we have decided to extend the ban on construction and demolition activities in Delhi till further orders. Non-polluting construction activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry are allowed," he said.  Rai said the government's 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign to curb vehicular pollution is being extended till December 18.  The Delhi government had on Thursday re-imposed the ban on construction and demolition activities following the Supreme Court order in this matter.  Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the workers affected by the ban on construction activities in the national capital will be provided with a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each and his government will also compensate them for the loss of minimum wages.  Physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions resumed and government offices reopened from Monday.  The government has also launched a special bus service to ferry its staff from government residential colonies in 14 areas in the city.  These residential colonies are -- Gulabi Bhag, Mayur Vihar Phase II, Motia Khan, Shalimar Bagh Block A, Timarpur, Hari Nagar, Dwarka Sector 3, Nimri Colony - Ashok Vihar, Rohini Sector 11, Karkardooma, Model Town Phase I, Vikas Puri, Paschim Vihar and Vasant Kunj.  Rai said the campaign against open burning of garbage in Delhi will continue.  "So far, 8,480 sites have been inspected under the campaign, and 1,000 violations detected. The violating agencies, organizations, and individuals have been fined Rs 28.76 lakh," he said.  The Transport Department and the police will continue to check pollution-under-control certificates.  Rai said 18 lakh pollution-under-control certificates were issued in October and November. In the last two months, 14,000 people have been fined Rs 10,000 each for not having a pollution-under-control certificate and violating the norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
29-11-2021||India||Saudi Arabia travel ban on India withdrawn: Centre tells Kerala HC||Saudi Arabia has withdrawn its ban on travellers from India, the Centre on Monday informed the Kerala High Court during hearing of a plea by a man seeking a third jab of an internationally accepted vaccine so that he can go back to the Gulf nation for work.  The man had received two doses of COVAXIN which was earlier not recognised by Saudi Arabia and had moved the High Court, seeking directions to the state and the Centre to administer him a third dose of an internationally recognised vaccine like COVISHIELD.  The petitioner was working as a welder in the Gulf nation prior to the COVID-19 outbreak.  The High Court had earlier asked the Centre that if a citizen loses their livelihood due to the vaccine administered by the State, is the government not duty bound to redress his grievance?  On Monday, the central government informed Justice P V Kunhikrishnan that Saudi Arabia has withdrawn its travel ban on India and therefore, the plea has become infructuous.  Taking note of the submission, the court disposed of the plea.  The court had on an earlier date of hearing said that restriction of movement or loss of employment of a citizen due to a vaccine administered by the State was an 'infringement of his Fundamental Rights".  On November 2, the High Court had observed that the Centre's vaccination scheme has created two classes of citizens in India - those who got COVAXIN, whose movements are restricted, and those who received COVISHIELD and can go anywhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||HC quashes order that refused to restrain Nawab Malik from tweeting against Wankhedes||The Bombay High Court on Monday quashed and set aside the order of a single bench of the HC that had refused to restrain Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik from making public statements against the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his family. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav quashed and set aside the order after Malik and Wankhede's father Dnyandev consented that the single bench order be recalled and Dnyandev's grievances against the minister, raised through an interim application on his defamation suit filed against Malik, be heard afresh by the HC. On November 22, a single bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar held that though Malik's tweets against Wankhede, particularly those pertaining to allegations of the NCB officer having submitted a false caste certificate to secure the central government job and having accepted illegal gratification while on duty, had stemmed out of malice, the minister couldn't be completely prohibited from making comments against a public officer. Dnyandev then challenged the single bench order. While hearing the appeal last week, a division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav held that Malik's statements and tweets against Wankhede did seem to be a clear case of malice and logically, he should be restrained from making such comments. The bench had also asked if it behoved the minister to make such comments without due verification and why he hadn't first approached the caste scrutiny committee with a formal complaint against Wankhede? Malik then proposed that the single bench order be recalled. His counsel Karl Tamboly told the HC that Malik will provide consent to quash the order, will file a detailed reply to Dnyandev's interim application, and he will not make public statements or tweets against the Wankhedes until further hearing. He sought that Dnyandev's application be heard afresh by the single bench. On Monday, senior counsel Birendra Saraf, who appeared for Dnyandev, told the division bench that his client had consented to the quashing of the November 22 order. "The court can say by consent of parties (quashing of the order)," Saraf said. The division bench permitted Malik to file a fresh reply affidavit to Dnyandev's interim application that seeks, among other things, that until his suit is heard finally, the minister be restrained from making defamatory statements against him and his family. Malik will submit his reply by December 9. Dnyandev will then file his rejoinder responding to Malik's affidavit by January 3. The single bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar will then hear the interim application afresh and complete the hearing within 13 weeks, the division bench said. Until the hearing on the interim application is complete, Malik will not make any public statements or tweets against the Wankhedes, the division bench said. "The statement by respondent (Malik on not tweeting or making public statements against the Wankhedes) shall continue pending disposal of final order on the interim application," the bench led by Justice Kathawalla said. Malik has levelled a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede after he led a drug bust raid on a cruise ship last month following which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and some other people were arrested. The minister had alleged that Wakhede was born a Muslim, but falsely claimed to belong to a designated scheduled caste to secure his central government job. Wankhede has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||UPTET paper leak: Three arrested ||Three people have been arrested in connection with Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test (UPTET) question paper leakage in Shamli, police said on Monday. The UPTET examination, scheduled to be held on Sunday, was cancelled following the leakage of its question paper, Additional Director General Law and Order Prashant Kumar announced shortly before the exam was to begin. According to Superintendent of Police Sukirti Madhav Mishra, Dharmendra, Manish and Ravi were arrested and one other person, who is absconding and is accused of being involved in the case, has been booked. Police said a search is on to nab him. A car, 50 photocopies of the question paper and Rs 17,000 were recovered from the three accused, they said. During interrogation, they revealed that they had been involved in 60 such cases and received Rs 50,000 each for solving papers, police said. A case has been registered against the four accused under various sections 420, 467 and 471 of the the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Shamli, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Parliament passes bill to repeal three farm laws||Parliament on Monday passed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, to repeal the three contentious agri laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, with its passage in Rajya Sabha. Earlier in the day, Lok Sabha also passed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 within minutes of its introduction in the lower House. As soon as Rajya Sabha met in the afternoon, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 shortly. Before the motion was adopted for the passage the bill, Deputy Chairman Harivansh allowed Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge to speak for two minutes. Kharge was of the view that the government has taken back the three farm laws in view of the forthcoming elections in five states after reviewing the results of recent bypolls. He also mentioned about the death of over 700 farmers in more than a year during agitation against these laws. When Kharge took more than the allocated time, the deputy chairman called Tomar to move the motion. Tomar moved the motion and said while moving the bill for passage that the three laws were brought for the benefit of farmers. He regretted that the government could not convince the agitating farmers about the benefits of the laws. He also attacked the Congress for adopting "double standard" on the laws, as its own election manifesto talked about the need for reforms in the farm sector. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed a large heart by announcing the repeal of the laws on Guru Nanak Janyanti. He said as both the government and the opposition parties are for repeal of the laws, so there was no need for any discussion on the farm repeal bill. The House passed the bill with voice vote amid protests by the Congress and TMC members. Dola Sen (TMC) and Nadimul Haque (TMC) were in the well to protest the passage of the bill without debate. After the passage of the bill, the House was adjourned for half an hour. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation, had announced that the laws will be repealed. However, farmer groups vowed to continue with their stir till all their demands are met with. They even decided to stick to their Parliament march before cancelling it a couple of days ago. Several Opposition parties took pot shots at the Modi government terming the decision to repal as stemming out of fear of losing in the state Assembly polls due next year. Leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Akhilesh Yadav and others smelt a rat behind the Centre's decision. "It is absolutely clear that their heart is not clean, and after the elections, the bills will be brought again. Occupying the constitutional posts, Governor of Rajasthan Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj have said that the BJP government may bring the bill for farm laws," the Samajwadi Party tweeted. "Now, sensing defeat in polls, you have suddenly started to realise the reality of this country - this country has been built by farmers, it is a country of farmers, they are the real protectors of the country and no government can run the country by trampling upon the interests of the farmers," Vadra had earlier said. Various farmer groups have been protesting against the laws for more than a year and many farmers have also lost their lives during the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Warrant against Param Bir Singh cancelled as he appears before inquiry commission||A commission probing corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh cancelled the bailable warrant issued against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh after the latter appeared before the panel on Monday. The Justice K U Chandiwal Commission also directed Singh to deposit Rs 15,000 in the chief minister's relief fund. Singh also filed an affidavit before the single-member commission, saying he has nothing to depose and doesn't want to be crossed- examined by the probe panel. In a related development, Anil Deshmukh's lawyer raised objection before the commission over Singh and dismissed police officer Sachin Waze sitting together in another room in the commission's premises. Waze has been appearing before the commission for his cross-examination in connection with the case. "Singh and the witness (Waze) are sitting together for the last one hour. He (Singh) might influence the witness," Deshmukh's lawyer said. Justice Chandiwal (retired) initially said "how can it be stopped?" He later told Waze that "it's better to sit in this room" (where the commission's proceeding was taking place) to avoid such a situation. Waze was arrested in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence 'Antilia' in south Mumbai earlier this year and the subsequent suspicious death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Singh, who was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March in the aftermath of the Antilia bomb scare episode, had alleged that Deshmukh asked police officers to collect Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in the city. The one-member commission was formed by the Maharashtra government in March this year to probe the allegations levelled by Singh against the then home minister and NCP leader Deshmukh. The panel had earlier fined Singh on multiple occasions for failing to appear before it and also issued a bailable warrant against him. Declared absconding by a court here in an extortion case, Singh surfaced in public last Thursday after six months, and appeared before the Mumbai crime branch to record his statement. The Supreme Court has granted him temporary protection from arrest. Singh appeared before Thane police on Friday in connection with an extortion case filed against him and some other police officials on the complaint of a local builder. The IPS officer is facing at least five extortion cases in Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||India logs over 8,000 fresh Covid cases, 236 casualties in a day||With 8,309 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,45,80,832, while the active cases have declined to 1,03,859, the lowest in 544 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll has climbed to 4,68,790 with 236 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 52 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 155 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 1,03,859 comprising 0.30 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.34 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 1,832 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 56 days. Weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.85 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 15 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,08,183 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 122.41 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Govt ready to discuss all issues, answer all questions, says PM ahead of Winter session||Ahead of the Winter Session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the government is ready to discuss all issues and answer all questions but the dignity of Parliament and the Chair should be maintained. Speaking with reporters, he said citizens want Parliament to debate on issues of national interest and find ways for the development of the country. He asserted that the government is ready to discuss all issues and also answer all questions. "The government is ready to discuss all issues, it is also ready to answer all questions. We want questions in parliament and also peace. Whatever voices are raised against the government or government policies - the dignity of parliament and the Speaker's Chair should be upheld. We should maintain the sort of conduct that will inspire younger generations," PM Modi said in his traditional remarks ahead of a new session. Modi said the benchmark should be how the House functions and not how it is disrupted. However, the PM's plea seemingly fell to deaf ears as Lok Sabha was adjourned till noon amid slogans, minutes after parliament convened for the winter session. Voices against government policies should be forceful but dignity of Parliament and the Chair should be maintained, Modi had said. The Prime Minister also put out a warning on the new Covid variant 'Omicron', urging all MPs and others to be cautious "as everyone's health is a priority in this hour of crisis". Notably, Modi yesterday skipped an all-party meeting for the session. "There was no tradition of Prime Minister attending the all-party meeting. It was started by Modi ji," said Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi. Congress's Rajya Sabha leader Mallikarjun Kharge said the opposition had expected the Prime Minister to attend. "We wanted to ask more about the farm laws as there are some apprehensions that these three laws may again come in some other form," he said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Kendrapara: 3 forest department personnel injured in attack ||Three forest department personnel were injured in an attack by the crew of a trawler who were illegally fishing in the prohibited seawaters of Gahirmatha sanctuary in Odisha’s Kendrapara district, a forest official said on Sunday. Twelve forest personnel were in the patrol vessel that was attacked on Saturday, the official said. The vessel, which was partially damaged, was deployed in the area for the protection of olive ridley turtles. It was an “organised” attack, the official said, adding that the trawler allegedly chased the patrol vessel and hit it. The forest personnel were outnumbered by the crew on the trawler and despite provocation, the forest personnel did not open fire, he said. The forest personnel, however, managed to overpower the crew of the trawler and arrest nine of them. They were handed over to the Dhamra marine police station, the official said. The trawler had trespassed into the prohibited sanctuary corridors, contravening the provisions of Wildlife Protection Act and Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act, among others. Fishing activity has been prohibited within a seaward radius of 20km of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary from November 1 to protect olive ridley turtles, the official said. As turtles get entangled in fishing nets, the ban is enforced every year during their mass nesting season, he said. So far, over 70 fishermen have been arrested and eight trawlers confiscated for violating the ban. Five high-speed boats, 13 trawlers and support boats have been deployed to check illegal fishing in the prohibited zone. The turtles turn up in millions for mass nesting along the Odisha coast every year. Gahirmatha beach is acclaimed as the world's largest-known nesting ground of these turtles. Apart from Gahirmatha, these threatened aquatic animals turn up at Rushikulya river mouth and Devi river mouth for mass nesting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Odisha to look beyond mineral industries and attract investments ||The Odisha government has decided to go beyond mineral-based industries and attract investments in new-age industries such as automobile manufacturing, green energy and electronics and telecommunication equipment manufacturing. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said: “We have brought amendments in the Industrial Policy Resolution (2015). Under the new policy, we will give incentives to attract new-age mega industries. The proposed amendments are expected to attract investments of around Rs. 12,000 crore to the state, creating employment for more than 35,000 people. “Besides generating revenue and creating local employment, the mega industries will also be instrumental in bringing high-end technologies to the state.” Some of the other sectors that the state government plans to promote are textile, apparel, pharmaceuticals, aerospace and defence product related industries. Mohapatra said: “While the conventional industrial sectors such as steel and aluminium will serve as the foundation of the industrial development, the new-age sectors will be able to provide an impetus for the accelerated industrial growth in the coming year.” According to government officials, the package of incentives compares well with other states and includes land at concessional rate, capital investment subsidy of up to 30 per cent, reimbursement of state goods and services tax, energy tariff and electricity duty exemption. “The investors can avail maximum capital investment subsidy based on early completion of total planned investment,” an official said. The state has also formulated a new electronics and IT policy. “Under the policy, the state government will provide production-linked incentives, fixed capital subsidy, power incentives, land incentives, assistance to women entrepreneurs and persons with disabilities. With all encouragement, the state is hoping to attract a number of electronic-related manufacturing industries in the state by 2026,” the chief secretary said. “Odisha Electronics Policy 2021, has been conceptualised to position Odisha as an attractive destination for the electronics industry by providing a congenial, industry-friendly and proactive industrial climate with class leading infrastructure, supporting facilities and policy initiatives. These, coupled with a skilled workforce, would create a favourable ecosystem for growth and development of the electronics industry in Odisha,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Salaried J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha draws MP’s pension||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha holds a salaried post but an RTI reply from a central government arm shows he also figures on a list of former lawmakers who are drawing MPs’ pension. The list, provided by the central pension accounting office under the department of expenditure in the Union finance ministry, also names several serving state-level ministers and lawmakers, some of them in Bihar and Jharkhand. Most of them said they would return the pension amount. Section 8A(2) of the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, and Rules Made Thereunder (including the amendments up to April 2020) says a former MP will not be entitled to pension for the period he is elected to the office of the President or Vice-President, or is appointed governor of any state or administrator of any Union Territory, or gets elected to any state legislature, or is employed on a salary under the central government or any state government or their corporations, or under any local authority. An IAS officer told this newspaper that a lieutenant governor qualifies as administrator of a Union Territory. Emails sent by The Telegraph to two official accounts of Sinha on Thursday remain unanswered. Sinha’s mobile number, provided by a source in the BJP, was switched off when this newspaper called multiple times on Sunday. The RTI reply to Bihar-based activist Shiv Prakash Rai is dated October 12, 2021. Sinha was sworn in as lieutenant governor in August 2020. Sinha had earlier been elected three times to the Lok Sabha from Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh, on a BJP ticket — in 1996, 1999 and 2014. A lieutenant governor is entitled to Rs 2.25 lakh as monthly salary apart from dearness allowance, and sumptuary and other local allowances as applicable to central government officers of the rank of secretary. Former Lok Sabha members receive a monthly pension of Rs 25,000 plus an additional Rs 2,000 per month for every year served in excess of five years. All former MPs have to furnish a declaration every November to their erstwhile Houses saying they have not been elected or appointed to any of the offices or Houses mentioned in Section 8A(2). According to the RTI reply, some 2,722 former MPs or their dependants — 1,981 from the Lok Sabha and 741 from the Rajya Sabha — are drawing pension. One of them is Bihar industry minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain of the BJP who became a Member of Legislative Council (MLC) on January 22 this year and a minister on February 9. Hussain had twice been elected to the Lok Sabha and was Union civil aviation and textile minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. “I know the rules. I have not taken out a single rupee from the Lok Sabha pension sent to my bank account. I have informed the pension department in Parliament,” Hussain told this newspaper. He added that the money was “being returned”. Another BJP leader and former Union minister, Sanjay Paswan, who is now an MLC, figures on the list. “I shall return the pension money if Parliament wants it back. In fact, I have already started the process to return the money,” Paswan said. Bihar mines and geology minister Janak Ram of the BJP expressed ignorance about the pension rules and said he was “going to inform” the Lok Sabha about it. The list includes Jharkhand finance minister and Congress leader Rameshwar Oraon, who was Lok Sabha member from 2004 to 2014 and junior tribal affairs minister from 2004 to 2009 in the Manmohan Singh government. Oraon, a former IPS officer, told this newspaper: “I will not stop the Lok Sabha pension because restarting it is a big hassle and involves much running around. I have personally experienced this problem. I am willing to get an amount equal to the Lok Sabha pension deducted from my current salary.” Rashtriya Janata Dal MLA Surendra Prasad Yadav, who was Lok Sabha member from Jehanabad, and Janata Dal United MLC Upendra Kushwaha, a former Union minister, are also on the list. Calls to Yadav’s mobile number remained unanswered while an aide to Kushwaha said the lawmaker would get back later. He had not till Sunday night. Rai, the RTI activist, said the government should trace all the ex-MPs who are violating the pension rules “and recover the money from them”. The office of Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor said Sinha, a former MP, had requested the Lok Sabha to stop his pension a day before assuming his current charge in August last year. However, it added, the pension kept coming till December 2020 and that efforts were now being made to return the money. The reply from the central pension accounting office, which functions under the department of expenditure in the Union finance ministry, to Bi­har-based activist Shiv Pra­kash Rai was dated October 12, 2021. Sinha’s media adviser Yatish Yadav told this newspaper over the phone that the lieutenant governor was not drawing pension from the Lok Sabha any more and that the RTI reply could be based on old information. An email that Yadav later sent said: “The Hon’ble LG’s office had requested for the stoppage of pension on August 6, 2020.” Sinha, a former BJP politician who was thrice elected MP from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, assumed his current office on August 7 last year. “The stop pension order was issued on September 15, 2020, by the pay and account officer of the Lok Sabha with effect from August 7, 2020. The process, it appears, was delayed and pension was credited till December 2020,” Yadav’s email said. It added that the Lok Sabha “pay and account office has been informed about it and has been requested to recover the excess pension from the bank”. This newspaper had tried to elicit Sinha’s reactions via email and phone before publishing the report but received no responses. Yadav said the National Informatics Centre manned the lieutenant governor’s official email accounts, and that he had asked the officials to ensure they were regularly monitored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
29-11-2021||India||Gujarat-based stand-up comedian Faruqui announces retirement||Gujarat-based stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui on Sunday announced his retirement on social media at the age of 29 after his Bangalore show was cancelled following complaints from two Sangh parivar outfits and police pressure on the organisers. The blow seemingly proved the last straw for Faruqui after similar cancellations in other states and a pre-emptive stint in jail in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh over jokes that a ruling party MLA’s son claimed the comedian was “going to crack”. “Nafrat jeet gai, Artist haar gaya (Hate has won, the artist has lost). I’m done! Goodbye,” Faruqui wrote on Instagram. “I think this is The End. My name is Munawar Faruqui. And that’s been my time. You guys were (a) wonderful audience. Good bye! I’m done,” he added. The development comes days after Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said comedian Vir Das, who is facing police complaints over his monologue “I come from two Indias” in the US, would not be allowed to perform in his state. Over 600 tickets had been sold for Faruqui’s show, “Dongri to Nowhere”, scheduled at the Good Shepherd Auditorium here on Sunday. However, the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti and the Jai Shri Ram Sena Sanghatane complained to police that the comedian’s shows were “anti-Hindu”. While the Samiti handed a letter to the city police commissioner, the Sangathana lodged a police complaint. The inspector of Ashok Nagar police station, in whose area the venue falls, wrote to the Delhi-based organiser, Curtain Call Events, advising it not to go ahead with the show on the plea of possible law-and-order problems. Sangh parivar threats had forced the cancellation of 12 of Faruqui’s shows in two months, including an entire tour of his home state Gujarat and programmes in Mumbai and Goa. He had earlier been arrested in January in Indore after Eklavya Singh Gaur, son of BJP MLA Malini Lakshman Singh Gaur, complained that Faruqui was “going to crack offensive jokes”. A court remanded the comedian in judicial custody for 36 days before granting bail. “Putting me in the jail for the joke I never did to cancelling my shows which has nothing problematic in it. This is unfair… We do have censor certificate of the show and it’s clearly nothing problematic in the show!” Faruqui wrote on Instagram. Fans have been begging him to stay on and fight. “Nope. You’re not quitting. We won’t let you,” wrote musician Mayur Jumani. Faruqui said the Bangalore show was meant to help a charity run by the family of the late Kannada actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. The police letter seeking cancellation of the show said Faruqui faced several cases in various states. “There is credible information that several organisations (are) opposing this stand-up comedy show performed by Munawar Faruqui, this could create chaos and could disturb the peace and harmony which may further lead to law & order problems,” it said. “Therefore it is suggested that you should cancel the Mr Munawar Faruqui stand-up comedy show.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor deplored the show’s cancellation. “This is deplorable. Stifling freedom of expression takes many forms but threatening a stand-up comedian’s venue is petty and shameful,” he wrote on Facebook. Stand-up comic Aditi Mittal’s asked in a tweet: “If Bangalore police really can’t ensure the safety of 610 people sitting in a room laughing, then how will they ensure the safety of the whole city?” Bangalore-based climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested in February in connection with the farmer protests, tweeted: “What is happening to @munawar0018 is a targeted attack &also how those incarcerated are treated. Basic civil liberties aren’t respected & people have to go to extreme lengths before they are granted — or not at all in this case & we are expected to be grateful to be outside. “But why should we be grateful? Why is our idea of freedom limited to not being encased within the physical walls of a prison?” Tamil actor and social activist Sidharth slammed Bangalore police’s “unconstitutional mindset” and added: “This is fascism, BJP-style….” Actor Swara Bhasker tweeted: “A project of hate & bigotry twill (sic) always hate an articulate, rational, educated, charming, talented & funny ‘Other’ who connects beyond identity with a heterogeneous public.. make no mistake Munawwar, Umar Khalid & other such articulate Muslims are a huge threat to Hindutva.” In a second tweet, she wrote: “Also.. it’s heartbreaking & shameful how we as a society have allowed bullying and gaslighting to become normalised. I’m sorry Munawwar!” Mohan Gowda of the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti told The Telegraph: “We filed a complaint with the police commissioner yesterday (Saturday) while the Jai Shri Ram Sena Sanghatane lodged a police complaint.” Asked the reason, Gowda said: “He has been insulting Hindu gods and goddesses.” Calls to three mobile numbers associated with the organisers remained unanswered. Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra issued a statement, in which he said: “With every passing year I feel laughter is costing comedians more & more. It’s costing them their spontaneity and it’s costing them their impulse. I have even heard some comedians telling jokes to their lawyers & showing their video to a legal team before they release it online. “The impulse of an artist to be so calculative, a move in itself is the slow death of the art form….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
29-11-2021||India||Question paper leak stalls Teacher Eligibility Test in Uttar Pradesh||Two hours into the three-hour Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, over 19 lakh candidates across the state were told to stop writing and return home. The reason: the question paper had been leaked, yet another strike by the exam mafia that Yogi Adityanath had claimed to have eradicated. “I had started from home in Mohanlalganj at 6am and reached the exam centre in Sarojininagar at 8.30am. We were informed at 11.10am, about two hours after our exam had started, that we have to stop and leave the hall,” said Rohini Singh, a resident of Lucknow district, after coming out. The TET was being held to recruit primary teachers. “The government claims it has a foolproof examination system in place. However, we have come to know that it was not the education department or the police but relatives of some candidates who exposed the paper leak early in the morning and raised the issue in Lucknow and Meerut. It was only then that the police got into action,” said Santosh Kumar, another TET candidate in Lucknow. Relatives of several candidates and their relatives had protested outside exam centres in Meerut in the morning, alleging the question paper had been leaked and that they too had been approached by racketeers. “The government knew about the leak from Saturday night itself but tried to suppress it. The police picked up some people on Saturday evening. The government woke up when several candidates and their parents shouted slogans in front of exam centres in Meerut,” Kumar said. Sources said many candidates who hail from Uttar Pradesh but live in Delhi had travelled to Noida and Meerut to appear in the exam. The Uttar Pradesh basic education minister, Satish Dwivedi, denied that the government had prior knowledge of the question paper leak. “We cancelled the exam as soon as we came to know about it. The special task force of Uttar Pradesh police is probing the case and will get to the cheating mafia.” He added: “The TET will be held again within a month. The candidates will not be asked to pay the exam fee again.” The STF arrested 23 people on Saturday night using technical and other intelligence from different cities, additional director-general, law and order, Prashant Kumar, said in Lucknow. “We had to stop the exam midway,” he said. PTI quoted the officer as saying that those arrested included four from Lucknow, 13 from Prayagraj, three from Meerut and one from Kaushambi district. “Photocopies of the question paper were obtained from them, which was shared with the government. It came to light that the copy bore the same set of questions as the official question paper,” he said. “Immediately it was decided by the government that the exam needed to be cancelled and reconvened in the coming one month.” Chief minister Adityanath said the culprits would be booked under the National Security Act and the Gangster Act. “The question paper was leaked. I issued an order to cancel the exam and arrest the entire racket. Instructions have also been given to re-conduct the exam within a month; no candidate should be charged additional fees,” he said. Adityanath said orders had been issued to transport the students back to their hometowns on UPSRTC buses free of cost. He said the properties of those involved in the crime would be seized by the government. The TET was to be conducted at 700 centres across the state in two sittings. The fiasco took place despite Adityanath’s repeated claims that he had tackled the exam mafia in the state. The Congress accused the Uttar Pradesh government of shielding the kingpins. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Corruption and paper leaks have become the identity of the BJP government. The hard work of lakhs of youths was washed away as the paper of the UPTET was leaked today. Corruption is at its peak as Yogi Adityanathji has been protecting the big fish involved in leaking papers.” Anshu Awasthi, a Congress leader, said: “Papers of exams meant to recruit constables, secondary teachers, employees of the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation and the health department have been leaked in the past four years, making it clear that the government has somehow allowed this to happen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
29-11-2021||India||CBSE’s message: Attempt only required number of questions||The Central Board of Secondary Education has issued an FAQ on how board examinees’ answers will be evaluated, with an implicit message: attempt only the required number of questions, carefully choosing the ones you are most confident about. With an example, the |FAQ (document containing frequently asked questions) has illustrated how answering additional questions speculatively — in the hope the examiner would pick the best answers — can cost the examinee. The FAQ was sent on Saturday to the superintendents of the exam centres for the first-term Class X and XII board exams, which nearly 36 lakh students are taking. The exams, conducted through multiple choice questions (MCQ), began 10 days ago but most of the major papers remain to be taken. Each paper offers extra questions. The FAQ cites an example: A question paper with two sections, A and B, each carrying 30 questions, with 20 to be attempted from each. Say, a student attempts 20 questions from Section A (and gets 18 right) and 24 from Section B. How will she be evaluated? The FAQ says that only the first 20 answers from Section B will be considered and the last 4 ignored. Say, the student gets 15 of the first 20 answers right. She will be credited with 18+15 or 33 correct answers in that paper. So, if some of the answers the student was most confident about — and presumably the likeliest to get right — came after the first 20 she attempted in Section B, she would be likely to lose out. “This is a clear-cut message that students should attempt those questions they are most confident about. They should not attempt more than the required number of questions,” a schoolteacher said. “If the student uses the option of un-attempted questions, then only her responses after question No. 20 will be evaluated.” An examinee is being given a question paper and a separate answer sheet, called an optical mark recognition (OMR) sheet. On the question paper, each question has a number and is accompanied by four answer options: A, B, C and D. The OMR sheet has four empty circles marked A, B, C and D against each question number, a rectangular box and a single, slightly larger, circle that contains the question number. The student has to darken the empty circle against the correct option (say, B) and then write “B” in the rectangular box. However, if the examinee darkens the larger circle containing the question number, it means the question has not been attempted. This year, the duration of each paper is 90 minutes instead of the 180 minutes that examinees were allowed during the usual subjective-type exams before 2020. More schools have been turned into examination centres too. The FAQ says a school that’s an exam centre should have evaluators from every school whose students are sitting the exam in that centre. The OMRs of a particular school’s students should be checked by evaluators from other schools. If a school is a centre only for its own students, the “centre superintendent should invite (a) few evaluators from neighbouring schools for fairness of the evaluation”, the FAQ says. A school principal criticised this requirement. “When you are appointing a school as a centre, it shows you have trust in it. The school uses its own teachers as invigilators but cannot depute its own teachers for evaluation. This is unnecessary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
29-11-2021||India||Surge alert, health ministry asks states to increase Covid-19 testing||The new coronavirus variant named Omicron, if given a free run, could spread from one infected person to between 10 and 30 others, according to a preliminary analysis of its transmissibility that scientists caution still needs to be verified with more data. The analysis by Christian Althaus, a computational epidemiologist in Switzerland, has suggested that Omicron has an R0 value of 10 to 30, compared with the R0 of 5 to 6 the delta variant has exhibited during winter in the northern hemisphere. R0 is the average count of new cases a single infected individual can generate. The delta variant, first spotted in India last year, had fuelled the country’s second wave earlier this year. The findings come at a time the Union health ministry has asked all the states to increase Covid-19 testing, ensure “saturation testing” in areas with clusters of positive cases, and augment their healthcare infrastructure in preparation for any surge from Omicron or other coronavirus variants. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has also asked the states to increase sampling and ensure quick dispatch of Covid-positive samples for sequencing to designated labs so that the country can spot and control infections, if any, caused by the heavily mutated Omicron. Althaus, who posted the findings of his analysis on Twitter on Sunday, himself warned that his analysis was “preliminary” and based on “very limited data” from the observed rapid displacement of delta by Omicron in South Africa’s Gauteng province. The analysis suggests that Omicron has a growth advantage of 0.43 per cent per day compared with delta. Althaus said this figure was close to a similar estimate of 0.38 per day, independently calculated by evolutionary biologist Tom Wenseleers in Belgium. Neither calculation has been peer-reviewed yet. The Omicron variant carries multiple mutations that scientists say appear to make the virus stronger against human immune responses. Scientists are assuming that Omicron is spreading fast even though a large proportion of South Africa’s population was already infected in previous waves. Althaus said it was likely that almost everyone in South Africa had been infected with the Covid-19 virus during its earlier three waves and had developed partial immunity against re-infection. In addition, 24 per cent of South Africa’s population is fully vaccinated. Althaus underlined both the assumptions and uncertainties associated with his assignment of an R0 value of 10 to 30 to Omicron compared with delta’s R0 of 5 to 6, tweeting: “Not impossible, but such a jump seems rather unlikely.” The analysis also indicates that Omicron may evade protective immunity in 31 per cent to 93 per cent of the population, illustrating the high level of the uncertainty and, Althaus said, the preliminary character of these calculations. “We need to be conscious that these estimates come with assumptions and caveats and are based on limited datasets from a single South African province,” said a senior medical researcher in India who has been tracking Covid-19 variants. “But if confirmed, these estimates imply a variant which is far more transmissible than delta,” said the researcher, who works in a government institution and requested not to be named. “If the variant gets a free run, it could lead to a very sharp, steep surge in a short time.” In the real world, however, the variant is unlikely to get a free run to infect, the researcher said. “We know what works — the same public health and precautionary measures that helped curb the spread of earlier variants will work against this one too.” Health secretary Bhushan has asked the states to “keep a close check on the emerging trends of cases in an area and quickly delineate hotspots for effective containment”. He has urged the states to ensure “saturating testing” in all the hotspots — areas marked by recent clusters of positive cases. Saturation testing, public health experts say, would require the rigorous testing of all the household members and close contacts of those who test positive. Omicron, which was first spotted in Botswana and is spreading fast in South Africa, has also turned up in at least eight other countries  — Hong Kong, Israel, Belgium, Australia, Germany, Italy, the UK and the Czech Republic. Scientists believe the variant — also designated as B.1.1.529 — has likely spread to other nations and will be detected in the coming weeks as countries intensify genome sequencing. “India will likely have imports from some country or countries,” a medical researcher involved in Covid-19 genome sequencing said. Although there is no data yet on the level of disease severity that Omicron causes, scientists say that a highly transmissible virus, irrespective of its severity, could quickly overwhelm healthcare resources. After India’s giant second wave — marked by over 400,000 daily new infections during its peak in early May — public health experts had predicted that the country was unlikely to experience a large third wave unless the virus mutated significantly. India’s daily new infections over the past week have remained below 10,000. But the early signals from South Africa suggest that Omicron can spread fast even in a country that has already had multiple waves. Over the past two weeks, South Africa’s seven-day average of daily new infections has increased 17-fold, from 246 on November 14 to 4,196 on November 27. Bhushan has in his note asked the states to use financial support from the Centre to plan and strengthen human resources, infrastructure and logistics apart from augmenting the healthcare infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
29-11-2021||India||Centre tightens rules for overseas travellers over Omicron risk||The Centre on Sunday said the decision on the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger flights will be reviewed as per evolving global scenario. The decision was taken after an urgent meeting chaired by the Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Sunday. Several countries have now placed travel restrictions on some countries in southern Africa over the new coronavirus variant, Omicron. The Centre will also review the standard operating procedure on testing and surveillance of the incoming international passengers, especially for those travelling from countries listed in the ‘at risk’ category. “Overall global situation in the wake of Omicron virus was comprehensively reviewed and various preventive measures in place and to be strengthened were also discussed,” the home ministry spokesperson said. On Friday, the civil aviation ministry had issued an order allowing scheduled international flights to and from all countries considered “not at risk” with effect from December 15, 2021, after a gap of 20 months, though there will be restrictions on the number of flights permitted from a country depending on its health risk status. The civil aviation ministry had said that passengers from countries in “at risk” category would be required to follow additional measures following their arrival in India including testing for coronavirus. The rising concern over the new coronavirus variant, however, has now prompted the Centre to review the decision. The home ministry on Sunday said genomic surveillance for variants will be further strengthened and intensified and health officials at airports and ports will be sanitised for strict supervision of testing protocol at entry points. “Closer watch on emerging pandemic situation within the country will be maintained,” the ministry said. Dr V.K. Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, Dr Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to Prime Minister Modi, and senior officers from health, civil aviation and other ministries were present in the meeting headed by Union home secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
29-11-2021||India||Kisan mahapanchayat calls for BJP’s defeat in upcoming polls||A Kisan Mahapanchayat organised here on Sunday called for the defeat of the BJP in upcoming Assembly and local body elections and vowed to continue the fight for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price for every crop and other demands. Addressing the rally, held a day before Parliament’s winter session begins, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait stressed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been a supporter of legally guaranteed MSPs when he was Gujarat chief minister. He accused the Modi government of running away from a debate on the subject. “The Centre should bring in a law guaranteeing MSP. Several issues related to agriculture and labour need attention; we shall travel across the country to highlight them,” he told the rally, held under the banner of the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha at Azad Maidan. Tikait demanded financial aid for the families of farmers who died during the yearlong movement against three contentious farm laws that the Centre has now agreed to repeal. Peasants, workers, farm labourers, women, youth and students across religions and castes from all over Maharashtra attended the conclave, held on the death anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule, a media release said. It spelt out several demands apart from the repeal of the three laws and enactment of an MSP law: “…Withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill, removal from the cabinet and arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, repeal of the four labour codes, an end to selling off the country through privatisation, etc.” It added: “It (the Mahapanchayat) will also fight for getting the prices of diesel, petrol, and cooking gas halved. Other demands included doubling the days of work and wages under MGNREGA and extending this scheme to urban areas.” An SUV belonging to Mishra ran over and killed four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, last month, days after the minister had threatened the protesting farmers. Farmer leaders who addressed the conclave included Tikait, Darshan Pal and Hannan Mollah, among others. Yogendra Yadav, Medha Patkar, Yudhvir Singh, Tajinder Singh Virk, Atul Kumar Anjaan, Rajaram Singh and others too spoke. Kheri ashes A portion of the ashes of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri atrocity was immersed in the Arabian Sea near the Gateway of India. Hundreds of farmers and their leaders, including Tikait, joined a 3km procession of urns containing the ashes from Azad Maidan to the Gateway of India. The urns had been garlanded at Azad Maidan before being placed on a decorated vehicle. Police protection was provided to the procession. At the Gateway of India, a few farmers climbed into a boat with the urns and immersed them in the middle of the sea amid the chanting of hymns. The Shaheed Kalash Yatra, which had kicked off from Pune on October 27 and traversed over 30 Maharashtra districts, visited the Shivaji statue, Chaitya Bhoomi of Babasaheb Ambedkar, the memorial to Shaheed Babu Genu and the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on November 27, the release said. On Sunday, the Yatra visited the Hutatma Chowk, which commemorates 106 martyrs of the Samyukta Maharashtra Movement of the 1950s, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
29-11-2021||India||Opposition parties push for law guaranteeing MSP||The Opposition parties on Sunday pushed for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price for each farm produce and demanded discussions on the Pegasus snooping row, fuel prices and unemployment during the winter session of Parliament, beginning Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not attend the customary pre-session, all-party meeting convened by the government. Defence minister and deputy leader of the Lok Sabha Rajnath Singh sought cooperation from all parties for smooth and productive functioning of the House. He said the government was ready for discussions on any issue that the Lok Sabha speaker and the Rajya Sabha Chairman allow under House rules. After the meeting, attended by 31 parties, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge told reporters the leaders present had demanded immediate action on enacting a legal guarantee on MSPs. He said demands were also made for compensation to the families of the farmers who died during the protest against three central farm laws. Kharge said the parties also broached the rising prices of petrol and diesel and the tensions with China at the Line of Actual Control. He said the parties had expected the Prime Minister to attend the meeting. They wanted to ask about the farm laws that are to be repealed as there are fears that these might be brought back in some other form, Kharge said. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said tradition did not necessarily require the Prime Minister to attend the all-party meeting. Kharge said the parties would cooperate with the government on issues of public interest. Some Opposition leaders also raised the subject of the extension of the BSF’s area of jurisdiction in some states, including Bengal. Trinamul leaders Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O’Brien spoke on the issues of an MSP law and the divestment of profitable public sector units. The Aam Aadmi Party walked out of the meeting. AAP leader Sanjay Singh said he had walked out because he was not being allowed to speak on issues related to farmers, especially on the demand for a law guaranteeing MSPs. Several parties such as Trinamul, the YSR Congress and the DMK demanded that the women’s reservation bill be taken up during the winter session, sources said. The 15th Lok Sabha (2009-14) has been unable to pass the bill which, pending in the House since 2010, lapsed following the House’s dissolution in 2014. Among the Opposition leaders at the meeting were Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Anand Sharma (Congress); T.R. Baalu and Tiruchi Siva (DMK); Sharad Pawar (NCP); Vinayak Raut (Shiv Sena); Ramgopal Yadav (Samajwadi Party); Satish Mishra (Bahujan Samaj Party); Prasanna Acharya (Biju Janata Dal); and Farooq Abdullah (National Conference). Apart from Rajnath and Joshi, the government was represented by Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Arjun Ram Meghwal and V. Muraleedharan. The winter session of Parliament is to conclude on December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
