30-11-2021||India||Bangladesh removed from India's list of 'at-risk' countries||India on Tuesday removed Bangladesh from a list of 'at-risk' countries that was issued as part of measures initiated in view of the emergence of new coronavirus variant Omicron, people familiar with the development said. Travellers from the 'at-risk- countries will require to follow additional measures on arrival in India. Bangladesh was removed from the list after the country took up the matter with India, the people cited above said. Bangladesh Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen said in Dhaka that the issue was taken up with India. "Due to (our) request, India High Commission has informed that Bangladesh has been removed from the red list of India," he said in a message to media. According to the updated list, the countries designated as "at-risk" are the European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. The original list that figured Bangladesh was issued four days back. The strict norms for arriving international passengers, especially from 'at-risk' countries, are coming into effect from Tuesday midnight. While no cases of Omicron have been reported so far in India, the Union government has asked states and Union Territories to ensure RT-PCR tests for travellers coming from 'at-risk' countries on the first day of arrival and retesting on the eighth day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
30-11-2021||India||Will consider withdrawal of farmers' police cases sympathetically, says Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar Tuesday said the state government will consider "sympathetically" the farmers' demand for the withdrawal of police cases registered against them during the course of their year-long agitation against farm laws.  "It is right that it is the domain of states (to withdraw cases)," Khattar said, responding to a query on Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar statement that cancelling cases against farmers is in state governments' jurisdiction.  Khattar said farmers have not yet ended their agitation as they are still protesting in support of their other demands after farm laws have been repealed.  "When this issue (farmers' agitation) reaches finality, we will do what our government has to do on its part. However, as they have yet not ended their stir, these things (withdrawal of cases) are the final step. We will consider all these things sympathetically," Khattar told reporters here on the sidelines of an event.  He said the farmers' main demand was repeal of farm laws which has been met by the Central government.  Khattar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said a committee will be formed to make the Minimum Support Price system more effective and transparent.  The committee will have representatives of the Central government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists and agri economists.  State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar also indicated the state government will move in a positive manner with respect to the demand of farmers of withdrawing cases.  "As the state BJP chief, I am saying all these things will be considered," Dhankar said when asked if cases lodged against farmers would be dropped.  The parliament on Monday passed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 to annul the three farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, with its passage in the Rajya Sabha shortly after the Lok Sabha did it.  The Lower House had passed the repeal bill within minutes of its introduction.  Shortly after the repeal of three central farm laws by parliament, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday demanded the dropping of all cases lodged against farmers during the over year-long agitation against the legislations.  Claiming registration of more than 48,000 cases against farmers during the year-long anti farm law agitation by them, Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni also demanded the withdrawal of cases against farmers.  "Around 48,000 cases were registered in Haryana against the farmers and they should be taken back," Chaduni had demanded.  Over 700 farmers lost their lives. The next of their kin too should be given compensation, he added.  Asked about their future course of action after the repeal of farm laws, Chaduni had said, We want to say that if the government wants to resolve all our issues with a clear intent, it should also decide on other demands including one for giving a legal guarantee on MSP so that farmers can return to their homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Vijay Mallya contempt case to be dealt with finally on Jan 18: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that the case involving fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya will be dealt with finally on January 18 next year. Mallya owes over ₹9,000 crore in form of unpaid loans towards consortium of banks led by State Bank of India (SBI). “What we wish to do is, we will list this matter for disposal in second week of January because we have waited sufficiently long enough, we can’t be waiting any longer now. It has to see the light of the day at some stage or the other and the process must also get over,” the bench headed by Justice UU Lalit said. It noted that Mallya was held guilty of contempt in 2017. He was found guilty by the apex court of transferring $40 million received from Diageo into the accounts of his children. The petition was filed by SBI for not disclosing the bank accounts into which $40 million was transferred. The court found him guilty of siphoning off this amount which otherwise had to be deposited with the banks. Mallya’s review petition was dismissed by the Supreme Court in August last year. He was directed to be personally present before the Supreme Court for announcement on quantum of sentence. But he couldn’t be present because of the legal proceedings going on in the United Kingdom where the fugitive businessman is residing. The Supreme Court bench, also comprising justices S R Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, said it will list the matter in January for disposal and at that juncture, if Mallya want to take part personally, he will be here through the extradition proceedings and in case he is not, the bench will hear the submissions of his lawyer. On January 18 this year, the Centre told the top court that the government is making all efforts to extradite Mallya from the United Kingdom but the process is being delayed due to some legal issues involved in the matter. Mallya is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Punjab polls: Have spoken to PM, Shah on alliance, says Amarinder||My only condition for an alliance with the BJP was the resolution of the farmers' agitation, former Chief Minister of Punjab Amarinder Singh said about his new party's alliance with the BJP. “I have already met the Home Minister and spoken to him about an alliance. On Saturday, I hope to see the BJP president,” he told NDTV, hinting that a formal announcement could be expected soon. He said that now that the three contentious farm bills have been repealed and other issues raised by farmers are being discussed, he is taking things forward for the alliance. Rubbishing swipes from the Congress that he doesn't actually have any MLAs supporting him, he said many Congress MLAs are eager to join him and are just waiting for the model code of conduct to be enforced. Singh also refuted Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's comment that Singh is harming his own chances in the assembly elections by allying with the BJP, which he claims has no support in the state. “As of today, our own feedback is that there's a total swing towards the BJP. Many Hindus are supporting the BJP and my party. There are 36% Hindus in Punjab and we are going to take up that chunk, more than the Congress. Hopefully, we will also get a lot of support from farmers,” he said. On BJP's communal language and tone, Mr Singh said he was not at all uncomfortable with it and cited the example of the Akali Dal that was in alliance with BJP for over two decades. Akalis are a party of Sikhs and they have had no problem with the BJP, he said, stressing that communalism wasn't an issue in Punjab. “I have never been involved in any way in any communal business, especially in Punjab. This has been one state where we call ourselves members of Punjabiyat, which means all the religions are part of one family,” he said. When asked about violent and abusive comments by some BJP leaders against the protesting farmers, Singh dismissed them as rhetorical remarks made in the heat of the moment. The former Congress leader had to unceremoniously resign as the state Chief Minister last month after a rebellion from his fellow MLAs following a crisis in the Punjab unit of the Congress party. He then announced his own party called the Punjab Lok Congress and said it would contest all 117 assembly seats in the upcoming assembly elections. He now says the seats are not confirmed yet as they will be shared between his party, BJP, and the Dhindsa faction of the Akalis. “We have done our own research and will sit across the table with our allies to decide how the seats will be shared,” the former Chief Minister said. Captain Singh didn't reveal any numbers when asked how many MLAs have approached him but said that three to four people are approaching them every day, even when his party's office is not ready yet. “We already have 30-40 applicants, and I can't reveal the numbers of sitting MLAs and MPs who are with us,” Singh said, adding that leaders from all parties, and not just the Congress, are approaching him. "First, let's see who they (Congress) give tickets to. Punjab Congress president (Navjot Singh) Sidhu has said 35 new faces will be given tickets. We will see if any of those people fit the bill, I know them better than he does," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Omicron-specific booster shots a possibility, says Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India chief Adar Poonawalla, in an exclusive interview to NDTV, said a version of Covishield, tailor made for the new Covid variant Omicron can be considered if research indicates a need. Tests are on for Omicron and a call on the matter will be taken another two weeks, when more is known about the new virus, he added. "Scientists at Oxford are also continuing their research, and based on their findings, we may come out with a new vaccine which would act as a booster in six months' time. Based on the research, we would know about the third and the fourth dose for us all," he told NDTV. It is, however, not essential that a specific version of the vaccine will be required for Omicron, he said. "The Lancet has reported that Covishield's efficacy is very high and significantly reduces chances of hospitalisation and possibility of death... It is not necessary that the efficacy of Covishield would drop with time, he said, referring to the new study published in the peer-reviewed journal. If a booster is needed eventually, he said the company has enough doses and it will be available at the same price. "We have hundreds of millions of stock in our campus. We have over 200 million doses reserved for states and Union Territories in India. So, if the government is to announce a booster dose, we are well stocked," he said. For now, the focus should be on prioritising the vaccine for those who did not have a shot and the second dose for those who had one. "The message for all - and a priority - is for everyone to get the two doses of the vaccine. That is the first step to stay protected. It is only after that that one can enhance that safety with boosters over the next year… The focus of the government must remain to get everyone double vaccinated," he said. The government has already made it clear that there is no plan for a booster shot – as is happening in some nations -- in the immediate future. Defending the decision, Dr NK Arora, the chief of the Centre's Covid panel, contended that the situation in India and nations in Europe and North America are not similar. A very large proportion of our population had contracted Covid and the vaccines are providing additional protection, he said. Evidence of the extent of immunity prevalent in India became clear when ''the number of cases declined despite festivals'' and when large gatherings frequently broke Covid discipline across the country "during Diwali and Dussehra". That said, a plan is being drawn up to provide additional shots to people who are immunocompromised, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Kharge writes to RS chairman urging him to revoke suspension of 12 MPs, points to anomalies||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Tuesday wrote to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, urging him to revoke his decision of suspending 12 Opposition MPs. In his letter, the Congress leader said "excessive action" has been taken against the MPs by suspending them without providing them an opportunity to be heard. He said he is constrained to write on behalf of the Opposition parties and draw his attention to the legitimate grievances of the 12 members who have been suspended following a motion brought by Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Monday. "It is my considered view that the suspension of these members, is an unprecedented excessive action for the unfortunate incidents in the last days of the 2021 Monsoon session of the Rajya Sabha," Kharge said in his letter to Naidu. Pointing out "anomalies" in the motion brought by the minister for the suspension, which is in "violation" of Rule 256(1) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States, the Congress leader said it is wrong to assume, that the motion was passed by the House as the entire Opposition was opposed to the motion and therefore cannot be the consensus of the House just because of the majority of the ruling party. Kharge claimed the members were denied any opportunity to present their case, even as one of the suspended members was never referred to in the Bulletin dated August 11. According to the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business, this action of suspension has to be preceded by the naming of the members under the provisions of Rule 256 (1), he said. He said as per Article 83 of the Constitution, the Council of States is a continuous House unlike the House of People. However, for the functioning of the House, each session is summoned by the President under Article 85(1) of the Constitution. Thereafter upon the completion of the sittings for that session, the House is adjourned sine die and subsequently prorogued as per the provisions of Article 85(2)(a) of the Constitution, he said. The Monsoon session of the Rajya Sabha as summoned by the President on July 2, concluded on August 11 and was prorogued by the President on August 31, Kharge pointed out. If the House had only been adjourned and then reconvened without any prorogation, the argument of continuity would merit any justification, he noted. "In view of the aforesaid anomalies and the denial of the right to be heard to the aggrieved members as per the principles of natural justice, I urge you to reconsider the matter of suspension of twelve MPs in the larger interest of Parliamentary democracy and revoke the suspension. We very much want the House to function smoothly," the Leader of Opposition said in his letter. After the motion for suspension of 12 Opposition MPs for the remainder of the session was adopted by the house on Monday, leaders of various opposition parties met Naidu in his chamber and urged him to revoke the suspension. However, the Rajya Sabha Chairman said the suspension of 12 members was in order and asserted that the suspension decision was of the House and not his. Naidu clarified that the suspension was to protect democracy and lamented that the members did not express any remorse over their misconduct during the last session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Civil Aviation Ministry ready to deal with new virus variant: Scindia||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said his ministry had made all preparations in the face of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. We are putting emphasis on keeping an eye on passengers coming from the 12 countries considered sensitive for the new variant," he told reporters here. "Though it will affect flight movement, precaution is necessary," he added. The Union government has issued directives that passengers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Israel among other countries be screened at the airports, and also asked the states to remain alert. Scindia, meanwhile, also informed that programs will be started to give a fillip to drone technology in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||People with A, B blood groups, Rh+ more susceptible to Covid: Study||People having blood group of A, B and those with Rh factor positive are more susceptible to COVID-19 infection compared to those having O or AB group and Rh negative, according to a new study conducted by doctors at a Delhi hospital. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) said the research was conducted on a total of 2,586 Covid-positive patients, tested through real-time PCR (RT-PCR), who were admitted at the facility from April 8 to October 4 in 2020. The study by the Department of Research and Department of Blood Transfusion Medicine at the SGRH has found that (those having) blood groups A, B and Rh+ are more susceptible to COVID-19 infection whereas (those with) O, AB and Rh- are at lower risk of COVID-19 infection, the statement said. The researchers have also claimed that there is no association between blood groups, and susceptibility to severity of disease as well as mortality. Resus factor or Rh factor is a protein that may be present on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). The positive or negative sign next to the blood groups is known as the Rh factor. If the blood type is positive, then the blood cells have the Rh protein, and they lack the Rh protein, if negative. The study has been published in November 21 edition of 'Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology', the statement said. Dr. Rashmi Rana, Consultant, Department of Research, SGRH, said, Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 is a new virus, and it is unclear whether blood groups have any impact on COVID-19 risk or progression. Therefore, we investigated the association of ABO and Rh blood group with COVID-19 susceptibility, prognosis, recovery time, and mortality in this study". During the study of admitted patients, follow-up was also taken up till their last date of admission as either discharged or deceased, hospital authorities said. According to Dr. Vivek Ranjan, co-author and Chairperson, Department of Blood Transfusion, SGRH, "We also found that male patients of blood group B are more prone to COVID-19 than the female patients with blood group B, and blood group AB was observed to be more susceptible to infection in patients with age group of over 60 years. The study also claimed that blood group A and Rh + types are associated with a decrease in recovery period, whereas blood group O and Rh- are associated with increase in recovery period, according to the statement. However, the ABO and/or Rh blood groups may not be responsible for this association, as these may indicate an unexplored underlying factor like co-morbidity. Therefore, larger, multicentre and prospective studies are needed to ascertain the relationship between blood groups and SARS-CoV-2," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Stricter norms for int'l passengers to be effective from Tuesday midnight||The strict norms for arriving international passengers, especially from 'at-risk' countries, will come into effect from Tuesday midnight and authorities are stepping their vigil for effective surveillance amid mounting concerns over the emergence of the COVID variant Omicron. While no cases of Omicron have been reported so far in India, the Union government has asked states and Union Territories to ensure RT-PCR tests for travellers coming from 'at-risk' countries on the first day of arrival and retesting on the eighth day. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday advised states not to let their guards down and keep a strict vigil on the international passengers coming to the country through various airports, ports and land border crossings. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from 'at-risk' countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the test results come. Also, randomly five per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test. As the authorities ready to implement the new norms from Tuesday midnight, the Union health ministry has advised international passengers from 'at-risk' countries to prepare to wait at the airports till the report of the RT-PCR test has come and not book connecting flights beforehand. Further, the ministry has asked states to send all positive samples for genome sequencing to INSACOG Labs (mapped with states) promptly. International airports in the national capital and other parts of the country have made preparations for implementation of the new norms. Officials on Tuesday said the Delhi international airport has made arrangements to accommodate at the airport up to 1,500 international passengers at a time, including those coming from from 'at-risk' countries, till results of their RT-PCR tests taken after arrival are declared. Each passenger who will undergo the RT-PCR test will be charged around Rs 1,700. The amount includes charges for the RT-PCR test, and food and water during their stay at the airport till the test results come, they said. An Airports Authority of India (AAI) spokesperson said all AAI airports that have international operations are "fully prepared" to implement the guidelines issued by the Union government in coordination with state authorities. The spokesperson also said that the top management of the AAI is also monitoring the situation. State-owned AAI is involved in operations of 34 international airports, including customs airports. A spokesperson for the Bengaluru international airport said, "We are working with all the airlines and other stakeholders to implement the new procedures and minimise inconvenience to passengers." As per updated list on November 26, the countries designated as 'at-risk' include European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Israel and Hong Kong. On Tuesday, Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with States/UTs to review COVID public health response measures and preparedness amid concerns over Omicron. Civil Aviation Secretary Rajiv Bansal, Secretary (Health Research) & DG ICMR Balram Bhargava, NCDC Director Sujeet K Singh, State Health Secretaries and State Airport Public Health Officials (APHOs), among others, participated in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||No case of Omicron variant reported in India so far: Govt tells Parliament||India has so far not reported any case of the new COVID-19 variant Omicron, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed Parliament on Tuesday, underlining that the government has taken measures to ensure that it does not reach the country. The Centre has issued an advisory after looking at developments globally and is keeping a close watch on ports, he said, adding genome sequencing of suspected cases is being done. During Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha, the minister said, "Omicron variant has been found in 14 countries now. It is being studied here although it has not been reported in India." Stressing that there is a need to take all precautions, the minister said, "We have learnt a lot during the pandemic. We have resources and labs to check. "At present, no Omicron variant has been reported in India and all measures have been taken to ensure this variant does not reach the country," he said. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has classified Omicron as a 'variant of concern' According to the Minister, the COVID-19 situation is under control in India at present but the country is not free from this disease and Covid-appropriate behaviour should be followed. The house-door vaccination drive is still on and about 70-80 lakh doses are being administered on a daily basis, he said, adding 124 crore doses of Covid vaccine has been administered so far in the country. Responding to another query, the Union Minister said there was slow down in testing of tuberculosis during the Covid lockdown period but surveillance and testing has been stepped up now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Contempt matter involving Vijay Mallya to be dealt with finally on January 18, says SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday said the contempt matter involving fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, will be dealt with finally on January 18 next year. Observing that the apex court has waited sufficiently long, a bench headed by Justice U U Lalit said, "We can't be waiting any longer now." The bench noted that Mallya was held guilty of contempt in 2017. The bench, also comprising Justices S R Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, said Mallya is at liberty to advance submissions, as are deemed appropriate, and if for any reason, he is not present before the court, lawyer on his behalf can advance submissions. "What we wish to do is, we will list this matter for disposal in the second week of January because we have waited sufficiently long enough, we can't be waiting any longer now. It has to see the light of the day at some stage or the other and the process must also get over," the bench said. The top court requested senior Jaideep Gupta to assist it as an amicus curiae in the matter. The apex court had earlier dismissed Mallya's plea seeking review of its 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of the court orders. On January 18 this year, the Centre told the top court that the government is making all efforts to extradite Mallya from the United Kingdom but the process is being delayed due to some legal issues involved in the matter. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
30-11-2021||India||Omicron: Govt extends containment measures till December 31 amid global concerns||The Centre on Tuesday extended the nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till December 31 in view of the emergence of a highly mutant COVID-19 variant Omicron in some countries and asked the states to be vigilant. In a communication, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also asked states and UTs to strictly adhere to the November 25 advisory issued by the Union Health Ministry, recommending rigorous screening and testing of all international arrivals. Bhalla also said that the contacts of the international travellers must be closely tracked and tested as per the health ministry guidelines, and the samples of travellers turning positive sent to the designated Genome Sequencing Laboratories promptly, as per the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) Guidance Document. He said the state surveillance officers must also establish close coordination with their designated or tagged genome sequencing laboratories for expediting results of genomic analysis, and the States and UTs should immediately undertake necessary public health measures, in case of the presence of variants of concern. Accordingly, the home secretary directed that the existing "Prompt and Effective Containment Measures for COVID-19" must be continued till December 31. Also on Tuesday, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting with states and UTs and advised them to ramp up testing for early identification and management of cases. While underlining that the new variant doesn't escape RT-PCR and RAT tests, Bhushan asked states and UTs to ensure adequate infrastructure and supervised home isolation, according to a health ministry. India logged 6,990 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 551 days, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,87,822, while the active cases have declined to 1,00,543, the lowest in 546 days, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,68,980 with 190 fresh fatalities, according to the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||Krishnapriya Ji manifests her identity as celebrated philanthropist among masses||One-of-the known Sadhvi, Humanitarian and Young social worker, Philanthropist Krishnapriya Ji, commonly known as Sadhvi Krishnapriya is playing a key role in the Indian social reconstruction. She has been doing this movement with her devotion to the wellbeing of the downtrodden, animals, and our nature. In today’s turbulent times, her discussions and conversations on scientific as well as spiritual truths shower springs of peace upon the distressed and guide the lost souls to find solace. Her contribution as a spiritual teacher and mentor has earned her respect and recognition from all over the world. Following the path of devotion Hailing from Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh she belongs from a Brahmin Family which inherited her devotion to the almighty from her mother whose deep-rooted belief in God’s path still inspires her. From an early age, she had learned to embrace God’s virtue owing to the environment of devotion and nourishment of spiritual qualities surrounding her. As a result, her childhood days were filled with bhajans and other spiritual practices which contributed to her spiritual growth. Her mother used to take her to the famous Shri Banke Bihari Ji temple in Vrindavan where she used to engross in mesmerizing bhajans. Krishnapriya Ji continued to nourish her spiritual interest alongside her education in order to gain a greater knowledge of God's ways. Despite the fact that she was a prospective student, she has all of the qualities necessary to become a spiritual leader. Her listeners were enchanted by the divinity in her voice and her in-depth worldview even when she was a small child. Many famous saints observed her deep interest in spiritual activities and devotion to Thakurji, and encouraged her to continue on her spiritual path. Her deep devotion to God and religious rituals enabled her to progress on the spiritual path, finally earning her the title of goddess. In addition, her spiritual presence grew significantly in 2003 under the direction of Shri Kishor Das Ji Maharaj. Krishnapriya Ji performed her first Bhagavad Gita sermon in the Kumbh Mela held in Ujjain (2004) at the mere age of seven where she was downpoured with praises by all the saints gathered there. Her melodious voice, captivating storytelling style, and strong spiritual aura attracted every soul.  Her conversations and recitations on Bhagavad Gita, Shriram Katha, Shri Shiv Maha Puraan, Bhakt Maal ki Katha and other religious stories, soon, became subjected to worldwide attention, recognition, and fame. She is one of the flag bearers of the amazing values of Sanskrit and the wisdom of Sanatan Dharma all over the world. At the age of 23, Krishnapriya Ji has successfully performed more than 370 Bhagavad  Katha and has attracted millions of followers, disciples, and spiritual seekers from all over the world who seek after her guidance, follow the path of divinity, and gain wisdom from her teachings.  Performing Social Duties with passion Besides her spiritual career, Krishnapriya Ji is also attentive to her social duties and works tirelessly for the welfare of society and its people. She is considered to be a leading figure when it comes to fighting the prevailing social evils in India like cow slaughtering, environmental degradation, orphans, illiteracy, and dowry system, etc. With that goal in mind, Krishnapriya Ji founded the ‘Chain Bihari Seva Trust’, later renamed the Chain Bihari Ashraya Foundation, in the name of Lord Krishna in the year 2018. It is located in Mahavan Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, and has its branches in several states of the country.  Krishnapriya Ji is also attentive to the educational standards in the rural areas of India.  She has provided underprivileged and orphaned children assistance so that they receive good education to grow up to be responsible citizens of this nation. She also sees the growing culture of old-age homes and the abandonment of old parents by the children as a social vice. At old age homes, Krishnapriya Ji oversees and provides all the medical care and treatment assistance required by the elderly citizens. It is her way to deliver our older generation the respect, love, and devotion they deserve. As a philanthropist, Krishnapriya Ji aims at uplifting society with her impactful works and her foundation serves as a helpful aid in that goal. She extends her guiding hand in spreading spiritual awareness among the poor rural and tribal regions along with improving their physical and mental health. Her medical camps serve malnourished children and play an important role in the distribution of medications among the needy. Free food packets and groceries are distributed at the bus stands and railway stations for the needy people. On weekends, Food Bhandaras are held in the ashram where thousands of people gather to enjoy the prasad. During the cold winters, shawls and woolen blankets are provided to underprivileged people living on the streets. Krishnapriya Ji is behind several free treatments, operations, eyes camps, heart camps, and blood donation camps. Every three years, she organizes mass weddings for underprivileged brides and grooms. Being a social reformer and spiritual guide, Krishnapriya Ji holds nature and its creatures with great value. Her serious attempts in environmental and animal fare have generated considerable stimulus in favor of the growing social movements in India. Gaushalas or cow shelters managed by her organization serve as heaven for the sick and homeless cows roaming on the streets. Here, more than 100 cows get proper care and treatment. Currently, there is an initiative on her part to build a larger cowshed where more than 1000 vulnerable, injured, and abandoned cows could be fed and taken care of. Every year, her foundation organizes huge tree plantation campaigns where around 10,000 saplings are planted as a part of her initiative to save our mother's maturity. She educates people about the significance of Mother Nature and her natural resources for the wellbeing of us and our coming generations. She also arranges huge rallies and cleanliness drives for our rivers like Yamuna, Ganges, Narmada, and so on that hold deep religious value to the Hindus. Krishnapriya Ji has made India proud by unfurling the flag of Sanatan Dharma and spreading spiritual education all over the world.  Her sermons in countries like San Francisco (USA), Houston Texas (USA),  Denpasar Bali (Indonesia), Kathmandu (Nepal), Thailand, Sydney, Australia, etc not only highlight our cultural supremacy in front of the world but also project India as the spiritual leader of the world. She is the safe refuge to all spiritual seekers and India takes pride in her daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||Opposition MPs walk out of Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha to protest suspension of 12 MPs||Congress and other Opposition party MPs on Tuesday staged a walkout from the Rajya Sabha after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu justified the suspension of 12 MPs for the entire winter session of Parliament, saying they haven't shown any remorse for their act of sacrilege of the House in the previous session in August. "Motion (for suspension of the 12 Opposition MPs) was moved, it was approved, action is taken, it is final," Naidu said as he rejected an appeal by the Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader M Mallikarjun Kharge to revoke the suspension. Naidu said he was not considering Kharge's appeal as the suspended MPs have not shown any remorse, but on the contrary, justified their acts. "You try to mislead the House, you disturb the House, you ransacked the table, you also threw papers on the chair and also some of them have got on to the table and then you are giving me lessons. This is not the way," he said. I don't think the appeal of the Leader of the Opposition is worth considering. I am not considering it at all," he added. Raising the issue when the House met for the day, Kharge said the motion for suspension moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi was in gross violation of the rules and action was taken in the current winter session of Parliament for alleged "unruly" conduct in the last session. Also, the rules require the chair to name the members before a motion of suspension is moved, which did not happen when the 12 MPs were suspended on a government motion on November 29, he said, adding that the chair had on Monday not even allowed him to raise of point of order, which as per the well-settled conventions of Rajya Sabha is always permitted. A member named by the chair has to withdraw from the proceedings of the House. Six of the suspended MPs are from the Congress, two each from Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from CPI and CPM. Naidu also rejected Kharge's contentions of action being taken on deeds done in the last session, saying the Rajya Sabha is a "continuing institution" and the Chairman of the House is empowered to suspend members for unruly conduct under rules 256, 259, 266 and other residuary powers. He said the chair had on August 10, when the Opposition members created a ruckus in the House demanding discussion on certain issues, named the members. Chairman can take action and also the House can take action. What happened yesterday (November 29) is not chairman taking action, it is the house, after a resolution moved, that has taken action," he said. Opposition MPs, however, objected to his comment that the House took the action bypassing the resolution by voice vote as they felt only the treasury benches had given affirmative response to the motion moved by Joshi. "Not the House, except some Opposition position parties. I agree," Naidu remarked. Naidu said the suspended MPs were named by the chair on August 10. "On 10th August, go through the proceedings of the House, the deputy chairman (who was in the chair) made appeals a number of times. Later, in the (Rajya Sabha) bulletin also it was published about the people who have indulged in this act," he added. Naidu did not address Kharge's charge of him not being allowed to raise the point of order when the motion of suspension was moved on November 29. Not satisfied with Naidu's ruling, the Opposition parties, including the Congress, AAP, RJD and Left parties protested, raising slogans. Naidu, however, did not allow them and went on to take up listed zero hour. The Opposition MPs then staged a walkout from the House. TMC members too staged a walkout a short while later after their leader Derek O'Brien said it's not the Opposition but the 80 MPs of the treasury benches who should be suspended as they blocked certain discussions during the previous monsoon session. Earlier, Kharge said the moving of the motion and its adoption "is a gross violation of rules of procedures regarding the suspension of members provided under rule 256." "Furthermore, when the Leader of Opposition is seeking to raise a point of order, they have to be allowed to raise the same. I was, however, not allowed to raise my point of order. This itself is a gross violation of well settled time honoured parliamentary conventions," he said. Kharge said the suspension of any member can happen only when two conditions -- him or her being named by the chairman and then a motion being moved -- are fulfilled. "This procedure is relevant only on the date of occurrence of the alleged disregard or disorderly conduct of the member. However, yesterday the motion of suspension was moved for the alleged disorderly conduct which took place during the previous session," he said. "In the present case, none of the 12 members have been named on that particular day. Bringing forward a motion to suspend the members months after the day of occurrence alleged disorderly conduct is not in order. The unprecedented, undemocratic action is a violation of the rules," he said. He demanded that the suspension of 12 members may be revoked. "I request you, sir... we all members came to your house we requested you to revoke it and it has been dealt selectively. There are some members who have nothing to do with this. This incident happened in the last session how can you take this (action)," he said. He was referring to the leaders of 16 Opposition parties meeting Naidu earlier in the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||SC proposes to go ahead with hearing on sentence in contempt proceeding against Vijay Mallya||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it proposes to go ahead with the contempt matter involving fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, who is an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, and list it for hearing on sentencing. The apex court had earlier dismissed his plea seeking review of its 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of the court orders. On January 18 this year, the Centre told the top court that the government is making all efforts to extradite Mallya from the United Kingdom but the process is being delayed due to some legal issues involved in the matter. The matter pertaining to contempt against Mallya came up for hearing on Tuesday before a bench comprising Justices U U Lalit, S R Bhat and Bela M Trivedi. "What we propose to pass an order that we will list the matter for hearing on sentence because the advocate (for Mallya) continues to appear. So, therefore, there is no embargo on hearing the advocate on sentence. We will go ahead with that," the bench said. Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that he is being led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who is arguing before another court. "He (Mehta) has the instruction. He has already spoken to the concerned authorities in the MEA (Ministry of External Affairs). If this matter can be taken up tomorrow or day after, he will make submissions," Nair told the apex court. The bench said it would take up the matter for hearing at 2 PM during the day. Ask the Solicitor General, in case he is free, please come here. In case, there are any written instructions or any communications, then please give us the copies of that, the bench told Nair. On January 18, Mehta had sought some time to file a report on the status of extradition of Mallya. The MEA has raised the issue of extradition with the UK government and the Centre was making all serious efforts to extradite Mallya, he had said. He had also shared a letter of the Ministry of External Affairs' official written to him on the status of extradition of Mallya from the United Kingdom. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. On November 2, last year, the top court had asked the Centre to file status report in six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the UK on extradition of Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 last year told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate secret legal process in the UK, which is judicial and confidential in nature is resolved . The Centre had in October last year said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the Government of India is not party to the process. The government had earlier informed the apex court in the contempt case that the pending legal issue in the UK is outside and apart from the extradition process and is confidential and cannot be disclosed . The top court had in October, 2020 asked Mallya's lawyer to apprise the apex court by November 2 last year what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. The Centre had given details of the extradition proceedings against Mallya starting from February 9, 2017 till dismissal of his appeal against extradition in UK on May 14 last year and said that the fugitive businessman has thus exhausted all avenues of appeal in the United Kingdom. The Centre had said that following the refusal of leave to appeal, Mallya's surrender to India should, in principle, have been completed within 28 days but the UK home office intimated that there is a further legal issue which needs to be resolved before Vijay Mallya's extradition may take place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||Lok Sabha adjourned till 3pm amid Opposition protests||For the second straight day, Lok Sabha proceedings were disrupted on Tuesday amid Opposition protests over various issues. As the House reconvened at 2 pm, there were protest from the members of the Opposition. In less than two minutes, A Raja who was chairing the proceeding, adjourned the House till 3 pm. Earlier in the day, Speaker Om Birla made repeated plea to members for smooth functioning of the House. TRS members shouted slogans and displayed placards standing in the Well of the House while other Opposition members, including from Congress and Left parties, sought to raise certain issues from their seats. In signs of deepening rift between the government and the Opposition, members from the Congress, NCP, Left parties and DMK walked out of the House alleging that the government was suppressing the voice of the Opposition. These members protested from their seats and did not come into the Well before walking out of the House. However, Trinamool Congress members neither joined the protests nor walked out. Soon after a new member took oath and the first question of the Question Hour was taken up, members of TRS trooped into the Well demanding a law on Minimum Support Price (MSP) as well as compensation for the families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the farm laws. Appealing to the members to go back to their seats, Birla said they should discuss issues during the Question Hour and that their conduct was not sending out the right message. A visibly anguished Birla said that important questions were being answered but the proceedings were being disrupted. It is not right, the Speaker repeatedly asserted but as the din continued, he adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. Earlier, Shiv Sena's Delkar Kalaben Mohanbhai, representing Dadra and Nagar Haveli constituency, took oath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||BKU president welcomes withdrawal of farm laws||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national president Naresh Tikait on Tuesday welcomed the Union government's move to repeal the three farm laws but demanded that discussions be held with the agitating farmers on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and other issues. Parliament had on Monday passed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, to repeal the three contentious agri laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year. Talking to reporters at the BKU headquarters in Sisauli, Tikait said the final decision on calling off the agitation at Delhi borders will be taken by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, including the BKU. Tikait said farmers had cancelled their proposed tractor march' to Parliament on the first day of the winter session after the Centre promised to repeal the laws and now discussions should be held on other issues raised by the protesters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||No Omicron cases reported in India yet, kids under 2 make up 10% hospital admissions in South Africa||South Africa, the global epicentre of an outbreak of the new highly contagious Omicron Covid-19 variant, says it’s bracing for what could be the country’s fourth pandemic wave amid a big rise in coronavirus cases, including young children. Officials of the Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality, which includes the heavily affected Gauteng Province, reported that between November 14 and 28, the highest number of hospital admissions were for children under 2 years of age. Some 10 per cent of admissions were for those in the under two age group, though it is not yet known if they were suffering from the highly contagious Omicron variant. So far, there have been no reports of any case of Omicron in India but Karnataka’s health ministry said the sample of one person who returned recently from South Africa was “different from the Delta variant” and that it was now undergoing further analysis. Dr Samiran Panda, epidemiology chief at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said he would not be surprised if Omicron was already in India. "It is possibly already in India and it may be a matter of time before it's detected." "The first case (of Omicron) was reported (in Botswana) on November 9 and there has been a lot of travel since then from South Africa," Panda told NDTV. "I won't be surprised if there's detection in India. It's just a matter of time, given the high transmissibility that this variant comes with," he added. So far, the variant has been reported in at least 15 countries from the UK to Australia. Dr Waasila Jassat of South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases, said the highest risk of hospital admissions was still in the over 65 age group. The percentage in the middle age group was low, while data shows that it was "very" high in young children,” she said. Still, Jassat said it was unclear so far how many admissions involved the new variant or whether Omicron caused more severe illness. What was evident, she said, was that most admissions were unvaccinated people. “What we can see across the country is that there's a much higher risk of death amongst those that are unvaccinated," she told an online briefing. Jassat said the high percentage of young children being admitted may be due to caution on the part of parents. She noted that they also have an immune system that is not fully developed and they are also unvaccinated, putting them more in danger. So far most of the Omicron cases in South Africa have been mild to moderate but doctors stress that it is early days to understand the effects of the virus which was only reported to The World Health Organization on November 24. Health experts reckon it will take at least two weeks to understand how serious the effects of the variant may be. South Africa’s fresh infection tally stood at 2,800 Sunday, up from a daily average of 500 in the previous week. Epidemiologists say they expect the daily case toll to reach 10,000 by the weekend. India’s Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said that the government is closely watching the Omicron situation as it develops around the world in light of India’s plans to resume scheduled international passengers services in mid-December. Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands have already halted flights from southern Africa in a bid to slow the spread of the variant which has some 50 mutations, the most of any Covid-19 strain, making it more contagious. Results from international travellers who have tested positive are being sent for genomic analysis. Genomic sequencing is also being carried out on the positive test result of a Maharashtra merchant navy engineer who just returned from South Africa and is in isolation. The Delhi state government has ordered RT-PCR tests for all travellers arriving from high-risk' countries, genome sequencing of positive cases and mandatory isolation.” Immunologist Satyajit Rath said he believed that the highly mutated variant would “turn out to be very good at spreading, it will likely not cause more severe disease.” Existing vaccines “will probably show some reduction in their potency against Omicron but will not be ineffective' and current drugs will quite likely work well against it,” Rath told The Press Trust of India. Panda said India was well prepared to deal with Omicron, noting the government has set up the INSACOG laboratory network across India to monitor genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2. "They are adept at identifying the variants responsible for the infection," he said. While Britain, the US and other countries are administering booster Covid-19 shots, Panda said that the “first priority must be to cover as many people as possible with double vaccinations first.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||Active Covid cases in India decline to 1,00,543||India logged 6,990 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 551 days, taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,87,822, while the active cases have declined to 1,00,543, the lowest in 546 days, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,68,980 with 190 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 53 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 155 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 98.35 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 3,316 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.69 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 57 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.84 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 16 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,40,18,299, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 123.25 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 190 new fatalities include 117 from Kerala and 21 from Maharashtra. Of the 117 deaths, 59 were reported over the last few days and 58 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Monday. A total of 4,68,980 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,962 from Maharashtra, 39,955 from Kerala, 38,203 from Karnataka, 36,472 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,910 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,473 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||Omicron variant: Kejriwal questions delay in banning international flights||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday questioned the delay in stopping flights from countries affected by Omicron variant of coronavirus. The B.1.1.529 Covid variant or Omicron, first detected in South Africa last week, was designated by the World Health Organisation as a 'variant of concern', the health body's top category for worrying coronavirus variants. Kejriwal had on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights coming to India from countries affected by the new variant with immediate effect. "Several countries have stopped flights from Omicron affected countries. Why are we delaying it? We had delayed stopping international flights in the first wave also. Majority of flights land in Delhi. Delhi is most affected. Kindly stop the flights immediately," Kejriwal said in a tweet. In view of the new Covid variant, a number of countries, including the European Union, have suspended travel to the affected regions, he had said in his letter. "We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant of concern, recently recognised by the WHO, from entering India... I urge you to stop flights from these regions with immediate effect. Any delay in this regard may prove harmful, if any affected person enters India," he had written. The Centre on last Thursday had asked all states and Union Territories to conduct rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana, where the variant of serious public health implications has been reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||Omicron scare: 1,000 travellers from African nations landed in Mumbai in last 15 days||At least 1,000 travellers landed in Mumbai in the last fortnight from African countries where the potentially more transmissible 'Omicron' variant of coronavirus has been detected, a senior official of the city civic body said. Swab samples were collected of at least 100 travellers out of the 466 whose list was received so far, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI on Monday. The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday warned that the global risk from the Omicron variant is very high based on early evidence, saying the mutated coronavirus could lead to surges with severe consequences. The UN health agency, in a technical paper issued to member states, said "considerable uncertainties remain about the variant, that was first detected days ago in southern Africa. Amid these concerns, Kakani said the airport authority has informed that around 1,000 travellers landed in Mumbai from African countries in the last fortnight, but it has handed over a list of only 466 such passengers so far. "Out of the 466 travellers, 100 are from Mumbai. We have already collected their swab samples. Their reports are expected soon. It will be clear if they are positive or negative to coronavirus," Kakani said. "There won't be an issue if their test report is negative, but the civic body is going to conduct genome sequencing of positive samples, along with the S-gene missing test that is advised by the WHO for faster detection of the infection due to Omicron, without genome sequencing," he said. If the S-gene is missing, in that case, it is presumed that he (traveller) may be infected (with Omicron), the official said, adding that the genome sequencing will confirm the infection. The infected travellers, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, will be shifted to the civic body's institutional quarantine facility at the civic-run Seven Hills Hospital in suburban Andheri, he said. Amid the rising concerns over Omicron, the BMC has kept all its five hospitals and jumbo facilities ready, the official said. Measures are being taken for the structural audit, fire audit, oxygen supply system audit, stocking adequate medicines and appointment of manpower. Five jumbo centres are already functioning, he said. "We have to upgrade the facilities. One or two wards are already activated, but as and when required, we can activate more wards in the same jumbo facilities," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
30-11-2021||India||J&K: Office of LG claims Manoj Sinha asked to stop pension||The office of Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said Sinha, a former MP, had requested the Lok Sabha to stop his pension a day before assuming his current charge in August last year. However, it added, the pension kept coming till December 2020 and that efforts were now being made to return the money. The Telegraph had on Monday reported that while Sinha held his current salaried post, an RTI reply from a central government arm put him on a list of former MPs who are drawing pension. The reply from the central pension accounting office, which functions under the department of expenditure in the Union finance ministry, to Bihar-based activist Shiv Prakash Rai was dated October 12, 2021. Sinha’s media adviser Yatish Yadav told this newspaper over the phone that the lieutenant governor was not drawing pension from the Lok Sabha any more and that the RTI reply could be based on old information. An email that Yadav later sent said: “The Hon’ble LG’s office had requested for the stoppage of pension on August 6, 2020.” Sinha, a former BJP politician who was thrice elected MP from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, assumed his current office on August 7 last year. “The stop pension order was issued on September 15, 2020, by the pay and account officer of the Lok Sabha with effect from August 7, 2020. The process, it appears, was delayed and pension was credited till December 2020,” Yadav’s email said. It added that the Lok Sabha “pay and account office has been informed about it and has been requested to recover the excess pension from the bank”. This newspaper had tried to elicit Sinha’s reactions via email and phone before publishing the report but received no responses. Yadav said the National Informatics Centre manned the lieutenant governor’s official email accounts, and that he had asked the officials to ensure they were regularly monitored. Monday’s report in this newspaper named several other former MPs who were now MLAs and MLCs in Bihar and Jharkhand but were drawing MPs’ pension. Most of them said they would return the pension amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Women confront Bajrang bullies at Christian prayer hall in Karnataka||Bajrang Dal activists allegedly barged into a Christian prayer hall in Belur city in Karnataka on Sunday, accused the group of proselytism and jostled with the faithful before the women in the congregation forced them to leave. Pastor Suresh Paul, who heads the prayer hall run by the Life to the Nation’s Ministries, a Christian organisation, told The Telegraph on Monday that about 30 Bajrang Dal activists had stormed in around 12.30pm on Sunday. “They rushed into the prayer hall, shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’, and accused us of converting Hindus and illegally occupying the land. We started this prayer hall five years ago and had never before faced such issues,” Paul said. “It was evident they had come to create trouble: they refused to even listen to us. Our believers then confronted them, forcing them to move out of the prayer hall. I don’t know what would have happened if our believers, especially the women, didn’t stand up to them.” A video clip circulating on social media on Monday shows men with saffron scarves round their neck being confronted by women. Police later drove the intruders away. No case has been registered since neither the Bajrang Dal nor the Christian group has lodged a complaint. Bajrang Dal state coordinator Raghu Sakleshpura said a young man named Adeesh had “alerted” the organisation. “They (the Christian group) had enticed Adeesh with the aim of converting him. But when he heard Hindu gods being belittled at the church, he called our local activists,” Sakleshpura told this newspaper after visiting Belur, Hassan district, on Monday. Asked the reason for disrupting a prayer, he said: “Our activists were only trying to prevent conversions of Hindus, which has been rampant in that area.” In October, Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists had barged into an “interfaith” prayer hall in Hubli that is run by a Hindu Lingayat man named Somu Avaradhi who believes in Jesus Christ. The intruders had squatted in the prayer hall and sung bhajans after accusing Avaradhi of proselytism. He was later arrested on a complaint from a man who accused Avaradhi of having tried to convert him through inducement. Avaradhi is out on bail. Similar disruptions have been reported from various parts of Karnataka, especially after the BJP government headed by Basavaraj Bommai announced it would table an anti-conversion bill in the Assembly during the upcoming winter session. Rajesh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Chraistava Okootta (Indian Christian Association), told this newspaper that disruptions of Christian religious gatherings had become common in Karnataka. “Similar incidents have been reported from Mangalore and Udupi,” he said. The association held a protest in Koppal, some 350km from here, on Monday against the proposed anti-conversion bill and harassment of Christians. It plans to take the matter up with the government. The Archbishop of Bangalore, Peter Machado, wrote to Bommai earlier this month opposing the bill on behalf of the Christian community, which accounts for 1.87 per cent of the state’s 6.5 crore people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Covid: Test on five per cent fliers from no-risk list for omicron||One in every 20 international passengers from countries not on the high-risk list will be tested for Covid-19 on arrival in India, the Union health ministry said on Monday, outlining guidelines aimed at early detection of the fast-spreading omicron variant. The guidelines require all passengers from the “at-risk” countries to be tested on arrival. But the ministry, citing the increasing count of countries that have detected omicron, said five per cent of travellers even from countries not in the at-risk category will be tested at airports. India has labelled European Union nations, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel as at-risk countries. The guidelines come into effect on December 1. Since scientists detected omicron in Botswana and South Africa earlier this month, the virus has turned up in 13 other countries —Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and the UK. The health ministry has asked the states to activate rigorous surveillance, increase testing, and look out for areas with recent clusters of positive cases amid concerns among public health experts that omicron could lead to fresh surges in the country. In South Africa, where experts have detected evidence of omicron’s rapid spread over the past two weeks, the seven-day average of daily new cases has increased 18-fold from less than 250 on November 14 to around 4,500 on November 28. “We here in India have to be cautious but not anxious,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “We have already had a large pool of natural infections and a significant proportion of people are vaccinated, but we don’t fully understand omicron yet.” John added: “If I were a policy-maker, I would be urging all steps necessary to curb its spread and prepare for any fresh surges.” Scientists say there is far too limited data to predict what course an outbreak of omicron might take in India, where a survey in July had found over 67 per cent people with protective antibodies from natural infections. A preliminary study by researchers in Switzerland has indicated that omicron is far more transmissible than the delta variant, which had fuelled India’s second Covid-19 wave. But researchers say more data that is expected over the next two weeks could shed light on the threat, if any, posed by omicron. The ministry said samples from all passengers found positive for Covid-19 would be sent for sequencing and the positive people would stay in isolation facilities -- hospitals, if they have symptoms. Passengers found negative will be asked to stay in home isolation for seven days and will then be tested again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Farm laws repeal sans debate shows govt terrified: Congress||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the government's refusal to allow a debate in Parliament on the bill to repeal three farm laws owed to its sense of guilt and reluctance to let the real reason for enacting the regressive laws get exposed. The Congress leader contended that the government lacked the guts to stand up for its decisions because Prime Minister Narendra Modi was controlled by outside forces that were responsible for the farm laws, demonetisation, flawed GST and other decisions. “The government is terrified. They know they are wrong. The discussion would have focused on the 700 farmers who died and the real forces behind the farm laws. The discussion would be on the Lakhimpur incident and MSP,” Rahul said. An SUV belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni is alleged to have deliberately mowed down four protesting farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, in October. Asked where the need for a debate was when the laws were being repealed, Rahul shot back: "What is the need for Parliament then? Close it." At the Rajya Sabha's business advisory committee, Opposition members got angry when Union minister Piyush Goyal said "why should we unnecessarily keep debating" when the laws were being repealed. They told Goyal that this was the mindset that had brought the government to a situation where it had to repeal laws it had passed. Many Opposition members have the impression that both the Rajya Sabha Chairperson and the Lok Sabha Speaker felt a debate should be allowed but the government was rigid. Rahul said: "The repeal of these laws shows the government couldn't face the power of the people, represented by the farmers in this case. The might of three-four crony capitalists couldn't stand before the might of the farmers." He said the farm laws cannot be seen in isolation. "The government is captured by a group of people - three-four crony capitalists -- that is against the people of this country. The same forces pushed the farm laws, demonetisation, flawed GST and didn't allow the government to give money to the poor," Rahul said. "The Prime Minister is an instrument of these forces. The Prime Minister attacked the farmers for them." Rahul underlined that the Prime Minister had apologised, which he said amounted to a concession of mistake. "Which means his actions triggered protests and 700 farmers died. The compensation to the dead will obviously have to be given," Rahul said. The Congress had sought a condolence resolution in the Lok Sabha but Speaker Om Birla rejected the demand. The Congress led the charge against the government on the first day of the session by protesting in front of the Gandhi statue on Parliament premises. It echoed the farmers' demands for legally guaranteed minimum support prices for crops, dismissal of Teni and compensation for the families of farmers who had died during the yearlong protest. The Congress has managed to keep most of the friendly parties with itself despite the differences with Trinamul. Many Opposition members felt that Trinamul might get isolated and hoped it would change its mind and join them. An MP said: "What is good is that the Congress is not attacking Trinamul. At the meeting of Opposition leaders called by Mallikarjun Kharge this morning, there was no mention of Trinamul's absence. In private conversations, too, Congress leaders are not attacking Trinamul and are only insisting the party should review its stance at least on parliamentary strategy." While the Opposition disunity would certainly have attracted attention on Monday, Rahul stepped up to change the narrative by launching an attack on the government. Many leaders recalled how Rahul's involvement had ensured a powerful display of Opposition unity in the last session and said his leadership could again help sustain the pressure on the government this session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||PM announced repeal unilaterally without consulting cabinet: SKM||The farmers’ unions on Monday were unhappy at the way the Centre had rushed through the repeal of the three controversial farm laws without discussion, denying Parliament the opportunity to discuss their flaws and the problems faced by the farming community. The farmers also criticised the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the repeal bill, contesting some of its claims and saying it reflected the government’s “egoistic and adamant attitude” and was “meant to misguide gullible people”. While rejoicing that “history has been made today in India” with the three laws’ repeal, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the farmers’ movement said the “development was marred by the fact that there was no debate allowed on the bill”. The omission rankled particularly since the farmers had made the Constitution and democratic principles central to their movement. Nor was there any word of condolence from the government over the deaths of hundreds of farmers during the yearlong protest. “The whole process has been unilateral,” a farmer leader said, elaborating on a Morcha statement that noted how the laws had originally been brought in through an ordinance and then forced through Parliament amid Opposition protests. “The Prime Minister announced the repeal unilaterally without consulting the cabinet, which cleared the repeal bill afterwards. And today, we saw that attitude again in Parliament in the manner in which the government avoided a discussion.” The Morcha questioned claims made in the Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the repeal bill. “In most state APMC Acts, farmers already have the freedom to sell their produce to any buyer at any place of their choice and such a freedom was not given for the first time by the (Narendra) Modi government as is being claimed,” the Morcha statement said. The statement said: "Further, any so-called freedom without protection from exploitation is meaningless. The ecosystem that was sought to be created in de-regulated spaces is meant for corporates and traders and not for farmers." It added: "The fact that these laws were enacted in an unconstitutional manner has not been admitted to, even now." The Morcha rejected the claim of extensive consultations with farmers, saying that "opportunistic consultations with industry-sponsored farm unions" is not the way forward in a democracy. "The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Government of India's repeal bill reflects the egoistic and adamant attitude of the present government, and it is only meant to misguide gullible people, if any," the Morcha said. The Statement of Objects and Reasons repeats what Prime Minister Modi had said in his televised address announcing the repeal on November 19. "Even though only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws, the government has tried hard to sensitise the farmers on the importance of the farm laws and explain the merits through several meetings and other forums," it says. To the farmers, this reflects the government's refusal even now to accept it was wrong to have enacted these laws, and raises the spectre of these legislations being brought back through BJP-ruled state governments. The Morcha statement acknowledged the Opposition's efforts to back the farmers' demands. "It can be seen that nearly all Opposition political parties of India are putting their weight behind these demands, including MSP legal guarantee," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Farm laws: Modi says ready to talk, govt sweeps aside House debate||The Narendra Modi government repealed the three contentious farm laws on the first day of the winter session in Parliament amid an uproar, sweeping aside the Opposition’s demand for a discussion with the same highhandedness that marked the laws’ passage last year. Minutes before the session started on Monday, however, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had told reporters on Parliament’s premises that his government was “ready to discuss all issues, answer all questions”. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar pushed the repeal bill first in the Lok Sabha and then in the Rajya Sabha. It was passed by voice vote within minutes in both Houses. “Sir, in the bill (to repeal the laws) it is written that ‘bill for consideration and passing’. If it is ‘consideration and passing' then why a discussion will not take place?” Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury asked in the Lok Sabha. Opposition members had trooped into the Well in either House and demanded a discussion. But the government was in no mood to accept a demand that would have given its opponents a chance to score political points by flagging the Centre’s capitulation before the protesting farmers. The government also feared being cornered on the subject of enacting a law guaranteeing minimum support prices — the most important among the farmers’ remaining demands — if a discussion was allowed. The three farm laws had been passed in a similar fashion last year — by voice vote in both Houses — with the government rejecting Opposition demands for discussion and scrutiny. While the government had used its brute majority in the Lok Sabha, the Opposition had protested vehemently in the Rajya Sabha, with eight members getting suspended. Modi told reporters on Monday morning: “The government is ready to discuss all issues, answer all questions. We want questions in Parliament and also peace. Whatever voices are raised against the government or government policies, the dignity of Parliament and the Speaker's chair should be upheld.” Modi, who had announced the three laws’ repeal in an address to the nation earlier this month, was in the Lok Sabha for a while but left before the repeal bill’s passage. Members from Trinamul, DMK and some other Opposition parties were in the Well, seeking a discussion and a law guaranteeing minimum support prices. Congress members too had been with them but had returned after Speaker Om Birla said he would not allow their leader to speak if they were in the Well. Adhir said the House had in the past discussed many bills before repealing them, so discussions should be allowed. Birla, however, cited the uproar in the House to deny discussion. The Lok Sabha was adjourned till 2pm, and later for the rest of the day after the repeal bill was passed by voice vote. In the Rajya Sabha, Tomar said the farm laws had been enacted with good intentions and accused Opposition parties like the Congress of adopting a “double standard” and fuelling the farmers’ agitation. Leader of the Opposition and Congress member Mallikarjun Kharge argued the government had repealed the laws only because of the BJP’s defeats in by-elections in certain states, and the fear of losing the upcoming Assembly elections in five states. Earlier in the day, Kharge, John Brittas (CPM), Sanjay Singh (Aam Admi Party) and Binoy Viswam (CPI) had issued notices under Rule 267 for a discussion on the farmers’ demand for an MSP law. Had the Chair accepted the motion, all scheduled business would have been suspended to discuss the matter. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told reporters outside the House that the refusal to allow discussions was justified. He chided the Opposition for creating a ruckus. “The Prime Minister had shown large-heartedness and decided to repeal the laws. The Opposition also wanted repeal of the laws. Despite this, they created a ruckus in the House,” Joshi said. “We want to know, what is the Opposition’s intention?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Kerala mosque opens doors for people to witness Friday namaz||A Kerala mosque has opened its doors for people from all faiths to witness the Friday namaz, with the Hindu and Christian priests who attended the prayers on November 27 later addressing the faithful. The initiative by the Markaz Masjid in Alappuzha town comes at a time Muslims have faced opposition to open-air namaz at various sites in the Haryana city of Gurgaon, and Kerala has been witnessing a sectarian campaign against halal food. “We wanted to send out a message to society that we should stay united and not divided by man-made boundaries,” Markaz Masjid committee president Mohammed Amin told The Telegraph on Saturday. So, on Friday, the mosque witnessed the rare scene of more than 50 non-Muslims, including Hindu and Christian priests and communist leaders, attending the prayers and listening to the sermon. After the namaz, the Hindu and Christian priests spoke to the faithful, calling for communal harmony and brotherhood amid the current challenges. “In the past we have had guests from other faiths at our Id prayers but this is the first time non-Muslims have witnessed the Juma namaz,” Amin said. “We welcome all who want to see what happens during the prayers and what lessons are imparted during the qutba (sermon). Not many non-Muslims know what happens at a namaz. So we thought this was a great opportunity for all of us to join hands and promote peace and communal harmony.” Amin is aware of possible opposition from small sections of Muslims but said the committee was ready to face any objections. “No one has complained so far, but there could be small sections that are against such openness. But I’m sure that other mosques in Kerala will replicate this idea to strengthen the communal amity our state is known for,” he said. Swami Asparshananda of the Vishwagaji Mutt in Cherthala, Alappuzha district, who addressed the gathering after the namaz, said the mosque’s initiative would promote communal amity. “This kind of transparency will help others understand what happens during namaz,” he told this newspaper. “Everyone should have the large-heartedness to accept all other religions and we should never feel that one’s own religion is the greatest. It’s more important to say ‘I’m a human being’ than ‘I belong to this or that religion’.” P.P. Chitharanjan, Alappuzha MLA and CPM leader, attended the prayers along with party state committee member G. Sudhakaran. “This (the mosque’s initiative) is an opportunity to see how human beings can be seen as one at a time when false propaganda is being unleashed about belief systems and food habits,” Chitharanjan told reporters. Hindu and Christian groups have unleashed a campaign in Kerala against halal (Sharia-compliant) food, falsely alleging that it is prepared by spitting into it. In Gurgaon, Friday prayers in public spaces have been repeatedly disrupted by slogan-shouting Sangh parivar activists and Hindu residents’ associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Apex court notice on plea for free food to refugees, asylum seekers||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre and some states on a plea to provide free food to over two lakh refugees and asylum seekers facing severe distress in the country on account of the pandemic and the lack of proper sources of livelihood. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and A.S Bopanna asked the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Telangana, Manipur and Mizoram to file their response on the issue. The petition was filed by advocate Faizal Abdali who submitted that on account of the pandemic, an estimated 2.1 lakh refugees/asylum seekers from Sri Lanka, Tibet, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Somalia, Sudan, Congo, Palestine and Cameroon were facing severe hardships and were entitled to the protection of the National Food Security Act and right to life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner cited the figures as having been collected from the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). According to the petitioner, the refugees/asylum seekers are living in a highly deplorable condition without basic amenities such as food, clothes and proper hygiene. “The conditions in the settlements are deplorable and there are ever present health challenges like lack of sanitation, proper toilets, shortage of drinking water etc,” the petition filed through advocate Amiy Shukla stated. Most of the refugees are said to be hailing from Sri Lanka and Tibet. The petitioner has pleaded that the authorities while extending the benefits, including food under the Food Security Act 2013, should not insist on Aadhaar or any personal ID documents. The petitioner has also referred to the deplorable condition in which over 96 Rohingya families, who had fled Myanmar, are living in various settlements of the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||Passing bill sans debate departure from parliamentary practice||The passage of a bill to repeal the controversial farm laws in Parliament on Monday without discussion marked departure from parliamentary practice. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday cited over a dozen bills passed in Parliament for repealing existing laws after thorough discussion. “Discussion was not allowed for this repeal bill. This is great injustice. I had brought the list of repeal bills which were passed after thorough discussion. I was not allowed to read them,” Kharge told reporters. The Opposition leader recalled that the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) was first passed in 1971 and was repealed in 1978. The repeal bill was discussed in the Lok Sabha for four hours and 24 minutes, he said. The Prevention of Terrorist Act 2002 was repealed in 2004 through a bill that was discussed, together with the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Bill, in the Lok Sabha for five hours and 20 minutes. The Gold (Control) Act, 1968, was repealed by the Gold (Control) Repeal Bill in 1990 after discussion in Lok Sabha for 52 minutes, the Congress leader said. Among the other repeal bills passed after discussion in Parliament that Kharge cited are the Displaced Persons Claims and Other Laws Repeal Bill 2004, the Judicial Administration Laws (Repeal) Bill 2000, and the Unit Trust of India (Transfer or Undertaking and Repeal) Bill 2002. On Monday, the two Houses of Parliament spent less than ten minutes to pass by voice vote the bill to repeal the three farm laws that had triggered a yearlong protest by farmers. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Production and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act will be repealed after the bill gets the assent of the President.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India||12 Opposition MPs from five parties suspended for 'misconduct' ||The government on Monday used its numbers in the Rajya Sabha to suspend 12 Opposition MPs from five parties for the entire winter session for “misconduct” and “unruly” behaviour on the last day of the monsoon session when they were trying to stop the passage of the contentious General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill. The suspension was done under Rule 256 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Rajya Sabha but the Opposition in a joint statement pointed out that the disciplinary action was a violation of that very provision. Clause (2) of Rule 256 says that a member can be “suspended from the service of the Council for a period not exceeding the remainder of the Session”. The incident cited by the government happened in the previous session. The suspension came shortly after the government rammed through the Farm Laws Repeal Bill without discussion. The motion for suspension was moved by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi. The notice accuses the 12 members of disregarding the authority of the Chair, “complete abuse of rules” and “unprecedented acts of misconduct, contemptuous, unruly and violent behaviour and intentional attacks on security personnel”. Amid Opposition protests, the motion was put to voice vote and adopted. The 12 MPs are Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajmani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of the Congress, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of the Trinamul Congress, Elamaram Kareem of the CPM and Binoy Viswam of the CPI. With the House adjourned immediately for the day, the Opposition went into a huddle to strategise and has decided to meet again on Tuesday morning to finalise their course of action. In a joint statement, they condemned “the unwarranted and undemocratic suspension” and called it an “authoritarian decision of the government”. In a series of tweets, Chaturvedi said: “If speaking for farmers, against privatisation that goes against the people and sells family silver for sarkari PR calls for suspension, then I ask: how weak are you to not be able to answer on basis of parliamentary democracy? Will continue to speak for people inside & outside the parliament.” Linking the suspension and the refusal to allow discussion on the farm laws repeal bill, Kareem said: “The BJP government is turning Indian Parliament into a hotbed of democratic destruction. The Opposition has been trying to oppose the anti-people policies of the central government and to respond to it in accordance with the House proceedings. What should MPs do when even that is not allowed?” Viswam, in a separate statement, described the suspension as an effort to “crush dissent and prevent representatives of the people from raising issues that concern the very core of Indian citizenry”. Earlier, during the inter-session period, the Opposition had refused to be part of an enquiry committee that Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu had wanted to set up to probe the August 11 ruckus that resulted in MPs jostling with security personnel called in to prevent protesting MPs from approaching the Well of the House. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge — who had been approached by Naidu to nominate someone from the Congress to the committee — had billed the plans to set up an enquiry committee into the incident as an effort to “intimidate MPs into silence” and refused to be part of it. Other Opposition parties concurred with the Congress’s position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
30-11-2021||India|| Rashtriya Janata Dal to support Akhilesh Yadav in UP||The Rashtriya Janata Dal will unconditionally support the Samajwadi Party in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections as it stands the chance to defeat Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party government there. “Our party president Lalu Prasad ji has decided to give unconditional support to former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in the Uttar Pradesh elections. Only his party SP can defeat the BJP,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said on Monday. “Akhilesh has done much work in Uttar Pradesh while he was the chief minister there and we are sure the public will bless him with votes,” he added while talking to media persons after attending the first day of the winter session of the legislative Assembly. Tejashwi, the leader of Opposition, explained that his party would continue the Bengal Assembly polls experiment where it extended unconditional support to Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamul Congress in the Assembly elections earlier this year, because it “knew she would defeat the BJP”. Incidentally, the RJD, though in the Opposition, is the largest party in Bihar with 75 seats in the 243-member Assembly. It has some influence in the eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh, particularly among the Yadavs. The party had extended support to the SP in 2017 also, but the BJP swept to power. It had contested four seats and lost on all of them in the 2012 Uttar Pradesh elections. Tejashwi asserted that Asaduddin Owaisi and his AIMIM would not have any influence in the Uttar Pradesh elections. “It (AIMIM) contested the polls in Bihar in 2020 and did not have much impact. We emerged as the single largest party,” he said. The youngest son of Lalu held chief minister Nitish Kumar responsible for stagnant development in the state despite being a part of the so-called ‘double engine government’ (rule of the same alliance in the state and the Centre). “Nitish gave only promises to the people without fulfilling a single one. Nobody knows what work has been done in Rs 24,000 crore Hariyali (greenery) Mission. The scheme to provide tap water to every household has become a scheme to provide money to every official and minister,” Tejashwi said. The RJD leader alleged that Bihar has become numero uno in the country in crime, corruption, migration and unemployment during Nitish’s regime. “Our state is ranked at the bottom of most of the important indices as per Niti Aayog. The poor are dying here after drinking poisonous liquor. It is a surprise how liquor crosses border and travels across four to five districts without any hindrance,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi also dared Nitish to answer why Bihar is the most backward state in the country and where is the missing Rs 2 lakh crore as pointed out by the CAG (comptroller and auditor general) report. He asked the chief minister to reply during the ongoing winter session of the legislature that will continue till Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
30-11-2021||India||Odisha: Protests over controversial projects by AP continue||Protests over controversial projects by Andhra Pradesh continue in southern Odisha districts — Malkangiri, Koraput and Rayagada — even as the two state governments work towards evolving an institutional mechanism to address contentious issues as agreed during the November 9 meeting between two chief ministers Naveen Patnaik and his AP counterpart Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Bhubaneswar. Three projects — the Polavaram multi-purpose project over Godavari, the Neradi project on Vamsadhara river and the Jhanjabati project on Jhanjabati river — are likely to impact the people of Odisha residing close to Andhra border adversely. While the Polavaram project is likely to submerge at least 40 villages in the tribal-dominated Malkangiri district, parts of Gunupur and Kashinagar in Rayagada district will be affected by the Neredi project. The project over the Jhanjabati river will cause displacement of population in around 10 villages of Koraput district. The Odisha government has constituted an eight-member committee headed by chief secretary to deliberate on bilateral issues of mutual interest between the state and Andhra. “We have already issued a notification to this effect. We will work closely on resolving the issues relating to Kotia cluster of villages and any other boundary issues, Polavaram, Neradi barrage, Jhanjabati river, release of water for Bahuda river and mutual NOCs for the Balimela and Upper Sileru in energy sector,” said a senior official of the revenue department. The official added that the Andhra and Odisha governments had informed the Supreme Court that they were working closely towards settlement of issues of mutual interests. However, local people in the Mottu area of Malkangiri have reportedly decided to step up their agitation against the Polavaram project. Andhra is continuing work on the project despite objections from Odisha. Patnaik has written to the Centre several times pointing to the damage that people in Malkangiri will suffer if the project is allowed to go ahead in its present form. “People in the Mottu tehsil are particularly upset as they will be directly affected by the Polavaram project. We urge the chief minister to do everything within his powers to protect the interests of his people. He must prevail upon the Centre and the Andhra Pradesh government to alter the project design,” said Jitendra Beura of Malkangiri. Similarly, people in Rayagada’s Kashinagar are worried about the impact of the Neredi project which would result in floods in the area almost every year. It will also cause displacement of people in some villages. “This cannot be allowed. We will continue our protests against the project,” said a local resident. Opposition party leaders, too, have been expressing concern over these projects being aggressively pursued by Andhra Pradesh. These projects are certainly not in the best interests of Odisha,” said Congress MP from Koraput, Saptagiri Sankar Ullaka. The November 9 meeting between Patnaik and Reddy had taken place in the backdrop of mounting tension between the two states over some contentious inter-state projects and their claim of ownership to the Kotia group of villages. Tension flared up in the Kotia panchayat, which is part of Koraput’s Pottangi tehsil, a few months ago when the Andhra Pradesh government conducted panchayat elections in some of the villages despite protests by Odisha officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
30-11-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre and Tripura govt on communal violence||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre and the Tripura government on a plea seeking the setting up of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the communal violence in the state. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and A.S. Bopanna issued notices on a petition filed by advocate Ehtesham Hashmi through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryly Dsouza that claimed the state police were hand in glove with the perpetrators of hate crimes. The petitioner alleged that a series of hate crimes took place in Tripura between October 13 and October 27 that were perpetrated by organised mobs and included “damage to mosques, burning of business establishments owned by Muslims, organising rallies shouting Islamophobic & genocidal hate slogans and delivering hate speeches targeting Muslims”. The plea submitted that despite the gravity and magnitude of the incidents, no concrete steps were taken by the state police against the miscreants and rioters. No one has been arrested for desecrating mosques, vandalising shops and delivering hate speeches targeting the Muslim community, the petition added. According to the petitioner, the state was guilty of disregarding the apex court’s earlier directions in Tehseen Poonawalla vs Union of India (2018) that strict action should be taken against the perpetrators and any dereliction of duty would result in disciplinary proceedings against the erring police personnel concerned. “…instead of taking adequate steps to prevent the hate crimes that took place over a period of ten days or providing adequate relief to the victims thereof, the respondents were hand in glove with the perpetrators of the aforementioned hate crimes,” the petitioner said. The petitioner has listed the following actions of Tripura police to justify the allegations: ⚫ The police and state authorities instead of attempting to stop the violence kept on claiming that there was no communal tension anywhere in Tripura and further denied reports of any mosque being set ablaze. However, eventually police protection was extended to several mosques; orders were issued under Section 144 of the IPC; and compensation was also announced for the victims of the violence. ⚫ The West Agartala police station has sent a notice under Section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code to two of the advocates that had accompanied the petitioner herein to conduct a fact-finding exercise and document the incidents of violence, imputing that it was their social media posts, statements and report that were responsible for “promoting enmity between religious groups as well as provoking people of different religious communities to commit breach of peace”. The absurdity of the police accusation and the malice underlying the police case becomes further evident by the fact that the fact-finding team of the Delhi advocates visited Tripura on October 29 and 30 after the outbreak of communal violence, which occurred between October 12 and October 26. ⚫ The police also invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against 102 people, including journalists, for reporting and writing on the communal violence. ⚫ The police failed to lodge FIRs on complaints made by several victims belonging to the Muslim community. One such complaint was made after the mosque at CRPF campus in Panisagar was burnt. However, no FIR has been lodged till date. On the other hand, police authorities verbally abused the complainant when he requested that an FIR be lodged on his complaint. Two other complaints dated October 29 made by shop owners had not been taken cognizance of by the police. ⚫ Not a single arrest has been made by the police of the rioters who were responsible for the vandalism and violence. It is pertinent to note that the petitioner in the capacity of an advocate had personally visited the places where the aforementioned hate crimes were committed to publish a fact-finding report. The said report was published on November 2 by the petitioner and three other lawyers. The following findings were published in the report: a) 12 mosques were damaged  b) 9 shops owned by Muslim businessmen were damaged  c) 3 houses owned by Muslims were vandalised. “The above findings were arrived at by the petitioner after meeting with families and persons who were at the receiving end of the vandalism. The present facts disclose a shocking state of affairs where Muslims are openly targeted by rioters and no protection has been extended to them by the respondents and no arrests of said rioters has been made by the police authorities. The conduct of the police is manifestly arbitrary and mala fide and it affects the victim’s right to justice. Their conduct is also violative of Article 14 (right to equality) and Article 21 (life and personal liberty) of the Constitution of India,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
