01-05-2020|| Chandigarh||Chandigarh man 'trapped' in police web for violating lockdown to release mouse||A Sector 23 resident, Ajay Kumar, had not imagined that a mouse caught in a trap will land him in police station.Kumar had gone to release the mouse near his house when a patrolling team rounded him up for curfew violation and took him to Sector 17 police station.A police team constituted to keep a check on morning walkers was on patrolling, when they saw the man holding a mouse trap near Mother Teresa Home in Sector 23.By that time, Kumar had released the mouse and was heading back home when cops caught him and took him to the police station.Ajay said that he was about to go for bath when he noticed the mouse in the trap and he thought of releasing it first. "I told the police that I had left house just to release the mouse, however, they didn't listen", he said.Kumar was released after several hours.The city is under lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19. Cops have been patrolling the streets to round up those moving out of their houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-trapped-in-police-web-for-violating-lockdown-to-release-mouse-79000
01-05-2020||Mohali||Six more coronavirus cases take Mohali’s tally to 92||Five pilgrims who recently returned from Nanded were among Mohali’s six new cases on Friday, officials said.The development takes Mohali’s tally to 92.One of the six cases was from Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur. The person was the son of an already diagnosed positive case.Jawaharpur accounts for 46 of Mohali’s 92 cases.Five others were pilgrims who recently returned from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded.Some 21 pilgrims have so far tested positive, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan  said. The 21 includes one person from Ambala.The pilgrims were among 39 people who arrived in the city on April 28 and had been quarantined at the quarantine centre in Sector 70.Those who were diagnosed have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dayalan said reports of 11 people are still pending. The district now has 62 cases. Some 745 people are still under quarantine.The central government's recently released list puts Mohali among the state's orange zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-more-coronavirus-cases-take-mohalis-tally-to-92-78959
01-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||14 more test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh; UT count reaches 88||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 1Fourteen more persons were on Friday tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh. While 12 are from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, making the area the most affected pocket of the city, one is said to be a resident of Sector 15 and one more from Sector 30-B.With this, Chandigarh's Covid-19 burden has risen to 88.Entire Chandigarh is now a Red zone and entire Chd is under single containment pocket.MHA has decided what can be allowed within red zone in "non containment"area.Only if Administration decides to redraw/restrict containment area,some exemtions will flow.Await decision by MondayNow, only Bapu Dham Colony has 38 positive cases, becoming the most affected area in the city.It is followed by Sector 30-B EWS colony, which has 17.Chandigarh continued to figure in the list of 130 red zone districts released on Thursday by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-ut-count-reaches-88-78956
01-05-2020||Manpriya Singh||Former Chief Secretary loves to spend time in father’s library||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30Social distancing — a word that was once unheard of swiftly moved from being something awkward to suddenly acceptable. But even during times when social distancing and social networking are the big buzzwords, there’s no making up for a firm handshake or a warm hug. Which is why despite being well connected with friends and relatives through video calls and chats, one of the first things that Urvashi Gulati, former chief secretary, Government of Haryana, will do is “visit friends and relatives which I have been missing so much.” Apart from work that now includes delivering lectures and meetings at organisations with which she is associated.Some things can never be replaced, but such is life it goes and we move on. Adapting to the new form of living hasn’t been much of a challenge since even while at home, her day is packed. “As before, I get up at 6 am, practice Yoga and meditation, read newspapers, connect with loved ones, tend to plants, groom my pet, plan the day ahead,” she says.Before she knows the day is gone. “While evenings are spent reading books, watching Netflix, walking (indoors),” shares the former bureaucrat, who along with her family also has a live-in help whom she keeps updated with the situation including precautions and regulations.“Then there’s my younger daughter who is with us these days, working from home, and it’s a great company. We join together to try new recipes and love sharing picture with friends,” she says. The culinary escapades easily shuttle not just courses but also cuisines. Currently reading Wolf –Man and Sigmund Freud edited by Muriel Gardiner, it’s after many years she got the chance to do justice to the library inherited from her father. “My father Prof JC Anand passed away in 2014. I inherited a part of his library. So far, I had not been able to read from his collection,” she adds.Even though she’s actually been able to catch up on reading, cooking and baking, the lockdown period has meant much more. “The lockdown has taught us all not to consume more than what we need, value the simpler things in life, value freedom, importance of savings during normal times, and above all, not to take anything for granted.” Not taking anything for granted also translates onto the enhanced respect she has, “for those in the forefront of health services, bureaucrats and public officials across the spectrum who are involved in running the show efficiently in difficult times and a rather unprecedented situation. People running supply chains of essentials, those maintaining sanitation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-chief-secretary-loves-to-spend-time-in-fathers-library-78778
01-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Principal Secretary visits hospital, mandi in Sirhind||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 30To get the first hand information about Covid-19 arrangements and supply of ration, Raji P Shrivastva, Principal Secretary to Punjab Government, Department of Social Security, today visited Sirhind and interacted with residents. She also visited the Civil Hospital and a grain market and inspected the isolation wards and facilities available there.According to sources, people complained about lack of social distancing at chemist and grocery shops. At the grain market, the farmers complained about the non-lifting of procured wheat. They also complained about the shortage of labour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/principal-secretary-visits-hospital-mandi-in-sirhind-78777
01-05-2020||Dera Bassi||ATM damaged in bid to loot money||Unidentified miscreants damaged an ATM of Canara Bank at the Akali Market of Ward No 16 in Dera Bassi on Wednesday night. After failing to reach loot cash from the ATM, the miscreants damaged the front portion of the ATM and escaped.The incident came to notice on Thursday morning when some locals saw the ATM shutter damaged and broken locks lying nearby. They then informed the Dera Bassi police who reached the spot and started investigations.According to sources there was no guard posted at the machine at night following which the accused attempted the theft. Moreover, the miscreants also change the directions of the CCTV cameras installed inside the ATM.The police suspected that the miscreants did a recce of the area before striking the ATM. A case has been registered at the Dera Bassi police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-damaged-in-bid-to-loot-money-78776
01-05-2020||Mohali||Social security pensions distributed||Rotary Club donates rationchandigarh: To help the needy, the Rotary Club, Chandigarh, donated 3,000 bags of dry ration to the UT Administration. Club president Surinder Kaur said the club’s services were being extended. She said a call for help was received by club member Usha Saboo from a migrant labour settled in one of the pocket in Maloya, who was then helped. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-security-pensions-distributed-78775
01-05-2020||Mohali||Those stranded in Mohali can seek help||Those who are stranded in Mohali and other districts of Punjab and are desirous of going back to their home states can apply for help at covidhelp.punjab.gov.in by May 3.DC Girish Dayalan after filling a proforma on the link, a system-generated unique ID would be issued for the family. He said access to the back-end of the link would be provided by the state control room. By May 3, the DCs would be in a position to access the database for their district, he said. Dayalan said health camps would be held to screen all those stranded and the screening would be completed by May 4. Those found asymptomatic would be issued a certificate and the movement of persons would begin from May 5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/those-stranded-in-mohali-can-seek-help-78774
01-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Education Department focuses on digital learning||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30In order to make sure that students stay connected with studies during the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Education Department is promoting the HRD Ministry’s education channel ‘Swayam Prabha’ to provide regular classes to the government school students.All principals/heads/teachers have been asked to circulate the transmission schedule of live programmes from 11 am to 1 pm and 2 pm to 4 pm, along with schedule, on a regular basis.Only NCERT topics are discussed by a panel of experts on ‘Swayam Prabha’, which is a free-of-cost service on Doordarshan channel. Besides, the teachers have been asked to prepare assignments and send it to the students through the best available means of communication.Every week, the teachers will also assess feedback of the students, who are regularly following topics on this channel. “It’s been over a week now and teachers have already submitted their respective report. We will observe the response and will take further steps to ensure that every student learn something related to their topics or social living,” said Alka Meha, District Education Officer, UT Education Department.When asked if the students have access to this channel or online mode of learning, she said a majority of people had television sets, if not mobile, at their home. “It’s better to learn something than nothing. Everyone watches television and this channel is available free of cost to all direct-to-home (DTH) services. It also facilitates those students or families, who don’t have mobile phone connections. Our teachers have been monitoring all steps and making sure that all students learn something. We have been sending regular updates, talking to parents and having a dialogue with students to get feedback. We are also motivating them to learn from such platforms,” Alka added.These channels reportedly offer six hours of recorded content on four different subjects daily. On Tuesday, it covered topics for elementary, secondary and senior secondary classes.Weekly status reportSources confirmed that the report of the first week focused on the number of students who watched the channel and on those who had no access to television. “Besides online classes, we have been asked to follow the channel and make notes. Since the topics are from the NCERT books, it helps us revise various topics on a daily basis,” a Class VIII student said.Teachers’ approachOfficials of the UT Education Department claim that they have been trying to reach out to a majority of the students. “A majority of the students are getting covered in this process. We are also monitoring those who don’t have either television or mobile. Our teachers are trying to reach out to every student, but we also need parent’s attention and support at the same time,” a teacher said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-focuses-on-digital-learning-78773
01-05-2020||Dr HS Chawla||Dental care in times of Covid||Ever since the emergence of Covid-19 in Wuhan, China, it has spread across the world and become a global pandemic.The present situation is a relatively new infliction as not everything is known about Covid. One aspect, which is widely accepted, is that it spares no one and fast spreads through contact with oral (mouth) fluids, nasal (nose) secretions and/or eye secretions. Droplets, apart from spreading through coughing and sneezing, also fall from mouth during normal talking, which we generally ignore. Many of us may have noticed small droplets of saliva/spit dribbling out of one’s own or somebody else’s mouth. There are many such instances where such accidents, like clearing throat with slight cough, happen and are not in one’s control.Large droplets, which are visible, fall just a few feet away from us, whereas small particles, which are not seen with naked eye, float around in the air to longer distance.This is why social/physical distancing and covering mouth is important to avoid getting infected with Covid-19. Besides, spitting on road should be completely discouraged.It is also important to maintain oral hygiene. The real problem is how to keep mouth clean and free from at least bacterial infections? A cleaner and healthy mouth may be less prone to viral infections as it is well known that a healthy body is less prone to get any other infections. The bacteria lives in everyone’s oral cavity, predominantly sticking on the teeth, the top surface of the tongue and below the visible margin of the gum that touches the tooth. So, it is important to thoroughly brush teeth concomitantly using the following three methods: i) short horizontal, ii) small clock-wise & anti-clockwise, and iii) vertical strokes from gum downwards for upper teeth and gum upwards for lower teeth on both sides of the teeth, that is, cheek and tongue sides of all teeth. The tooth has two more surfaces i.e. sides in-between teeth, which remain unattended by many of us. To clean these surfaces, use dental floss and interdental brush.The main aim of tooth brushing is to reduce the number of bacteria in the mouth. First brush without toothpaste i.e dry brushing, which would dislodge bacteria settled on the teeth and gums. The bacteria gets dislodged by frictional action of bristles on the teeth. After brushing, the bacteria will float in the mouth mixed with saliva. It is natural to spit out the dislodged material. It takes about 5-8 minutes to reasonably clean the teeth if done properly. Next, brush with toothpaste for 30 seconds to one minute. This is followed by flossing and interdental brushing to dislodge bacteria from the sides of the teeth. Finally, it is important to brush once again with toothpaste. This sequence is very important to achieve optimal cleaning of teeth.To check if one has effectively cleaned the teeth, one should run finger on last teeth; if it feels greasy/slippery then there is a need to brush once again thoroughly. Since the oral and food passage to stomach is in continuation, bacteria from the oral environment would influence the tonsillar health and teeth inversely. Tonsils are considered as a line of defence, preventing the infection to spread. The remnants of food often stick to the tonsillar area, more so in cases where tonsils, which have small crypts or pits in them (follicular tonsillitis). The tonsillar health also contributes to bad breath. In order to keep tonsils healthy and to ward off any bacterial and viral attack, we should keep the tonsillar area clean by frequent gargling with warm water preferably saline water at least after major meals and at night time after brushing.The third important factor is the hygiene of nasal passages. This also influences oral cleanliness. The nose harbours bacteria, Staphylococcus species being predominant. For the nasal hygiene measure, one should clean the nasal passages at night. This is achieved by taking some warm water or saline warm water from one (right) nostril and blowing it out from the same nostril. Repeat the same with the other (left) nostril. People who are familiar with ‘jal neti’ can also follow the same for cleansing the nasal passage. The posterior nasal discharge is a known phenomenon and is likely to influence the throat.These three methods (cleaning of teeth, gargles for tonsils and nasal health) if followed together and properly, would guarantee long-lasting oral health and could also contribute towards total health and combat the infliction of bacterial and hopefully viral infections. It is expected to lessen the viral load in this period of Covid-19 susceptibility.The writer is former Head, Oral Health Sciences Centre, PGIMaintain oral hygiene||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dental-care-in-times-of-covid-78772
01-05-2020||---||Home-quarantined family laments lack of assistance||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 30Members of a family home-quarantined at Ashiana Flats in Sector 30 said they did not get any help from the government or any NGO, so, they had to stay hungry for the past two days. ‘Couldn’t get grocery for two days’One of the members, who had arrived from Delhi, had to visit a hospital for tests using his own bicycle.Sources say there are five members of a family living in a flat who have been home-quarantined by the Health Department officials.One of the members, Babloo, said they could not move out of their house to purchase groceries from a provision store. So, they were hungry for the past two days. He said earlier, they had telephoned one of their contacts who had arranged the groceries for them but now he had refused to do so as people in the complex were not allowing anyone to enter.He said even the sanitation workers were hesitant in lifting garbage from their house despite several requests.He said their family member who visited the hospital on his own could have exposed others to virus, whereas, it was the duty of the authorities concerned to collect his samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-quarantined-family-laments-lack-of-assistance-78771
01-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Relaxation from 7 to 11 am in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 30The district administration today gave a nod to four-hour relaxation to enable people to purchase grocery, medicines and other items of daily needs from tomorrow.Girish Dayalan, District Magistrate, Mohali, said registered shops and commercial establishments shall be allowed to operate in rural areas with 50 per cent strength and single/ multi-brand malls or multiplexes or shops in market complexes shall not be allowed. He said shops/ establishments dealing in services such as salon and barber shops would continue to remain closed. He said restaurants would not be allowed to open and shall remain closed except for home delivery with prior permission.Dayalan said all shops shall be open from 7 am to 11 am only and on a staggered rotational basis. Introducing odd and even number for shops to open, he said in case of Mohali city, where shops have numbers, those with even numbers can open on the first day (Monday) and those with odd numbers can open on Tuesday, and so forth. But no shop shall open on Sunday, but this would not be applicable to home delivery of essential commodities, he added.The DC said only one member of a family/ household shall be allowed to step out for procuring supplies that too from neighbourhood shops. He said people should avoid using vehicles. He said those over 65 years of age, small children and those with co-morbid conditions must continue to remain at home. At the end of the relaxation, those waiting for their turn would also have to return home and shop owners would be permitted one hour for winding up their shops.Industrial establishments (both government and private) that shall be allowed to operate include all industries mentioned by the MHA and these establishments shall make arrangements for the stay of workers on the premises. The transportation of workers to workplace shall be arranged by the employers ensuring social distancing.The manufacturing units permitted to operate include those of essential goods, including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, food processing industries in rural areas, IT hardware, coal production, mines and mineral production, supply of explosives and activities incidental to mining operations, packaging material, jute industries with staggered shifts, oil and gas exploration/ refinery, brick-kilns outside the limits of Municipal Corporations and municipalities.He said the curfew passes for special transport of workers not exceeding 15 per cent of the strength of a unit shall be issued by the designated nodal officer. Permission for construction activities, whether new or ongoing, in rural areas is allowed without any restrictions. However, in urban areas, only ongoing projects, including personal / residential / commercial buildings, would be allowed. Stone crushers and mining of sand and gravel and its transport shall be allowed to operate only to service these construction activities.Further, no permission shall be required to restart the operations/ resume construction if conditions are met and only a self-declaration to the effect that they adhere to directives shall be mailed to the GM, Industries, Mohali (gmdicsasnagar@gmail.com). The nodal officer shall make random checks to ensure the same. Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.Entry of vehicles banned in Dera Bassi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relaxation-from-7-to-11-am-in-mohali-78770
01-05-2020||---||‘Provide more lockers at cremation ground’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30The UT Administration has been requested to arrange more lockers at the cremation ground in Sector 25.In a letter to UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Advocate Ajay Jagga stated, “It has been observed that nearly 110 lockers for keeping remains or ashes or ‘asthi kalash’ at the cremation ground in Sector 25 are fully occupied and as such there is no place to properly keep ashes/‘asthi kalash’ for final journey (asthi visarjan)”.“As ‘asthi visarjan’ is not possible due to the lockdown, ‘asthi kalashs’ are being hanged on trees as there are no vacant lockers,” he said.He said some arrangement should be made at the earliest, so that ashes could be placed comfortably till the ashes are immersed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-more-lockers-at-cremation-ground-78768
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 19-D residents seal locality||The Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 19-D has sealed the area with only one entry and exit to order to prevent the entry of outsiders.Narendra Singh Rinku, a member of the RWA, said the area was sealed after UT Adviser Manoj Prida appealed to all welfare associations to seal all roads of their sectors and to keep a record of every person visiting their sector.Rinku said the area from house number 3078 to 3271 had been sealed and all visitors would be thoroughly checked by volunteers of the RWA with the help of the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-19-d-residents-seal-locality-78767
01-05-2020||---||Directs private clinics to open facilities as per guidelines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed private clinics to open their facilities as per the guidelines of the Union Health Ministry.During a review meeting, the Administrator thanked the doctors and health staff of the PGIMER, the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16 for their tremendous dedication and contribution in treating Covid-19 patients. He also advised them to gradually open facilities for non-Covid patients.He stated that the non-Covid patients, who also needed urgent attention, should not be neglected. The hospital authorities should also facilitate their transportation to and fro the hospitals.The Administrator stressed on concentrating screening and testing of all persons and suspected cases in pockets of Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B where there has been a spurt in cases. He directed the Director, Health Services, Dr G Dewan, to send medical teams, who should do intensive and extensive screening and testing in the left-out areas so that there were no suspected cases.MC Commissioner KK Yadav stated that two exclusive buses were being provided for sale of groceries in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B, Chandigarh, which had been sealed by the police. He also stated that efforts were being made to further activate the wholesale market in Sector 39.Adviser Manoj Parida stated that CCTV cameras in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B, Chandigarh, were being activated and necessary monitoring would be done by the police. He also mentioned that adequate facilities were available as per Integrated Covid Management Plan to accommodate asymptomatic and symptomatic patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/directs-private-clinics-to-open-facilities-as-per-guidelines-78766
01-05-2020||---||Badnore meets officers over post-lockdown plan||Chandigarh, April 30UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today held a preliminary meeting with Adviser Manoj Parida, Finance Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha and other senior officers on suggestions received from various stakeholders regarding the exit plan after May 3.The Administrator said the post-lockout plan was under consideration and final decision would be taken keeping in view the directions received from the Central Government.On April 27, UT Adviser Manoj Parida constituted a five-member committee chaired by the Finance Secretary to examine and recommend steps to be taken during the post-curfew period in the city. The recommendations of the committee were to include suggestions with regard to public transport, opening of schools and colleges, hospitality industry, opening of industries, factories, shops, inter-state movement and functioning of offices. The committee was asked to seek opinion of various stakeholders and submit a report by April 30.The Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Deputy Commissioner, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board, and the Secretary-Establishment were members of the committee. The Administrator discussed the report prepared by the committee, said Parida.Extend lockdown: TradersAs Covid cases crossed 74-mark in the city, the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has suggested the UT Administration to extend the lockdown. “After Chandigarh comes under green zone, non-essential shops can be opened for limited hours with strict instructions,” said Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president of the association.He said shops could be opened on alternate days in different sector markets and industries could be opened because industrial area was located at the border of the city and in the non-residential area.He also suggested restaurants could be opened for home deliveries only and shopping malls, liquor vends, cinema halls, gymnasiums should not be opened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-meets-officers-over-post-lockdown-plan-78765
01-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||25 years on, justice for late bank manager||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30Nearly 28 years after his death in a road accident, it’s justice at last for a senior bank manager and his family. Taking up a petition filed by his wife almost 25 years ago challenging the withholding of Rs 1,20,000 from his salary by a nationalised bank, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has described it as wrongful deprivation of lawful dues before directing the release of the amount with interest.The delay in the matter may sound exceptional, but is not extraordinary. National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the High Court, as of now, has more than 5.6 lakh pending cases. It is suspected that many of the petitioners in these cases are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, counsel are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Even though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively; and with the Covid lockdown and shortage of judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 55 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. Three judges are scheduled to retire this year upon attaining the age of superannuation.The process was set in motion after Punjab National Bank branch manager SK Sehgal’s wife Parvesh Sehgal moved the High Court in 1996, claiming that the amount was recovered from her husband’s salary from March 1986 to March 1991. The process was initiated after bearer bonds having maturity value of Rs 1,20,000 were stolen while in his custody. An FIR in the matter was also registered on her husband’s complaint by the Chandigarh Central police station in February 1986.After hearing senior advocate Atul Lakhanpal and RS Chahal for the petitioner, Justice Sanjay Kumar asserted the bank failed to adhere to the due procedure while making recoveries from the salary. “Without taking steps in strict accordance with the rules prescribed in this regard, the bank ought not to have straightway deducted this amount from his salary over a period of six years.”Allowing the petition, Justice Kumar added that the bank, in its written statement, did not deny the petitioner’s entitlement to the relief, but stated that it would have to await the decision in a related suit. Justice Kumar added that the recovery was illegal in its very inception and the petitioner would necessarily have to be recompensed for wrongful deprivation of her lawful dues. Directing the bank to release the amount withheld from the salary with 6 per cent annual interest, Justice Kumar added that it should be remitted expeditiously and “in any event not later than four weeks”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-years-on-justice-for-late-bank-manager-78764
01-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Doctor worries for family, misses seeing grandfather||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30Often, while traversing through the corridors of the Covid-19 ICU area at the GMCH, Sector 32, 27-year-old junior resident Dr Harsheel Gupta ponders over the proximity he and his family share with the invisible enemy – coronavirus – responsible for the pandemic.His fear has grown manifold ever since three doctors from the hospital tested positive for Covid-19. However, this has only strengthened his resolve to stay on top of his game and survive the catastrophe.His driving force: “I just keep looking forward to going home,” he says. From the General Medicine Department to emergency care, Dr Harsheel Gupta is at the helm of managing the Covid-19 crisis in the city. For starters, the aerosol generation procedure poses great risk, he says. “The procedure involves intubation, suctioning, clearing airway passages and nebulisation. This is a standard treatment for all patients infected with Covid-19,” he begins. “We stay at a two-metre distance from the patients when the procedure is underway. Of course, PPE kits or hazmat suits shield us,” he adds. The inconvenience of the hazmat suit and Level-C PPE kit is a necessary evil that he braves.“So, aerosol generation procedure cannot be done in AC rooms and OTs don’t have fans. It gets sweaty. The suit has a shelf life of six to eight hours,” he says.At home, Dr Harsheel’s parents, a younger brother and 85-year-old grandfather anxiously await his return. It won’t be long before he vacates ‘Area 72’ of the hospital — his humble abode for now.“I am among 15-18 ‘on-risk’ residents staying on the hospital premises,” he shares.The young doctor’s passion to serve humanity doesn’t lose steam throughout the banter, but a creased forehead meets the mention of his family. “That’s the only thing I am worried about — my family’s safety,” he says. Since March 18, Dr Harsheel has been self-quarantined. “No family activities for me. On arriving home, I remove my clothes and shoes at the entrance where my father brings a bucket of soap water in which I wash my feet. Someone keeps food outside my room and I bring it inside and only step out for duty,” he shares.On a parting note, he speaks of his attachment with his grandfather. “I haven’t stepped into his room since March 18. Of all things normal, I miss being with him the most,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctor-worries-for-family-misses-seeing-grandfather-78763
01-05-2020||---||4 discharged, just 1 active case in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 30Four Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Civil Hospital here today. With this, there is only one active case in the district out of the 18 reported so far.Medical screening of newspaper vendorsAs many as 140 newspaper vendors were screened by a team of doctors at Sector 8. The vendors were also briefed about maintaining social distancing, hand-washing and using face masks..The four patients — a couple from Sector 15 and two residents of Khudabaksh village in Panchkula — tested negative for the second time and were home-quarantined for 14 days. No new case was reported from the district today. The last case was reported from the district on April 20.As many as 2,090 food packets were distributed to the needy by Panchkula police and 90 homeless persons were moved to government-run shelter homes here today.Giloy ghan vati, lemon juice for policeNever let your guard down, the Panchkula police seem to following the instructions to a T in the fight against Covid-19. To boost the immunity of cops to optimum level, arrangements for giloy ghan vati and lemon juice were made for 731 personnel posted at various pickets. Meanwhile, a total of 91 vehicles were challaned for various traffic violations. Also, a tight vigil was kept over 55 quarantined persons in different locations. Four calls were received at the control room for Covid-related inquiries.Police lax in Dhakoli, allege residentsResidents of Dhakoli raised concerns about vegetable vendors around Golden Sands Apartments who are flouting lockdown and putting the lives of residents in danger. They alleged that the vendors violate the lockdown rules and enter cramped streets. While buying vegetables, residents gather in a crowd, forgetting to maintain social distancing. Prakash Chand, a resident, said, “The Dhakoli police post is nearby but the cops are very lax here. There is no police presence here in the daytime. Vendors are putting the lives of everyone in danger.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-discharged-just-1-active-case-in-panchkula-78762
01-05-2020||---||Chandigarh may give relaxations from May 4||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30On the lines of the Himachal Pradesh Government, the UT Administration may consider giving relaxation in curfew for morning walkers from May 4.City continues to be in red zoneChandigarh continues to be in the new list of 130 hotspot (red zone) districts released by the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. A total of 74 coronavirus cases have been reported from the city so far. Earlier, the UT was declared a hotspot district by the Centre on April 15. The city was declared a containment zone on April 18 by the Administration to speed up screening and testing of suspected cases to prevent further spread of the virus.Sources said several other relaxations were under active consideration of the Administration. The authorities could allow a partial opening of stationery, books, computer and mobile shops etc in areas other than the affected pockets, said the sources.The UT is under curfew since March 24.Meanwhile, with six more Covid-19 cases being reported today, the total number of persons infected with the virus in the city reached 74.A 19-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony was found positive today. She delivered a baby atthe Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, today. The baby has been found negative for the virus. The woman and her baby are in a good condition. Sources said she was admitted to the hospital on April 28 as she complained of pain in her abdomen. She lives with her husband in Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra and had come to her in-laws house in Bapu Dham two days ago. What is worrying for the officials is that she is not part of the chain of the GMCH-32 ward attendant, the first positive case here. Even her house falls outside the area sealed by the authorities here. The woman has 12 household contacts at the colony in Sector 26 and two family contacts at Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra. Over 100 of her contacts have been home-quarantined.On Wednesday night, five more persons from the city had tested positive. Two cases were reported from a house in Sector 52 where a niece of a positive case of Bapu Dham had earlier tested positive. Her mother (39) and brother (14) have now been found positive.The 39-year-old woman used to work as a sweeper at Aashreya – a home for orphaned and abandoned mentally challenged persons. She came in a contact with 20 persons in the institute. The whole staff has been home-quarantined. New staff has been deputed there now. She had attended the wedding anniversary of her brother in Bapu Dham on April 17.Two cases are of Sector 30. They are the wife (32) and a daughter (10) of a Covid patient. Besides, a case of a 32-year-old man from Bapu Dham was reported. He is a community contact of the first Covid patient at the colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-give-relaxations-from-may-4-78729
