03-05-2020||Panchkula||Shops to open between 8 am and 6 pm in Panchkula||Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday issued an order regarding timing of neighbourhood and standalone shops allowed as per Ministry of Home Affairs during lockdown 3.0, which starts from Monday.As per the order, all essential shops and bookshops will remain open on all days between 8 am and 6 pm.While shops related to furniture, mobile repair and recharge shops, electrical goods will be allowed to operate just on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 8 am and 6 pm.Garment shops, gift shops, jewellery shops, dry cleaners can run their services on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between 8 am and 6 pm.Only five persons at liquor shops would be allowed at one time.Ahuja said shops selling liquor, paan, gutka, tobacco etc. should ensure minimum six feet distance from each other and also ensure that no more than five persons are present at one time at the shop.“All establishments shall ensure permanent paint marking outside and inside their premises. These marks shall be 1m apart and it shall be ensured that persons visiting and working maintain social distancing by means of those marks,” said the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-to-open-between-8-am-and-6-pm-in-panchkula-79896
03-05-2020||---||All govt offices to open in Chandigarh from Monday, no public dealing till May 11||Chandigarh, May 3 UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Sunday said curfew will be lifted Chandigarh from midnight, while lockdown will remain in force from 7pm to 7am.All shops in internal sector markets (neighbourhood shops) will remain open from 10 am to 6 pm on odd-even basis — on May 4 shops with even number will open and on May 5, odd numbered shops will be open. The decisions were taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore in his capacity as Chairperson of State Disaster Management Authority, after consultation with all stakeholders.All government offices would open under strict social distancing norms from May 4, but no public dealing would be done till May 11, so that the premises could be sanitised and pending/arrear works could be expedited.However, odd-even formula will not apply on plying of vehicles. The individuals can use their vehicles without formal passes from 7 am to 7 pm. However, all residents are advised to stay indoors and not to come out unless absolutely necessary, for permitted purposes like going to office, factory, hospital and neighbourhood shops. Use of bicycle will be encouraged.There will be strict emphasis on implementation of social distancing norms and other precautions. Milk, vegetables, fruits and chemists shops are exempted from these timings.From 7am to 7pm, permitted activity like shopping, hospital office going will be allowed. The entry from Mohali and Panchkula into the city will be on the basis of pass/identity card.All government offices would open under strict social distancing norms from May 4, but no public dealing would be done till May 11, so that the premises could be sanitised and pending/arrear works could be expedited.Congested markets such as in Sector 46 Rehri Market, Sector 22-D, Shastri Market, Sector 15 Patel Market, Sector 41, Krishna Market, Sector 19, Sadar Bazar and Palika Bazar, Sector 18 Gandhi Market, Sector 27 Janata Market etc. will remain closed. Any shopkeeper/market aggrieved on this can represent to the Committee appointed by the Administration for deciding each case on merit.Four-wheeler vehicles will have maximum two passengers besides the driver; whereas for two-wheelers, pillion rider is not allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-govt-offices-to-open-in-chandigarh-from-monday-no-public-dealing-till-may-11-79885
03-05-2020||---||Book on military pensions released||Chandigarh, May 3A book dealing with legal issues pertaining retirement benefits of armed forces personnel, authored by a Chandigarh-based lawyer, was released online on Saturday.Titled ‘Military Pensions: Commentary, Case Law & Provisions’ and authored by Major Navdeep Singh, the book contains a variety of unique provisions dealing with pensions in the defence services, along with relevant rules, from the year 1940 till the latestones promulgated in 2020.It also contains important decisions of the Supreme Court, the High Courts and Armed Forces Tribunal on different facets dealing with pension. The book includes detailed chapters on disability and operational benefits with various provisions governing the samein India and abroad.Other types of pension such as service pension, invalid pension, special pension, reservist pension are also covered along with concepts and policies governing recovery from pension and One Rank One Pension (OROP).The author was a member of a high-level committee of experts constituted by the Defence Minister for reducing litigation initiated by the Ministry of Defence in service and pension related matters and to strengthen the system of redressal of grievances. Hewas a part of the historic “Yale Draft” which was attended by judges, jurists and representatives of the United Nations to improve upon the ‘UN Draft Principles Governing the Administration of Justice through Military Tribunals’ at Yale University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-military-pensions-released-79841
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Watch: IAF conducts flypast over Sukhna Lake to salute coronavirus warriors||Expressing gratitude to the frontline COVID-19 warriors, flypasts by the Indian Air Force over Chandigarh's rain-fed famed Sukhna Lake was exhibited on Sunday.The Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers dropped flower petals over the Command Hospital in Chandimandir, near here, and the PGI and the Government Medical College Hospital in Sector 32 here.Also in neighbouring Panchkula and Mohali cities an Indian Army band performed at one government hospital each to express gratitude towards the frontline workers.All three services of the Indian Armed Forces displayed solidarity with the corona warriors who are working at the frontline to fight the pandemic in the country. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-iaf-conducts-flypast-over-sukhna-lake-to-salute-coronavirus-warriors-79829
03-05-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: One more Nanded pilgrim tests positive in Mohali, district tally climbs to 94||Mohali on Friday reported a new coronavirus case, taking the district's case tally to 94.The latest case was reported from the Lalru area of the district. The person is a Sikh pilgrim who had recently returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. The pilgrim was among 39 others who had gone to pay obeisance at Sri Hazur Sahib and returned to Mohali district on April 28. They have been quarantined at a facility in sector 70. Out of the total, twenty-one pilgrims have tested positive for the contagion so far and have been admitted to the COVID care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that he was inquiring into how the pilgrim arrived in Mohali as he had not informed the authorities about his return. The authorities were also investigating with whom had he entered the state unnoticed.Apart from this, a majority of the cases—47—have been reported from Jawaharpur village in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-one-more-nanded-pilgrim-tests-positive-in-mohali-district-tally-climbs-to-94-79804
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 more test positive for Covid in Chandigarh;  tally now 97||An 82-year-old woman from Chandigarh, who was suffering from coronavirus, died at the Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula on Sunday morning.A resident of sector 18, she had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 20. CMO Panchkula Dr Jasjit Kaur said, "The 82-year-old woman passed away today morning. We have informed her family members for cremation. The reason behind her death has not been ascertained yet. We are confirming with the Alchemist Hospital."The woman had been living at three houses owned by her three sons—two houses in sector 18, Chandigarh and one house in sector 12, Panchkula. All her family members in Chandigarh had tested negative for COVID-19.Meanwhile,, three more people tested positive in Chandigarh---a man and his toddler son from Sector 30, and an 18-year-old boy from BDC who was referred to GMSH-16. The development takes UT's tally to 97.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-tally-now-97-79795
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sec 30 man dies, samples taken||Rain likely for Three daysChandigarh: The Meteorological Department has issued a three-day rain forecast for the tricity. As per the weatherman, generally cloudy conditions with rain/thundershowers are likely on Sunday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sec-30-man-dies-samples-taken-79753
03-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Litigants to visit Patiala courts with clean hands||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2Litigants visiting Patiala courts will come with “clean hands” literally. Following the initiative by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, a foot-operated hand washing system has been installed at the main gate of the court complex in view of the Covid outbreak.Inmates to prepare masks for free distributionPatiala jail inmates have been assigned the task of preparing high-quality reusable protective face masks for free distribution to the visitors. Initial estimates suggest more than 300 masks will be prepared by the inmates daily. The project was launched by Justice Rajan Gupta through video-conferencing.Patiala jail inmates have also been assigned the task of preparing high-quality reusable protective face masks for free distribution to the visitors. Initial estimates suggest more than 300 masks will be prepared by the inmates daily.The project was launched by Justice Rajan Gupta this afternoon through video-conferencing with the authorities concerned in Patiala. Patiala District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal also attended the event.Justice Gupta, who is the administrative Judge of the Patiala sessions division and chairman of the jails committee, is believed to have conceptualised the idea and expressed it in a tangible form.Judge Aggarwal said non-government organisation Janhit Samiti had already undertaken the responsibility of supplying cloth and other material for preparing double-layered face masks.He said the foot-operated hand washing system with soap had been installed in the court complex under Justice Gupta’s instructions along with a similar mechanism for providing potable water to the litigants.A senior High Court functionary said going by the current trend, masks and other precautionary measures were likely to remain in place till the year-end and would provide essential safeguard to the visitors coming to the court complexes either without the protective gear or with inadequate safety measures.“Once the courts move out of the restrictive functioning mode, people from all segments will start flooding the complexes and a face mask is the most basic and essential safeguard against Covid-19. Our apprehension is that not all coming to the courts will be careful enough to prevent the spread of the virus. Under such circumstances, free face masks will come handy,” the officer said.The High Court has already made it clear that the restrictions imposed on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of the Covid outbreak will continue till the curfew and the lockdown is in force.It has been ordered that all district and sub-divisional courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will function “restrictively” from May 1 “till the lockdown/ curfew is in force in the respective area”.“We will use the existing infrastructure and available manpower. The inmates, too, will carry out a more productive task,” the officer added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/litigants-to-visit-patiala-courts-with-clean-hands-79752
03-05-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: PNB House, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Ashwani DhariaContact No. 9779196055Proposed route: Kacchi Colony, Dhanas, and small flats (9 am to 2 pm), ChandigarhTime to start: 8.30 amATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Bapu Dham and Ram Darbar (9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Pawan SharmaContact No. 8728900229Proposed route: ITBP Camp(9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-79749
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||13K scanned in Sector 40||More than 13,000 residents in Sector 40 were scanned for Covid by members of ‘40’s Fighter Welfare Club’ during a two-week camp, which concluded here today.The residents were thermally scanned and their vehicles were sanitised. Approximately 17,000 masks and 9,000 pairs of gloves were distributed, said a spokesperson. A doctor was present at the site throughout, he added. UT Adviser Manoj Parida appreciated the plan and requested other sectors to adopt the initiative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13k-scanned-in-sector-40-79748
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Registration  of stranded persons starts||The UT Administration has developed a portal for registration of stranded migrants, students, tourists and others, who desire to go to their native places.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “A list is under preparation for the stranded people, who would like to go out of Chandigarh. Such people can register themselves on website or call on the toll free number.”“Rajiv Tewari has been appointed as nodal officer for coordination of movement of persons of other states stranded in UT and for Chandigarh residents stuck in other cities,” Parida added.“Deputy Commissioner has been advised to give passes liberally for the inter-state movement of persons,” Parida said.The registration is accessible from website ://Chandigarh.gov.in or can be accessed on the link ://admser.chd.nic.in/migrant.A stranded person has to fill in basic details and submit after giving an OTP received on his/her mobile. Alternatively, the facility has been provided through call centre of the Administration available on helpline number 1800-180-2067 where details can be provided telephonically from 8 am to 8 pm daily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registration-of-stranded-persons-starts-79747
03-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Covid spreads its tentacles in Chandigarh’s most-affected zone||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2The Covid spread seems unstoppable in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, which accounts for about 40 per cent of the total cases reported in Chandigarh. The first case from the BDC was reported on April 24. Till date, the total count there is 42.What came as a shock to the authorities today is that even after sealing four separate blocks (726, 727, 732 and 721) in the past few days, three of the five fresh cases reported today were from new areas in this colony.A street from where two positive cases were reported today was sealed in Phase 3, Bapu Dham. Now, more areas of the colony have to be sealed in order to convert it into a containment zone, which points towards a widespread infection transmission here.The authorities, which are presently home quarantining people through contact tracing and undertaking door-to-door medical screening, have kept their fingers crossed so that no fresh case is reported from newer areas here.As many 600 people have been home quarantined following a slew of cases almost every day from the colony, which was named after Mahatma Gandhi.Commenting on why the cases are so widespread here, officials concerned in the field told Chandigarh Tribune, "Most residents here are labour class people. Despite curfew before the spike in cases, many people here smoked hookah, consumed zarda and liquor. Many of them smoked hookah in a group of four to five persons. This seems to have transmitted disease in most cases. Who can forget the house party hosted by a person, who first tested positive here."According to information, all four blocks sealed here fall in Phase 1 (Kacchi Colony) of Bapu Dham. Each block has 40 houses. These are two-room houses though some residents have made temporary rooms in backyards. These are ground plus two floor houses. About two cases reported today are from adjoining Phase 3.There are no cases from Phase 2 yet. In all, there are three phases, which have about 2,500 houses with about 52,000 people residing here. The colony came into existence in the mid-70s to rehabilitate a former slum of Sector 26.The nodal officer, contact tracing and quarantining team, Anil Garg, said, "We are able to track the chain. Earlier, these people kept meeting. It seems only people around the affected zone may have contracted the disease, not the whole colony."A local resident from the affected zone here commented, "People used to roam on roads as there was lack of checking by the police. But, after deployment of the CRPF things have improved. Health teams coming here are also scared like residents. They only do thermal screening and don't ask each resident questions regarding Covid-19."However, local BJP counncillor Dalip Sharma said, "The UT Administration is serious. Health teams are going door-to-door. That is why more cases are coming up."Meanwhile, on the plan regarding the most affected zone, Manoj Parida, UT Adviser to Administrator, said, "We will expand containment pocket size."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-spreads-its-tentacles-in-chandigarhs-most-affected-zone-79746
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||IAF to conduct flypast over Sukhna to salute Covid warriors||IAF aircraft will conduct flypast over Sukhana Lake from 8:50 am to 9 am tomorrow as part of the nationwide activities planned by the armed forces to express solidarity with persons actively involved in combating the Covid-19 pandemic.In addition, the Station Commander, along with service personnel, will visit the District Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, and the Government Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, and felicitate doctors and para-medical staff engaged in treating Covid patients.Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, along with their service chiefs, had announced yesterday that the armed forces want to thank all Covid warriors, including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police, home guards, delivery boys and the media, for riding to the occasion and standing steadfast in these difficult times. The flypast will be conducted by two C-130 Super Hercules transport aircraft flying at an altitude of 1,000 ft. A Dhruv helicopter will also shower petals over the hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iaf-to-conduct-flypast-over-sukhna-to-salute-covid-warriors-79693
03-05-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees another case, curfew relaxation now from 9 am to 1 pm||One more case surfaced in Mohali today, raising the district Covid tally to 93. A 25-year-old woman from Desu Majra has tested positive for the virus.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the woman had complained of flu-like symptoms. Her samples were taken and the reports came this morning.Meanwhile, a man from Gurdaspur district, who had come directly to the PGI on April 24 and was putting up at SBI Officers' Colony in Phase X, too tested positive for the virus. The local police have cordoned off the area. The Mohali Health Department has done his contact tracing. The patient has been admitted to a private hospital in Mohali.The DC said the Civil Surgeon, Gurdaspur, had been informed about this patient.Dayalan said so far, the district had reported 93 Covid cases and these include 47 from Jawaharpur village and 21 of Sikh pilgrims, including one from Ambala, who had returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra). He said 57 cases were active while 34 defeated the virus and were kept at the quarantine centres in Sector 70 and at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi. The DC said as of now, 2,488 persons had completed their quarantine period while 745 were under quarantine.District epidemiologist Renu Singh said four more Covid patients had recovered and discharged on Saturday, taking the tally of recoveries to 34 in the district. She said three of those who had recovered belong to Jawaharpur, which saw the highest number of infections in the district. The fourth patient, a 30-year-old man from Nayagaon, was discharged from the PGI today. She said the three Jawaharpur residents — Seema (35), Avtar Singh (53) and Manpreet Singh (35) — were undergoing treatment at the Covid care centre in Banur. A total of 20 patients from the hotspot Jawaharpur have recovered so far. Meanwhile, the relaxation timing have been revised from tomorrow. Instead of 7 am to 11 pm the new timings will be 9 am to 1 pm. — TNSRestrictions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-another-case-curfew-relaxation-now-from-9-am-to-1-pm-79690
03-05-2020||---||5 from Bapu Dham, 1 from Mani Majra +ve||Chandigarh, May 2Six more Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 94. Of the total, five cases are from Bapu Dham Colony and one from Mani Majra.A 14-year-old male from Bapu Dham has three family contacts and 24 community contacts. Another 34-year-old male positive case from Bapu Dham has one roommate and a 30-year-old male living in the same building has three roommates.The 42-year-old male positive case has one roommate and 27 community contacts and 20-year-old female positive case has five family contacts and 17 community contacts. The family contacts are being sampled for Covid-19 and the results are awaited. Community contacts of all cases have been home-quarantined and will be sampled if they show any symptoms.Babu Dham Colony was sealed on April 25.A 49-year-old male, who tested positive from Mani Majra, is the father of a 19-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony who had delivered a baby in the GMSH-16. He has 26 community contacts. Of this, two have been sampled and both are negative. His two family contacts — wife and son-in-law — have been sampled. They both have also tested negative for Covid-19.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman of Rattangarh in Ambala City, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, died at the PGI.59-yr-old Sector 33 woman dischargedA 59-year-old Covid patient from Sector 33 was discharged from the PGI on Saturday after she was found negative in the retest. With her beating the virus, all four members of her family have been cured of Covid. Her son, daughter-in-law and an 11-month-old granddaughter have already been discharged.“I don’t have words to thank all healthcare workers who looked after me. Today, I have won war against Covid-19, but the real warriors behind this battle are healthcare workers who not only saved me but my entire family. We all are indebted to them for life,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-from-bapu-dham-1-from-mani-majra-ve-79689
03-05-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula steps up vigil at its borders||Wary of high Covid-19 cases in adjoining Chandigarh and Mohali, Panchkula has decided to increase round-the-clock vigil at borders with both cities. Everyone, including daily commuters, from the tricity would be screened at the entry points. “Considering the high number of cases in Chandigarh and Mohali, risk of outbreak in Panchkula can’t be undermined,” Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said.Rapid test for commuters entering PanchkulaThe administration is also considering to introduce rapid testing for commuters showing Covid-19 symptoms. Officials said they could conduct tests on the spot at nakas. The result of tests these will be available in around 10 minutes. Only those found negative will be allowed to enter the district. To conduct these tests, health care professionals will also be deployed at the nakas, along with police officials.Neighbourhood barber shops to openAs per the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the district administration has also allowed opening of neighbourhood barber shops, subject to social distancing norms, during the lockdown 3.0. However, no salon or barber shop will be allowed to open in in the commercial market complexes. It means, high-end branded salons may remain shut as most of these are situated in the commercial market complexes.Non-essential items through e-commerce allowedAs per the MHA order, non-essential items through e-commerce will also be allowed in green and orange zones.These items can include smartphones, clothing, books or any other type of goods.Medical professionals exemptedAs per the order, medical professionals, paramedical staff and health officers, who have been issued movement passes by the Punjab and Haryana governments and the UT Administration, will be allowed movement. Ambulances, ATM cash vans, LPG and oil containers and vehicles carrying essential food items and fodder for animals will also be permitted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-steps-up-vigil-at-its-borders-79688
03-05-2020||---||Breather: Curfew in Chandigarh to go from midnight||Chandigarh, May 2After 41 days, city residents will be able to breathe in the open from Monday. The UT Administration has decided to lift the curfew from the midnight of May 3. However, the lockdown period has been extended by two weeks (up to May 17).Those entering Chandigarh will not be required to carry movement passFollowing the Covid outbreak, the UT Administration had imposed curfew in the city from the intervening night of March 23 and 24.The decision to lift the curfew was taken during a meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here today.In another major decision, the containment zone in the city will be restricted to the pockets identified and notified by the UT from where cases have been reported.The UT will conduct an intensive screening and testing of all cases within the containment pockets.It has been decided to declare Kachi Colony in Dhanas, part of Bapu Dham Colony, part of Sector 30-B, part of Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra, part of Sector 38 and part of Sector 52 as containment zones from May 4.On April 18, the entire city was declared a containment zone to speed up screening and testing of suspected cases to prevent further spread of the virus. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had on Thursday retained Chandigarh in the new list of 130 red zones. All Sampark centres will remain open and all government offices will be functional as per the norms fixed by the Centre.A committee under UT Finance Secretary AK Sinha has been constituted to address the grievances regarding opening of shops.Badnore stated that the decisions would be reviewed depending upon the developments on the ground. He emphasised that general prohibitions announced by the MHA regarding social distancing etc would continue.Shops to open, vehicles to ply from 7 am to 7 pm on odd-even basisTo give much-needed relaxation to the residents, the UT Administration has decided to open sector markets from 7 am to 7 pm. However, odd-even formula will be applicable on opening of shops and social distancing will have to be maintained. For example, on Monday (May 4), only shops having numbers ending with even digits such as 2, 4, 6 etc will openSimilarly, private vehicles will be allowed to ply between 7 am and 7 pm without passes and as per the protocol. However, odd-even formula will apply on the plying of vehicles. For example, on Monday (May 4), vehicles having registration numbers ending with even digits will be allowed to ply. Apart from the driver, only two persons will be allowed to travel in a car.Lockdown restrictionsPeople have to wear mask while moving out and observe social distancing. Pvt offices can function with 33 per cent staff; social distancing to be maintained.New containment zonesWHAT’S OPENWHAT’S shut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/breather-curfew-in-chandigarh-to-go-from-midnight-79687
03-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Will be more sensitive to patients now, says Covid positive PGI nursing officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2A 35-year-old nursing officer, Ram Kishore Soni, had tested positive for Covid on April 29. He is posted in the communicable disease (CD) isolation ward of the PGI for the past 10 years."I was looking after patients' care even when H1N1 broke out in the country and there were several patients admitted in our CD ward. I did not panic when Covid came. The first Covid patient in the PGI came to our ward. I was quite excited to learn about this novel virus," said Soni.Soni had stopped going home as he opted for quarantine facility in the PGI so as to reduce the risk of infection among his family members. He said, "My family doesn't know that I have been tested positive. They only know that I am discharging my duty for Covid." He hopes to get back to work in the Covid ward itself post-recovery, as he has no apprehensions about the disease. "There is no need to be scared as the Covid mortality rate is quite low," he said."If we keep getting scared of this new virus, we will never learn how to deal with it. Now that I have experienced Covid, I think I will be able to cater to the psychological needs of patients efficiently. Many a time, patients panic and suffer from anxiety. Psychological support plays a key role as my friends keep my morale high," he said.Soni added, "As health workers, we used to spend only five minutes on a patient. With Covid experience, I will now talk more with patients. I will be more sensitive to them. We can always improvise when it comes to patient care.""We had been taking all precautions but there must be some lapse because of which I tested positive for Covid. May be while disposing of the personal protective equipment," he said.Suspected Covid patients are admitted in the isolation ward at the CD ward. The suspected cases testing positive are shifted to the Nehru Extension Hospital of the PGI. The nursing officer is currently asymptomatic and stable. He was tested positive during random sampling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-be-more-sensitive-to-patients-now-says-covid-positive-pgi-nursing-officer-79685
03-05-2020||Mona||From family meals to  photography, he makes most of quarantine time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2Tum jo mil gaye ho...runs in his background every forenoon as Bheem Malhotra paints his new series — Life Under Lockdown. Clicking nature, feeding stray animals and sitting down together for family meals, this artist is counting life’s blessings as the world fights deadly Covid.“While it’s painful to see life coming to a grinding halt due to the pandemic, cases are rapidly rising and so are the deaths. It’s the first time in so many years that my whole family is sitting together for lunch, said Malhotra.“Earlier work kept me on toes. My wife would ask me to get vegetables from sabzi mandi, but I would forget. Now that the UT Administration has deployed buses for vegetable-fruit delivery, we can eat fresh. Life has surely taken a luxurious turn,” he said.A music and animal lover, Malhotra regularly feeds stray animals around his house on the PEC campus in Sector 12. He clicked a lonesome dog on an empty road, which made his fellow colleagues to watch out for strays in their areas too. Photography and painting are the highs of his day. He is glad that the whole family is locked in together. “Busy in our respective lives, we often missed each other. Now that my wife and both sons are working and studying from home, it’s great to bond all over again. It’s rather fun to see my sons working out in their makeshift gym in backyard,” he said.Malhotra, an associate professor at Chandigarh College of Architecture, and chairperson, Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi, believes that life post lockdown would be different.He does miss his routine. “Teaching students is what I miss badly. It’s not enough to be in touch on WhatsApp, classroom teaching is an altogether a different experience. We are organising online art competitions on Covid.”“So many pictures, cards, letters, it’s like bonding with friends and family all over,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-family-meals-to-photography-he-makes-most-of-quarantine-time-79679
03-05-2020||---||Mohali police write to DGP for promotion of cop||Mohali, May 2Almost a week after four members of a gang were arrested during a brief encounter at Billa village in Panchkula, the district police authorities wrote a letter to the Director General of Police, Punjab, for promotion of a cop, who bravely fought with the gangsters despite being injured.Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “A letter regarding promotion of Head Constable Raspreet Singh has been sent to the DGP. Appreciation certificates will be provided to the team of the Phase 8 police station.”The incidentA team of 11 cops, including Phase 8 Station House Officer Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, had conducted a raid at Billa village in Panchkula after getting a tip-off that the suspects were hiding in a room there. Head Constable Raspreet Singh had sustained injuries as a bullet hit his left leg during the encounter, which lasted for around half an hour. Despite facing bullet, Raspreet was able to nab the gangster after chasing him.A team of 11 cops, including Phase 8 Station House Officer Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, had conducted a raid at Billa village in Panchkula after getting a tip-off that the suspects were hiding in a room there. Head Constable Raspreet Singh had sustained injuries as a bullet hit his left leg during the encounter, which lasted for around half an hour. Despite facing bullet, Raspreet was able to nab the gangster by chasing him.“I thank my SHO for guiding our team during the whole scene,” said Raspreet.Inspector Rajnish said they would seek the production warrant of the four suspects — Harsimran, alias Simu, Dhruvmohan Garg, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi and Gurcharan Singh — on Monday. He said a total of five cases had been registered against them at police stations in Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-write-to-dgp-for-promotion-of-cop-79678
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Young lawyers participate in online mock trial||In a one of its kind initiative, law offices of senior advocate Naresh Markanda and advocate Aashish Chopra collaborated to hold online mock court proceedings for the young and upcoming lawyers of the Punjab and Haryana High Court with a standing practice of less than five years. As an incentive to encourage young colleagues in their profession, cash prizes for the top five participants were also offered on the occasion. The first prize was for a sum of Rs 50,000. In all, three propositions were circulated amongst participants with a choice of opting any proposition and for either of the parties.  The online mock court proceedings received an overwhelming response from young lawyers. Markanda and Chopra said, “We are hopeful that seeing our initiative, many others will take similar steps to encourage young lawyers during the lockdown period.” Many senior advocates were invited to witness the proceedings of participants. They shared some words of wisdom with participating lawyers.  The organising team comprised Kavita Markanda, Rupa Pathania, Swati Dayalan, Neihal Dogra, Niharika Sharma, Lakshita Sahni, and Rohan Markanda, all practising lawyers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/young-lawyers-participate-in-online-mock-trial-79676
03-05-2020||Mohali||Mohali-based firm starts online portal for needy||A Mohali-based MNC has set up a website, citywoofer.com, which would act as a holistic ready-reckoner for any type of information that a needy resident of the tricity might require in such difficult times. Sumeet Soni, founder and CEO, ZapBuild, said, “In this unprecedented situation a large section of our community has come up with different ways to serve our less privileged brothers and sisters.”  “A lot of good work is done, but there has to be a one-stop source of information regarding NGOs and other aspects connected with Covid-19 services,” he added.  “Citywoofer’s helpline will be one-stop digital shop. Apart from tricity, NGOs of Ludhiana are listed on the site. Soon, more NGOs of Punjab are going to be added to the list. NGOs, who want to join Citywoofer helpline, should contact 9201010196 or email at hello@CityWoofer.com,” he said. “The rationale of unveiling a platform is to share some important aspects related to help being provided to the needy to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 and inputs, which will help community stay safe and informed,” he added.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-based-firm-starts-online-portal-for-needy-79675
03-05-2020||---||Isolation advised after quarantine||Chandigarh, May 2 After 14 days of quarantine, people have been advised isolation for the next 14 days. Contact tracing and quarantine team members said there have been cases where people tested positive even after 14 days. Baring a possible one or two case, there are no such cases here, however, in other states a number of such cases have come to light. “If one completes 14 days of quarantine period, he/she can remove the sticker outside their house. But, it is advised that they stay in 14 days isolation. In quarantine, one is not supposed to move out of a room. In isolation, one can move by practising social distancing and taking other precautions,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isolation-advised-after-quarantine-79674
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Law firm ties up with Canadian institute for global contest||In a unique venture, a Chandigarh-based law firm, Sarin & Co, has joined hands with Canada’s McGill University’s Institute of Air and Space Law for organising an essay contest on aircraft finance and leasing for law students across the world. The winner, if from India, will be flown to Montreal by the law firm. The last date for enrolling in the global competition is June 30 and the essay is required to be submitted by August 31. The winner will be declared by November 1. All law students from around the world are eligible. Nitin Sarin, Managing Partner of Sarin & Co, said the law firm with a strong speciality in the field of aircraft finance and leasing law was established in Chandigarh in 1932. It, along with the Montreal-based institute, had decided to hold the ‘Sarin - McGill Annual Student Essay Contest on Aircraft Finance & Leasing 2020’. Sarin added the main objective behind the context was to promote the subject of aircraft finance and leasing law and to encourage the student-authors to think creatively beyond the established rules and principles of law, thereby ‘adding a future-leaning dimension and innovative approach to this ever-evolving field of law’. Sarin said the premier institute provided academic setting for teaching and research in the dual disciplines of international air law and space law. It was now on course to consolidate and enhance its record of achievements, while heading toward its 70th anniversary next year. The same year McGill University itself would turn 200. The constitution of the essay contest was announced by the two entities in a ‘Zoom call’ at a general meeting of the institute’s students and faculty on May 1. The winner will be flown to Montreal by Sarin & Co for a visit to the home of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and McGill University. “Should a student of McGill University win the contest, the firm shall fly the winner to Chandigarhto visit the UNESCO Heritage marvels in the city,” Sarin said. Prof Brian F Havel, Director of the McGill Institute of Air and Space Law, said,“We are honoured that this aviation law powerhouse has chosen to partner with the Institute to create such an innovative and imaginative initiative.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/law-firm-ties-up-with-canadian-institute-for-global-contest-79673
03-05-2020||Mohali||Mohali  administration to screen people heading out of  dist||The administration will start screening camps for people who want to head back to their respective states. Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the camps will be a part of standard operating procedure (SOP) and added that those who get themselves registered within two days will be screened and issued fitness certificates.  The Deputy Commissioner said movement of such persons will start from May 5 and they should register at covidhelp.punjab.gov.in. He said in case of any query, one can contact on 62842-64563. He said those persons who are not able to register, can send their details on WhatsApp on the above said number. Dayalan said at the time of giving screening certificate, options would be taken from each individual/group/family whether they have their own vehicle by which they want to travel. He said in case, they don’t have their own vehicles or do not want to travel in own vehicle, they would be asked to give preference that whether they want to travel by train/road. Giving them the option of train/road would be the prerogative of the administration, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said those who would desire for movement by own vehicle, an SMS would be sent to them asking them to apply for curfew movement pass on COVA App/Link and added those IDs which are in the lists finalised by the Deputy Commissioners for movement by train would be informed about the time/departure route/coach number of train through SMS. He said the SMS would also serve as curfew movement pass from residence to railway station.  Those not covered in above 2 categories, list of willing private bus operators with their numbers would be sent to them through SMS along with upper cap of per KM price and once a group is formed to move by such private vehicle, after the group members have telephonically negotiated with a private operator then the private operator would be informed to apply for curfew movement pass through COVA App/Link. ‘Follow protocols at quarantine facility’ The district administration today directed to follow all protocols at a quarantine facility at Meritorious School, Sector 70. Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today took stock of arrangements at the quarantine facility. Officials apprised that Sikh pilgrims who came from Sri Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra, and students from Kota, Rajasthan, were getting adequate facilities, including hygienic food, medicines and clean environment. The facility houses 37 people who are served tea and biscuits at 8 am. Breakfast is served from 9.30am to 10 am, which include rice, vegetable and parantha.  Lunch comes from Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, which include Rice, chapatti, cereals, kheer and buttermilk (lassi). Evening tea is served at 4 pm and dinner at night. Those from Muslim community are served fruits to open ‘Roza’ in the evening. The Deputy Commissioner warned that those spreading rumours will be dealt with sternly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-administration-to-screen-people-heading-out-of-dist-79672
03-05-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Odd-even scheme goes for a toss in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, May 2Two days after the administration decided to open shops (on directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs) on a rotational basis for four hours every morning, confusion prevailed among traders in the town.Today shops with odd numbers instead of even numbers were found open in Dera Bassi. After noticing shops selling non-essential items, cops on patrol asked shop owners to close their establishments. At some places the policemen rounded up pedestrians roaming on roads.Reports of curfew violations also came from several parts of the town as people stepped out to buy essentials thus posing a challenge to the authorities trying to enforce social distancing.On Thursday, the administration released an advisory for registered shops owners allowing them to open shops in a staggered way on a rotation basis for four hours every morning with condition of ensuring social distancing.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said shops will be allowed to open as per the guidelines. He added that after 11 am, strict curfew will be imposed and violators will not be spared.Barjinder Singh, Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Dera Bassi, said the detailed notification of allowing shops to reopen had been issued and 50 per cent of the shops were open today.He said shop owners have been assigned days. Those owners falling under batch 1 (odd) have been allowed to open their shops on Monday, Wednesday and Friday whereas those falling under batch 2 (even) will open their shops on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odd-even-scheme-goes-for-a-toss-in-dera-bassi-79671
03-05-2020||---||HRTC buses to bring back Himachalis from tricity||Shimla, May 2The government will provide HRTC buses to bring back Himachalis stranded in the tricity (Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula and adjoining areas). Yesterday, it had appointed nodal officers to bring back natives stranded in different states.Buses will be available for Kangra, Chamba, Una and Hamirpur districts at Himachal Bhawan, Sector 28, Madhya Marg, Chandigarh, on May 3, 6 am onwards. People will be accommodated on the first come first served basis after a preliminary medical checkup, a spokesperson for the government said here today.Photocopies of Aadhaar card or any other government identity proof would be required and boarding would be allowed only after medical examination, he added. Everyone would have to give an undertaking that they are not coronavirus positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hrtc-buses-to-bring-back-himachalis-from-tricity-79535
