09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two recovered coronavirus patients donate plasma at PGI Chandigarh||Two recovered coronavirus patients donated their plasma at the PGI, Chandigarh, on Saturday. This comes after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved the PGI to conduct trial plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients.The two donors—Fiza Gupta and Arnav Gupta—donated their plasma to support critically sick Covid-19 patients. PGI Director Prof. Jagat Ram thanked the family for coming forward voluntarily for this noble cause. Recently, the PGI was selected as one of the national centers by the ICMR to conduct the trial of convalescent plasma therapy in patients with serious COVID-19 infection.With this approval, serious sick COVID-19 positive patients admitted to Nehru Hospital Extension Block will be eligible to get this form of treatment. In this trial, antibodies from the blood of patients, who have recovered from COVID-19, are used to treat severely infected patients. However, the exact role of this therapy in the treatment of Covid-19 positive patients is still debatable and hence, the ICMR decided to conduct a multicentric study to clarify its role in these patients.The collaborative departments for this trial are Departments of Internal Medicine, Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Transfusion Medicine, Endocrinology, Virology and community Medicine. The team of doctors from the Department of Transfusion Medicine will start getting in touch with patients, who have recovered from COVID-19 infection and would explain the nature of the study.The study is aimed at assessing the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications in Covid-19 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-recovered-coronavirus-patients-donate-plasma-at-pgi-chandigarh-82586
09-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||4-month-old among 21 new Covid cases in Bapu Dham colony, Chandigarh count up to 169||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9A four-month-old was among the 21 new Covid-19 cases reported from Chandigarh on Saturday. All the new cases have been reported from Bapu Dham colony in Sector 26, which has emerged as an epicentre of the virus infections in the Union Territory.According to officials, the new cases include two and six-year-old children. They all are already home quarantined as their family members had earlier tested positive.With this, the total count of Covid cases in Chandigarh has gone up to 169.On Friday, the city had recorded its second death due to Covid. The patient, a resident of Hallo Majra, had died at the ICU of the GMSH in Sector 16, on May 6, but his test report came as positive for the virus later on Friday.The man was referred from the Civil Hospital in Sector 45 to the GMSH last Saturday with severe anaemia. He was also suffering from acute respiratory illness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-month-old-among-21-new-covid-cases-in-bapu-dham-colony-chandigarh-count-up-to-169-82536
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Books distributed at govt schools||Summer holidays in PU from May 15Chandigarh: Authorities at Panjab University (PU) announced to extend summer holidays in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Summer vacation will commence from May 15 to June 15 at its main campus in Chandigarh, including regional centres and constituent/affiliated colleges, informed Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, Panjab University. TNSAFT bar donates 100 PPE kitsChandimandir: The Armed Forces Tribunal Bar Association, Chandimandir, donated 100 PPE kits to GMSH-16, Chandigarh, to combat Covid-19. The kits were handed over to Dr Virender Singh Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16, by the Armed Forces Tribunal Bar Association vice-president Vishal Taneja. TNSFour booked for trespassingDera Bassi: A group of youths smashed windowpanes of a house in Dera Bassi. Complainant Prabhjot Kaur, who is a schoolteacher, stated that she and her family members were sleeping when four youths, including her son’s brother-in-law threw empty liquor bottles. The police have registered a case against unidentified miscreants under relevant sections of the IPC. OCRetired officers’ assn donates Rs1LPanchkula: The Haryana Government Retired Officers’ Welfare Association has donated Rs 1.01 lakh to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund. TNSRegistration of property startsKharar: Work related to registration of property commenced in Kharar tehsil on Friday. The Punjab Government today earned a revenue of Rs6,53,000 from registration of documents. OCMan attacked by brother-in-lawChandigarh: A man was allegedly attacked by his brother-in-law in Maloya on Thursday night. Victim’s sister Muskan alleged that her husband Anmol had beaten her up at their house in Sector 25, following which she went to her brother’s home in Maloya. She said her husband attacked her brother Suraj with a scissor. The police have initiated an investigation into the matter. TNSPPE kits donated to PGI, GMCHChandigarh: The Merchant Navy Officers’ Association (MNOA), Chandigarh, has donated personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. Balbir Singh Mangat, president of the association, said: “MNOA’s executive committee decided to donate PPE kits for frontline warriors. I, on behalf of the MNOA, have donated 300 kits to the PGIMER and 100 kits to GMCH.”TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/books-distributed-at-govt-schools-82503
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Boy held for bid to rape toddler||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-held-for-bid-to-rape-toddler-82502
09-05-2020||Hemant Singh Rana||Learning to be content in containment||On May 4, a team of health officials knocked on the door, asking for the head of the family and all other members. Those were anxious moments as they had come to screen us and others in my locality for any Covid-19 symptoms.My mother, who has been watching a lot of Covid-related news lately, was overly worried of being sent into quarantine. Being a heart patient with other complications, she had watched enough news by then to know that contracting the infection was not good for her. We all heaved a sigh of relief as the team left after giving us the all-clear.The relief, however, was short-lived as the news came in later in the day that the entire Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Chandigarh, was declared a containment zone due to the sudden spike in Covid cases. Till then, only an affected pocket was sealed, now the entire colony. Soon after, more policemen converged on the colony and frequent announcements were made from patrolling vehicles, urging people to remain indoors. All entry points to the nearby park and the main road were closed off by barricades, and floodlights and cameras installed to check the movement of residents.A few days into the severe restrictions, the life has taken a 360° turn. The colony roads are now frequented by the men in uniform and homes by the health department officials for screening. Even though I avoid stepping out all this while, a quick visit to a neighbourhood market to buy essentials or medicines is not that comfortable with policemen keeping a close watch on the movement and questioning the purpose of the visit. “Maintain social distancing, or else we will make you do that,” screamed a policeman while I and four others waited at a grocery shop the other day.Earlier, I didn’t have to think for a moment, ‘why I need to go out, and, if at all it’s necessary’, but now umpteen times. With the lurking danger of infection and uncertainty around, we have modified our lifestyle to ensure no venturing outside. I had never thought that one day I, along with my family, would be literally under ‘house arrest’, for no crime, but for living in an area which has turned into a Covid hotspot.Remaining homebound for a long time is not a good feeling, it can play havoc with your overall health, especially when you watch TV, read newspapers and check your phone only to find that the cases continue to rise around you. Two weeks into working from home, I have realised how important it is to be in control of your body, emotions, and mind to fight the situation which you have no control over.I frequently head towards the rooftop of my house to look around and feel free. I am happy to see the main road, hardly a stone’s throw from my place, finally alive with some traffic during the day after almost a month, although it remains out of bounds for me. Once always buzzing with joggers and children, the park opposite my house looks a lot greener now with no human activity, except for two odd policemen patrolling it. At some distance is Police Lines where residents can now be seen moving freely, giving hope that things here in my area too will be normal soon.In these unprecedented times, my family stands as a firewall against the negativity and unpredictability around. Whenever despair sets in, someone of us is quick to check it. My twin daughters of four, who are oblivious of the unfolding situation outside, constantly divert our mind with their playfulness. My younger brother keeps us jovial with his wit and humour. If anxiety grips anyone, my wife is quick to say ‘this too shall pass’. And when my mother’s fears grow, I, too, join in to allay these. We continue to be each other’s strength as blowing of sirens of PCR and announcement by health officials constantly remind us of the situation outside. The only cure for the moment seems distancing outside and bonding inside. — tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/learning-to-be-content-in-containment-82328
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Congress demands relief package for residents||Chandigarh Congress chief Pradeep Chhabra, through an online petition to the UT Administration, took up various issues pertaining to residents and sought relief package for them. Chhabra said through online petition through which they have asked to waive school fee of last two months in both government and private schools and a relief package for schools so that they can pay salary to staff. He also sought to waive electricity and water bills, rent of youngsters living in PGs and rent of tenants of residential and commercial property. “Due to lockdown, business and livelihood of everyone is severely hit. Every citizen is hoping for some relief from the administration,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-demands-relief-package-for-residents-82329
09-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Four more test +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib, informed that four new persons tested Covid positive in the district on Friday. With this the count of positive patients has reached 23.He said those tested positive include a 34-year-old youth, a resident of Khamano, who was a primary contact of Hazur Sahib pilgrim, 28-year-old of Shehjadpur village with a travel history of Madhya Pradesh, another 28-year-old, a resident of Kotla village having a travel history of Gujarat and a 42-year-old of Behrampur, who has a travel history of Haryana. All have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. A pilgrim from Hazur Sahib, who had tested negative on Thursday has tested positive now, he said. He has also been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital. He said out of 23 patients, 14 are pilgrims, one is a close contact of a bus driver and six are combine operators.District Magistrate Amrit Kaur Gill has declared Adarsh Nagar as a hotspot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-test-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-82330
09-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Students eager to attend offline classes||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 8 As the HRD Ministry has announced dates of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JET), mains and advanced, students of local coaching institutes are waiting for government’s approval to start offline classes. The NEET entrance exam will be held on July 26, whereas the JET (Mains) will begin on July 18 and continue from July 20 to 23. JET (Advanced) is scheduled for August 23.  “We are offering online classes as of now, but hopeful to start offline classes soon. We may make it mandatory for students to wear gloves, masks and face shields. Also, we are trying to install automated sanitisation sprinkles at our centres,” said Parmeshwar Jha, regional director, Akash Institute.   Clearing doubts Students, who are preparing for competitive examinations, are keen to attend offline classes and devote more time for the preparation. “We are attending online classes. It gives us more time to discuss topics and solve doubts in a free environment,” said Payel, a student. Safety concern  “Institutes have to work on safety 9of students. Safety measures should be taken in classes and also in hostels, where our children stay. We also want a regular check-up of all students so to ensure their safety,” said Vanita Kapoor, a parent from Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-eager-to-attend-offline-classes-82331
09-05-2020||Panchkula||5.82 lakh screened in Panchkula district||Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said around 5,82,000 people have been screened by the Health Department in the district to date. He said 180 migrants have been quarantined. He said labourers are being screened on regular intervals. He said out of 2,506 samples, 2,293 samples came out negative while 135 results are awaited. Of 19 reported so far, the district has just two positive cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-82-lakh-screened-in-panchkula-district-82332
09-05-2020||Mohali||Singer Vadda Grewal walks out of jail on bail||Punjabi singer Gurinderpal Singh, popularly known as Vadda Grewal, was released on bail on the orders of a Mohali court today. He was arrested by the Mohali police on April 15 for possessing 30 gm of opium. According to the police, he was admitted to a hospital in Sohana following drug overdose.Grewal’s counsel, GS Ghuman, and GPS Ghuman had filed his bail plea before the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur.GS Ghuman and GPS Ghuman argued that there were a few loopholes in the police investigation. They said, “The time stated by the police for getting information to register the case was only around 45 minutes, which is questionable as it’s not possible to complete the investigation of an NDPS case in such a short span of time. Secondly, the drug was recovered from his bag placed in a room, and not from his physical possession. The police had not taken any written opinion from the doctor about his drug overdose. Also, the medical reports of Grewal are yet to come.”They also alleged that Grewal was a good friend of singer Elly Mangat, who had already complained against the police about his custodial torture. They added this might be the reason that Grewal was falsely implicated in the case by the Sohana police. Grewal was lodged in a special quarantine jail in Barnala since April 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/singer-vadda-grewal-walks-out-of-jail-on-bail-82333
09-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Migrants choose to stay put||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 8Though 2,589 stranded workers have left for their hometown in Uttar Pradesh so far, nearly 30 per cent of the migrant population refused to go back to their native place and cancelled their tickets at the last moment.The change in their decision is apparently due to the starting of construction work in Punjab.Santosh Kumar, a native of Bihar, working as a foreman in an engine manufacturing unit said it was not clear if and when they would get a train back to their workplace. He said after reaching their hometown, they would be in isolation for up to 21 days and there would be no work for them there.Another worker Mohinder Sahu, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, said he had also been advising his fellow migrant workers against returning to their hometown. He said it would be better to stay here and wait for the right time to unite with their families.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said at least 25 per cent had refused to going back home, while another 10 per cent did not turn up at the railway station even after confirmation. He said: “It is an indication that we are tip-toeing towards normalcy; permission to resume labour intensive construction work and industrial operations has reduced the threat of losing an earning opportunity and will check mass exodus.”Owners of the industrial units and association, besides the administration, were also exhorting migrant workers to stay back and wait for the industries to open.Gagan Chhabra, president, Mohali Industries Association, said most of the skilled and unskilled workers had their families in the district. He said children of the migrant workers were either studying or working to help their families. He said regular meetings were being held between the association and the officials of the district administration and they had assured the administration that social distancing would be maintained while running their units.1,301 workers leave for their hometown in Uttar pradesh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrants-choose-to-stay-put-82334
09-05-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||25 buses with labourers, students leave for J&K||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8A fleet of 25 buses left for Jammu and Kashmir with more than 560 labourers and students from Chandigarh today.Dr Inderjot Singh, manager at JK House in Chandigarh, said at least 25 buses were sent by the J&K Administration to Chandigarh on Thursday night to bring home labourers and students who were stranded in Chandigarh.20 patients airlifted to LehCity BJP president Arun Sood stated that nearly 250 students, patients and traders from Ladakh were stuck in the city due to the lockdown. As ailing patients could not bear the travelling of three to four days from Chandigarh to Leh, he approached the Administration and the IAF, which finally shorten their trip to one hour. A total of 20 patients were airlifted to Leh, he added.He said nearly 450 labourers left for their home in 20 buses and 114 students in five buses. To maintain social distancing, not more than 22 to 24 persons were allowed in the bus. He said all students and labourers were screened by a medical team.Not a single penny was charged from the residents of J&K, said a BJP leader Gaurav Thakur. He said block president Satbir Singh and other leaders provided food and water to the passengers.5,000, mostly NRIs, expected to return by airUT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that nearly 5,000 persons, mostly NRIs and residents of Chandigarh, are expected to return from abroad by air. He said Shashank Anand, DIG, had been designated as nodal officer to coordinate with the airport authorities and hotels for their travel from Delhi, Mohali and Amritsar and for their stay for 14 days in various hotels as a quarantine measure.He said a large number of passengers flying from abroad would land in Delhi and the Delhi Government had agreed to keep them in their hotels for 14 days. He clarified that those who would land in airports like Amritsar or Mohali would be accommodated or quarantined in Chandigarh hotels, if they belong to the city. It would be on payment basis, he added.Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed the DC to coordinate with the receiving states so that the stranded persons desirous of going to their home states could do so after medical screening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-buses-with-labourers-students-leave-for-jk-82335
09-05-2020||Aditi Tandon||7 Punjab hospitals, PGI picked for carrying out plasma trials||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 8In a major boost to health research in the region, seven hospitals from Punjab and the PGI in Chandigarh have been selected as part of the ICMR’s nationwide trial to determine if convalescent plasma therapy could work in critical Covid-19 patients.Govt: Have to learn to live with virusNo case in 216 districts: Health MinistryOnly 28 sites have been selected for the trial to be held across hospitals in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, UP, Karnataka, Telangana and Chandigarh.Read also:  Ludhiana’s Satguru Pratap Singh Hospital, Christian Medical College and Dayanand Medical College, Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, Government Medical College, Patiala, and Amritsar’s Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and Government Medical College will be part of the trial approved by the Drug Controller General of India and the National Ethics Committee of the government.“SPS Hospital in Ludhiana is the same facility where ACP Anil Kohli was admitted when he was found Covid positive. We had wanted to try plasma therapy on him but were constrained by time,” said KK Talwar, Advisor to Punjab Government. ACP Kohli had later succumbed to the virus.The ICMR trial is titled “Trial to assess the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit Covid-19 associated complications in moderate disease.” The sample size for the study is 452, ICMR said. The therapy will involve the use of antibody rich plasma from the blood donated by cured Covid patients for the currently critical patients.The trial comes at a time when the count touched 56,342 today with 3,390 fresh cases. The fatalities rose to 1,886 seeing a rise of 103 over 24 hours.Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal today said, “If we comply with the lockdown measures, we can avoid a peak but even if one person fails us, we will see a spike in cases.” There are 216 districts in which no COVID-19 case has been reported to date, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-punjab-hospitals-pgi-picked-for-carrying-out-plasma-trials-82417
09-05-2020||Naina Mishra||‘Patients need moral support more than anything’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8“When I am on duty, patients keep asking me about the symptoms of other patients and if they will recover. They have been isolated from their families. Medicine will play its role, but they need moral support more than anything,” shared nursing officer Narindra Tyagi, who has been posted at the Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE), PGI.The 34-year-old feels content about having completed seven days of duty roster on the third floor of the NHE isolation ward where more than 77 Covid patients are admitted.He is now on 14-day quarantine — as necessitated by protocol.“I had volunteered for duty as I wanted to set an example for juniors, who were scared of the disease. In 2009, I worked for three months in an H1N1 ward. That experience has helped me a lot now in the Covid ward,” said Tyagi.Sharing his first-day experience, Tyagi said: “When I first stepped in the lift after wearing a hazmat suit and was headed to the ward, I felt I was falling into a pit where death awaited me. It is a quiet, isolated and dreary place.”He added: “My seniors once told me that if I refuse to do any work, I’d never evolve. You don’t always get a chance to serve the nation.”Taking care of patients’ small needsDuring his duty, Narindra Tyagi used to visit all patients twice a day to check whether they have eaten or if they needed anything. “The other day, a few patients required shampoo, so I arranged it for them. Some others needed turmeric and salt. These are small things, but keeping in view the nature of the disease, we try to cater to all this,” said Tyagi.‘Eight-year-old son cried’His eight-year-old son cried the day he joined the Covid duty. “I had stopped going home for the past one month as I was previously posted at the emergency ward where SARI patients were admitted. Before joining the duty, I came home to meet my family, but my son was busy using his phone. The next day, he came to know that I am on the Covid duty. He broke into tears and then called me,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patients-need-moral-support-more-than-anything-82324
09-05-2020||---||5-year-old boy dies in Chandigarh’s first fatal accident since March 21||Chandigarh, May 8The city today witnessed a fatal accident of a five-year-old boy, 46 days after a road accident in which a youth had died and three others were injured on the night of March 21.This turned out to be the first fatal road accident since the city was brought under a lockdown. April Ist month in Decade sans fatal mishapThe minor was riding a bicycle near his house when he was hit by a mini-truck. The victim’s father, Gulshan Kumar, a resident of Maloya Colony, reported that his son was cycling near the house when a Tata Ace hit him.He was seriously injured and rushed to the PGI by the Tata Ace driver where doctors declared him brought dead.The victim’s father, an auto driver, was not at home when the accident took place. He came to know about it later following which he reached the hospital.The police said the vehicle was being driven by Lavish Kumar (26), who had been booked under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Maloya police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.The number of road accidents had fallen drastically due to the lockdown in which the movement of vehicles was restricted following the outbreak of Covid-19.According to the UT traffic police, April was the first month in at least a decade without a single fatal road accident reported though minor road accidents were reported during the lockdown.The last fatal accident was reported when a speeding SUV went out of control and hit a tree before turning turtle near the Sector 43/44 light point.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-year-old-boy-dies-in-chandigarhs-first-fatal-accident-since-march-21-82325
09-05-2020||---||After death, 2 test Covid +ve||Chandigarh/Mohali, May 8The city recorded its second death due to Covid today. The patient, a resident of Hallo Majra, had died at the ICU of the GMSH, Sector 16, on May 6. He tested positive for Covid today.The man was referred from the Civil Hospital in Sector 45 to the GMSH last Saturday with the condition of severe anaemia. He was also suffering from severe acute respiratory illness.Three more from Jawaharpur recoverThree more patients from Jawaharpur village have been discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. A total of 52 Covid patients have been cured in Mohali district so far while 43 active cases are being attended to at the Banur hospital.Meanwhile, with the surfacing of two new positive Covid cases, the district tally has gone up to 98.The new patients are a 24-year-old woman of Nayagaon village, who is the first woman to be tested positive after delivering a baby in the GMSH, Sector 16, Chandigarh, and a 74-year-old man, a resident of Saini Vihar, Phase 3, Baltana, Zirakpur. The latter had died at a private hospital in Sector 26 here late on Thursday evening. With his death, a total of three persons have died of Covid in the district till date.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the 74-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula about two days ago after he had complained of pain and infection in his chest. He said the patient had died last evening and his samples taken before as a precautionary measure turned out to be positive. He said the hospital authorities had reported the matter to them this morning.The Civil Surgeon said samples of both the baby and other members of the families of the woman and the deceased person would be taken tomorrow. This is the second case from the Panchkula hospital, which had tested positive. Earlier, a resident of Golden Sand apartment in Dhakoli had tested positive. Manjit Singh said they had sealed the Saini Vihar area of Baltana.Meanwhile, he said three more patients from Jawaharpur village were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-death-2-test-covid-ve-82326
09-05-2020||Panchkula||After 17 days, Panchkula reports fresh case||After a gap of 17 days, Panchkula district reported a fresh case of Covid-19.A 44-year-old man from Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 tested positive, taking the Covid tally to 19.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “We conducted random sampling in Rajiv Colony. He has been shifted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital.” As part of a contact-tracing exercise, his five family members are also being shifted to the Civil Hospital and their samples will be taken for testing.“Medical teams are being sent to the cluster for containment process,” she added.The district now has two active Covid cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-17-days-panchkula-reports-fresh-case-82327
09-05-2020||---||At PGI, both patients admitted to ICU ward have comorbidity||Chandigarh, May 8The two Covid patients from the city, who are in the ICU at the PGI, have comorbid conditions. One of them, a Sector 15 man, is 67 years old and has cardiac disease, while the other, a Dhanas woman, is 60 years old and has severe lung infection. The condition of the man is stable now and his nasal prongs have been removed though he continues to be in the ICU, according to a PGI report.In most cases, Covid infection is associated with mild flu-like symptoms such as fever, cough, fatigue and body aches. In a few cases, largely with comorbidity such as diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, especially among the elderly, it may take a more severe form.So far, there have been only two Covid deaths in the city. An 82-year-old woman from Sector 18 had died on May 3. She had chronic asthma with heart disease. A Hallo Majra man died on May 6. He had severe anaemia and was also suffering from severe acute respiratory illness.Avg recovery time 14-20 daysIt is well established that most people (about 80 per cent) recover from the disease without needing special treatment. Older people, those with underlying medical problems (high blood pressure, heart problems, diabetes or respiratory illness), those undergoing chemotherapy and smokers are more likely to develop a serious illness.Most Covid patients in the city, who have recovered, were discharged between 14 and 20 days. At present, there are nine patients in the Covid ward who have exceeded the 14-day recovery period. Two patients have completed 26 days in the ward and are yet to be discharged. They are residents of Sector 37-C, who were admitted to the PGI on April 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-pgi-both-patients-admitted-to-icu-ward-have-comorbidity-82357
09-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Businessmen want hotels, restaurants opened too||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8Local hoteliers, eatery owners, sweet shop owners and mall owners have raised the demand to allow opening of their businesses.The UT Administration has allowed neighbourhood shops to run on an odd-even basis, but did not allow shops in malls, eateries, hospitality services, cooked food home deliveries and others.“We have approached the authorities to allow partial non-dining operations for hotels and restaurants. We are hopeful of a positive outcome. Livelihood is not important than life, but the sustainability of a work place is important,” said Manmohan Singh, Chairman, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Chandigarh.The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) has also reached out to the UT Administration to allow opening of malls. Amitabh Taneja, Chairman, SCAI, said: “As an industry, we are responsible for the livelihood of 12 million people across the country and firmly believe that that the fate of these livelihoods can be protected.” He further added: “Malls are equally safe, if not more, as other establishments that have been allowed to open. Besides making wearing of masks compulsory, we requested to allow 50 per cent occupancy at food courts and opening coffee shops at 50 per cent occupancy.”“The Administration should allow the home delivery of food. We will ensure the food is cooked under a safe environment,” said Dheeraj, Manager Operation, Tamzara Restaurant. Meanwhile, during today’s war-room meeting, Finance Secretary AK Sinha said: “A large number of suggestions have been received from various organisations to open up their shops, markets and factories. The matter is under examination.”“The food joints in Mohali and Panchkula have been allowed for home delivery operations. The businesses have to start someday and if others are doing it, why not the UT Administration,” said one of the owners of an eating joint.No immediate plansMeanwhile, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Administration had no plans to start home delivery services. “We have to take a decision as per the current situation. In one of the case in the national capital, a delivery boy was found Covid-19 positive. Don’t you think there would be high risk of infection in a food prepared at other’s kitchen?” said Parida.On not opening major shops, he said: “The Sector 17 shopping complex, malls and other shops at the sectors dividing roads are not allowed to open as per the Centre’s guidelines. Though, suggestions from all stakeholders have been accepted and a committee has been constituted. Based on its report, a decision will be taken soon. There are certain things which are beyond our limitations. For other things, we have to take decision on a daily basis based on the number of cases. For instance, the decision on the delivery of books was taken considering the demand of parents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/businessmen-want-hotels-restaurants-opened-too-82359
09-05-2020||Amit Sharma||Cops go loud to educate people in Bapu Dham||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8With the increasing Covid-19 cases in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, the UT police have started connecting with people through a public address system to educate them on precautionary measures.Loudspeakers have been installed across the area through which people are being addressed every day.Inspector Narinder Patial, Station House Officer at the Sector 26 police station, said the system had been installed to urge people to keep themselves safe by staying indoors. “I make announcements through public address system thrice everyday and urge people not to move out of their houses without any essential need and maintain social distancing,” he added.While medical teams are conducting extensive screening and testing in the area, the police are also doing their bit against the spread of the virus by extending all possible assistance to people to ensure that they do not face any inconvenience.Police step up to help residentsFrom providing medicines and ration to delivering milk, cops are going all out to cater to the needs of the residents. Sushila Kumari, a resident, said, “My relatives did not have cash to purchase milk for their one-year-old son. So, I decided to ask for help from the police and called on the emergency number. To my surprise, milk was delivered on their doorstep,” she said.Inspector Narinder said he had given his mobile number to the residents for assistance. “I get around 70 to 80 calls from the residents every day,” he said.Police officials also claimed that they were ensuring social distancing in the area. “Our team is patrolling the “affected pocket” round-the-clock to ensure that people don’t move out of their houses,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-go-loud-to-educate-people-in-bapu-dham-82360
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||11 more +ve, Chandigarh tally 149||With 11 more cases, including one death, being reported from the city today, the Covid tally rose to 149.Eight fresh cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony. Seven of them are community contacts of a Covid patient. Besides, a two-year-old girl from the colony also tested positive. Her mother is a Covid patient. Two more from the same family were previously diagnosed with the disease.A 35-year-old woman from Sector 27 has tested positive for the virus. She has eight household contacts and four community contacts.A seven-year-old boy from Sector 40 too tested positive for Covid. He had visited the GMSH-16 and was given cough syrup previously. He was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday after his condition worsened. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-more-ve-chandigarh-tally-149-82361
