10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Balbir Sr tests COVID negative, but condition remains critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr, a triple Olympic gold medallist, whose condition continued to remain critical, on Sunday tested negative for coronavirus.“His COVID-19 report is negative,” the 96-year-old’s maternal grandson, Kabir told PTI.Balbir Sr was admitted to Fortis hospital at Mohali on Friday evening with complaint of pneumonia.“His condition is still critical, he continues to remain on ventilator. Though slightly better than what he was upon admission to the hospital, he is not yet stable,” Kabir said.Balbir Sr was taken to the private hospital from his residence in Sector 36 in Chandigarh, where he lives with his daughter Sushbir and Kabir.Balbir Sr was running high fever on Thursday night. Initially, the family tried to manage by giving him sponge baths at home but his conditions didn’t improve so they shifted him to the hospital.In January last year, Balbir Sr was discharged from PGIMER, Chandigarh, after spending 108 days in the hospital, where he underwent treatment for bronchial pneumonia.“It is an unparalleled achievement and credit to his grit that he could recover at the age of 95 from the scenario of bronchial pneumonia and near cardiac failure that he was initially admitted with,” Prof Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER had then said when the former India captain was discharged.During the 2012 London Olympics, the iconic centre forward was honoured as the only Indian among 16 chosen Olympic legends across modern Olympic history.His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten. He had scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games.He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and was also manager of India’s only World Cup winning team in 1975. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-legend-balbir-sr-tests-covid-negative-but-condition-remains-critical-83040
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 7 more healthcare workers test positive in Mohali; total cases climb to 105||Seven more positive cases were reported in Mohali on Sunday. All the seven persons are frontline health workers and bring the total number of positive cases to 42 amongst the health workers in Ropar.The total number of cases in Mohali jumped to 105 of which 48 are active cases and 54 have been cured.Three people have died of COVID-19 so far in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-7-more-healthcare-workers-test-positive-in-mohali-total-cases-climb-to-105-83039
10-05-2020||Panchkula||Two truck drivers test positive in Panchkula||Two truck drivers of Majri Chowk Truck Union tested positive for Coronavirus in Panchkula, officials said.District health authorities took their samples during a random testing.The development takes Panchkula’s cases to 22 and active cases to four.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-truck-drivers-test-positive-in-panchkula-82990
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Watch: This act of 18-month-old coronavirus positive baby at Chandigarh hospital will leave you in awe||A 30-second clip of an 18-month-old girl blowing kisses to nurses at PGI, Chandigarh has gone viral. In a rare case, the girl had tested positive for coronavirus.She was treated, cured, and discharged from the hospital. The baby's mother—who stayed in the hospital—tested negative throughout her admission. In conversation with The Tribune, the baby's mother said: "I was taken aback when my baby girl was tested positive. In my worst nightmares, I couldn’t imagine this. I wished I had corona in place of her. Doctors approached me and told me that I will have to stay with her in the hospital to take care of her.”“The baby used to sleep with me in the night. I used to take all sorts of precautions like wearing gown and masks when I was taking care of her. She would often panic in hospital but we tried our best to win the fight,” she added. Dean (Academics) & Head, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care, Prof. GD Puri, shared details about recent cases being discharged. “The mother of the little girl who got discharged today, tested negative initially and stayed negative throughout, but had to stay in the hospital to attend to her daughter, who was admitted here in NHE on April 19 after testing positive,” he said. Dr Puri said: “Mother remained with COVID positive child for three weeks and didn’t become positive. This proves that if one takes precautions you can avoid contracting this infection. Don’t treat COVID patients like untouchable. They also need care.”Nursing Officer, Narindra Tyagi in the video, said: “The baby was asymptomatic throughout as we took good care of her. We need to fight this disease with good spirits.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-this-act-of-18-month-old-coronavirus-positive-baby-at-chandigarh-hospital-will-leave-you-in-awe-82965
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||In photos: Chandigarh wakes up to 'night-like' morning; rain, storm hit parts of Punjab, Haryana, HP||Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali and many parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh were hit by strong winds accompanied by a burst of sharp rain on Sunday morning.Chandigarh residents woke up to a 'night-like' morning as dark clouds blanketed the city around 7:45 am. The city also witnessed several lightning flashes and roaring thunder. Mercury dipped to around 31 °C in Chandigarh on Sunday. Strong velocity winds, accompanied with a thunderstorm, and heavy rains lashed Shimla and adjoining areas on Sunday. The local Met office has predicted that light to moderate rain/thundershowers, with the possibility of hail, is very likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Kullu, Una, Bilaspur and Hamirpur.Heavy showers, accompanied by a thunderstorm, were witnessed in Panipat and Karnal also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-photos-chandigarh-wakes-up-to-night-like-morning-rain-storm-hit-parts-of-punjab-haryana-hp-82927
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports third death, four new cases; UT case count stands at 173||Chandigarh reported one death and four new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the city's case tally to 174.A 62-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony who was admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, on Thursday and died on Saturday tested positive on Sunday.He had a history of heart problems and had diarrhoea in the days before his death. This takes the city's death tally to three. Three of Sunday's four cases were from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, taking its tally to 110.The colony accounts for 63 per cent cases in the city.The fourth person to test positive was a 38-year-old doctor, a resident of Sector 40-B, whose test reports came on Sunday evening. He was working in a lab at Civil Hospital, Ropar, and was sampling COVID suspects.This is the second case of coronavirus from Sector 40-B. Officials said the two cases were unrelated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-third-death-four-new-cases-ut-case-count-stands-at-173-82922
10-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh sees 3rd Covid fatality, 21 new cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The city recorded its third Covid death today.The deceased, a 62-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, was admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, on Thursday. He had a history of a cardiac disease and had loose stool for the past four days.As per health authorities, he died on Saturday morning, following which his samples were taken for Covid test. The body was packed and handed over to his relatives as a positive case while taking all precautions, as the test report was pending.The sample report came positive later in the day. The man lived in the proximity to Covid cases in the colony.Meanwhile, the city recorded the highest Covid case jump today as 21 persons, including the 62-year-old deceased, tested positive for the virus. The new cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony, the Covid hotbed in the city. Four of them are community contacts of already diagnosed patients and 17 family contacts of a positive case from the same area.The total count of the city today stood at 170. With 21 new cases, Bapu Dham crossed the 100-mark today. Now, the number of positive cases in the colony is 107, which is 62 per cent of the total cases in the city.At least 77 per cent cases of the 140 positive cases reported between April 24 and May 9 in the city are from Bapu Dham. The second highest spike in the cases was reported on May 7, when 14 persons were found positive for the virus. Twelve of them were from Bapu Dham.Highest positivity rate — 8.2 per centThe Covid positivity rate rose significantly this week. From 6 per cent on May 4, the city recorded an all-time high positivity rate of 8.2 per cent on Saturday. The positivity rate is the number of cases against every 100 samples taken for Covid testing. For every one lakh people in the city, 14 are Covid positive.There is an increase in the positivity rate as more samples are being tested in the city lately. As many as 142 samples were taken for testing on Saturday, one of the highest samples taken in a day.Dead Hallo Majra man had Bapu Dham linkThe 35-year-old man from Hallo Majra, who died on Friday, was living alone in a rented room. He was an alcoholic and suffering from chronic liver disease. He took treatment from two public health facilities. He presented with loose stools, severe aenaemia at the hospital and was disoriented. Subsequently, his condition deteriorated and he was shifted to the ICU and put on ventilator. He was also suffering from severe pancytopenia. He had tested positive for Covid post death. He has 18 Community Contacts living in the same building. His close contact, who took him to the hospital, has been sampled for Covid. He has a history of frequent visits to Bapu Dham and stayed here for five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-3rd-covid-fatality-21-new-cases-82776
10-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Quarantined, forced to move out for essentials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Even as new Covid cases are being reported daily from the city's worst hit Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, those home-quarantined in the colony are forced to move out to buy essentials as the UT Administration allegedly failed to ensure proper supplies.It has already been impossible for residents of this densely populated colony to quarantine themselves inside small homes. Some of them are coming out, increasing the chances of transmission of infection to the general public, who go to buy vegetables and milk during the relaxation period.A local resident, who has been quarantined, said, "It has been 10 days since I have not received vegetables or milk supply at my place. I had no option but to go out and buy items from a rehri parked at some distance from my house."As per the norms, the authorities are supposed to provide essentials to the home-quarantined as their family members are not allowed to go out for days."Officials are asking rehriwallahas to provide us essentials. They fear coming to our place. So, they are not providing items to us properly. Some are getting essential items after several days," shared another person placed in quarantine. Residents also rued getting vegetables at rates higher than the market price.“The authorities have hired a single contractor, who provides vegetables through different vendors. Due to a single supplier, higher rates are charged from the poor here. Only one chemists shop is open for 2,500 houses. “Some of the colony residents are heart patients. Their medicines are not available. A single shop is leading to a huge rush,” said a social worker.These issues were raised with SDM Sudhanshu Gautam, who held a meeting with the DSP, the SHO and the area representatives today. “The SDM told us that all these issues will be sorted out,” said one of those who attended the meeting.When Chandigarh Tribune contacted the SDM, who is also the Director of the UT Public Relations Department, for comments, he did not respond.Area councillor Dalip Sharma said: “It is not like that. All essential services are provided to quarantined people as well as to others.”Three of Sector 30 family curedChandigarh: Three Covid patients belonging to a family in Sector 30 were discharged from the PGI on Saturday. A 52-year-old woman, her 25-year-old son and a year-and-a-half-old granddaughter were discharged after the reports of their two consecutive tests came negative. Though the man remained stable throughout, his mother was comorbid. She was shifted to the ICU on April 18. With gradual improvement, the woman was shifted to the isolation ward on April 24, after which she had remained asymptomatic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantined-forced-to-move-out-for-essentials-82777
10-05-2020||Panchkula||Rajiv Colony in Panchkula sealed||Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 was sealed and declared a containment zone a day after a 44-year-old man from the area was found positive for Covid-19. The adjoining areas will remain buffer zone.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said he had asked Municipal Corporation officials to ensure proper sanitation and solid waste management in the areas falling under containment and buffer zones. The police should deploy enough policemen at the entry and exit points of the area, Ahuja said.Test reports of patient’s kin awaitedThe report of samples of the five family members of the patient, who are isolated at the Civil Hospital, is awaited. The patient had tested positive for Covid during a random sampling of villages and slums adjoining Chandigarh. He is a milk vendor and also runs a confectionery shop in the colony. As per doctors, he is asymptomatic and in stable condition. His further contacts are being traced. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajiv-colony-in-panchkula-sealed-82779
10-05-2020||Mohali||Areas in two Zirakpur societies sealed||A day after a 74-year-old man, who had chronic lung infection, tested positive for Covid post death, health authorities sealed the area around his residence in Saini Vihar, Phase 3, Baltana.The area around the place where he lived in Jaipuria Sunrise Greens Society, Zirakpur, was also sealed as the man lived there, along with his wife, son and daughter, before recently shifting to Saini Vihar. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said 14 direct contacts of the patient had been home-quarantined and their samples had also been collected.He said the patient was cremated at the cremation ground in Sector 25 in Chandigarh today. He said health teams had home-quarantined his wife and son and were tracing his contacts for sampling.The Civil Surgeon said a total 113 samples had been taken from the contacts of the 74-year-old man and a woman from Milth Colony in Kharar, who had tested positive after giving birth to a baby. The report of all samples were awaited by tomorrow, he said.Meanwhile, seven persons from Jawaharpur village and one from Shakti Nagar, which is in the vicinity of the village, returned home after recovering from Covid and undergoing quarantine period today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/areas-in-two-zirakpur-societies-sealed-82780
10-05-2020||Naina Mishra||2 Chandigarh Covid survivors donate plasma to PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Two Covid-19 survivors donated their plasma to the PGI today. The donors include the city’s first Covid case, a 22-year-old woman from Sector 21, and her contact, a 22-year-old man from Sector 19.This comes after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permitted the PGI to conduct plasma therapy trial on Covid patients. “I was very scared as I fear needles, but PGI doctors were understanding and explained the process well. I feel grateful to have this opportunity which can help save lives of Covid-infected,” the woman said.She also appealed to other recovered patients to donate their plasma.Dr Suchet Sachdev from the Department of Transmission Medicine, PGI, said, “We need to make an adequate inventory of compatible plasma for all types of blood groups. We are approaching the recovered patients and taking their consent. We are hoping that they will respond to the PGI call as and when made.” The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, thanked the families of both survivors for coming forward voluntarily for the noble cause.plasma therapy trialIn this trial, antibodies from the blood of recovered patient are used to treat severely infected patients. However, the exact role of this therapy in the treatment of Covid patients is still debatable and hence, the ICMR has decided to conduct a multi-centric study for clarification.Man found dead at lakeChandigarh: A 39-year-old man, Swaran Kumar, was found dead at Sukhna Lake here on Saturday afternoon. A safai karamchari at the lake, he, along with his family, used to sleep in one of the toilets there. The police have ruled out any foul play. Sources said the man had liquor before going to sleep on Friday night. When he did not wake up in the morning, his family members raised the alarm. The body was shifted to a hospital. His samples have been taken for Covid test. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-chandigarh-covid-survivors-donate-plasma-to-pgi-82781
10-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh may refund, adjust liquor vend licence fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The UT Excise and Taxation Department is yet take a call on refunding or adjusting the licence fee of liquor vendors for the lockdown period (March 22 to March 31).Liquor vendors have submitted a representation to the department. Sources said the authorities were seriously mulling over adjusting or refunding the licence fee so as to give some relaxation to the vendors. “We have received requests and the matter is still under consideration. Vends not allowed to open from March 22 to 31 may get a refund, while relaxation is likely to be provided to others by making adjustment in the odd-even scheme,” said sources.Liquor vends on the roads separating sectors and shopping complexes have not been allowed to open, while those in the neighbourhood markets can operate under the odd-even scheme. Liquor vends were shut since March 22 and allowed to reopen on May 4. Contracts of liquor vends were allotted from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020.Excise Policy extendedThe UT on Saturday announced to extend the Excise Policy for the year 2019-20 from May 16 to June 30 due to the Covid outbreak. All licensees/stakeholders can submit their application, opting for extension, through e-mail by May 15. Those who had earlier not opted for extension from April 1 to May 15 can also submit their options for extension/renewal of licence from April 1 to June 30 by May 11.“Most liquor vendors are not interested in renewing their licence due to huge losses. We have approached the department to waive or adjust the licence fee for the lockdown period. The department is likely to accept our demands, but we are yet to take a call on extending our licences,” said one of the vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-refund-adjust-liquor-vend-licence-fee-82782
10-05-2020||---||Panchkula Sector 5 police station cook infected||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 9A 23-year-old woman, who works as a cook at the Sector 5 police station, tested positive for Covid-19 today.As many as 83 police officials were sampled by the Health Department on May 5. She is the only one to have tested positive for the virus.The woman is the 20th case of the district. With the fresh case, Panchkula now has three active cases of Covid.As many as six women cops with whom she used to share accommodation at the police station have been traced. They are being shifted to the Civil Hospital for sampling.Dr Rajiv Narwal, district nodal officer for Covid, said, “The infected woman belongs to a village in Kurukshetra and is currently at her native place. She had gone on leave two days ago. We have told Kurukshetra district health officials to not shift her to Panchkula and keep her in isolation at a hospital there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sector-5-police-station-cook-infected-82783
10-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Staying home only way to fight Covid: PGI worker handling bodies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Since the imposition of the lockdown, sanitation worker Sunder Kumar has been handling the bodies of those falling prey to Covid-19 and taking them to the PGI mortuary.The hospital authorities store the bodies of Covid patients in a separate room. The bodies are packed and sent to the morgue and then transferred to the cold storage room, the temperature of which is maintained at 4°C.Here’s where Sunder steps in. “I transfer the body to the storage room. Such bodies are packed in a cloth and marked ‘Covid-19’, so that everyone stays away from them,” says Sunder, who is also the president of the Safai Karamchari Union of Contract Workers, PGI.At home, Sunder and his wife, also a health worker, constantly worry about their two children, both below 10. Each day, Sunder follows stringent ‘hygiene’ practices, more to safeguard his kids. He washes his clothes and bathes as soon as he enters his house and keeps distance from his children. “My son is eight and daughter five. She is dearest to me. I’d feel guilty if something happens to her because of me. I can’t remember the last time I hugged her,” he rues.This is not for the first time that Sunder is handling virus-infected bodies. “I had handled bodies of swine flu patients in the past, but Covid is something that scares me. But I have a job to do. If I don’t do it, who will?” he asks. Paid Rs 500 a day, Sunder works for 10 hours daily.His only message to people: “Stay home. That’s the only way we can fight Covid.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staying-home-only-way-to-fight-covid-pgi-worker-handling-bodies-82784
10-05-2020||---||Migrant workers walk to railway station on hearsay||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9A batch of 15 migrant workers is headed to the city’s railway station on hearsay that a ‘shramik’ train will ferry them to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.They started before sunrise from Kurali. At a about 3pm on Saturday, they reached the city, famished and parched in summer heat. “A friend told us that shramik trains will soon leave for Uttar Pradesh from Chandigarh. We started walking in groups. More are on the way,” says Deen Dayal (46), oldest of the lot.Bali Ram Kumar (20), adds, “We haven’t been paid for two months. No one gave us a grain of rice, leave alone ration. We’re never coming back to Punjab.”At the railway station, a group of 10 migrants had come to enquire about the trains. They had registered for shramik train. “We got the registration number on SMS, but we don’t know when the trains will start,” says Chet Ram (20) from Gonda, UP, who worked at a brick-kiln.Kripa Shankar, a rickshaw puller said, “More than 10,000 people from Gonda are living in Daria, a colony next to the railway station. Most of us have lost our jobs and some of us have registered for the shramik train, but we have received no official information on when it will leave. We heard rumours that train will leave on Sunday. So we came to check.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrant-workers-walk-to-railway-station-on-hearsay-82785
10-05-2020||---||1st special train from UT to leave for Gonda today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The first ‘shramik’ train from Chandigarh will leave for Gonda in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.Nearly 1,200 migrant workers staying in the UT would leave for their native state, sources said and added that the train would leave the Chandigarh railway station around 6pm.Sources said only workers registered with the UT Administration would be allowed to board the train.Nearly 55,000 migrant workers from the city have got themselves registered with the UT Administration to return to their native states.Sources said the UT Administration was holding talks with other state governments to run special trains for stranded migrants who wish to return to their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1st-special-train-from-ut-to-leave-for-gonda-today-82786
10-05-2020||---||Over 1,100 leave for Sultanpur, Amethi||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 9The third special train with 1,192 migrant labourers left the Mohali railway station for Sultanpur and Amethi in Uttar Pradesh today.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the non-stop train left Mohali at 6 pm. He said social distancing guidelines were adhered to while passengers boarded the train and packed food was given to all onboard.The migrant workers, majority of whom lived in Nayagaon, Balongi, Dera Bassi, Sohana, Zirakpur and Kharar, were screened thoroughly at the designated collection centres before they boarded the train.They were ferried via buses from the eight centres to the railway station. The buses were thoroughly sanitised before and after use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-1-100-leave-for-sultanpur-amethi-82788
10-05-2020||---||Labourers denied entry despite movement pass||Satinder Pal SinghDera Bassi, May 9The issuance of e-pass by the administration to migrants, who were stranded in the state since March 21 due to the lockdown, seems to have served no purpose as the police at the Ambala border reportedly refused the migrants’ entry into Haryana and they had to return to Dera Bassi.At the check-post, hundreds of private vehicles owners entered into heated arguments with the police over denial of entry into Haryana despite having movement passes issued by the district administration.Satish Kumar, a migrant from Madhya Pradesh, said he obtained a screening certificate at a camp in Government College, Dera Bassi. He alleged that when he went to the Ambala check-post in his own vehicle, the police stopped him. This is nothing but lack of communication between Punjab and Haryana, he said.“We pleaded with the policemen to allow us to cross over as we have a valid movement passes, but the policemen said it was not a valid pass,” said another migrant preferring anonymity.Heena Talwar, ETO, said people who were not allowed to enter Haryana might had given incorrect information on the portal, therefore, their entry might had been denied.Girish Dalayan, Deputy Commissioner of Mohali, said the condition with movement passes vary from state to state. He said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourers-denied-entry-despite-movement-pass-82789
10-05-2020||Amit Bathla||Age plays pivotal role in recovery of patient: Doctor||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 9The 82-year-old from Pinjore, who is one of the three active cases in Panchkula district, is taking longer to recover from Covid-19. This is apparently testimony to the fact that the elderly or those above 60 years of age are more susceptible to the virus.The octogenarian was diagnosed with the virus around a month ago, but he is still receiving treatment at an isolation ward at the General Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula.“His condition is stable. He is asymptomatic since his diagnosis — No cough, no fever. He is not having comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes or any other serious illness,” said Dr Rajesh Raju.Slow recovery due to age“As there is no specific treatment for the virus, it’s hard to generalise the time taken to recover. It totally depends upon how an immune system responds to coronavirus. Only factor responsible, predominantly, for his slow recovery is his old age,” he stated, adding that the first patient, a 44-year-old woman from Khark Mangoli in Old Panchkula, stayed in the hospital for almost three weeks.What WHO saysIn most cases with mild symptoms, the recovery period is two weeks, states the World Health Organisation. Those with severe or critical cases can take three to six weeks to recover from the disease.About 1 in 20 people infected with the virus may require intensive care.17 recovered so far Of the total 20 cases in the district, 17 have been cured and discharged.Rajiv Colony’s patient stable“The 44-year-old from Rajiv Colony, who was found Covid positive yesterday, is also stable,” Dr Raju said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/age-plays-pivotal-role-in-recovery-of-patient-doctor-82790
10-05-2020||---||Motor market assn seeks reopening of shops||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Shop owners in the Sector 38 (West) Motor market have requested the UT Administration to allow them to open shops on an odd-even basis.They said they were finding it hard to make two ends meet. Some of their workers have not even received salaries.Jaswant Singh, president of the New Motor Market Welfare Association, said: “We will ensure social distancing and wearing of masks. Also, we will sanitise the whole area and if any discrepancy is found at our level at any point in time, I will have the shops.”“Also, we will neither allow customers nor workers from the red zones,” he said.“Everybody’s Aadhaar card will be checked at the entrance. We have raised the issue with the authorities, but no response so far.If they do not allow us to operate, workers will find it hard to feed their families,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motor-market-assn-seeks-reopening-of-shops-82791
10-05-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration yet to take call on home delivery of food||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The UT Administration is yet to take a call on starting home delivery service. Hotels, eateries and restaurant owners have raised a demand in this regard.“We have received various requests and considering the same, a committee has already been formed by the higher authorities. We have to take care of all inputs after consulting health experts, cleanliness experts and others. The committee will now soon submit its report to the higher authorities and the final call will be taken by them,” said AK Sinha, Finance Secretary, who is also heading the committee formed to look into the demands raised for home delivery.“Our industry may initially be allowed to serve via home delivery and take away. Also, we demanded to open limited food and beverages services such as A’la Carte for restaurants/bars/lounges/sweet and coffee shops with cap on maximum sitting ensuring social distancing as per the guidelines,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-yet-to-take-call-on-home-delivery-of-food-82793
10-05-2020||---||Property consultants seek relaxation in collector rates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The Property Consultant Association has sought relaxations for revival of the property market and to generate revenue for the UT Administration. The association president, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, said, “The government offices have opened and now public dealing will start from Monday.”“We seek some relaxation from the UT Administration in the present situation when all are expecting a slowdown in the property market after the lockdown,” he added.“The association has demanded reduction in collector rates by 25 per cent in residential and 40 per cent in commercial properties, besides reduction in the stamp duty charges, which will boost the morale of buyers,” he said.“The Administration should allow conversion of commercial and industrial property from leasehold to freehold with minimum conversion rates,” he added. “The association has also sought floor-wise registry in residential and commercial properties by introducing the Apartment Act,” he said. “If relaxations are given then it will be a win-win situation for the public and the government as it will generate revenue,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-consultants-seek-relaxation-in-collector-rates-82794
10-05-2020||---||PU faculty files patent  for low-cost disinfectant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Dr Gurpreet Kaur, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, has filed an Indian patent through Technology Information Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC), DST, GOI, that deals with the utilisation of metallocatanionic vesicles in the photodynamic therapy to kill microbes.This work provides a formulation as well as a process to fight the infection in public areas like malls, hospitals and institutes through microbes.With this invention, Dr Gurpreet Kaur and her team will be able to produce a disinfectant that is cost effective (cheaper than the commercial products available in the market like Lizol, Mr Muscle and others), more useful and at the same time safe (no side effects).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-faculty-files-patent-for-low-cost-disinfectant-82795
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three NRIs from Chandigarh reach Delhi||The first batch of three NRIs from the city reached Delhi today. More than 5,000 NRIs, students and others whose visas have expired and those who want to meet their parents in Chandigarh will return to the city in the coming days. All those retuning from abroad will be quarantined in hotels on payment basis for 14 days on their arrival to the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said passengers, who had returned from abroad, had been kept at a hotel in Delhi. They would decide on when to bring them to the city tomorrow, Parida added.On the demand of foreign returnees, they had decided to quarantine them only in Chandigarh hotels, Parida said. The UT Administration had decided to bring passengers from Amritsar and Delhi airports in buses after medical screening, Parida added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-nris-from-chandigarh-reach-delhi-82796
10-05-2020||---||CLAT online session||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9An online session “All-India National Law School Awareness Summit” for Class XI and XII students will be held on May 10 at 11 am to discuss career in law and how to crack the CLAT.The platform will bring some of the finest professionals, senior advocates, NLU alumni and NLU students together to provide their perspective on a career in law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clat-online-session-82797
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Stimulus package need of the hour’||Fear of financial crisis looms large over industry due to the lockdown imposed in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “Industry in Chandigarh is staring at financial crisis. Advisory of the MHA is being followed to reboot the economy, however, challenges are humongous,” said Pankaj Khanna, chief, Industries Association of Chandigarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stimulus-package-need-of-the-hour-82798
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 end life, 1 found dead in Dhanas||2 cross barricade in Sec 30-B, bookedChandigarh: Two residents from Sector 30-B, Suraj Mohan (50) and Rahul Deep Chaudhary (37), a motor mechanic, were booked for crossing the barricade of the containment area. He was booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270, IPC, for violating the UT Administration order. As per the orders, no one is allowed to go out or enter the containment area. Both of them were arrested and released on bail. It is the fourth case of the violation of the Administration’s order from this containment area in Sector 30-B. TNS100 migrants screenedZirakpur: Medical staff along with the Dera Bassi Police conducted screening of 100-odd people before leaving for Amethi (UP) at Government College. A similar drive was carried out at Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan in Zirakpur on Friday. At Milakh village near Mullanpur, police distributed grocery items to the family members of Covid-19 patients. Also, a thorough medical screening of local residents was done in the village. TNSIllegal entry: MC conducts raidsMohali: Even though the district administration had allowed residents to move to and fro from Mohali after producing their identity cards, officials of the municipal corporation conducted surprise raids to check unauthorised movement. Mohali Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg said in order to ensure that nobody enters the district from neighbouring states (Haryana and Himachal Pradesh) without authorisation, surprise checks were conducted at all entry points into the district from highways as well as link roads. TNSMan molests sister-in-law, heldPanchkula: A person has been arrested for allegedly molesting his sister-in-law. The suspect has been identified as Arun, a resident of Barwala. The victim approached the Barwala police post, alleging that Arun molested her on May 7 while she was talking on phone with her mother on terrace. A case has been registered at Chandimandir police station under Sections 323, 354 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code. TNSSagandeep Singh clears UPSC examChandigarh: Sagandeep Singh Randhawa, a student from the Centre for IAS and other Competitive Examinations, has cleared the Central Armed Police Forces (Assistant Commandments) 2018 examination of the UPSC whose final result was announced on Friday. Randhawa scored 31st rank in the exam. TNSFormer PU DUI BereavedChandigarh: Rekha Jhanji, former Professor (Philosophy), and wife of Prof Bhupinder Brar, former DUI, passed away on May 8. A renowned scholar, she was also the founder coordinator of the UGC Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies. She had two PhDs, one from Panjab University and the other from University of Paris X Nanterre, France. She remained associated with IIAS, Shimla, as Senior Fellow for three years. TNSPRC review panel holds meetingChandigarh: A meeting of the review committee of Population Research Centres (PRCs) in India under the aegis of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare was held at New Delhi. It was attended by Hony Director, PRC, Prof Kumool Abbi. Through video conferencing the director evaluated the work. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-end-life-1-found-dead-in-dhanas-82799
