11-05-2020||---||Fight against COVID: TBRL develops contactless sanitizer dispenser||Chandigarh, May 11An automatic high pressure mist-based contactless hand sanitizer dispenser developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has now been optimised to meet requirement of the medical fraternity as well as the general public at offices, factories, colleges, public places and homes.The optimisation has been undertaken by the Chandigarh-based Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) in collaboration with the local industry keeping in mind large requirement of the equipment and ease of operation.The TBRL is engaged in the development, production and characterisation of different high explosive compositions and evaluation of warheads bombs, missiles, airborne systems and protective systems.The machine designed and developed by the TBRL dispenses high pressure mist to meet the requirement of “donning and doffing areas” in hospitals treating COVID-19 patients and quarantine places.The sanitizer is sprayed as long as users keep their hand below the delivery nozzle. This is unlike other devices which are timer based and dispense a fixed quantity of sanitizer.​The machine was demonstrated by the TBRL on Monday before two senior doctors at the PGIMER here who are handling COVID-19 patients.According to one of the doctors, the machine generates high pressure droplets that are able to enter the skin pores and penetrate under the nail tips.The pressurised mist is able to cleanse even minute areas. The quick response of the sensor not only ensures timely delivery of sanitizing mist but also reduces any wastage, the doctor added.Two models with a capacity of two litres and five litres have been designed, which are expected to cost Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per unit and commercial production is expected to commence soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fight-against-covid-tbrl-develops-contactless-sanitizer-dispenser-83455
11-05-2020|| ||Caught spitting on road, two-wheeler rider made to clean it up||Chandigarh, May 11A traffic marshal on duty at a naka on Dakshin Marg near Tribune Chowk today made a two-wheeler rider clean the road after the latter had spitted on it.The traffic marshal, Baldev Singh, saw a motorcyclist spitting around 100 metres before the naka. Traffic cops stopped the biker, who was riding with a minor boy as pillion, at the naka and pointed out that he had spitted on a public place.Following this, the biker went to the place and removed the spit with his hands and some grass. While he was returning, the traffic marshal went to him with a water bottle, took him back to the spot and asked him to pour water on it. Later, Baldev Singh made him wash his hands.“I had taken the water bottle along with me as I wanted the person to clean it with water, but he himself cleaned it with his hands and some grass he was holding,” said the traffic marshal.Baldev Singh said nobody forced him to do so. “He was apologetic at the naka and volunteered to clean it,” he added.As per the lockdown directions of the UT Administration, a ban has been imposed on spitting at public places and riding a two-wheeler with a pillion rider.Sources said the minor boy riding as pillion was not wearing a helmet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/caught-spitting-on-road-two-wheeler-rider-made-to-clean-it-up-83452
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||2-month-old baby among Chandigarh’s 7 new coronavirus cases||Chandigarh reported seven more coronavirus cases on Monday, officials said.Five of the seven new cases were from Bapu Dham---taking the number of cases in the area to 115.The sixth case was a two-month-old baby girl whose parents have not tested positive yet. The last case came from Sector 7, where a man employed at a local hospital and reportedly helped carry the body of a patient who had tested positive was diagnosed with the infection himself.The development takes Chandigarh’s tally to 181 with three deaths.Bapu Dham colony accounts for 63.5 per cent of the city’s cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-month-old-baby-among-chandigarhs-7-new-coronavirus-cases-83449
11-05-2020||---||First ‘shramik train’ from Chandigarh leaves for Gonda||Chandigarh, May 10As many as 1,188 migrant workers today left for Gonda, Uttar Pradesh (UP), on the first shramik train from the Chandigarh railway station at 6.45 pm. The train is expected to reach Gonda at 7 am tomorrow, said an official from the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways.Based on the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines, the UT Administration had prepared lists of migrants, conducted their screening and brought them to the railway station in batches on sanitised buses.Yashpal Garg, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) and Secretary Social Welfare, Chandigarh Administraiton, who is in charge of this process, said, “Over 25 Chandigarh Housing Board staffers and NIC (UT’s software developers) worked late night to prepare lists and were back at work again at 8 am as the migrants were to be medically screened at Sector 43 bus stand at 10 am.”UT’s Nodal Officer for ferrying migrants on shramik trains Rajiv Tiwari said, “After the lists were made, confirmation was sought from interested passengers through SMS. About a dozen buses were sent across the city to bring migrants to Sector 43 bus stand, where six teams of doctors tested around 1,200 persons.”The screened passengers were then issued a certificate by the UT Administration. More buses were pressed into service to send the migrants to the railway station.The migrants were provided lunch at the bus stand by the Red Cross, while dinner packets were provided at the railway station.As had been observed in Mohali that many migrants who earlier registered to return to their native place had later changed their mind and decided to stay back, in Chandigarh too about 30 per cent labourers decided not to return as they have resumed their jobs again, after the lockdown relaxations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-shramik-train-from-chandigarh-leaves-for-gonda-83175
11-05-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Migrants hit tracks to reach home||Zirakpur, May 10Migrants continue to walk on railway tracks to reach their respective states hundreds of miles away by risking their lives.Reason: Most labourers do not have documents to register for shramik trains and some do not want to wait any longer. Labourers are preferring railway tracks to avoid inter-state check points as well.In a tragic incident a couple of days ago, 16 migrants were crushed under a freight train in Aurangabad (Maharashtra) as tired labourers heading towards Madhya Pradesh slept on railway tracks.A migrant alleged that he and his family had enrolled on the state government portal and they had got a confirmation on their mobile phone, but the train was canceled.Labourers who are stuck stuck in the city without jobs, said in case special trains are not run they would head home on foot.Though the government has started running special trains to ferry migrants, many of them have started their journey on foot or bicycle as the wait gets longer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrants-hit-tracks-to-reach-home-83176
11-05-2020||---||Leopard poaching: FIR filed against unknown persons in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 10An FIR has been registered at Chandimandir police station against unidentified persons for causing serious injuries to a leopard, which died at Pipli zoo on Saturday.The leopard was rescued by wildlife officials after it fell into a 15-foot-deep tank in Tikri village in Morni block on May 7.The complaint was lodged by wildlife official, Ramkesh, under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.On the basis of animal’s physical condition and Veterinary Surgeon’s medical report, the leopard’s paw got caught in a deadly foot trap set by unidentified poachers.After 3.5 hour rescue operation, the leopard was moved to Pipli zoo for further treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-poaching-fir-filed-against-unknown-persons-in-panchkula-83177
11-05-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration to decide on home isolation of patients||Chandigarh, May 10Two days on, the UT Administration is yet to decide on the revised guidelines of the Central Government policy wherein mild or moderate cases will be discharged after 10-day stay in hospital without Covid testing.In Chandigarh, there are more than 50 cases, who have completed 10 days stay in hospital.“The bone of contention in the implementation of the discharge policy is whether patients after staying 10 days in hospital should be allowed to go for seven days home isolation or not,” said a senior official.The UT Administration is going to decide on Monday where to home quarantine individual cases after discharge from hospital.The implementation of the policy will pose a challenge as over 62 per cent cases in the city are from Bapu Dham. There is huge possibility of the violation of the social distancing norm during the period of home isolation for seven days.As per the revised guideline, mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a Covid-care facility can be discharged after 10 days of onset of symptoms and no fever for three days.There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to go for home isolation for seven days.Further, cases clinically classified as moderate will undergo monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation.If fever subsides within three days and the patient maintains saturation above 95 per cent for the next four days (without oxygen support), he/she will be discharged. Such patients should have no fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-decide-on-home-isolation-of-patients-83178
11-05-2020||Mohali||Snake sparks panic in Mohali||Panic gripped locality when a 6-feet-long common krait was spotted in a balcony of a house at Phase 11, Mohali, in the late evening on Sunday. On spotting venomous snake coiled in flowerpots, a woman sitting in the balcony and enjoying weather, screamed and rushed inside the house.  The house owner, Col Raghubir Singh Shah (retd), said on hearing screams of the women his wife, who was offering prayers, rushed out, and discovered snake in the balcony. They called a snake catcher from Sector 38, Chandigarh, who caught the common krait, Col Shah added. The snake catcher told them it was a common krait, one of the venomous snake found in and around Chandigarh, Col Shah said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snake-sparks-panic-in-mohali-83179
11-05-2020||Naina Mishra---||GMCH to ramp up testing to minimise risk of infection among health workers||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 10 In view of the increasing number of asymptomatic positive cases and recent incidences of virus exposure among healthcare workers, the Government Medical College Hospital, Sector 32, has decided to ramp up testing with an automatic extraction machine. The institute has felt the need for altering the sampling guidelines as with the resumption of medical services after the lockdown, the chances of infection among healthcare workers will increase manifolds. “Whenever routine medical and surgical services are restored, which is likely to happen soon after the lockdown, the number of cases needing procedures and other treatment will increase,” read a document from the GMCH. The feasibility of Covid testing of all those admitted to the GMCH through emergency service was deliberated upon by the committee constituted by the Director-Principal to avoid infection among healthcare workers during a meeting convened by Dr Jagdish Chander, Professor and Head of the Department of Microbiology. Recommendations  The challenge is that with the change in the guidelines for sampling, the number of samples will increase significantly. The committee was of an opinion that an automatic extraction machine can be procured to evade manual extraction and to expedite the processing of samples. As per the current protocol, only those are being tested who are either examined in the screening OPD or are considered relevant as per the guidelines. All patients admitted to medicine emergency, requiring admission to the Psychiatry Department, will be tested, besides those admitted to the Obstetrics Gynecology Department requiring any surgical intervention.  It has been decided that all patients requiring surgical intervention or any other invasive procedure such as angioplasty and endoscopy will be tested. However, patients in need of life-saving surgery will be treated irrespective of whether the sample has been taken for Covid or not. A coordinating officer from all departments concerned will be appointed to identify those in need of testing. 8 workers exposed to virus As many as eight health workers from the GMCH have been exposed to Covid as they were posted in the ward where 30-year-old attendant from Bapu Dham Colony, who tested positive, was working. These include three resident women doctors, a nursing officer from Sector 32, a ward boy from Mani Majra, a housekeeping staff and an OT technician.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-to-ramp-up-testing-to-minimise-risk-of-infection-among-health-workers-83180
11-05-2020||Khamano||Khamano doctor tests positive||A woman doctor of the Khamano Civil Hospital today tested positive, along with 8 others. The doctor, Gaganjot, had collected samples of 7 persons from Khant, Sanghol and Panaichan village on May 7. They all tested positive. A minor boy from Khamano is among those tested positive and the ward no 4 has been declared a hotspot. Khamano Kalan was sealed by the police.  Khamano SMO Harbhajan Ram said today, 9 persons, tested positive. Khamano SDM Paramjit Singh said the situation was grim. He said five of those tested positive came to the village from other states. Meanwhile, volunteers of the Sahara Club were helping the police seal the Khamano village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khamano-doctor-tests-positive-83181
11-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Mohali Police celebrate birthday of 81-yr-old||Tribune News Service Mohali, May 10  It was a surprise for Harbhajan Singh Chopra, a senior citizen from Phase 3B1 in Mohali, when a police team arrived at his house with a cake to celebrate his birthday amid the lockdown. As a gesture of goodwill towards senior citizens, an 8-member team of the Mohali police, led by sub-inspector Meenu Hooda, celebrated Chopra’s birthday and also presented him a gift. The team also sung birthday rhymes and the gesture moved Chopra to tears.  Chopra expressed gratitude to SI Meenu Hooda and her team. He said: “God looks after everyone.” Chopra has been living alone in the house and has a daughter who lives abroad. His grandson lives in Sector 68 and comes over to stays with him at night.  Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association president Swarn Chaudhary and secretary general SS Bedi said taking a cue from the Panchkula police, he gave the idea to the Mohali police.  He said he took up the matter with SP (City) Harvinder Singh Virk who approved of the suggestion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-celebrate-birthday-of-81-yr-old-83182
11-05-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||These women cops turn saviours for the needy||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 10The Women Police Station, Sector 5, Panchkula, is at the forefront of exemplifying the force’s motto of Sewa Suraksha Sahyog (Service Security Cooperation).The all-women police station with 30 personnel is also at the forefront in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.It suffered a setback when, in the line of duty, a constable tested positive and five others were quarantined. It bounced back in no time as the cops are preparing for a long haul ahead.“The patient has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Kurukshtera, and five others have been quarantined. The cops are alert, taking all precautions and functioning as usual,” said Noopur Bishnoi, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Panchkula.“We are discouraging people to visit the police station for minor cases or things that can wait. Our priority is primarily on urgent cases. We have drawn a perimeter in the police station and the public is not allowed to go beyond a point. Those who have to come inside are being dealt with from a room where the staff sits inside and public dealing is done through a window,” she said.The cops do not stop after the official duty hours. They have been feeding the needy in this time of despair. For close to one month, constables at the police station have been running a special kitchen where 300 to 500 packets of food is prepared daily for the people stuck in the lockdown.Recently, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar lauded their effort in a tweet: “I salute all personnel of the Women Police Station, Panchkula, for dedicating their post duty hours to help the needy.”On Mother’s Day (May 10), most of the families celebrated the occasion in the comfort of their homes. The cops, however, were occupying the trenches. “The celebrations can wait for a while,” she said.There have been reports from across the country that domestic violence cases have gone up substantially during the lockdown, but the Haryana Police Service officer said: “Nothing like that here. There is no alarming change I have noticed, just routine cases. Maybe, it’s more of a WhatsApp thing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/these-women-cops-turn-saviours-for-the-needy-83183
11-05-2020||---||From 47,000 annually to 2 lakh daily, PPE production skyrockets||Chandigarh, May 10 There has been a massive spike in production of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits in the country following outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. From just 47,000 kits being produced annually, the output has gone up to about two lakh per day. Stating this here today, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), said Covid-19 has provided a lot of opportunity for research and development and industrial production, but cautioned that delays in development is of no use. He was addressing scientists and staff at the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, via video-conferencing on the occasion of the center’s 32nd foundation day. Directors and scientists from various laboratories of the DRDO, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and other institutions also participated in the conference. He also spoke about medical ventilators produced by the industry with assistance from the DRDO, which costs from Rs 1.5 to 4 lakh and have export potential. Dr Reddy said the C-DAC, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, will be considered as an ‘extended arm’ of the DRDO for undertaking applied research.  Lauding the role of the Mohali center in research and development in electronics and information technology, Dr Reddy said artificial intelligence tools developed by it would be required in all most every field. Dr PK Khosla, Director, C-DAC, Mohali, gave an overview of the work done in the organisation’s four verticals – healthcare technology, cyber security, e-governance and education and training. He also spoke about four new areas under focus, including artificial intelligence, augmented and virtual reality, robotics and quantum computing.  Dr Hemant Darbari, Director General, C-DAC, spoke on –e-Sanjeevni OPD, a recently launched national level telemedicine project rolled out by the C-DAC, Mohali. It has been extended to 15 states within three weeks and provides access to over a thousand doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-47-000-annually-to-2-lakh-daily-ppe-production-skyrockets-83185
11-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Special train with 1,320 labourers chugs off from Fatehgarh Sahib||Shramik train with 1,320 migrants onboard chugged off from Sirhind railway station to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday evening. Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill Amneet Kondal along with senior officials was present at the railway station. The Deputy Commissioner said the state government has paid fare to the Indian Railways to the tune of Rs 5.76 lakh. She said before boarding the train, migrants were screened. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-train-with-1-320-labourers-chugs-off-from-fatehgarh-sahib-83186
11-05-2020||How to solve livelihood issues of those affected by lockdown?||Gradual resumption of economic activity only way forward||Labour-intensive industry needs pushThe Chandigarh Administration’s decision to allow opening of markets in various areas was seen coming. However, markets are likely to wobble for the time being. Areas such as construction where use of labour is prolific should be given abundant push to ensure their livelihood. Businessman and middle class should be given relaxations in payment of electricity bills and taxes. The government should exempt all commercial and residential establishments from property tax for this fiscal. After all, it is the question of “to be or not to be”.Sikander Singh, ChandigarhFocus now on economic revivalThe government has put all its efforts on saving lives and let the economy slow down. This has resulted in the loss of jobs. India without doubt today is in recession and uncertainty. The danger is we may head towards stagflation. Cash transfers to workers and provision for rations to the vulnerable sections of society are short-term measures. We need a minimum growth rate of 12 per cent. This seems difficult to achieve unless a dynamic strategy for resumption of economic activity is formulated.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurAllow dhobis, cobblers to workThe most affected people are street dhobis, cobblers, golgappa sellers, tikki wallas, employees, who work in shops and restaurants, daily wagers and maids, who have been rendered jobless. These categories must be allowed to work with time limits by following social distancing norms and wearing masks.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhGood to see relief for daily-wage earnersAllowing work in industrial units and ongoing construction sites other than a few hot spots in the city will indeed give a boost to the sagging morale of idling skilled and non-skilled labourers. The Administration must allow private cabs and auto-rickshaws to ply. Neighbourhood dhobis and mochis (cobblers) be given a go ahead to resume their services. It will spur economic activity and bring relief to customers.SC Luthra, ChandigarhEach one should help oneThank God, finally curfew has been lifted bringing the much-needed relief to labourers, workers and others. The UT Administration must ensure that all arrangements made for such people are beneficial for them. As responsible citizens, we all must come forward to help the needy. Pay in time or even pay in advance to your maids, gardeners and watchmen. A little kind gesture like recharging their mobile numbers with your own money can be a good help. Help them in buying books for their children. So, each one should help one. Together we will surely come out of this depressing situation.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhRelaxation versus reliefThe UT Administration has given some relaxations for the convenience of public, which does not warrant us against getting infected. Still it seems to denote "The rider is responsible for his own luggage". Most workers belong to other states. If allowed, they would leave for their native places. Business establishments too are in a quandary about the revival of their industry. The current scenario has affected both the job seekers and the job providers. Still one has to wait and watch for some more time hopefully for the return of normalcy.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliPolicy boost on spending neededWhen a rupee is spent to buy a service or goods, it opens floodgates of livelihood for many down the line. The curfew and lockdown halted the rupee-in-motion. Best is to give a policy boost to encourage spending. Return of pre-corona era in totality will take time. Till then, the provision of necessary PPEs and physical distancing must be ensured by employers for basic safety of daily wagers.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPublic role holds solutionLockdown is just a precautionary measure to discipline citizens so as not to fall prey to deadly disease. If public betrays, no statutory imposition can do good. Livelihood has its paramount importance. Ultimately, public behaviour holds the solution. Behaving responsibly, people can earn while taking all precautions. Only public role holds the solution.MPS Chadha, MohaliGovt must help worst sufferersUrban informal sector workers largely comprising male migrants are the most vulnerable and the most difficult to reach through social security programmes. Help farmers, organised sector workers, MNREGA women with Jan Dhan accounts, widows and pensioners. The government must provide food, shelter and job security. Labourers should be given wages during the crisis. As farmers are facing losses the government should step up crop procurement to maintain their income.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhAid for those who opted for securityThe worst affected during the lockdown are labourers, particularly migrants. They were caught unawares when the lockdown was announced. The government should pay Rs 3,000 per month to those, who have enrolled for social security. The workforce in general has shrunk frighteningly. Can the government initiate specific measures such as providing large-scale unemployment allowance for sustaining labourers through the crisis until they are gainfully employed again?Sanjay Chopra, MohaliFrame policy for work and foodIt is true that poor man survives on hope. It is our moral duty to help needy persons in difficult times. The Administration should frame policy to provide food and work to them. It should compel employers to pay their salary without deduction during the lockdown/curfew.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliNot even 10% engaged in routine workAll government offices, banks, petrol pumps and shops are open (although with limited staff). Despite all this it seems that life come to a halt. Nothing really seems to be open. All educational institutions, private offices, airways, railways, roadways, hotels, restaurants, factories, industries, IT companies, malls, cinema houses, various other activities and job related services are still closed. How could anybody expect to spur economic activity bringing relief to labourers, workers and others when not even 10% of people are engaged in their routine work?Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhMake workers comfortableNow, after easing norms the Administration is facing a big challenge. Migrants are restless and vying to go back to their villages. They should be made to stay by providing advance if not wages. Their families should be provided essentials by owners of establishments where they work. In turn, the Administration should provide funds to owners to sustain losses faced by them.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhAllow inter-state movementTo spur economic activities and provide employment for the laid off labourers, the government has given relaxation in the tricity. Industrial and commercial activities have been allowed with riders. However, there still remains restriction on the inter-state movement, which hampers the supply of raw material and components for running industrial units. The authorities must allow inter-state/district or inter-zone movement of materials with strict adherence to dos & don'ts. This would enable industrial unit to run effectively, besides providing employment opportunities to labourers and other tradesmen.SS Arora, MohaliResident associations should help needyThe problems of economically weaker section have aggravated due to the pandemic. Besides food, they need financial security. Lifting the curfew has brought little relief for them. The residents' welfare association of each sector should identify the needy and collect donations for them. If each house of the locality contributes some amount, it can be a big step towards ameliorating sufferings of the worst-affected community.Archana Sharma, ChandigarhFollow norms, get relaxationsThe government will give more relaxations in working hours if people maintain social distance, wear masks and sanitize hands regularly. In this pandemic, the most hit is middle class dependent on small salaries, which barely helps meet expenses.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCash relief can help people, firmsProvide temporary cash relief to the people and firms that are most affected, until the emergency abates. Give wages and subsidies to people and firms to help curb the contagion. Expand and extend transfers both in cash and kind especially for vulnerable groups. China is accelerating payments of unemployment insurance benefits and expanding social safety nets. Korea is increasing job seeker's allowances and expanding it for low-income households. Provide tax relief to people and businesses, which can't afford to pay.Jassica Goyal, ChandigarhCitizens’ lives first priorityThis is fact that several workers lost their livelihood owing to the imposition of lockdown in the city. Now, the UT Administration has given relaxation in the curfew. There has been surge in the Covid positive cases in the City Beautiful. The first priority is lives of citizens. Economic activities revival comes next. If people lose their lives due to easing of restrictions there seems no logic in doing so. Labourers, workers and others would only benefit if they survive.Capt Jagdish Verma (retd), ChandigarhEasing norms not a good ideaThe Administration's idea of easing so many lockdown norms is not a good idea as coronavirus positive cases are already surging in the city. The government should ease norms in a phased manner to ensure 'Jaan bhi, jahaan bhi'. Gradual relaxations should be given only to residents of non-containment sectors. The authorities should start with the odd-even system and open industries with less workforce. As the number of Covid cases reduces, industries should be allowed to use more workforce.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhAs earning was less so were expensesNo person died due to lack of food and shelter in the tricity during the lockdown. The government is providing food and cash allowances to distressed. As earning was less so was the expenditure. Labourers usually go for crop harvesting. Deportation of migrated labourers will open opportunities for local unemployed persons. No need to create panic. People should open for diversification.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhQUESTIONWith the number of Covid cases rising in the city and the UT Administration failing to stem the spread of the virus, what more measures should citizens take to safeguard themselves?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gradual-resumption-of-economic-activity-only-way-forward-83187
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 from Bapu Dham among four more test positive in city||After recording the highest spike of 21 cases on Saturday, the city saw four more residents testing positive for Covid today. The number of Covid cases in the city now stands at 174. Of these, 146 patients are hospitalised at the PGI.Three of the fresh cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony. A resident of Sector 40 too has been found positive for virus. He was working in a lab at the Civil Hospital, Ropar, and has been sampling Covid suspects there.In Bapu Dham, a five-year-old boy, who is a family contact of a Covid patient, an 11-year-old boy and a 45-year-old man, who are community contacts of Covid cases, have been found infected. As many as 110 Covid cases have been reported from the colony so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-from-bapu-dham-among-four-more-test-positive-in-city-83189
11-05-2020||---||7 new Covid cases in Mohali||Mohali, May 10   With the surfacing of seven more Covid cases, the total count in the Mohali district has gone up to 105 today.  The sudden spike in cases have kept the health authorities on their toes who are trying to get information regarding the family members of the patients and tracing their contacts to contain the virus.   Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the new patients were among the frontline health workers testing positive at Ropar today. He said at present, there were 48 active cases in the district while 54 persons had recovered and discharged from the hospital. Besides, three Covid deaths have been reported from the district.  Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the infected persons include two men from Kurali, aged 46 and 41, two Kharar men, aged 47 and 34, a 28-year-old woman, a resident of SBP Homes, Sector 126, Mohali, a 32-year-old woman, a resident of Kurali, and another 32-year-old woman, a resident of Amancity in Kharar.Manjit Singh said samples of the new patients' family members would be taken on Monday besides their other contacts would be traced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-new-covid-cases-in-mohali-83194
11-05-2020||Manpriya Singh||Takeaway, home delivery of food — If others can allow, why can’t Chandigarh?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 10How can there be a different set of rules for red zones across various districts and states, joked a small restaurant owner. Putting it in a better way — how can a pizza be ordered in Gurugram and Delhi and even nearer home in Mohali and Panchkula, but not in Chandigarh?The decision of the UT Administration to not allow takeaways and deliveries by restaurants has many raising their brows, others scratching their heads and yet some giving a silent nod of approval.“Of course, it should be allowed,” opines Abhay Singh Jagat, a city-based serial restaurateur. “How is it any different from the takeaways and deliveries being done for other products? Procedures can be made as these have been done for other sectors. The industry is an integral part of society — both urban and rural (as it bridges the agriculturalist with the urban consumer). It also provides employment to many.”“There should be strict measures in place, but we must at least be allowed to function,” said Gayatri Sood, owner, Monica’s Puddings & Pies.“Even if allowed, I don’t think it will make much of a difference as public confidence is low and by opening outlets, the cost of operation will be really high,” says Amber Kapur, owner, Burger Hub, who owns five outlets in the tricity.There are a few others who’d rather wait for the “right time”. “I am happy they’ve not been allowed to operate. Chandigarh is not the kind of city where a large population is dependent on food from outside. So, comparisons with Delhi, Gurugram, Noida are unfair,” opines Rajkanwar Singh Bhangoo, chef-restaurateur, AJA Fresh, Sector 11.“Those who don’t have domestic help certainly find it difficult to manage to cook, clean, scrub, besides looking after kids?” laments Rattika Singhal, a city-based homemaker. “Being able to order food, even if twice a week, can be a breather," she says.Delivery boy Rajesh Dogra, while refusing to name his company, shares: “Many of my colleagues have left the city. I am currently delivering bakery items. Every once in a while, people ask me when will we start delivering fast food.”* Officialspeak“We are only following the guidelines in a way that there is zero risk at play. It’s not just the cooked food, but several stages involved that can be a source of infection. Moreover, one cannot overlook the case of pizza Delhi delivery personnel in Delhi. It is pointless to compromise on public health and safety,” says Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator.“Takeaways and deliveries of cooked food are considered to have bigger chances of infection and these are definitely not essential supplies. Further, deliveries of essential uncooked items are permissible even beyond normal opening hours of shops. So, the Administration took the decision as we were allowed to be stricter than the Centre’s guidelines.”Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/takeaway-home-delivery-of-food-%E2%80%94-if-others-can-allow-why-cant-chandigarh-83195
11-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Too little, too late — Chandigarh Administration found wanting in Bapu Dham Colony||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 10What Panchkula did in the congested Rajiv Colony and Kharak Mangoli and Mohali in Jagatpura and Jawaharpur, Chandigarh failed to do in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), which accounts for nearly 63 per cent of the total Covid cases reported from the city.The lowest sampling in the tricity, no random sampling, not shifting family and close contacts of patients to quarantine centres and lack of early intervention are the factors in which the UT lags behind its neighbours.Chandigarh has so far reported 174 cases, the maximum in the tricity, but tested on 2,142 persons, the minimum in the tricity. On the other hand, Panchkula, which saw the lowest number of cases (20) in the tricity, has tested the maximum samples (2,600). Also, Mohali where 98 cases have been reported has tested 2,400 samples till now.Waking up from its deep slumber, the UT Administration started sampling rigorously only after April 24 when Bapu Dham reported its first Covid case.The UT has an estimated population of 14 lakh, Mohali 10 lakh and Panchkula 6.6 lakh.Notably, the first Covid in the tricity was reported from Chandigarh on March 18.*No random testing in UTTaking the lead, Panchkula has conducted as many as 1,000 random tests. It was started 15 days ago. Four positive cases were detected during the random testing in vulnerable areas. Though Mohali is not going in for random sampling in the whole district, it is doing so in affected areas and flu corners. The Chandigarh authorities, however, “do not feel the need for random sampling”.*Violations and non-shifting of patients to quarantine centresThe first Covid case was reported from Bapu Dham Colony on April 24. In a fortnight, the number of cases in the colony has reached 110. The phenomenal rise in the count points towards no early, strict intervention of the UT authorities. Even as the area has been sealed, people here kept roaming around, throwing marriage anniversary party and smoking hookah in groups.It was only after more cases started pouring in from the densely populated area that the Administration got CRPF personnel deployed at the colony and even removed the Bapu Dham Colony chowki incharge. There used to be no proper police patrolling.Apparently, the Administration did not seriously ponder over the fact that about 52,000 people reside in some 2,500 small houses in the colony and home-quarantining was impossible there. About 15-20 family members reside in a single house, a three-storey building constructed on an area of 25-30 yards.Though the UT Administration earlier shifted out about 60 persons from the colony to a quarantine centre in Sector 47, they were from the area outside the containment zone. The family or the primary contacts of the positive patients were not moved to quarantine centres unlike what the authorities did in Panchkula and Mohali.Though the MC contact tracing and quarantine team has quarantined as many as 5,487 persons, the effort does not seem to be complemented by the health or the UT Administration level.On the contrary, when a positive case was reported in Rajiv Colony, which is congested too, the Panchkula authorities shifted the old, diabetic and their family members to a quarantine centre. This was done to stop the community spread in the locality. Similar thing was done in Kharak Mangoli.In Mohali too, when cases were reported from Jagatpura and Jawarhpur, all those who came in direct touch with the patients were shifted to quarantine centres and later tested for Covid.What tricity authorities say:We are working as per the guidelines. There is no need and authorisation for random sampling. As far as quarantining is concerned, we are testing people in affected areas and then separating those found negative and positive for Covid. Arun Gupta, Health Secretary, ChandigarhThere is no sure shot formula for this. Apart from early surveillance, we have been doing active surveillance. We are doing random testing, which helped us detect four cases in the past few days. In congested zones where quarantining is not possible in houses, we shifted people out to quarantine centres. Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, PanchkulaWe are following all protocols of the government and doing maximum sampling. We are also doing random testing in affected areas and flu corners. To contain the spread in congested areas like Jagatpura and Jawaharpur, we shifted people to quarantine centre. Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/too-little-too-late-%E2%80%94-chandigarh-administration-found-wanting-in-bapu-dham-colony-83196
11-05-2020||---||80-year-old among two women recover in Mohali||Mohali, May 10 Two more patients, including an 80-year-old woman, recovered from Covid infection on Sunday, taking the count of recovered persons in the district to 54. Now, the number of active Covid cases in the district is 41.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the patients, Mohinder Kaur (80) and Jaswinder Kaur (56), had been discharged from the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur today. Manjit Singh said Jaswinder Kaur hails from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi while Mohinder Kaur belongs to Sector 91, Mohali. He said the total number of cases in the district so far was 98 while 35 from Jawaharpur alone had already defeated the virus. He said Jaswinder Kaur would not be sent home for another 14 days as a precautionary measure while Mohinder Kaur had been sent home and advised to quarantine herself for 14 days. Health teams would keep track of her health, he added. The Civil Surgeon said after a 14-day treatment, reports of the two consecutive tests conducted on the women came negative, following which they were discharged from the hospital. He said the remaining Covid patients at Gian Sagar Hospital were stable and no one was in serious condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-year-old-among-two-women-recover-in-mohali-83198
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||147 lockdown violators detained||Two vehicles set ablazeChandigarh: Unidentified miscreants set a motorcycle and an auto on fire at Dadu Majra Colony on the intervening night of May 9 and 10. The vehicles were parked near the owner’s house. The police and the Fire Department were informed about the incident, following which their teams reached the spot. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area would be scrutinised to identify the miscreants. TNSEx-PU DUI Prof Jha passes awayChandigarh: Prof Shankarji Jha, former Panjab University DUI, passed away at the age of 59 on Sunday evening. He died of cardiac arrest. University DUI RK Singla expressed shock over Jha’s sudden demise. “We have lost a wonderful colleague, scholar and friend. Great loss to the teaching fraternity at the university,” said Singla. TNSSabarwal is Chief EngineerPatiala: Ashok Kumar Sabarwal Deputy Chief Engineer, Hydel Projects, PSPCL, has been promoted as the Chief Engineer. He has taken over as the Chief Engineer, HRD, PSPCL. He has varied experience in different fields of the power sector. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/147-lockdown-violators-detained-83200
11-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Close shave for family as lightning strikes house||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 10A family at Jagatpura village in Mohali district had a miraculous escape after lightning struck their house this morning.House owner Pushpinder Singh said he, along with other members of the family, was sitting in the house when they heard a thud outside their house. He said when he moved out of the house, he saw a part of the cantilever of the roof broken, which had fallen on the ground. He said when he entered the rooms, he found electronic items damaged. Two ceiling fans were not working and when he tied to start two LED TVs, black fumes came out of these.However, no loss of life was reported from any part of the district.Meanwhile, thunderstorm, accompanied by heavy rain, lashed the region, resulting in uprooting of trees in various sectors and phases. The uprooted trees caused damage to several cars in Phase VII and two-wheelers.A large tree fell on the main road in front of Katani Sweets in Phase 3B2, blocking the road.The heavy rain resulted in accumulation of water on roads in Phase 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10.Wheat bags kept at a grain market set up near Fateh Burj in Chappar Chiri were also damaged due to rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-shave-for-family-as-lightning-strikes-house-83203
11-05-2020||Panchkula||Octogenarian Pinjore man defeats Covid||An 82-year-old man from Pinjore, who was admitted to the Civil Hospital a month ago, defeated Covid and was subsequently discharged this morning. He had attended a religious congregation in Sikar, Rajasthan, before testing positive for Covid. The octogenarian Covid patient had the longest stay at the Civil Hospital so far. He has been advised to self-isolate at home for the next 14 days, as per protocol. “He took a long time to recover, predominantly due to his old age,” said doctors.Rajiv Colony patient’s kin test negativeAll five family members of a 44-year-old man, a resident of Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 who had tested positive for Covid, have been found not infected. They had been isolated at the Civil Hospital.Cops’ report awaitedThe reports of the Covid samples of five women police officials with whom the district’s 20th case, a cook at the Sector 5 police station, used to share accommodation are awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/octogenarian-pinjore-man-defeats-covid-83204
11-05-2020||---||2 more found infected in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 10Two more Covid cases were reported from Panchkula today. One of them is a 33-year-old Sector 19 resident, who works in a pharma company at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh.He had reported to the Civil Hospital a few days ago after developing symptoms such as difficulty in breathing, fever and cough. He had been advised to self-isolate at home after doctors took his sample for Covid. His eight family members have been shifted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital for Covid testing.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, said, “He may have caught the infection at Baddi as he stayed there in a rest house. We have informed Baddi officials to trace his contacts to stem the infection.”The second person to test positive is a 45-year-old truck driver from Majri village. His sample was taken during random testing of 10 truck drivers of the Majri Chowk Truck Union on May 6. His exact source of infection is not known yet.“His five family members have also been shifted to the Civil Hospital for testing,” Dr Kaur said.Containment process begins“Further contacts of both infected persons are being traced. We have also begun the process of containment of the residential colonies where they stay to stem the spread of Covid-19,” the Civil Surgeon said.Panchkula tally 22With the two fresh cases, the district Covid tally now stands at 22, while the number of active cases is four.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-found-infected-in-panchkula-83208
