12-05-2020||New Delhi||AIFF nominates Sandesh Jhingan, Bala Devi for Arjuna||The All India Football Federation has nominated national team central defender Sandesh Jhingan and women's team striker N Bala Devi for the Arjuna Award, rewarding them for their consistency in recent years.Acting on the Sports Ministry's directive to send nominations for this year's sports awards, the AIFF did not have much trouble in finalising the names."We have decided to send the names of Sandesh and Bala Devi for the Arjuna Award keeping in view their consistent showings. So, it's one male and one female," said AIFF general secretary Kushal Das.He said their names had been considered for the prestigious award because of their achievements and consistency in recent times.Mohali lad Jhingan, who spent his formative years playing alongside Bhaichung Bhutia and set-piece specialist Rennedy Singh in Sikkim United, has over the years established himself as one of the most important players in the Indian team behind only Sunil Chhetri.Since making his India debut during a FIFA World Cup qualifier in 2015, ISL outfit Kerala Blasters' most-capped player has firmly cemented his players in the Indian team back-line.His growth and maturity as a player impressed former national team coach Stephen Constantine so much that he handed him the captaincy when Chhetri was not around.He has worn the captain's armband on several occasions.For the Blasters in the Indian Super League, Jhingan has also often shouldered the responsibility as right-back.The 26-year-old is known for his physical strength, aerial ball skills and willingness to put the body on the line."I'm lucky to be a part of this team," Jhingan had said recently.While he has always strived for consistency, Jhingan was at his best during the 2019 AFC Asian Cup.Another name that has attracted attention in Indian football is Bala Devi.Earlier this year, the 30-year-old Manipuri created history when she signed an 18-month contract with renowned Scottish Women's Premier League side Rangers FC, becoming the first Indian woman to play outside the country professionally.She has played quite a bit in the European top-flight before the league was postponed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic.Bala Devi was among the leading players of the continent to join the Asian Football Confederation's #BreakTheChain video campaign, aimed at raising awareness in the fight against the spread of the novel coronavirus. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aiff-nominates-sandesh-jhingan-bala-devi-for-arjuna-83831
12-05-2020||Ropar||Coronavirus: Four employees of Ropar Civil Hospital test negative five days after first test came back positive||Four employees of Ropar’s civil hospital tested negative for coronavirus---a development that comes two days after district authorities said 13 people from the hospital’s medical staff tested positive and also raises questions on how there could be contradictory results for the same people.The most recent results came from swab samples sent to a virology laboratory in Patiala. The previous samples, taken for testing on May 6, had been sent to IMTECH, Chandigarh.  Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said among the several reasons for contradictory results could have been breach of standard testing procedure by district health authorities. Usually samples taken multiple times are sent to the same laboratory for testing. She also said the other possible explanation is that there could have been a fall in virus load between the first and the second test.Samples for the second test were taken five days after the first.“Higher authorities at the health department have been informed about the violation of standard operating procedure by local officials,” she said.Among those who tested positive previously was a senior medical officer. The test results had caused some panic among district authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-four-employees-of-ropar-civil-hospital-test-negative-five-days-after-first-test-came-back-positive-83827
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr suffers cardiac arrest, remains critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr on Tuesday suffered a cardiac arrest and his condition remains critical, his grandson Kabir said in a medical update.The 96-year-old, a triple Olympic gold medallist, was hospitalised in Mohali on May 8."Nanaji was admitted on Friday, May 8th in a very serious multi-organ affected state. His condition had improved slightly but was and is still critical,” informed Kabir."Doctors will be continuously assessing his condition over the next 24-48 hours, before any further statements about his condition are issued. He continues to be on ventilator assistance," Kabir added.In January last year, Balbir Sr was discharged from PGI after spending 108 days in the hospital, where he underwent treatment for bronchial pneumonia.One of the country's tallest athletes, Balbir Sr became the only Indian among 16 legends chosen by the International Olympic Committee across the modern Olympic history.His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men's hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten.Balbir Sr had scored five goals in India's 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games.He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and was the manager of India's World Cup-winning team in 1975. TNS/PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-legend-balbir-singh-sr-suffers-cardiac-arrest-remains-critical-83825
12-05-2020||---||Doctor tests coronavirus positive as 8 new cases take Chandigarh tally to 189||Chandigarh reported eight new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the city's tally to 189.Among the fresh cases, a woman constable and a GMSH-16 doctor have tested positive.A family of three— a three-and-a-half-year-old girl, her mother and another woman—from Bapu Dham Colony and a 44-year-old man from Dhanas also tested positive.Two more Covid cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony. One of them is a seven-year-old boy and another a 75-year-old woman. Both are from two different houses in Bapu Dham Colony. The total cases from Bapu Dham Colony now stand at 120.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctor-tests-coronavirus-positive-as-8-new-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-189-83790
12-05-2020||---||Constable attacked at Dhanas||Chandigarh, May 11A UT constable was allegedly attacked with a stone by a few residents of Kachi Colony, Dhanas, which has been sealed and declared a containment zone due to spread of Covid-19.According to the police, Constable Anil Kumar was on duty at the marble market in Kachi Colony, Dhanas, on May 10 when Rajbir Singh, a resident of the colony, arrived at the naka and told the police that he had stomach ache and wanted to go to a hospital.The police said since the colony had been sealed and there was only one entry and exit, the constable asked the person to leave from that point. However, he entered into an altercation with the constable.He then called a few others from the colony to the spot, who also started arguing with the cop.The police said the accused then threw a stone at the constable, which hit his hand leaving him injured.In the meantime, the SHO, Sarangpur, Inspector Ram Rattan, also reached the spot and found the suspect lying down on the road, who claimed that he was unwell.The SHO took him to a hospital for a check-up where it was found that he did not have any problem.The police said a case against Rajbir Singh and others had been registered under Sections 332, 353 and 34 of the IPC at the Sarangpur police station.The police said the suspect was not arrested since he was a resident of a containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/constable-attacked-at-dhanas-83507
12-05-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Illegal axing of trees leaves Dera Bassi residents fuming||Dera Bassi, May 11Trees have been illegally axed near the forest area at Bir Dandrala village falling under the jurisdiction of the Dera Bassi police station.The incident came to light today when some residents, who were passing through the area, found broken tree shoots lying scattered. The residents later posted a video on the social media about illegal felling of trees. Post video on social mediaThe incident came to light on Monday when some residents, who were passing through the area, found broken tree shoots lying scattered. The residents later posted a video on the social media about illegal felling of trees.The broad daylight incident puts a question mark on the working of the field staff since it was adjoining the forest area. Senior forest officials were supposed to maintain a vigil on the land.While the trees could not have been axed overnight, the field staff appears to have deliberately turned a blind eye to the felling, alleged the residents.“Cutting so many trees and taking them away requires some time. This means employees of the administration were watching helplessly when the trees were being cut,” said another resident of the area.However, some villagers, who did not wish to be named, said the green cover of the forest area was already affected and now trees had been chopped off in the past several days. They said if no action was taken by the authorities concerned, the axing of trees in an illegal way would continue in the coming days.Forest Department officials have started investigations into the allegations levelled by the residents. They are planning to lodge a police complaint against unidentified miscreants responsible for the axing of trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-axing-of-trees-leaves-dera-bassi-residents-fuming-83470
12-05-2020||---||Former domestic help among 2 arrested for assaulting lawyer in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 11Almost two months after a lawyer of the Punjab and Haryana High Court was assaulted at his house, the UT police today arrested two accused in this regard. Some unidentified persons had assaulted lawyer Amit Sethi at his house in Sector 9 on March 17.He was at his home when he heard some noise from the rooftop. He went to the roof and found two persons trying to steal a dish antenna. When he tried to catch the miscreants, they assaulted him.A case against unknown persons under Sections 452, 323, 379, 511 and 34 of the IPC was registered against the accused at Sector 3 police station.The police said a special investigation team of the central sub-division investigated the matter. Senior Constable Gurjant Singh was given the task to prove the case.Police officials said that during this period, he was quarantined for 14 days at at IRB Complex, Sarangpur. But, even after his quarantine period, he continued this task.The police team also got help from some TikTok accounts related with the suspects in verification process. During the investigation, some clue indicated the involvement of a former servant identified as Mukesh and one of his associates. Thereafter, the team arrested the accused identified as Mukesh Singh (20) and Manish alias Golu Singh (18) both residents of Nayagaon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-domestic-help-among-2-arrested-for-assaulting-lawyer-in-chandigarh-83471
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU VC nominated for academic body||Webinar at Dept of BiotechnologyChandigarh: The Department of Biotechnology, UIET, organised a webinar for undergraduate and postgraduate students. Dr Anshu Palta, associate professor, Department of Pathology at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, enlightened the students on the topic “Understanding Cancer: Going Beyond Definitions”. TNSSpecial lecture on liberalismChandigarh: The Department of Gandhian and Peace Studies in collaboration with the UNESCO Network Chair organised a special lecture of Dr Aslam Khan, from Mahatma Gandhi Central University, Motihari (Bihar) on the topic "Collapse of liberal institutionalism and challenges to peace and security". TNSArbitral award writing contestChandigarh: The Alternate Dispute Resolution and Client Counseling Board of the UILS conducted the first edition of its Intra-Department Arbitral Award Writing Competition with the online valedictory ceremony. The winner of the competition was a team comprising of Ritik Gupta and Ritika Sharma. The second prize was bagged by Jainendra Kataria and the third position was held by Ishaan Loomba. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-vc-nominated-for-academic-body-83498
12-05-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Tragedy averted||Chandigarh Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haveyoursay@tribunemail.comTragedy avertedThe squall which hit the city in the early hours of Sunday morning had partially uprooted one of the trees in the park in front of our house in Sector 33-D. The tree leaned over the fence and was just short of hitting the electricity cables. We quickly informed the Electricity and Horticulture Departments about the issue. Officials of the departments responded promptly and assured us of speedy resolution. With God’s grace and prompt action a big a tragedy was averted. Dr Roma Uppal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tragedy-averted-83501
12-05-2020||Ambala||35-yr-old man found dead in Ambala||The Ambala City police recovered a dead body of a 35-year-old man identified as Ravi Kumar, a resident of Sarangpur village, on Monday. He was posted in the Irrigation Department in Kaithal.Kin of the deceased alleged that some men had visited his house last night. his body with injury marks on his neck was found from a minor near the village.Sohan Lal, village sarpanch, said, “His body was spotted by some villagers early this morning following which the police were informed. The body was cremated in the evening. He is survived by his wife and two children.” A case against unidentified persons has been registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC on the complaint of the wife of the deceased at the Ambala Sadar police station.ASP Nikita Khattar, who is also the SHO of Ambala Sadar police station, said, “A murder case has been registered against unknown persons.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-yr-old-man-found-dead-in-ambala-83505
12-05-2020||Mohali||Lockdown norms violated, 2 held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-norms-violated-2-held-83500
12-05-2020||---||Harrowing time for migrants  in Chandigarh as trains run late||Chandigarh, May 11Two ‘shramik’ special trains carrying 2,730 migrant workers left for Kishanganj, Bihar, and Gorakhpur, UP, from the Chandigarh railway station today.The train for Kishanganj that was scheduled to leave at 2 pm left at 3 pm, while the other train to Gorakhpur that was to leave the station at 7 pm departed at 9.25 pm.CTU buses with nearly 27 passengers in each round started arriving at the station around 11 am. Around 1,260 passengers boarded 22 coaches of the train to Kishanganj.For train to Gorakhpur, the buses started dropping off the passengers at 5 pm onwards. A total of 1,470 boarded the train to Gorakhpur.Yashpal Garg, coordinator for city’s ‘shramik’ trains, who is the CEO of CHB, blamed the delay in departure on increase in number of migrants at the last minute. “The number of passengers increased from 1,188 to 1,260 in the Kishanganj train and to 1,470 in the Gorakhpur train. The medical screening of so many people is time-consuming. However, we will try and streamline the process tomorrow.”Tomorrow also, two trains will leave for Hardoi, UP, and Bhagalpur, Bihar, at 2 pm and 9 pm, respectively. Meanwhile, the RPF did not allow any supporter of either the BJP or the Congress to enter the platform today.16 trains to take migrants homeAs many as 16 ‘shramik’ special trains will take migrants from Chandigarh to their home states in the next couple of weeks. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said these trains would take migrants to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Manipur. The entire expenses are being borne by the UT Administration, including the cost of tickets. The Administration paid Rs 655 per ticket/per person for the trains to Gonda and Kishanganj and Rs 480 per ticket/ per passenger for the train that left for Gorakhpur on Monday.Trains from mohali leave for Jharkhand, UPMohali: Two special trains carrying 2,551 migrant workers chugged off from the Mohali railway station on Monday. The first train with 1,216 persons left for Jharkhand at noon, while the second train with 1,335 persons departed for Gorakhpur in UP at 6 pm. Till date, five special trains have left from the Mohali railway station carrying migrant workers back to their homes states. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harrowing-time-for-migrants-in-chandigarh-as-trains-run-late-83474
12-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Families torn, migrants await ride home||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11After standing in a long queue at the Sector 43 bus stand for being screened, a dejected Daddan Singh (34) returned home with his brother-in-law Bhim Singh (18) as he could not make it to the list of migrants boarding the ‘Shramik Special’ train to Gonda yesterday.A small-time mason, Daddan was hoping to return and meet his wife at their village, while Bhim wanted to meet his parents and sister. They assembled at the bus stand at 10 am, hoping to head home finally. Even after three hours, their names did not figure anywhere. However, the name of Bhim’s maternal aunt was called. It gave some hope to Daddan and Bhim.After 4 pm, they walked towards the station, but returned from Industrial Area. Both are still glued to their phones, hoping for an SMS. “We had registered ourselves for going back to our native place about three days ago. I received a registration number, but my name didn’t appear on the list,” said Daddan. The two, however, have not lost hope. “If the government has registered us, it will take us home too. We have no savings, no job. We just want to go home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/families-torn-migrants-await-ride-home-83475
12-05-2020||---||Chandigarh set to receive first batch of foreign returnees today||Chandigarh, May 11Foreign returnees will be brought back to the city from Delhi in a CTU bus tomorrow, said a senior official of the UT Administration.He said two local residents, who had landed in Delhi on Saturday and had been kept at a hotel there, will also reach return to the city tomorrow.Hotel Mountview and Hotel Shivalikview have been designated as quarantine centres for Chandigarh residents returning from abroad. Before resuming the operations, Jasvinder Kaur Sidhu, managing director, CITCO, reviewed the protocol and preparations at Mountview today and emphasised that all guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health were followed by staff. “All arrangements, check-in and stay (12-14 days) are in place. The hotel premises have been sanitised and the staff have undergone requisite training for handling the guests,” she added.Of the total 155 rooms at Hotel Mountview, a wing with 80 rooms have been prepared to house the foreign returnees. A total of Rs 6,000 will be charged from each guest and it will include all three meals.Sources said as per the guidelines of the Central Government, 33 per cent staff of the hotel have been deputed to look after the guests.However, residents of the nearby area have opposed the decision of the UT Administration to keep the persons coming from aboard at Hotel Mountview. They said the government should house them in other government accommodations, as the hotel was in the middle of a residential sector.Hotel Shivalikview is also well-prepared to provide the facility.Sources said the UT Administration had also shortlisted five private hotels for the purpose.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), stated that necessary arrangements had been done to enlist a panel of hotels for accommodating the foreign returnees.Adminstrator VP Singh Badnore directed that since the paying capacity of the returnees would vary and hence should be the range of payment option. He also directed health authorities to ensure that all foreign returnees were duly tested. Paid institutional quarantine facility for international passengers, says Mohali DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-set-to-receive-first-batch-of-foreign-returnees-today-83476
12-05-2020||---||Volunteers to keep watch on containment zones in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 11Expressing concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has sought the advice of the PGIMER and other experts to tackle the problem.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator directed the Director General of Police to ensure that the containment areas were strictly sealed and no entry/exit except for authorised persons is allowed.He suggested that volunteers from within the colony should be selected to keep a watch on the people.The Administrator stressed that adequate food and dry ration should be provided, so that no one in the containment zones went hungry.Badnore expressed happiness that the DGP had arranged spray of sanitised chemical through drones in the area.Bapu Dham Colony, Labour Colony in Sector 30, Kachi Colony in Dhanas, part of Sector 38, parts of Sector 52 and Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra have been declared containment zones to prevent the further spread of Covid. A majority of the cases have been reported from these areas.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that necessary testing had been done in the city as per the norms laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Health Ministry. “Every symptomatic person has been duly tested after receiving reports from the teams, who conduct door-to-door screening in each sector/colony,” he said.Dr Dewan clarified that three Covid deaths in Chandigarh were that of aged people and the cause was not exclusively due to the virus, but rather due to co-morbidities.The Administrator directed the Director, Health Services, to further expand testing and focus on the containment areas.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), stated that the increasing number of positive cases was due to intense screening, enhanced testing and contact tracing. The Administration has been doing screening and testing beyond norms laid down by the Government of India, he added.DC Mandip Singh Brar stated that teams of Civil Defence had been engaged within Bapu Dham Colony to ensure social distancing among the residents. They will also supervise distribution of essential items in the area through local volunteers.MC Commissioner KK Yadav stated that the distribution of fruits, vegetables, etc, through the Administration’s buses would continue for a few more days. He said the traders had been shifted to the ISBT-17 temporarily.Adviser Manoj Parida said all used PPEs were being scientifically disposed of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/volunteers-to-keep-watch-on-containment-zones-in-chandigarh-83477
12-05-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Low-key start to construction activity in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, May 11The construction activity in Zirakpur and periphery resumed with minimal buzz here today.Most of the projects did not witness any progress on Day 1 as the labour was missing. Standalone houses and minor construction sites, however, had labourers working in small numbers.Kuldeep Bawa, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Dera Bassi, held a video-conference with the local builders and gave a go-ahead to start commercial and residential construction work from tomorrow.Harish Gupta, president, Builders Association, Zirakpur, said, “It was expected that the construction work will not kickoff immediately. There are nearly 30 major projects in different stages of construction here. We are trying to give a message to the migrant workers to not leave as the work will pick up the pace gradually.”With migrant workers still leaving for their villages, it will be difficult for this sector to bounce back in the tricity in the near future.Omkar, a worker from Uttar Pradesh, working at a residential site in Zirakpur, said, “There are no buses or trains to go home that’s why we are staying put. We’ll stay only if we get regular work, otherwise we will leave.”After summers, monsoons will halt the construction activity and it is only around September that the operations will resume at full scale.“Construction work is interlinked. If we don’t have full force, it’s almost impossible to complete a project on time, Gupta added.The real estate sector is also witnessing a severe shortage of raw material. The price of sand, readymade concrete and iron has hit the roof, making it unfeasible to carry out the construction work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/low-key-start-to-construction-activity-in-zirakpur-83478
12-05-2020||Panchkula||In Panchkula, Sector 19, Majri village in partial category||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today declared particular areas of Sector 19 as a containment zone and the rest as a buffer zone after a 33-year-old private firm employee with travel history to Baddi in Himachal Pradesh tested positive for Covid-19.As per the official orders, only house numbers 109 to 324 will be in the containment zone.Similarly, some areas in Majri village had been marked as a containment zone and the adjoining area as a buffer zone. The containment zone will include house numbers 74-B to 221.On Sunday, a 45-year-old truck driver, who visited an area near Shimla on May 3, had tested positive for Covid-19.He was found infected with Covid-19 during the random sampling of 10 truck drivers on May 6.Reports of kin awaitedReports of family members of these two infected persons were awaited, said Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur. According to officials, the Sector 19 resident has eight family members, while Majri village resident has five family members. At present, all of them are admitted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital.Only 4 active casesOf the 22 Covid-19 positive cases reported so far, Panchkula has only four active cases. As many as 18 patients, including an octogenarian from Pinjore, have been cured of Covid-19 in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-panchkula-sector-19-majri-village-in-partial-category-83479
12-05-2020||Mohali||PGI nurse ends life, 4 colleagues face abetment charge||A senior nursing officer posted at the PGI, Chandigarh, committed suicide after alleged harassment by senior nurses, at her residence in Nayagaon village here.The victim, identified as Davinder Kaur (44), a resident of Kamao Colony, who was working in the PGI since 1998, injected poison into her body.According to the police, the victim was suffering from mental stress for the past few months as four of her senior nurses were allegedly harassing her. According to the information available, the victim and other nurses had a dispute over her transfer within the department, following which Davinder Kaur took the extreme step at her home.The police have recovered a suicide note from her possession in which she had mentioned the names of four nurses — Sunita, Jaspal Kaur, Navneet Dhaliwal and Neelam Chand, who were allegedly harassing her.Amit Kumar, the victim’s husband, said, “I along with my daughter was watching TV and my wife was cooking in the kitchen when the incident took place. She injected poison into her left arm and fell in front of the kitchen door. We rushed her to the PGI where the doctors declared her brought dead. She was mentally upset from the past few months.”He added that she had also tried to commit suicide on April 22 by slashing her vein.“The victim was earlier posted in the New OPD at the PGI from where she was transferred to the Female Ward. She was not happy there and had asked her senior nurses multiple times to transfer her back to the New OPD. They did not help her, following which she was in mental stress,” said ASI Balwinder Singh, the investigating officer.The postmortem would be conducted tomorrow at the Civil Hospital, Kharar. The victim is survived by her husband and a six-year-old daughter.The Nayagaon police have registered a case against the four suspects under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC. The suspects would be arrested soon, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-nurse-ends-life-4-colleagues-face-abetment-charge-83488
12-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||In 8 cases in Chandigarh, GMCH or GMSH source of transmission?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11A common thing in about eight Covid cases, where the source of infection transmission could not be traced is that they all had visited either GMCH-32 or GMSH-16 once or twice within a week before they had tested positive. Seven health workers have already been infected in the city.We see the cases in Bapu Dham and Sector 30 as community contacts. However, a few other patients, whose source of infection could not be traced, had visited hospitals in a week before testing positive. We cannot say whether they got the infection from the hospitals or somewhere else. — OfficialWhether it is the case of a patient from Sector 27, Sector 40 (seven-year-old), Sector 15, Sector 37, Hallo Majra, Dhanas, Maloya or Sector 30, it could not be ascertained till today that from where they got the infection. Among them, two were pregnant women and were asymptotic. Family members of all of them were found negative.“We see the cases in Bapu Dham and Sector 30 as community contacts. However, a few other patients, whose source of infection could not be traced, had visited hospitals in a week before being tested positive. We cannot say whether they got the infection from the hospital or somewhere else,” said an official of the UT’s contact tracing and quarantine team.Some health workers, including a Sector 56 resident, a GMCH ward attendant from Bapu Dham (first case of the colony), a GMCH doctor from Sector 21, another GMCH doctor from Sector 49, a PGI nurse (PGI hostel resident), a GMCH ward attendant from Ram Darbar and a GMCH doctor from Sector 32 (PG accommodation), were also found positive. Some of the health workers and residents have been cured and discharged.“It calls for attention and requires a sincere check at the hospitals. It could not be just a coincidence,” said a UT official not wishing to be named. G Dewan, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “It is not right to say this. The transmission could be from mouth, eye gland or nose. Even contact tracing is not a foolproof measure. There are asymptomatic patients as well. On our part, we are following all precautions and have foolproof arrangements, like PPE kits, sanitisation, thermal scanning and sanitation.” A senior doctor said undoubtedly, the health workers were the most vulnerable as 10-20 per cent of them were infected world over. He felt it was not that the hospitals were source of infection transmission. Rajesh Dhir, president, Chandigarh chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “The thing is that during contact tracing, not everybody shares contact information. While using PPE kits, there are two things - donning and doffing (removing the kit). The latter is a very strict and scientific procedure. If one lags in doffing, it could be a problem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-8-cases-in-chandigarh-gmch-or-gmsh-source-of-transmission-83491
12-05-2020||---||Man spits on road, made to clean it in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 11A traffic marshal on duty at a naka on Dakshin Marg near Tribune Chowk today made a two-wheeler rider clean the road after the latter had spitted on it.The traffic marshal, Baldev Singh, saw a motorcyclist spitting around 100 metres before the naka. Traffic cops stopped the biker, who was riding with a minor boy as pillion, at the naka and pointed out that he had spitted on a public place.Following this, the biker went to the place and removed the spit with his hands and some grass. While he was returning, the traffic marshal went to him with a water bottle, took him back to the spot and asked him to pour water on it. Later, Baldev Singh made him wash his hands.“I had taken the water bottle along with me as I wanted the person to clean it with water, but he himself cleaned it with his hands and some grass he was holding,” said the traffic marshal. Baldev Singh said nobody forced him to do so. “He was apologetic at the naka and volunteered to clean it,” he added.As per the lockdown directions of the UT Administration, a ban has been imposed on spitting at public places and riding a two-wheeler with a pillion rider. Sources said the minor boy riding as pillion was not wearing a helmet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-spits-on-road-made-to-clean-it-in-chandigarh-83494
12-05-2020||Amit Sharma||ASI hasn't taken a single day off since lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11Not even a single day has passed after Sector 30-B was declared a “Covid affected pocket” that UT ASI Sudesh Kumar (52) has not taken multiple rounds of the area without taking any rest to address and urge people to stay indoors to contain the spread of the virus. He has not taken a single day off since the curfew/lockdown was enforced in the city.Through the public address system, I educate people about the importance of social distancing and precautionary measures that need to be taken. — Sudesh Kumar, ASIBesides Sector 30, Sudesh has been addressing residents of Colony No. 4 to ensure safe distribution of ration and food.Outside the barricades of the containment zone, Sudesh makes announcements with a public address system asking people not to move outside their houses and call on helpline numbers in case of any need. He feels his efforts have proved helpful in making people understand the gravity of the ongoing situation and take necessary measures. “It has not been easy to make people understand. I take several rounds every day to achieve the target,” he says.Sudesh has also been educating residents of Colony No. 4 in the Industrial Area, which is among the densely populated colonies in the city. “Through the public address system, I educate them about the importance of social distancing and precautionary measures that need to be taken,” he says.Although there is provision for taking rest, Sudesh has not even taken a single day off day since the curfew/lockdown as he believes this is the time society needs his services the most. He has been devoting 12 to 14 hours every day to his work.For Sudesh, his United Nations mission posting in Liberia, West Africa, in 2014 has also proved helpful during this pandemic. “During my posting in Liberia, there was an outbreak of Ebola and I had some observations and learning from there which I tried to implement here as well, which includes personal hygiene and wearing gloves and mask,” he says.During his UN posting, Sudesh was also awarded for his bravery. While at the UN mission in Liberia, he was travelling by a helicopter, which crash-landed. Despite being traumatised, Sudesh rescued the injured flight engineer and a crew member. For this act, he was awarded the Courageous Service Award by the UN Police Commissioner, United Nations Mission, Liberia, on February||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asi-hasnt-taken-a-single-day-off-since-lockdown-83496
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||7 more test +ve, Chandigarh now has 150 active cases||Seven more Covid cases were reported from the city today. Five of these are from Bapu Dham Colony and one each from Sector 25 and Sector 7-B. There are 150 active cases in the city now while 28 have been discharged and three have died of Covid.A 35-year-old man from Sector 7-B, who tested positive today, is a ward attendant at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. Officials said he had lifted the body of a Covid positive man from Hallo Majra, which could be the source of infection. The 35-year-old resident of Hallo Majra was referred to the GMSH from the Civil Hospital in Sector 45 on May 2 with the condition of severe anaemia. He was also suffering from severe acute respiratory illness. He had succumbed to the illness on Friday.A two-month-old girl from Sector 25 has also tested positive for Covid. She is the first case from the sector. She is suffering from pneumonia and was admitted to the GMSH for the past seven days.A 60-year-old woman, a 15-year-old boy, a 42-year-old woman, a 16-year-old girl and a 21-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony too have been found infected with the virus. Meanwhile, close community contacts of a deceased Hallo Majra man have tested negative for Covid.The samples of a 39-year-old man, which were taken after his death at Sukhna Lake, have tested negative for Covid.A community contact of the maid from Sector 27, who is the driver of the landlady and belongs to Bapu Dham Colony, has also tested negative for the virus.Earlier, the health authorities were assuming that the maid might have got the infection from the driver. The 81-year-old landlady too has been reported negative for Covid. A family contact of a positive case of Maloya has also been found negative for Covid.Cases to be discharged on merit: ParidaA committee under the UT Health Secretary will decide each case on merit whether an individual should be allowed home isolation or not after discharge, as per the revised discharge policy. This was confirmed by UT Adviser Manoj Parida.The discharge will depend on whether the patient lives in a spacious house or not. Those living in small houses may be accommodated at government quarantine facility for seven days after discharge.As per the revised guidelines, mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic Covid cases can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever.There will be no need for testing before discharge and the patient will be advised home isolation for seven days more.Cases clinically classified as “moderate cases” will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset in absence of fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement. — TNSTwo docs among 4 discharged from PGITwo resident doctors of the GMCH-32 and two persons from the Bapu Dham cluster were discharged from the PGI Covid hospital on Monday. They were contacts of a health care worker at the GMCH, who had tested positive earlier. After their test reports came positive, four of them were referred from the GMCH and were admitted to the PGI on April 27. Though they had complications related to Covid, their condition generally remained stable throughout. They were discharged after their 14-day stay at the PGI and two consecutive negative Covid reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-more-test-ve-chandigarh-now-has-150-active-cases-83506
12-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh residents find e-Sampark centres shut, fume||tribune news serviceChandigarh, May 11The decision of the UT Administration, which was taken at the eleventh hour, to reopen e-Sampark centres from May 18 has left many residents red-faced.Earlier, the Administration had announced to resume public dealing in local government offices and e-Sampark centres from May 11.If they were to take a decision, they should have taken it a day before the previously announced date. We were queued up since morning and later came to know that the centre will remain closed till May 18 — Ripupreet Singh, Sector 23 residentWhen many local residents reached e-Sampark centres today to pay electricity/ water/telephone bills, they were shocked to learn that the centres were closed.Later in the day, the Administration issued a notification that all local public offices, including e-Sampark, will be opened from May 18. “After reviewing the situation, the UT Administration has now decided that public dealing in local offices will resume from May 18 (instead of May 11). The offices will continue to function by maintaining proper hygiene, social distancing and sanitisation,” stated the circular issued today. It added, “The e-Sampark Centres will reopen from May 18 (forenoon).” In an order dated May 3, the UT Administration had stated: “All government offices will be open from May 4 and strict social distancing norms would be followed. However, no public dealing will be done till May 11. The e-Sampark centres will be open from May 11.”Residents said the Administration should have taken the decision earlier and informed accordingly, instead of doing all formalities today. “If they were to take a decision, they should have taken it a day before the previously announced date. We were queued up here since morning and later came to know that the centre will remain closed till May 18,” said Ripupreet Singh, a Sector 23 resident. Same was the case at the Sector 35 and Sector 22 centres where people queued up since morning. “The staff members were not present at the centre, whereas people were sitting outside the arena. We were kept under the impression that the centre will open around 12 noon. If the staff members were aware about its closing, the same should have been told to the public in advance,” said Kapilesh Kumar, a Sector 22 resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-find-e-sampark-centres-shut-fume-83503
12-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Deputy Mayor issuing restricted movement and curfew passes?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11Some interstate and intercity curfew passes issued on the letter head of Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon have surfaced. One has to apply online for curfew passes on the UT website, after which these are issued by the Deputy Commissioner.We will mark an inquiry into it. Only the DC can issue a movement pass. — Manoj Parida, UT AdviserOne of the passes bore the signature as well the stamp of Jagtar Singh, a councillor from the Mani Majra area. Three photos on the pass had been attested by him. One such pass issued on his letter head mentions “Restricted movement and curfew pass” from Chandigarh to Banda district in UP with validity from May 8 to May 10. A copy of another pass in the possession of Chandigarh Tribune has been issued to two persons for the purpose of “electrician/labour” and is valid up to May 17.Repeated calls made to the Deputy Mayor, who is a BJP leader, went unanswered. He also did not reply to the messages sent to him.Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla, said, “It is condemnable. A case under Section 420 of the IPC should be registered.”Mayor Raj Bala Malik said, “We are not authorised to issue such passes. Whosoever has done it, it is not right.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-deputy-mayor-issuing-restricted-movement-and-curfew-passes-83504
