13-05-2020||---||Two new cases take Chandigarh's coronavirus count to 191||Chandigarh, May 13The city reported two new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total case count to 191.Both the fresh cases — a 32-year-old male and another aged 36 — were reported from Bapu Dham Colony.They are family contacts of a death case of the Colony and live in the same house.With this, the total count from BDC has gone up to 122.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-cases-take-chandigarhs-coronavirus-count-to-191-84320
13-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Choti Sardarni' actress Mansi Sharma, hubby Yuvraaj Hans welcome baby boy in Chandigarh||'Choti Sardarni' actress Mansi Sharma and actor-singer Yuvraaj Hans welcomed a baby boy on May 12 in Chandigarh.  Yuvraaj shared the good news on Instagram. He wrote: "It's a baby boy."Later, he also shared a picture of holding the newborn baby's finger. "Dont Worry Mamma And Papa Will Always Hold Your Hand And Guide You Forever.....Welcome #babyhans (sic)," he captioned it. Dont Worry Mamma And Papa Will Always Hold Your Hand And Guide You Forever.....Welcome #babyhans 🧿🧿A post shared by  Yuvraaj Hans (@yuvrajhansofficial) on May 12, 2020 at 8:40am PDT  The couple got engaged in 2017 and tied the knot on February 21, 2019, in  Jalandhar.Mansi Sharma has been a part of shows 'Pavitra Rishta', 'Devon Ke Dev...Mahadev', 'Mahabharat' and 'Chandra Nandni'. Yuvraaj Haans is the youngest son of singer Hans Raj Hans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/choti-sardarni-actress-mansi-sharma-hubby-yuvraaj-hans-welcome-baby-boy-in-chandigarh-84274
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Nanhi Jaan gifts ventilators to GMCH||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nanhi-jaan-gifts-ventilators-to-gmch-84262
13-05-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: ParkashContact No. 8727900352Proposed route: Bhapu Dham (9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: DeepakContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Bhapu Dham (9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-84220
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lad nominated for Arjuna Award||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has nominated local lad and national team defender Sandesh Jhingan for the Arjuna Award. The 26-year-old, who also captained the Indian side, started playing football at the Sector 17 football stadium at the age of 17. He not only went to represent the nation in many international championships, but also emerged out to be most popular player of the Indian Super League (ISL). Popularly known as Sandy, he is spending his quarantine period focusing on fitness. He was back in the national set up for an 18-day national camp ahead of India’s 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Qatar, which got postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-nominated-for-arjuna-award-83985
13-05-2020||Mohali||Row over at-home salon services||Tricity Salon and Spa Association is up in arms against mobile app-based home salon service providers starting operations. Concerned over the financial losses of salon, spa and beauty industry, the association has opened a front against individual hairstylists, who are advertising their at home services in social media groups. There are 500 salons and spas spread across Mohali, Chandigarh and Panchkula. Amar, who owns a studio and spa in Mohali, says, “We have information that freelancers associated with beauty services at home apps have started operations. These unlawful operations in the tricity may spread the virus due to the unregulated movement of freelancers and they will not only put the client at risk, but will also increase the risk of infection among the households.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/row-over-at-home-salon-services-83989
13-05-2020||Mohali||PSEB wants to give books||Dariya police head transferredChandigarh: Sub Inspector (SI) Mohit Singh, in charge of the Dariya police post, was today transferred to the UT DGP office. Meanwhile, SI Parvinder, who was posted in Sector 34, has been transferred to the Dariya police post as the in-charge. TNSSUV-borne man held with beerChandigarh: A man riding an SUV was nabbed while illegally carrying 169 boxes of beer. The suspect, Arjun of EWS Colony, Dhanas, was arrested from near a wine shop at Milk Colony, Dhanas, while carrying boxes of beer in his SUV on May 11. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pseb-wants-to-give-books-83990
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Harmohan  Dhawan donates masks, sanitisers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harmohan-dhawan-donates-masks-sanitisers-83993
13-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh fares poorly in past 2 weeks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12As the city enters ninth week today after the first Covid-19 positive case was reported here on March 18, the number of active cases has risen to 156.In the past two weeks (out of 54 days of Covid period), the city has fared worst as there has been a quantum jump of 300 per cent in the number of active cases in the 14-day period.The active cases rose in a staggered manner for 42 days (six weeks) since March 18. There were only 13 active cases, while 14 Covid-19 patients had already recovered in the city in the sixth week. The first quantum leap in the number of active cases was observed during the seventh week when 26 more active cases were reported.The subsequent week (eighth) saw a jump of 161 per cent, followed by 61 per cent jump as the city entered the ninth week of Covid.As many as 125 persons have tested positive in the past two weeks. Of these, Bapu Dham Colony has contributed the maximum number of cases (100).The recovery rate of the city stands at 16 per cent. With the revised discharge policy in place, there is an assumption that mild or very mild cases may be discharged after 10 days of admission in the hospital. Those not having adequate home-quarantine facilities may not be allowed to leave the hospital after 10 days and will have to continue admission in the hospital till the completion of 17 days.‘Social behaviour of people will be key to success’UT Adviser Manoj Parida said: “Infection cannot be totally stopped as everybody is trying to restrain it and prevent deaths worldwide. We are trying that too in Chandigarh. We had anticipated the spread. Therefore, we had kept 3,000 beds ready in different Covid-19 hospitals and care centres. The key to our success will be the social behaviour of our people. Such behaviour needs to be encouraged. It can’t be injected. Let us hope to win the battle against Covid-19 with collective support.”‘No specific reason for rise in active cases’UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said: “No specific reason can be assigned for the rise in active cases. It can be due to various reasons like some residents not observing social distancing, increased awareness about the disease, people coming forward to declare their symptoms, widening of testing protocol and so increased testing and intensive surveillance in the containment zones”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fares-poorly-in-past-2-weeks-83974
13-05-2020||---||202 persons quarantined at home in Mohali, says  Dayalan||Mohali, May 12  Till today, as many as 202 residents of the district have arrived from outside till today and all of them have been put under home quarantine.  Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that out of these, 131 people arrived till late evening on Monday while the number of those arriving today stands at 71. Teams had been formed by all Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs), including representatives from the Health Department and the Police Departments, he added.  Girish Dayalan said the teams had been directed to make sure that medical screening those put under the home quarantine was duly carried out and posters be pasted outside their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/202-persons-quarantined-at-home-in-mohali-says-dayalan-83961
13-05-2020||---||Cleaning of N-choe in Phase 9 begins||Mohali, May 12  Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today launched the cleaning project of the N-choe in Phase 9, which flows from Chandigarh into the district. The work pertaining to the cleaning of N-choe would be given top priority as the monsoon season was approaching, which could turn it into a breeding ground for mosquitoes, thus leading to unhygienic conditions, especially in view of the present Covid-19 crisis, he said. Sidhu said the work would be fast-paced and was expected to be completed in two months. It would incur a cost of Rs 13.58 lakh, he said. Sidhu also handed over personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to the sanitation workers at the Municipal Corporation Bhawan. MC Commissioner Kamal Garg was present on the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleaning-of-n-choe-in-phase-9-begins-83963
13-05-2020||---||Tributes paid to Florence Nightingale||Chandigarh, May 12To commemorate International Nurses Day, officers of the Military Nursing Services at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, paid tributes to Florence Nightingale by lighting candles and reiterating the Nightingale pledge.Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, greeted all nursing officers and commended the invaluable services rendered by them in providing medicare to soldiers and their families.All nurses have pledged to continue their dedicated efforts in improving patient care and safety, thereby, reinforcing the role of nurses in promoting community health. As an integral part of the healthcare system, the fraternity of Military Nursing Service has been on the frontline in fighting the pandemic.Nurses Day is celebrated across the world to mark the 200th birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, the pioneer of modern nursing.Int’l Nursing Day celebrated in PatialaPatiala: Aryans Institute of Nursing, Rajpura, celebrated International Nursing Day on theme ‘Nursing the World to Health’. Students and staff organised an oath-taking ceremony through video-conferencing. Dr Anshu Kataria, chairman, said the Covid war had raised the profile of the nursing profession. Kataria said: “We should appreciate the warriors”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-paid-to-florence-nightingale-83964
13-05-2020||---||‘Shramik’ trains run at full capacity||Chandigarh, May 12Following latest guidelines by the Railways that all berths will now be allotted to passengers in ‘shramik’ special trains, a total of 1,293 migrants today boarded the train to Bihar from the Chandigarh railway station, sitting close.Trains take over 2,600 migrants back to UP, BiharThis was the fourth train to have departed from here. The migrants arrived at the station after medical screening. They were provided with food packets and water bottles. The first CTU bus ferrying migrants arrived at 9.40 am and the passengers were seated in train that left as per schedule, said officials.Yashpal Garg, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board, and in-charge, ‘shramik’ special trains movement, said there was improvement in management and punctuality as the Health Department increased the number of medical screening teams from six to eight. Each team consisted of two doctors.Earlier, these trains could carry approximately 1,200 passengers each so as to maintain social distancing. The migrants, on the other hand, are only concerned only about reaching home at any cost.Vijay, who worked as a small-time mason here, said, “I don’t care about social distancing. I can either stay here without job and starve or take the risk of exposure while trying to reach home. I’m following all precautions. If there’s still any risk, I am going to take it. At least I will be able to get two meals a day at home and work in the fields with my uncle.”‘Social distancing is public responsibility too’GM Singh, DRM, Ambala Division, said the orders to run the special trains at full capacity were received on Monday night. “We have given some PPE kits to the guard in case of any medical emergency on way. We have an isolation area as well. Social distancing cannot be the responsibility of the government only. It is the public’s responsibility too.”15 migrants hurt in mishapLalru: As many as 15 migrant labourers, who were on their way to home states, were injured after a Tata Ace, on which they had hitched a ride, rammed into a stationary truck on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway near ITI intersection, Lalru, last evening.All injured were taken to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital after the incident where two of them were referred to the GMCH, Chandigarh, said sources. Rest of the injured were discharged after being given medical aid at the Civil Hospital.According to the reports, all 15 labourers were residents of UP and Bihar and were returning to their native villages on foot. One of the injured labourer, Rahul, alleged that the vehicle driver, who was inebriated, insisted on giving them a lift till Ambala.No case has been registered as both parties reached a compromise later. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shramik-trains-run-at-full-capacity-83966
13-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||1,100 migrants set off on foot to home states||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 12More than 1,100 migrant workers preferred to return to their homes states in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on foot citing that they have no other choice as they have exhausted all their money and food during the past two months.1,201 leave for Chhapra from MohaliIn a warm gesture by the district administration, children of migrants were given chocolates. The workers were taken to the railway station from the eight collection centres where they were first thoroughly screened and then boarded the buses to reach the railway station for journey back home.The district administration provided packed food packets, water and biscuits to the migrants.Meanwhile, seven buses carrying 160 students also departed today. One bus left for Ladakh, while six buses for Jammu.Surinder Kumar, who belongs to Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, said he was working with a contractor for the past two years and had not visited his hometown since then. He said he was staying put with the hope that he would be able to earn his bread and butter again after the relaxation announced by the state government. But the contractor was not showing any interest in restarting the projects, which were with him before the spread of Covid as he had suffered heavy financial losses.Mahesh, who hails from Allahabad, said he, along with his wife and son, were returning to their hometown as they had exhausted all money even though social organisations and the administration had been providing food and ration to them. He said they were fed up with such type of life and decided to return to their homes after applying for passes.Meanwhile, nearly 2,000 persons have returned to their hometowns in Saharanpur, Dehradun, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Delhi-NCR in their own cars after seeking travel passes. It is pertinent to mention here that 7,382 persons have registered for going back to their home states using their own vehicles.According to information about more than 40,000 persons from the neighbouring states of Jharkhand, HP, J&K, Haryana, UP and other states had registered on the portal of the Punjab government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-100-migrants-set-off-on-foot-to-home-states-83967
13-05-2020||---||Plywood factory owned by Panchkula MLA gutted||Panchkula, May 12A major fire broke out in a plywood factory on the Ambala road near Barwala on Monday night.Since the factory, Rama Plywood, was closed due to the lockdown, no loss of life was reported. Goods worth Rs 1.25 crore were reduced to ashes, said eyewitnesses.The factory is owned by Panchkula MLA and Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who reached the spot immediately.Fire tenders were rushed from Panchkula, Kalka, Dera Bassi, Ambala, Naraingarh and Yamunanagar to douse the flames. It took eight hours to bring the situation under control.The exact cause of the fire is not known but labourers sleeping near the factory suspect that the incident took place due to a short circuit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plywood-factory-owned-by-panchkula-mla-gutted-83969
13-05-2020||---||5 foreign returnees reach Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 11Chandigarh: Five NRIs returned to the city late yesterday, said a senior officer of the UT Administration. They would be housed at Hotel Mountview in Sector 10.CITCO hotels Hotel Mountview and Hotel Shivalikview have been designated as quarantine centres for Chandigarh residents returning from abroad.The hotel premises was sanitised yesterday with the staff undergoing requisite training for handling these guests, who would be quarantined for 14 days in these hotels before going home. Hotel Shivalikview has also been readied for such NRI 'guests'.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-foreign-returnees-reach-chandigarh-83971
13-05-2020||---||Cop, GMSH doctor among 8 +ve||Chandigarh, May 12A 25-year-old woman cop, a resident of Sector 26, was among eight persons who tested positive for Covid today, raising the city tally to 189. She complained of regular flu and was sampled at the GMSH-16.Two healthcare workers also tested positive for the virus today. One of them is a 44-year-old from Kachi Colony, Dhanas, who worked as a sanitary attendant at the PGI. He was not active on duty since April 18. A 24-year-old MBBS intern posted in the Emergency of the GMSH, Sector 16, also tested positive.Five other cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony. They were a month-old girl, a seven-year-old boy and three women, aged 75, 33 and 35. The number of cases from the colony today rose to 120.Meanwhile, the mother of a seven-year-old boy of Sector 40, who had tested positive at the GMSH, has tested negative for Covid.Two more health workers of the GMCH 32, both women in their twenties, were discharged from the PGI today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-gmsh-doctor-among-8-ve-83973
13-05-2020||---||Day 1: Poor sale at Sector 17 mandi||Chandigarh, May 12Ensuring strict compliance with the Covid-19 management guidelines, the sale and purchase of fruit and vegetables commenced at the ISBT in Sector 17 today.85% stock remains unsoldOn shifting to the bus stand, several shopkeeper expressed happiness saying that they were at least now working under a shed, which was not available to them at the Sector 26 mandi.Traders could carry out only 15 per cent of the business on the first day of the opening of the mandi. A commission agent said nearly 85 per cent of the stock remained unsold today.As many as 168 fruit and vegetable traders from the Sector 26 mandi were asked to shift to the bus stand due to the proximity of the mandi with Bapu Dham Colony, which has been declared a containment zone due to the increase in the number of coronavirus cases. Most of the agents shifted to the bus stand yesterday and started the sale and purchase of fruit and vegetables this morning.An MC official said only authorised vendors were allowed to enter the market after a thorough screening.He said social distancing and other guidelines were being followed to provide safe and virus-free fruit and vegetables to residents of the city.On shifting to the bus stand, several shopkeeper expressed happiness saying that they were at least now working under a shed, which was not available to them at the Sector 26 mandi.A commission agent said there was hardly any sale on the first day, but it would pick pace in the coming days.Nishar Malik, who deals in fruit, said the Administration had done a good job by dividing the market into three zones.Now, fruit, vegetables and those selling items that can be stored like onions, potatoes and garlic were divided into separate zones accordingly to avoid crowding.In the absence of a canteen, farmers, commission agents and labourers, who reached the mandi in the wee hours, did not find anything to eat in the entire area, he said.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner, said that vegetable traders from Sector 26 had been moved to the ISBT, Sector 17.He said that the distribution of fruit and vegetables through CTU buses would continue for a few more days.Panic as suspected Covid patient reaches mandiPanic gripped the area when a suspected Covid-19 patient reached the mandi.A commission agent said that they were surprised how the person managed to enter the vegetable market when all exit and entry points were manned by the security forces.He said that the person was not even wearing a mask and he was shivering.The authorities were immediately informed and he was taken to a hospital for a medical examination.However, the report of his samples is yet to be received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-1-poor-sale-at-sector-17-mandi-83952
13-05-2020||---||Hockey legend Balbir Singh (Sr) suffers cardiac arrest, condition critical||Chandigarh, May 12Triple Olympian and hockey legend Balbir Singh (Senior), who is 95 years old, suffered a cardiac arrest this morning. He is stated to be in a critical state at a private hospital in Mohali though there was some improvement in his condition. He was admitted to the hospital on May 8.In a statement on the social media, his grandson said: “He was admitted on Friday in a very serious ‘multi-organ affected’ state. His condition has improved slightly, but is still critical. Doctors will continuously assess his condition over the next 24-48 hours before issuing any further statement. He continues to be on a ventilator.”He was part of the Indian teams that won the gold at the 1948 London Olympics in 1948, Helsinki in 1952 and Melbourne in 1956. His record of most individual goals scored in an Olympic men’s hockey final remains unbeaten. Balbir had set this record when he scored five goals in India’s 6-1 win over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Games. He also remained the head coach of the Indian team for the 1975 men’s World Cup, which India won, and the 1971 men’s World Cup, where India bagged a bronze medal. In July 2019, Balbir was admitted to the PGI following breathing problems.Till the filing of this report, his condition was stated to be critical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-legend-balbir-singh-sr-suffers-cardiac-arrest-condition-critical-83953
13-05-2020||---||55-yr-old man from Jagatpura defeats Covid||Mohali, May 12Kapil Sharma (55), a resident of Jagatpura village in Mohali district, was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur after defeating Covid-19 today.A spokesperson for the Health Department said Kapil was discharged after reports of his two consecutive tests came out negative. With this, the total number of patients to have recovered from the pandemic in the district has risen to 55. A total of 105 positive cases were reported from the district. As of now, there are only 47 active cases in the district.Two days ago, two women, including an 80-year-old woman, were discharged from the hospital.The health official said Kapil was sent home. He had been directed to quarantine himself for 14 days as a precautionary measure.Teams from the Health Department would continuously check his health. Other patients were undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital. The condition of all patients is stable as of now.Kapil thanked the doctors and other staff members for providing him quality treatment. He asked people not to panic as the disease was curable if one took proper diet.The spokesperson appealed to people to step out of their homes only if necessary. He asked people to visit hospitals only in case of an emergency. Instead, they should contact the Health Department’s helpline 104 for expert’s advice. He also asked people to wash their hands frequently, wear face mask and maintain proper distance from each other.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said so far a total of 2,609 samples had been tested. Of these, 2,376 were found negative. Results of 128 samples were still awaited. He said a total of 2,920 people had successfully completed the quarantine period, while 1,303 people were still under quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-yr-old-man-from-jagatpura-defeats-covid-83954
13-05-2020||Amit Bathla||It’s a war against an invisible enemy, says doctor||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 12“It’s not just a question of medical challenge, but a war against Covid-19, an invisible enemy. Hence, we (doctors and health professionals) should be battlefield ready,” says Dr Rajesh Raju.He has just finished a month of duty in an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital here, looking after Covid-19 patients. He is now posted in the OPD of the hospital.Dr Raju, who is the head of the TB and Chest Department at the Civil Hospital, has isolated himself from his family members to prevent any risk to them of getting infected with the virus.“We have to be careful for their sake. When I return home from work, I straightaway go to my room without interacting with anyone. I wash clothes on my own. I even have my own set of utensils,” says the 49-year-old doctor, who stays in Chandigarh.Asked about his experience in dealing with Covid-19 patients, he says: “We have to remain vigilant all the time. We need to ensure that we don’t get infected, and also that we don’t take the virus back home. Despite all this, we are committed to serving patients. Only cowards run away from the battlefield.”Emotional support works“Not just medical care, emotional support also helps Covid-19 patients. It keeps their confidence high in the fight against the invisible enemy,” says Dr Rajesh Raju.Difficult to work while wearing PPE“It is not easy wearing and working in PPE. We have to remain without food and water after wearing the PPE for six to eight hours. Even going to the washroom is out of question during the duty hours. We don’t take any liquid after wearing the kit and feel dehydrated most of the time. However, precautionary measures are a must to keep ourselves safe,” says Dr Raju.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-a-war-against-an-invisible-enemy-says-doctor-83955
13-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||DC marks probe into illegal curfew passes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has marked a probe into a case in which Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh had issued curfew passes to people in his ward. On his part, the Deputy Mayor demanded that the councillors should have power to issue such passes.The DC marked the probe to SDM (Central) Nazuk Kumar, who has confirmed the development. Speaking to Chandigarh Tribune, Jagtar Singh, the BJP leader, alleged that people had not been getting passes adequately from the UT Administration, due to which he issued them passes to “save them from sufferings”.“Unlike other cities, passes are not being properly issued to those needing them urgently in the city. The Administration was not approving applications submitted online for curfew pass. I issued passes to them so that these people do not face any problem while travelling to the railway station. It was not for movement to other states but within the city. There are people who have some health or other emergency issues, but nobody is paying heed to their woes,” he claimed.The councillor from Mani Majra said the councillors should be authorised to issue curfew passes as they understood the problems of local residents better.“I cannot see people of my ward suffering. Their voice is not being heard. As a public representative, the people of my area expect me to help them,” he added.Jagtar Singh had issued some interstate and intercity “restricted movement and curfew passes” on the letter head of Deputy Mayor. As per rules, one has to apply for curfew pass on the UT website, after which it is issued by the Deputy Commissioner.A senior UT officer said, “It is illegal. He is not authorised to issue pass. It is a serious matter. We will soon compile report in this regard.”City Cong demands Dy Mayor’s arrestIn a statement, the city Congress on Tuesday demanded that Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh should be arrested for allegedly issuing fake curfew passes to people. The party stated that many city residents were booked by the authorities concerned for going out without curfew pass, and the illegal act of forging curfew passes by the Deputy Mayor was a much bigger crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-marks-probe-into-illegal-curfew-passes-83956
13-05-2020||---||Send team to Bapu Dham: Governor to PGI||Chandigarh, May 12As the Covid count in the city continues to see a rise, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today advised senior officers yet again to focus on the containment zones so that there was no further spread of infection.The Administrator also discussed the progress of screening and medical testing and treatment of Covid patients in various medical institutions.He advised the PGI to send a public health team to Bapu Dham Colony and make specific recommendations for improving the field operations. The mismanagement of these operations has drawn flak of late. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, a team of doctors would visit Bapu Dham to analyse the ground situation and make recommendation to stop the spread of infection in the colony.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator also appealed to the residents to help in beating the pandemic and strictly follow social distancing, hand hygiene and to wear masks in public places. He reiterated that the decision on easing the lockdown would be taken after discussion with the Government of India and all stakeholders.A total of 189 Covid cases have been reported in the city so far. The maximum cases are from Bapu Dham Colony, which had been declared a containment zone.Finally, paying heed to shift people from containment zones, Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Gupta said the Administration had operationalised Covid care centres in the city, the latest being Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22. This centre would be managed with the assistance of a medical team from the GMCH-32, he added.New Covid cases, which are either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms will be shifted to Sood Dharamshala, a 300-bed facility. The 50-bed facility at the Sector 46 Ayurvedic Hospital has already been exhausted. At present, there are 108 patients in Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE) at the PGI. Four of them are in ICU. Around 100 beds in the NHE have been reserved for moderate to critical patients, who may need ventilator support. Adviser Manoj Parida clarified only those patients fulfilling the norms for home quarantine like having spacious houses with adequate facilities would be discharged after 10 days. Those having smaller houses where social distancing norms could not be followed would be kept in the hospital for 17 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/send-team-to-bapu-dham-governor-to-pgi-83957
13-05-2020||---||Man tests positive in Panchkula village||Panchkula, May 12A 59-year-old male resident of Bagwali village in Raipur Rani tehsil of Panchkula district tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district count to 23 with five active cases.The patient, the first case in the tehsil, has been admitted to an isolation ward of a private hospital in Sector 21, Panchkula. One more patient from Ambala, who tested positive today, has also been admitted to the same hospital.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has declared Bagwali village a containment zone and its periphery a buffer zone. A team of health officials and the district administration has been constituted to conduct a door-to-door survey and medical screening of the residents.The Health Department and the district administration are in the process of contact tracing even as sampling of all family members and close contacts of the Bagwali resident has been done. The patient’s wife, son, daughter-in-law and two children have been isolated.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, said, “Both patients are asymptomatic and have been admitted in Panchkula. We are closely monitoring their health.”The results of 132 samples are yet to come, of which 13 are being tested for the second time. As many as 214 persons have been home-quarantined in the district. In Panchkula’s Rajiv colony, four mobile medical units screened 895 people in a door-to-door survey. In the Majri area, three teams screened 770 people, while two teams screened 250 people in Sector 19.1921 helplinePeople who do not have smartphones or are unable to download the Aarogya Setu application can get all Covid-19-related information on the toll-free helpline number 1921. A person giving a missed call on the helpline number will get a return call and will be provided with the relevant information. In case the person is in the vicinity of a Covid-19 patient, he/she will get an alert in the form of an SMS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-tests-positive-in-panchkula-village-83958
13-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Private schools seek safety guidelines before reopening||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12To ensure students’ safety, private schools in Chandigarh want the government to issue health and safety guidelines before they are allowed to reopen amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The schools management are looking forward to reopen, but not in the absence of proper guidelines by the government. “We will surely take protective measures for the safety of students, but the government should form certain guidelines so that we don’t face any kind of trouble later. The government must clarify on adopting safety measure. We have already faced a setback regarding the submission of fee,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association.“Safety measures are not only restricted to spraying sodium hypochlorite solution or wearing masks/gloves. This is not enough and to make it clear, we want the government to frame guidelines,” said Sanjay Thareja, Director, The Gurukul, Panchkula.On March 10, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued guidance to help protect children and schools from Covid-19 transmission. “Education can encourage students to become advocates for preventing diseases at home and in school and community by talking to others about how to prevent the spread of viruses. Maintaining safe school operations or reopening schools after a closure, requires many considerations, but if done well, can promote public health,” stated the release.UNICEF has also urged schools – whether operating or helping students through remote learning – to provide pupils with holistic support.“I agree that the government should come forward to frame guidelines for the schools. We have to survive amid Covid-19. Schools will obviously play their part and will ensure safety of students to the extent possible, but we have to be very careful and precise in dealing with the problem. The government’s guidelines will help us and also parents to ensure the safety of children,” said Ranjan Sethi, Director, The British School, Sector 44.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-seek-safety-guidelines-before-reopening-83959
13-05-2020||---||Panjab University to reopen for staff on a rotational basis today||Chandigarh, May 12The office of the Director Higher Education has allowed Panjab University (PU) to partially function from tomorrow.Prof Karamjeet Singh, PU Registrar, said offices at the PU and offices of the Chairpersons of the teaching departments will start functioning from tomorrow.The office will remain open from 10.30 am to 4.30 pm (lunch break from 1pm to 1.30 pm) on the pattern of the UT Administration till further orders. It was decided that while Class A officers will report on duty on all working days, the remaining office staff (33%) will report on a rotational basis.The controlling officer/chairperson will ensure seating arrangement, social distancing and other precautions issued by the Centre. The staff members residing in containment zones have been exempted from the duty.Wearing masks has been made mandatory and only the Panjab University staff members will be allowed entry as there will be no public dealing.The circular further stated: “No public dealing shall be allowed and thermal scanning (one counter each at the Administration Block, Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall, Vice-Chancellor’s office and University School of Open Learning building) near entrances will be done under the supervision of security staff.”Meeting heldA meeting under the Chairmanship of Prof RK Singla, Dean of University Instruction, was held today to discuss various issues concerning reopening of the university. Those who attended the meeting expressed grief over the sudden demise of Prof Shankar Ji Jha, Former DUI, a learned Sanskrit scholar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-reopen-for-staff-on-a-rotational-basis-today-83960
13-05-2020||Amit Sharma||Police Lines barracks to be sanitised daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12With a woman constable of the UT police testing positive for coronavirus, it has set alarm bells ringing for the police, who are among the frontline warriors fighting against Covid-19. The police said the barracks in which the constable was staying on the Police Lines campus in Sector 26 was sanitised today and it had been decided to sanitise all barracks on a daily basis.The woman constable, who tested positive, was on duty at the grain market in Sector 26 along with staff of the UT Administration.SP (Headquarters) Manoj Kumar Meena said although the sanitisation of the barracks was conducted frequently, after the positive case from one of the barracks, the sanitisation of all barracks and washrooms would be conducted everyday. The SP said the barracks had a capacity to accommodate 16 persons. However, to maintain social distancing, only eight were at present staying in the baracks.Besides seven woman constables, the Covid patient was also in contact with five others, who have been identified.“All 12 contacts have been sent for sampling at the GMSH and they would be quarantined at the hospital till their reports are recieved,” the SP said. The police said regular instructions were passed to the staff to ensure personal hygiene and wear masks and gloves.Police personnel are actively involved in the distribution of ration and food in colonies, ensuring social distancing in markets, besides regular law and order duties, which makes them vulnerable to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-lines-barracks-to-be-sanitised-daily-83978
