15-05-2020||Chandigarh||79-year-old woman becomes oldest person in Chandigarh to defeat coronavirus||A 79-year-old woman in Chandigarh on Friday became the oldest person in the city to beat coronavirus.She was declared cured and discharged from the Post-Graduation Institute of Medical Education and Research's (PGIMER) COVID-19 Hospital here.In a complete contrast, the other person discharged from the hospital was a young nine-year-old girl from Sector 30.It was quite an emotional scene at the send-off as both walked towards the exit amid rousing claps.About the latest recoveries, G.D. Puri, Head of the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, said: "Today we discharged a 79-year-old lady from Chandigarh who was admitted to PGI Nehru Hospital Extension on April 20."She was not a known case of heart disease. Our cardic anaesthetist K.P Gaurav did her examination and found doubt of cardiac ailment. He immediately did echocardiography and found severe aortic stenosis in this woman. Subsequently, she was managed in Covid ICU with postural therapy, oxygen as well as other cardiac medications.""This is all due to team work of anaesthetist, intensivist, pulmonologist, internist, psychologist, cardiologist and team of hospital administration, nurses and technicians that such high quality care was provided to such sick patient resulting into good outcome," he said in a statement.As the elderly lady, a resident of Sector 38, moved towards the ambulance, she thanked the PGIMER team for treating her like their own as she said with moist eyes: "Seeing everyone greeting, cheering and taking pictures is very very touching."The young girl was a bundle of energy and happiness as she shared her success story of Covid-19 with everyone listening in rapt attention.And both of them got into the ambulance for their homes, they gave everyone a hope that Covid-19 is beatable.There were two others—a 67-year-old male, resident of Sector 15, and another 52-year-old male from Markanda town in Haryana—who have also recovered from Covid-19 but are being shifted to other departments to treat their specific medical issues.So on the whole, the recovery rate is picking up consistently and it's a positive indicator, the PGIMER said.With these four recovered, the count of those declared cured from PGIMER's COVID-19 Hospital stands at 41. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/79-year-old-woman-becomes-oldest-person-in-chandigarh-to-defeat-coronavirus-85230
15-05-2020||Amit Bathla||Sector-10 woman, Sector-21 man take Panchkula's coronavirus positive tally to 25||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 15Two more people have tested positive for Covid in Panchkula district.The first case is that of a 63-year-old woman from Sector 10. She was undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital.The patient has been shifted to an isolation ward in the Sector 6 Civil Hospital.Five members of her family are also being taken to the Civil Hospital for Covid testing.The second case is that of a 56-year-old man from Sector 21, who also tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 25 and the number of active cases to seven.Eighteen people have been cured.The containment process of both the residential areas is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-10-woman-sector-21-man-take-panchkulas-coronavirus-positive-tally-to-25-85165
15-05-2020||---||Chandigarh extends vacation in govt, aided schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14The UT Education Department today announced to extend the summer vacation in all government and government aided schools till further orders.Private schools plan gradual reopeningWe are going to gradually open schools so that staff can visit — perhaps 30% of the total staff on a day to get system back to work and plan about students’ safety. This is only to get used to the working system. Maybe, by June 1, we can start calling students.—  HS Mamik, Chief, Independent Schools AssnHowever, the orders have not been made mandatory for private schools. A circular issued by the department stated: “In continuation with the office letter (April 15) wherein the summer vacation was decided from April 15 to May 14 in government/government aided/private schools in Chandigarh, it has been decided by the department to extend the summer vacation in all government and government aided schools till further orders.”However, the department did not extend the orders to private schools. “It’s not mandatory for private schools. It’s for government and government aided schools,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Public Instructions (Schools).Meanwhile, the Independent Schools Association said they were likely to open soon, but only with limited staff.“We are going to gradually open our schools so that the teaching and non-teaching staff can visit. Perhaps 30 per cent of the total staff on a day to get system back to work and plan about students’ safety. This is only to get used to the working system and work creation. Maybe, by June 1, we can start calling students,” said HS Mamik, president of the association.Sources said private schools were likely to open from May 18 but only for staff members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-vacation-in-govt-aided-schools-84962
15-05-2020||---||Now, shop in Mohali from 7 am to 6 pm||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 14Giving further relaxation in the timings, the district administration has given three hours more for shopkeepers here to open their shops. They can now open their shops from 7 am to 6 pm from tomorrow.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said as per the revised guidelines of the state government, they had given certain relaxations in addition to those already in place. Amendments made vide this order shall supersede the previous orders to that extent. He said the shops would remain open from 7 am to 6 pm and added that that all other restrictions shall continue. He said people should avoid vehicles while visiting neighbourhood shops.Dayalan said no person shall move unnecessarily for non-essential work and the movement of persons shall be allowed only from 7 am till 7 pm and from the workplace on production of the identity card issued by the employer. He said the public dealing timings in banks would be from 9 am to 1 pm.The Deputy Commissioner said four-wheelers shall be allowed with a maximum of two passengers, besides the driver, only for permitted activities and pillion riders on two-wheelers were not permitted. Any violations would invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the IPC, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-shop-in-mohali-from-7-am-to-6-pm-84965
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||PGI team visits Bapu Dham  to take stock||A four-member team of experts from the PGI has been formed to analyse the ground situation and make recommendations to stop the further spread of Covid-19 infection in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.The team, which comprises Prof JS Thakur, chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee, Dr Ashish Bhalla, Dr RK Ratho and Dr Ishani Bora, has been constituted by the PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, on the recommendations of Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to explore the reasons for the increasing cases in the colony. Of the total 191 positive cases, 122 are from Bapu Dham alone.The experts have started assessing the situation and interacting with different stakeholders. They have also started conducting field visits at the colony. Officials said the experts were working on different points to understand the ground situation. Badnore on Tuesday advised the PGI to send a public health team to Bapu Dham Colony and make specific recommendations for improving field operations. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-team-visits-bapu-dham-to-take-stock-84966
15-05-2020||---||Buses to ply from Panchkula on select routes||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 14With the Haryana Roadways resuming its operations, nine of its buses will start plying on select routes within the state from the Panchkula bus depot from tomorrow.According to the Haryana Government, these buses will leave the bus stand for cities such as Rohtak, Karnal, Narnaul, Ambala, Rewari, Hisar, Sirsa and Bhiwani between 8 am and 11 am. For this, the passengers have to book a ticket online through portal hartrans.gov.in. Online booking can also be done on the spot depending on the seat availability. Ravinder Pathak, general manager, Haryana Roadways, Panchkula, said,“All buses have been properly disinfected and seats marked to maintain social distancing. A maximum of 30 passengers will be allowed on board before thermal screening. Wearing of masks will be mandatory. The buses passing through Covid-affected districts will pass through a bypass or flyovers.”“The buses will operate from the state transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands. No passengers will be allowed to board or disembark the bus within the journey,” Pathak said.PPE kits for conductors“Conductors will wear PPE kits during the journey while drivers will be given safety gears such as mask and sanitisers,” he said. Pathak said more buses could be introduced in the coming days on main routes such as Ambala and Karnal, depending on the demand of passengers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/buses-to-ply-from-panchkula-on-select-routes-84968
15-05-2020||---||People greet cured man in style, land in soup||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14The UT police today registered a case against unknown Ram Darbar residents after a video went viral on the social media in which residents of Ram Darbar are seen violating social distancing norms by welcoming a man who returned home after recovering from coronavirus. Departmental action has also been recommended against police officials who failed to disperse the crowd.A police official said in the video, residents were seen welcoming the patient, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, who had recovered from Covid, with garlarnds by violating social distancing norms. He said the residents welcomed him with dhol beats for which they had specially called a person. The police official said the area where the patient lives was sealed to restrict the entry of the general public to avoid infection and cops were already deployed there.The police official said the cops on duty in the area failed to make efforts to disperse the mob and did not intimate the police station concerned about the arrival of the patient, which was a serious lapse, dereliction of duty and laxity on their part. Departmental action has been recommended against the police officials. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-greet-cured-man-in-style-land-in-soup-84971
15-05-2020||---||‘Dichotomy between Chandigarh orders, MHA norms’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asserted that conflict/dichotomy between the orders passed by the UT Administration and the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) could prima facie be observed before granting UT a day’s time to examine the issues underlined in a PIL challenging curfew relaxations.The directions by the Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came after petitioner Pankaj Chandgothia submitted, among other things, that the MHA guidelines prohibited inter-state movement except for medical and emergency purposes. However, the UT Administration did not impose such restrictions and allowed entry of persons from Panchkula and Mohali.“... As senior standing counsel appearing for the UT submits that the Administration proposes to strictly abide by the MHA guidelines, as prayed, the UT is granted a day’s time to examine the issues raised by the petitioner with reference to the MHA guidelines and inform this court about the result thereof,” the Bench asserted.Appearing in person before the Bench through video-conferencing, Chandgothia, during the course of the proceedings, contended that the MHA had extended the nationwide lockdown up to May 17. However, the UT, which was a limb of the MHA and under its direct control, decided to grant liberal relaxations to the citizens even from neighbouring states.He said the MHA directives expressly prohibited the opening of “market and market complexes” in a red zone, but the UT Administration allowed the opening of market complexes on central roads of each sector, even though it would lead to inevitable violation of containment measures such as social distancing.UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that entry and use of areas such as Sukhna Lake, Rose Garden and Leisure Valley had not been prohibited, but an advisory had been issued to the residents to stay indoors and not to come unless absolutely necessary and for permitted purposes.Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that Clause 14 of the MHA guidelines made it clear that a state or a UT would not dilute the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in any manner, and would strictly enforce the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dichotomy-between-chandigarh-orders-mha-norms-84973
15-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Covid-19 hits Sports Dept revenue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14The Covid-19 pandemic has left the UT Sports Department, one of the major revenue earning units of the Administration, grappling with losses due to shutting down of the local training centres.Usually during this period, the department earns lakhs by allotting memberships at various coaching centres. Swimming pool centres — two at Sector 23 and one each at Sector 34, Mani Majra, Sector 43 and Sector 39 — are among the most popular training centres among the masses.There are a total of 14 coaching centres catering to sportspersons and sports lovers in the city.“We really cannot do anything about this. The pandemic has hit our centres and will continue to affect us in the upcoming months. In previous years, our centres have received a tremendous response,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, UT Director Sports.On plans to open these centres, Saini said: “We have to wait for government’s guidelines. However, swimming pools are likely to remain closed for this session, even if the government allowed opening of sports centres. It’s very risky and we have to see the feasibility — according to the number of cases here and best possible ways to deal with situations.”Tournaments affectedNot only revenue generation but the pandemic has also affected annual sports calendar of the department. Two championships have already been postponed, while the calendar is yet to be announced. “Our coaches and staff have been performing other duties assigned by the Administration. There is no scope of discussing annual sports calendar at this hour. We need to assess which tournaments can be conducted in the coming months,” said Saini. The annual major tournament — Administrator’s Challenge Cup All India Football Cup — and other invitational tournaments are likely to be postponed or even cancelled.Pressure on admission processIn case of no tournaments in the city, it will be difficult for local sportspersons to get admissions under the sports quota in various schools/colleges or to get benefits of various scholarship schemes. Every year, the UT Sports Department gives nearly 2,000 gradation certificates.Sports gradation postponedThe process of issuing sport gradation certificates has already been postponed by the UT Sports Department. The fresh dates are yet to be announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-hits-sports-dept-revenue-84974
15-05-2020||---||2 schools identified in Bapu Dham Colony to shift vulnerable sections||Chandigarh, May 14The UT Administration today acknowledged that combating Covid-19 in the congested Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, is a challenge and is fully concentrating to prevent community spread.As social distancing is not possible in one-room houses, the authorities identified two schools in the BDC to set up a quarantine facility. It has been decided to shift vulnerable and high-risk sections like senior citizens, those with co-morbidities and pregnant women, among others, to prevent community spread of the virus.The colony houses nearly 60,000 people, largely from economically weaker sections, with 10 to 15 persons living together in small dwellings.The first case in the BDC was reported on April 24. Out of 191 cases from the city, 122 are from the BDC.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore reiterated the need for intensive testing in the city, especially in the BDC.Despite the BDC being declared a containment zone and its entry and exit points sealed, the BDC has reported 68.3 per cent of the city’s total cases and 77.5 per cent patients.The Administrator said “Chandigarh’s entity should not be considered in isolation, but in relation to its adjoining cities of Panchkula and Mohali, which make it a mega city. The combined population of the tricity is nearly 22 lakh.”“This makes coordination in the tricity quite challenging. However, we evolved an effective mechanism through mutual cooperation with neighbouring states to combat Covid-19. Panchkula facilitated us by allowing our doctors to travel there,” said Badnore.Indulging in some self-praise, the Administrator said while the rest of the country declared lockdown, Chandigarh declared a curfew. It was the first city to make it mandatory to wear masks in public.The video conference was held to seek suggestions on easing out the lockdown after May 17. Some of the suggestions and queries pointed out the mismanagement of migrants, which had led to overcrowding and chaos at the ISBT-43 on Wednesday. The police reportedly had to use force to check the teeming workers.The administration also sought the cooperation and assistance of the NGOs and voluntary organisations for smooth movement of migrants and others stranded in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-schools-identified-in-bapu-dham-colony-to-shift-vulnerable-sections-84977
15-05-2020||---||Two ‘shramik’ trains depart for UP, Bihar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Two ‘shramik’ special trains with over 2,800 migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh onboard chugged off from the Chandigarh railway station today.SPl trains for todayFor the smooth movement of these persons, the UT Administration has made elaborate arrangements to ensure comfortable and safe journey. The travellers were provided with packed food packets and a water bottle before boarding the train at the railway station.A ‘shramik’ train with 1,370 persons left the city railway station at 3 pm today for Sitamarhi, Mujaffarpur and Gopalganj districts in Bihar. Another train with 1,469 passengers left the station at 7 pm for Partapgarh district in Uttar Pradesh.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare Department, UT, said in view of the rising temperature, additional tents had been set up for sunshade at the ISBT-43 where passengers were called for screening before boarding the trains.After assessing the gathering outside the ISBT-43, children with their parents, women with their husbands, senior citizens and handicapped persons were allowed on a priority. Not even a single child, woman, handicapped and senior citizen was sent back. All persons who turned up today and had registered for these districts in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were accommodated in the special trains, he said.Chaos prevailed at the ISBT-43 yesterday after a large number of migrants from other district reached there.“The Administration today regulated the entry in and around the ISBT for the registered persons. Things were better organised. There was no chaos and all registered persons were accommodated,” he said. He clarified that any person who had not received a phone call should not come to the ISBT-43.“Names of the persons will be checked from the list and other persons will not be allowed,” he said.“Persons from other districts are advised not to enter the city because their journey will be arranged by the district authorities of that district only,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-shramik-trains-depart-for-up-bihar-84980
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Most migrants were from Chandigarh: SSP||The UT Police have claimed that majority of migrants who reached the ISBT, Sector 43, on Wednesday and later, took to the roads were from Chandigarh.A large number of migrants were not registered to travel back home and those who came from neighbouring cities had some SMSs in their mobile phones, which gave them false impression that it was a valid pass, said the police.The police officials said a team led by ASP (South) Neha Yadav, randomly cross checked a lot of 500 people and only 21 were found to be from outside and they had SMS from the Chandigarh NIC.“It was claimed that people entered Chandigarh from neighbouring cities. However, after verification it came out that the majority of the people were residing in the city. A few who came from outside had SMS which gave them an illusion that it was a valid pass,” said Senior Superintendent of Police Nilambari Jagdale.“Many Chandigarh-based migrants without knowing that registration SMS was not enough for their travel, reached the ISBT, Sector-43,” said the police officials.Officials said public address system was used to pacify migrants and they did not resort to any use of force.Numerous migrants who failed to show valid SMS were a harried lot and reportedly left the city for their respective states on foot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/most-migrants-were-from-chandigarh-ssp-84982
15-05-2020||---||Will return after situation improves: Workers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Mohammed Koshi (39), a resident of Araria district of Bihar, is among thousands of migrants who have decided to leave for their native states.Koshi, a painter by profession, said he along with more than 40 residents of Bihar was staying in a locality in Sector 52, Chandigarh. Koshi said he and others had decided to go back as there was no work for the past 45 days in the city due to the lockdown and also they had exhausted all their resources.On getting ration from the administration, he said it was not regular and due to curfew, they were also not allowed to move out of the locality so that they could get cooked food provided by social organisations and the authorities.He said they would return to the city and resume their work immediately after the situation normalises. The partial relaxations given by the authorities were not enough for daily wagers, as only a limited number of shops and factories were allowed to open.Similar views were expressed by Rattan Chauhan, a resident of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh. Chauhan said he and his two brothers were into selling ‘jalebis’ on rehris. We were not allowed to start their work, he said and added that it was better to head back to their native village instead of sitting idle. “At least in the village, we can move freely and will earn something by working in fields,” he said.Chauhan said they had left their village in search of a better future. He said they would return only after the situation would return to normal.Shintu, a resident of Unnao district, said he had decided to go back to his native village on cycle when the lockdown was implemented, but could not do so due to the curfew, as he was not allowed to move out. He said he had no work for more than month-and-a-half and it was better to stay in the native village.After the UT Administration lifted the curfew and asked industrialists to resume work from May 4, nearly 30 per cent of the migrant workers who had registered themselves with the authorities to go back to their native states in ‘shramik’ special trains had decided to stay back.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said they had been distributing food packets among the needy since the curfew was imposed. He said they were being helped by various social organisations and philanthropists in this cause.The Deputy Commissioner said two installments of Rs 3,000 had been transferred directly into the bank accounts of 6,670 construction workers through direct benefit transfer (DBT).Meanwhile, the authorities have appealed to the migrant workers to stay back as efforts were being made to gradually start other economic activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-return-after-situation-improves-workers-84984
15-05-2020||---||Strong mechanism to check illegal entry into Mohali: DC||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 14In order to check unauthorised entry of persons and vehicles into the Mohali district, the administration has drafted a mechanism to screen every person who returns to his house in villages or in municipal areas.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said sarpanch and numberdar of every village would inform the SDM/Sector Officer or the Chief Nodal Officer concerned about such persons.In case of the Municipal Committees/Municipal Corporations, councillors or Municipal Commissioners and the Executive Officer concerned would inform the SDM/Sector Officer or the Nodal Officer, he added.Dayalan said as and when such a report is received, the Rapid Response Team (RRT) would be activated and screening of such persons would be done.He said the Civil Surgeon will make sure that the RRTs intimate the SMO concerned and District Control Room about any person who is found symptomatic.The Deputy Commissioner said the Supervisory Officer and Surveillance Officer would ensure that such persons follow the protocol issued by the Health Department.He said the data of all such persons must be shared by the Chief Nodal Officer with the District Control Room/State Control Room and by the Civil Surgeon with the IDSP in the office of the DHS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/strong-mechanism-to-check-illegal-entry-into-mohali-dc-84986
15-05-2020||---||Special train with intermittent halts||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 14Rising up to the challenge, the Mohali district administration has sent over 15,000 migrants to their respective states. On Thursday, 1,501 migrants went back on a train which has intermittent stoppages at Katihar, Patna, Champaran and Barauni.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had compiled data, worked on statistics and prepared district wise departure schedule of outbound migrants.He said initially those districts were catered wherein large chunk of migrants wanted to go, including Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh.The Deputy Commissioner said with restoration of activity in labour intensive sectors, coupled with ensuing paddy transplantation period, over 30 per cent migrants declined to go return.He said they would extend boarding facility from Mohali for migrants from Ropar and Nawanshahar.He said 225 migrants were sent via buses to Sirhind on Wednesday to head towards Manipur and Andhra Pradesh while about 900 others will go to Madhya Pradesh on Friday. Besides, people seeking to go back on private vehicles are also being issued permission after screening, he added. He said migrants are being screened twice (at collection centre and at railway station).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-train-with-intermittent-halts-84987
15-05-2020||---||PPCB orders closure of meat processing unit at Lalru||Satinder Pal SinghDera Bassi, May 14The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Patiala, has ordered the closure of Suguna Foods Private Limited, a meat processing unit, at Jaura Kalan near Lalru for alleged violations of the Air and Water Pollution Control Acts.A team led by officials of the PPCB, Patiala, conducted an inspection of the meat processing unit in September last year and found that the effluent generated from the rendering plant was being bypassed into Basoli drain. Foul smell was observed near the effluent treatment plant (ETP), which was also not functional. The unit was not complying with the provisions of Sections 25 and 26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Sections 21 and 22 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.However, the AGM of the unit, during a hearing on October 22, 2019, had submitted that the unit was maintaining good housekeeping near the ETP area. It had already installed an online monitoring system connected with the PPCB portal.He further submitted that the blower of the aeration tank was partially working during the visit by the PPCB officials which resulted in the foul smell and the same had been rectified. The AGM assured to control the water wastage point and work on water conversation measures.However, a complaint was again received from the residents of the village wherein it was alleged that the unit was generating foul smell in the area.The unit was again found to be generating foul smell. Wild growth was also noticed in the plantation area during the visit by the officials.Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary, PPCB, Patiala, said the activities being carried out by the unit were causing pollution that led to the environmental damage.He said the unit failed to comply with the provisions of the Water and Air (Prevention and Control Pollution) Act within the stipulated time period, following which the orders had been passed for its closure and disconnection of its power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ppcb-orders-closure-of-meat-processing-unit-at-lalru-84988
15-05-2020||Lalru||25-year-old commits suicide||The body a 25-year-old youth was found hanging from a tree at Alamgir village, Lalru, today morning.The deceased has been identified as Ranjit Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh.The youth was found tied with a rope kind of thing to the tree. The police said prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide. However, no suicide note was found.Deceased’s brother Suraj told the police that Ranjit Kumar was mentally upset for the past several days. The family came to know from a passerby that Ranjit’s body was hanging from a tree. They immediately rushed to the spot and informed the police. — OC35-year-old jumps before train, diesDera Bassi: A 35-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a train near Gazipur village on the Ambala-Kalka railway track here today.The deceased has been identified as Radhe Shyam, a resident of Panchkula. Rajinder Singh Dhillon, in-charge, Ghaggar railway station, Mubarikpur, said they received information about the incident around 1 pm on Thursday. No suicide note was found from the spot, he said. GRP sources said the body had been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, for post-mortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-year-old-commits-suicide-84990
15-05-2020||Mohali||Immunity booster kits for warriors||Senior citizens donate sanitisersMohali: The Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association (MSCA) today donated 160 sanitisers, 450 three-layered masks and 100 pairs of gloves to the officials of the NRI and Cyber Crime branch of the Punjab Police. Additional Director General of Police Gurpreet Deo lauded the gesture of the MSCA. Swarn Chaudhary, MSCA president, said this was the 7th time that they had donated sanitisers and kits to the staff. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immunity-booster-kits-for-warriors-84991
15-05-2020||---||Chandigarh girl Anjum Moudgil nominated for Khel Ratna||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) today nominated ace shooter from Chandigarh, Anjum Moudgil, for the Khel Ratna — the country’s highest sporting honour.The 26-year-old is among the first two Indians to have secured quota places for Tokyo Olympics. “It’s a really proud moment for me and for my family. If I get conferred with it, I will consider myself really lucky. There are many deserving candidates for this honour,” said Anjum. She earned the quota in the 10m air rifle event when she won a silver medal in the ISSF World Cup in South Korea in 2008. Last year, she paired up with Divyansh Singh Panwar to claim the 10m air rifle mixed team gold medal in the ISSF World Cup in Munich and Beijing.She is also the second Indian woman shooter to bag a world championship medal. She specialises in the 10m air rifle and 50m rifle 3-positions events and has won a number of medals at both national and international levels.Association president Raninder Singh said: “Our shooters were outstanding last season and it was a particularly difficult selection to make this time around. I believe all are equally talented and will certainly reap rich awards if they carry on the way they have.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-girl-anjum-moudgil-nominated-for-khel-ratna-84993
15-05-2020||---||‘Chandigarh Admn least bothered about bringing back its residents’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Former councillor and member of the Chandigarh Advisory Council, Satinder Singh, trained guns at the UT Administration for not making arrangements to bring back local residents who are stuck in various parts of the country.He said, “The UT Administration has not made any arrangement to bring back residents or students from other states.”He said a local resident who was works in Bangalore had applied for the permission on May 2, but no reply has been sent to date.Ultimately, the city resident approached the authorities in Una district (Himachal Pradesh) by giving address of his friend. Later, the Una administration made his pass for Chandigarh within two hours, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-least-bothered-about-bringing-back-its-residents-84994
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Court dismisses bail  plea of house owner||A local court today dismissed the bail application of Gaurav Aneja in the paying guest accommodation (PG) fire tragedy case wherein three girls lost their lives and two were injured on February 23. Aneja is the owner of the house in Sector 32, where the incident took place.The victims were identified as Riya (19), a resident of Kapurthala; Prakshi Grover (20), a resident of Kotkapura; and Muskan (21), a resident of Hisar.Nitesh Bansal and Nitish Popli, who were running the PG and Aneja were booked under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.In the bail application, defence counsel AS Gujral submitted that the petitioner let out the property to Bansal and Popli vide registered rent/lease deed dated August 30, 2018 for three years.Bansal and Popli were in physical possession of the property and petitioner (Gaurav Aneja) had no role in the day-to-day business of the PG. The house was let out as per the building bylaws.The defence counsel stated that the fire broke out in the house due to negligence of Bansal and Popli. Gujral said nothing has to be recovered from the possession of the petitioner, hence no useful purpose would be served by keeping the petitioner in judicial custody. He said the petitioner was in judicial custody since February 27.However, the public prosecutor opposed the bail application. After hearing arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the petitioner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-house-owner-85016
15-05-2020||---||9 contacts of +ve patient test negative||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 14Nine contacts of 59-year-old infected person from Bagwali village of Raipur Rani tested negative on Thursday. However, report of his 14 other contacts is still awaited.Of the 74 contacts associated with district’s five-active cases, 60 tested negative.At present,Panchkula’s Covid-19 tally stands at 23 and 18 patients have been cured so far.16 admitted to Civil HospitalAccording to health officials, 16 people have been admitted to Civil Hospital.150 migrants sent homeMore than 150 migrants, stuck in the district following the nation-wide lockdown, were sent to Uttar Pradesh through five buses on Thursday. They were allowed to board the buses after medical screening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-contacts-of-ve-patient-test-negative-85018
15-05-2020||---||Five more from Chandigarh recover, discharged||Chandigarh, May 14Five more Covid patients belonging to the city were discharged from the PGI today.Among the recovered patients were a 30-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, who was a community contact of a positive patient, and four others — 62-year-old man and women, aged 55, 35 and 23 —from Sector 30.The city heaved a sigh of relief as no new case was reported from hospitals today. However, the report of 15 samples is still awaited. As of now, there are 151 active and 191 positive cases in the city.3 cured in MohaliMohali: Three more Covid patients belonging to Mohali were discharged from hospitals on Thursday, bringing down the number of active cases in the district to 42.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said two patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and one from the PGI, Chandigarh.Now, there are 105 positive and 60 recovered cases in the district. Two recovered patients belong to Jawaharpur village while one hails from Mullanpur village.Dr Manjit said the Jawaharpur residents would stay at a quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure while the Mullanpur resident had been sent home and asked to quarantine himself for 14 days. He said teams from the Health Department would examine him from time to time. Other patients undergoing treatment at the Covid care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital were stable, he said.The Civil Surgeon appealed to people to stay indoors and only step out when there was an urgent need. He also urged people to wash hands frequently and maintain distance. District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh and Dr Harmandeep Kaur were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-more-from-chandigarh-recover-discharged-85067
