18-05-2020||---||Hockey legend Balbir Sr remains in critical state||Chandigarh, May 18Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr is nearly stable but his condition continues to be critical. He is in a semi-comatose state and has developed a blood clot in his brain, his maternal grandson Kabir said on Monday as the three-time Olympic gold-medallist battled multiple health complications at a hospital here.In a statement, Kabir said his 95-year-old maternal grandfather hasn't, however, suffered any cardiac event since last week."Hemodynamically near stable but condition is critical. No further cardiac events since last update," read the statement."MRI brain report shows a small fresh blood clot in the brain which is insufficient to explain continued unconsciousness. He is currently in semi-comatose condition," the statement added.The icon, who continues to remain on ventilator, has also been detected with fresh pneumonia patches in his lungs."Treatment is being attempted. He continues to be on ventilator support. Doctors are continuously assessing his condition," Kabir mentioned.Balbir Sr was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali with high fever on May 8.In January last year, he was discharged from PGIMER, Chandigarh, after spending 108 days in the hospital, where he underwent treatment for bronchial pneumonia.One of the country's greatest athletes, Balbir Sr was the only Indian among 16 legends chosen by the International Olympic Committee across modern Olympic history.His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men's hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten.He had scored five goals in India's 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games. He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957.He was also the manager of India's World Cup-winning team in 1975. – With  agency inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-legend-balbir-sr-remains-in-critical-state-86503
18-05-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh’s Sec 17, 35 markets to remain open; here’s what is allowed and what’s not||Chandigarh, May 18The UT Administration on Monday issued new guidelines for lockdown 4.0, giving more relaxations to Chandigarh residents.All the shops in internal sector markets, called as neighbourhood markets, which were earlier allowed to open on an odd-even basis will now be allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm on all days except the weekly off day.City’s iconic Sector 17 market, besides Sector 34 market and shops on sector dividing roads are permitted to remain open. The shop timings will be from 11 am to 6 pm.WHAT IS ALLOWED: WHAT IS NOT ALLOWED: Night curfewThe movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am except for essential activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-sec-17-35-markets-to-remain-open-heres-what-is-allowed-and-whats-not-86494
18-05-2020||---||Coronavirus: Chandigarh-based TBRL develops drone for monitoring public areas||Chandigarh, May 18Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) here has designed and developed an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to monitor public areas for ensuring that the guidelines issued to combat COVID-19 are being implemented.The system has been successfully demonstrated to the Chandigarh Police inside the police residential complex as well as in the sealed-off Bapu Dham Colony, which has seen over a hundred COVID-19 positive cases.The drone is capable of undertaking real-time surveillance as well as broadcasting public announcements. The system ensures the safety of the citizens by enforcing and monitoring the guidelines to be followed, as well as the safety of police personnel by enabling them with the capability of aerial patrolling without coming in close proximity of containment zones.The UAV has a range of 3 km and the capability of way point navigation. It can provide real-time video feed to law enforcers and its controlling software has built-in artificial intelligence tools for analysis and decision-making.While the design and development of the drone has been done entirely by TBRL scientists, the laboratory is collaborating with a Noida-based private firm for its production.An important Defence Research and Development Organisaltion (DRDO) establishment based in Chandigarh, TBRL is involved in development, production, processing and characterisation of different high-explosive compositions, fragmentation studies of warheads, captive flight testing of bombs, missiles and airborne systems and ballistics evaluation of protective system like body armour, vehicle armour and helmets. It has also developed other products like face shields and examination enclosures for the medical fraternity and contactless sanitizer dispenser for use in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-based-tbrl-develops-drone-for-monitoring-public-areas-86463
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||After reporting no cases for 4 days, 5 test corona positive in Chandigarh's Bapu Dham Colony||After a lull of four days, five new cases have been reported from Covid-19 hotspot Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, Chandigarh, on Monday morning. Among the patients are three females aged 10, 29 and 60 years and two men aged 26 and 48 years.With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in Chandigarh has gone up to 196.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-reporting-no-cases-for-4-days-5-test-corona-positive-in-chandigarhs-bapu-dham-colony-86404
18-05-2020||Wash hands regularly with soap & water||The onus is on you too — stick to norms, stay safe||Avoid shopping in traditional styleAt this juncture people, should avoid going out of their houses. Sometimes it becomes necessity to go out for buying essential supplies. This going out can also be reduced if people shift to online shopping, which could in turn reduce the risk of catching virus. With the number of rising coronavirus cases and the UT Administration failing to stem the spread this seems the best option by which citizens can fulfil all their needs without even stepping out of their houses.Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh QUESTIONMigrants have been getting a raw deal all over the country with several of them losing their lives while on the way to their native places. What steps can the tricity authorities take now to mitigate their woes?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comStop using air-conditionersThe infection is spreading in colonies. People there should be advised nor to use air-conditioners. Sale and use of ‘gutka’ and ‘beedi’ be made punishable offence. Patrolling of paramilitary forces in colonies should be done. Moreover, the Administration should chalk out a scheme with local hotels for isolation of suspected cases on reasonable payment so that people willingly opt for it.Sudhir Kumar Jain, ZirakpurViolators should be dealt with strictlyThe Chandigarh Administration has done their best to contain the coronavirus, but the non-cooperation of the people has increased positive cases. Enough has been done to make the people aware about the disease, put them under the curfew and lockdown, but still they are adamant to get infected. People should remain inside houses and do essential work for earning livelihood. Following the guidelines like social distancing, using face mask and washing hands with soap frequently are mandatory for all citizens for their own and others safety. Highly congested colonies and villages in the city needs more vigilance to stop the spread of virus. People breaking rules and guidelines must also be booked.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliVenture outside for need not for greedCitizens have to make habit to go out for required work only while maintaining proper hygiene and distance when all services will open. Limit use of tech gadgets due to its adverse health impacts on humans. Keep surroundings clean by not throwing used things anywhere. We all should think not only for our safeguards but for the environment too. We all have to be law abiding citizens for a healthy and safe life.Dr. Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhNeed of the hour is exercising cautionIn spite of imposing lockdown/curfew the number of Covid cases has gone up in the city. Respite in near future is a dream. In the absence of effective treatment or vaccine the only solution is to understand the instinct of virus. Thank God, it doesn’t enter our house unless we invite or bring it from outside in the shape of droplets. Therefore, it is advisable to a common man to worry. Sternly adhere to advisories and guidelines. The Administration should continue its efforts to upgrade the necessary infrastructure to keep pace with unwanted situation. Sooner or later normalcy is bound to return as happens after every pandemic or calamity.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliLook after yourselves & your childrenIt is now clear that the Covid disease is here to stay for a long time. And no Central leadership or state and UT Administration is giving any assurance for eliminating it in a specified timeframe. So, we must look after ourselves and children for survival. The best method is to stay two meters away from every person and wear masks. That’s the only safest way to live a new way of life.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhThere’s no room for any complacencyThe UT Administration should blame none but itself for its abject failure to prevent the fast spread of coronavirus in Bapu Dham Colony. How come the Administration is not yet been able to identify possible hot spots/vulnerable families here? It’s thus strongly felt that both Sector 30-B and Bapu Dham Colony should be handed over to the paramilitary forces. A house to house testing may urgently be conducted. Who knows, any out of sync and lackadaisical approach on this count may also prove suicidal?SK Gupta, PanchkulaWe can fight & live with virusWhen will coronavirus go and when an effective vaccine will come, only God knows. But we can fight and live with it. Traditional way to observe personal hygiene, washing hands frequently, using masks and social distancing are the best to protect oneself. Heavens will not fall if we don’t go to Sukhna Lake, parks or venture on sector roads with pets for morning and evening walks. We have to realise the value of life. Lockdown cannot be imposed for months. Avoiding eatables from unknown sources and switching to homemade snacks is the step in right direction. Besides don’t go to crowded places or apni mandis. Change attitude to remain healthy and safe.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliSafai karamcharis are serving humanityCovid-19 is an extremely infectious virus. Administrations all over the world are nervous due to coronavirus. As responsible citizens we should maintain social distance, use masks and wash hands. It’s not about one person, but about putting your own loved ones at risk. As a society, we must respect safai karamcharis, who despite this terrible disease, pick up our garbage, and keep our city clean risking their lives. Such people are doing the greatest service to humanity.Samita Kaur, ChandigarhDon’t go out to invite CoronaCorona does not come to us. Rather we invite corona. We have to be on guard 24x7 and adopt a two-fold strategy – hygiene-cum-protection and boosting immunity – with social distancing and consumption of age-old ‘kadha’ (concoction of desi herbs and spices), seasonal fruits and vegetables that are replete with vital enzymes. People in cogested containment zones need to be repeatedly alerted through public address system. To better safeguard themselves, citizens ought to practise new lockdown norms. All avoidable social and entertainment interactions should be deferred.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPeople not serious about Covid-19Nationals are not as serious as they ought to be when it comes to Covid-19. Migrant labourers are mindlessly moving back to their states and politics being played by parties has given severe jolt to humanity. It not the time for materialistic expectations, accusations or criticism. Every citizen should behave responsibly. Saving lives is prime responsibility of every citizen, especially in the present crisis.MPS Chadha, MohaliIncrease testing of suspected patientsAvoid venturing out of your houses unnecessarily. If somehow you have to move out, use a mask and practice physical distancing in public places. Keep washing your hands. Use sanitisers in case of unavailability of soap and water. Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. Maintain high standards of hygiene at home as well at workplace. Sanitise your surroundings regularly. Follow all guidelines issued by the Administration. Even the Administration should increase the testing of suspected patients.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhPay heed to restrictionsWhile at home, take utmost care of cleanliness. Only one person should visit market if it is necessary. The person going out of the house must wear good quality mask, maintain social distancing and on return sanitise or wash hands with soap. Ensure that senior citizens, children less than 10 years of age and pregnant women do not venture out of houses. The only solution of staying healthy is to pay heed to restrictions.MR Bhateja, NayagaonStaggered easing, vigilance way outExit from the current lockdown should be staggered. The success of containment over the next few days should influence the pace of easing lockdown. Prevent people from spilling out on streets. The lockdown should be lifted on alternate days. Only residents of Panchkula and Mohali districts and the UT should be allowed this facility. Shared autos and local buses should remain off road. Only yellow plate taxis and vehicles registered in Panchkula, Mohali and UT should be on roads with maximum two persons, including driver of the vehicle. All violations need to be handled strictly and heavy penalties be imposed.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurIt’s question of survival in crisisThe enforcement authorities may try to maintain discipline and law and order, but they cannot be successful without realisation on the part of people. The present situation is not a law and order issue, but the question of our survival. It can go out of control unless citizens themselves do not become watchdogs for personal health and of community/society. We should religiously follow instructions given by the authorities, doctors and security personnel.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliPositive approach can help overcome crisisPeople have to change their outlook instead of harbouring negative feelings. A positive approach is the need of the hour. We are not locked inside homes, but safer. How would the government control this situation? Instead, we have to control it ourselves. Combined efforts of the public and the government would help all to come out of this difficult situation.Charu Malhotra, MohaliBe careful, not fearfulThe authorities have shown us the way to safeguard ourselves from the deadly virus. Now, it is up to us to follow it for our own safety and for society. We know that the worst is yet to come. We need not panic and cooperate with the authorities. Do not venture out unnecessarily. Be at peace with yourself by doing meditation. Learn some new skill. Spread happiness and bond with your near and dear ones.Veena Mahajan, ChandigarhFollow all norms and guidelinesEveryone knows that God helps those who help themselves. Coronavirus can be controlled with the help and support of public. It is true that prevention is better than cure. All citizens should follow norms and guidelines issued by the Administration. They should avoid use of alcohol and tobacco products at public places and not spit on roads and walls. All type of vegetables and fruits must be washed in salt water. Long-route travel should be avoided. Corona-affected patients should voluntary provide information to the Administration.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliAssess situation to take preventive stepsDelays in tests, sanitisation and analysing the ground situation in densely populated sectors resulted in increase in Covid-19 cases in the city. The Administration should assess the situation to take preventive measure, besides step up vigil and strict lockdown enforcement in major hotspots of the city. Consider constructive feedback given by city residents through print/social media. Residents will have to learn to live with coronavirus and maintain self-discipline. It will help in opening up the economy. Sector 17 ISBT fruit and vegetable market may become next centre of coronavirus in Chandigarh. It should be shifted to Sector 39 fruit and vegetable market, which has space and is free from traffic congestion.Col Balbir Mathauda (Retd), UtPractise yoga to boost immunityBy now people have realised the purpose of lockdown. However, it cannot continue endlessly. Create more awareness amongst the public like washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially, after blowing of nose, coughing or sneezing. Maintain a distance of six feet with each other. Cover nose and mouth with a mask otherwise use elbow while coughing or sneezing. Clean surfaces properly to maintain hygiene. Practice yoga to increase immunity.Harish Kapur, ChandigarhWork with govt to defeat virusCitizens should also have a sense of responsibility. Those showing even the slightest of symptoms should immediately get tested. People who are quarantined, should not run away from isolation wards. Those in self-isolation should quarantine themselves properly. Everyone has to stay home. We should follow the lockdown guidelines. Citizens (especially netizens) should not circulate fake news. All citizens should check lists on Administration’s portal to find if there is someone quarantined near their house. They should alert neighbours not to visit quarantined person to prevent community transmission. To win over coronavirus citizens should work with the government.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhScreen all residents in city beautifulScreen all residents as had happened in Bhilwara and other places. The entire city has to be sanitised time and again. Cleanliness has to be improved. Foreigners coming from other countries should be screened at the airport and quarantined. Industry and shops have to open with full protective measures. The government should pay Rs 7,500 per month for three months to every unemployed. Educational institutes should not be opened for the time being. Ensure availability of life-saving vaccinations for children and pregnant mothers. Make swift arrangements for workers, who want to go back to their home states by trains/buses. Use public address systems to relay developments among residents.SK Khosla, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-onus-is-on-you-too-%E2%80%94-stick-to-norms-stay-safe-86188
18-05-2020||Panchkula||Online fraud: Retd Col loses Rs 50K||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-fraud-retd-col-loses-rs-50k-86189
18-05-2020||---||Duty keeps this doc on toes in containment zone||Panchkula, May 17Panchkula has seen less number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity because of the constant hard work of frontline warriors. One of them in the forefront of the fight against Covid is Dr Vikas Gupta (43), who is mainly deployed in containment zones.His day begins at 7 am. From coordinating with doctors and paramedical staff deployed for screening the general population to collecting random samples and issuing medical certificate to migrants staying in shelter homes, Dr Gupta makes sure he discharges his duty diligently.“I have been assigned various containment zones, including Sector 16 and 19, where we screen the general population with a greater emphasis on those who are more vulnerable to catching the virus, said Dr Gupta, who lives in Peer Muchalla. As a PPE kit adds an extra discomfort with high temperature in summers, he makes sure he finishes his duty by 10 am. “Our team, which involves a doctor and two paramedical staff, covers 25-30 houses per day,” he said.“We have to be on toes all the time. On Friday, when I returned home at 7 pm, I received a call from senior officials regarding issuance of medical certificates to migrants as they were supposed to leave early morning the next day. So, we had to rush to Fatehpur to complete that task,” he said.Both Dr Gupta and his wife, who is also a doctor, remain on duty for most of the time. “I am grateful to my mother, who looks after our children despite her advancing age,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/duty-keeps-this-doc-on-toes-in-containment-zone-86193
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pedestrian dies in hit-and-run||In a hit-and-run case, a 57-year-old pedestrian was killed after being knocked down by an unknown vehicle on the PGI campus, Sector 12. This is the second road accident death reported from the city since March 21.According to the police, the victim, Kaushalya, a resident of the PGI campus, was hit by an unknown car near the gurdwara on the PGI campus on May 16. The car driver sped away from the spot, leaving the victim seriously injured.The police were informed and the victim rushed to the PGI, where she was declared brought dead. The police have registered a case under Sections 279, 337 and 304 A of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area would be scrutinised to identify the vehicle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-dies-in-hit-and-run-86195
18-05-2020||---||Woman held for bid to eliminate minor||Chandigarh, May 17A 19-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly trying to kill a minor girl residing in the same building at Mauli Jagran.The nine-year-old victim was found unconscious on the evening of May 15.According to the police, the victim's mother, Mamta, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, complained that her daughter had gone to play near the house. Later in the evening, when she did not return, her mother started looking for her and found her lying unconscious in the corridor of the first floor.The victim was admitted to the PGI and a case of attempt to murder registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.During the investigation, a neighbour of the victim, Laxmi, was arrested in the case.The police said the victim had some personal information about the woman, who feared she might reveal it to her family following which she tried to eliminate the victim.The woman was produced before the duty magistrate and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-for-bid-to-eliminate-minor-86196
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bansal slams Centre’s Covid stimulus plan||Former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal today termed the financial stimulus package announced by the Centre as a mirage. During an online press conference, Bansal alleged that after remaining impassive to the sufferings of people for inordinately long time and failing to alleviate the distress of trade, industry, services, farmers, the salaried class and the labourers, the Prime Minister told the nation on May 12 that the government would provide financial stimulus package worth Rs 20 lakh crore to give a boost of self-reliance to the economy that had come to a complete halt. He further said the hope generated to overcome all-pervasive despondency had been short-lived. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bansal-slams-centres-covid-stimulus-plan-86173
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Seven months on, Ram Darbar youth gets bail||The court of District and Sessions Judge Paramjeet Singh has granted bail to a 21-year-old resident of Ram Darbar in an attempt-to-murder case.According to the prosecution, a case was registered under Sections 307, 34 and 341 of the IPC on October 15, 2019, on the complaint of Goldy, who stated that he was a sweeper at the GMSH-16. On October 14, 2019, when he was going to pick his wife from her parents’ house in Ram Darbar around 10 pm, Subhash and his sons Binny and Varun stopped him. Subhash caught hold of him from back and Varun attacked on his head with a brick and Binny stabbed him in his stomach with a knife. He was rushed to the GMSH.In the bail application, defence counsel AS Gujral submitted that the accused had been implicated in a false case. The counsel said the injuries attributed to co-accused Varun were not present on the body of the injured. Accused Subhash was not even named in the challan presented in the court. Varun has already been released on bail. He further argued that the accused was in custody in this case for around seven months.The public prosecutor contended the accused had caused grievous injury, which was declared dangerous to life by doctor. He argued that the weapon of offence had been recovered from the accused, who was a habitual offender.The court observed: “The investigation qua accused has been completed and challan against the accused has been presented. The accused is ordered to be released on a regular bail, but on furnishing of personal bonds and surety bonds of Rs 1 lakh.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-months-on-ram-darbar-youth-gets-bail-86175
18-05-2020||---||Now, get online appointment at UT Sub-Registrar's office||Chandigarh, May 17The UT Administration has launched a new online appointment system for the Office of Sub-Registrar.According to an official statement, the applicant has to register or book an appointment for the registration of documents on the official website of the Chandigarh Administration (chandigarh.gov.in).The executants and witnesses of the documents would be required to remain present at the office at least 10 minutes before the allotted time along with their documents, which should be complete in all aspects as per the checklist available on the website. No person would be entertained for registration of documents after the expiry of the allottedslot time.In order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and to foster the minimum close personal contact among people coming to the Office of Sub-Registrar, registration of 30 deeds per day has been fixed on all working days. The timings of the registration work have been fixed from 11 am to 1 pm and from 1.30 pm to 4:30 pm. The timings for the supply of copy of deeds, inspection of documents and certified copyhave been fixed from 10:30 am to 11 am on all working days.However, no appointment is required for registration of Will, which will be done between 11 am and 1 pm on all working days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-get-online-appointment-at-ut-sub-registrars-office-86176
18-05-2020||---||Lockdown 4.0: Chandigarh call today||Chandigarh, May 17As the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed opening of shops and markets with staggered timings, the UT Administration will take a final call on opening of shops on either sides of the main roads and in Sector 17 tomorrow.As per the new guidelines issued for the fourth phase of the lockdown beginning tomorrow, the MHA stated that the local authorities should ensure that shops and markets open with staggered timings, so as to ensure social distancing. All shops will have to ensure six feet distance among customers and also not allow more than five persons at one time.The UT Administration may allow inter-state movement of vehicles and buses with mutual consent of the states/UTs concerned and also intra-city movement of buses. Schools, colleges, educational and training/coaching institutions will remain closed, but online/ distance learning will be permitted and encouraged in the city.The UT may allow the restaurants to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items. The step would help students and other persons living in rented accommodations without kitchen.As per the new guidelines, the Centre has allowed several more relaxations outside the containment zones to restart economic activity. Now, the UT can demarcate the red zone as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The Administration may decide on other relaxations to be given outside the containment zone on the basis of its assessment of the situation. It may prohibit certain other activities or impose restrictions as deemed necessary.The new guidelines permit barber shops, salons and shopping complexes to open. However, the UT Administration will take a call on opening of these establishments and running of auto-rickshaws and taxis after a meeting tomorrow.The Administration may permit opening of sports complexes and stadia only for sports activities. However, spectators would not be allowed in these complexes.The night curfew will remain in force for all non-essential activities between 7 pm and 7 am. Also, only essential activities will be allowed in containment zones.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said fresh guidelines in conformity with the directions of the MHA would be issued for the city tomorrow.Protection for vulnerable personsVulnerable persons like those above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10, to stay home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-4-0-chandigarh-call-today-86177
18-05-2020||---||3 more recover, active cases now 4 in Mohali||Mohali, May 17The number of active Covid cases is decreasing in the district with each passing day which is an indicator of the fast improving health scenario.Expressing these views, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today said the district saw three female patients recovering and being discharged from the Civil Hospital in Ropar. They were working at the same hospital. Two of them belong to Kharar while one hailed from Kurali, he added.With this development, the number of active cases has dropped to four. The district has reported 105 Covid cases so far and 98 of them have been discharged. Three patients with comorbidities had died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-recover-active-cases-now-4-in-mohali-86179
18-05-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI plays safe, sticks to old discharge norms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17In the past four days, the PGI has discharged 21 city patients taking the recovery rate from 16 per cent (on May 13) to 26.7 per cent now. Meanwhile, the positivity rate has declined to 6.7 per cent from 7.8 per cent on May 13, when the city reported its last case.However, none of the patients has been discharged according to the revised discharge policy as per which, a mild case can be discharged after 10 days of the onset of symptoms and no fever for three days.At present, the PGI is following the old discharge policy under which, a patient is discharged after two consecutive negative test results on the RT-PCR.Prof Jagat Ram, PGI Director, said: “We are currently following the old procedure of discharge as a majority of the patients are from Bapu Dham Colony and there is a chance that many may contract infection if patients are released before testing negative. Those who have big houses don’t have a problem in isolating themselves.” On May 15, the UT Administration decided to implement the post-discharge policy by designating a Post-Discharge Centre at Sood Dharamshala for mild patients, who are required to be discharged after 10 days from hospitals. This centre is meant for patients who cannot follow home isolation due to scanty space. So far, all eligible to be discharged under the new policy are still at the PGI, said UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta.Discharge policy Is there a risk of transmission from patients discharged based on the revised criteria?The available evidence does not indicate any increase in the risk of transmission from patients discharged based on the revised discharge criteria. The revised criteria also specifies that such patients will follow home isolation for a further seven days.Precautions during home isolationSuch patients (with no co-morbidities) should at all time use a triple-layered mask. Patients must stay in an identified room and away from other people at home, especially the elderly and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease and renal disease. They should maintain strict personal hygiene and monitor temperature daily and report promptly if their health deteriorates.Why was the discharge policy changed?Several countries have changed the criteria for discharge from "test-based strategy" to "symptom-based strategy" or "time-based strategy". A review of the ICMR laboratory surveillance data indicates that after the initial RT-PCR positive results, patients became negative after a median duration of 10 days. Recent studies have also suggested that the viral load peaks in the pre-symptomatic period (two days before symptoms) and goes down over the next seven days.2 Doctor quarantined, no fresh case in ChandigarhA paediatric senior doctor at the PGI was quarantined after a six-year-old boy from UP tested positive for Covid. Another paediatric junior resident, who was treating a six-year-old boy from Ludhiana, was also placed under quarantine after the kid died of Covid on Sunday. The cause of death was acute liver failure, hepatic encephalopathy, refractory shock with respiratory failure and acute hepatitis. Meanwhile, no fresh case was reported from the city for the fourth day in a row on Sunday. All 13 persons who returned to the city from abroad have tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-plays-safe-sticks-to-old-discharge-norms-86180
18-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||MHA order rekindles hope of earning for delivery boys||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Local delivery boys working with various food aggregators heaved a sigh of relief as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed opening of restaurants for home delivery.On Sunday, the Centre extended the lockdown till May 31. Hotels and restaurants were allowed to operate kitchen for home delivery of food items. However, the UT Administration is yet to officially allow home delivery.Sources claimed that the officials would now meet tomorrow to decide the future course of action. Earlier, the local restaurants and eateries were not allowed to run their businesses. The step had forced food aggregators like Zomato and Swiggy to stop operations, which directly affected the work of delivery boys. The MHA has now rekindled the hopes of these delivery boys. “The Centre order today came as a big relief for us. The local administration should now permit home delivery of food items,” said Vivek, a local delivery boy. “Earlier, I used to get a minimum 10 to 15 orders per day, but since lockdown I have made only 28 deliveries of essentials only. I hope the MHA order will revive the food industry and we too make some earning,” said Atul Nagar, another delivery boy.On Friday, online restaurant guide and food ordering platform Zomato had laid off around 13 per cent of its workforce on account of the Covid impact. However, delivery boys said it won’t affect their work. “The front staff will be the most hit. They will face job loss and salary cut. We were most affected by shutting of restaurants and eateries. If the Administration allows the eateries to operate, it will somehow help us revive our earnings,” said Kamlesh. “I used to work in double shift for a courier company and Swiggy. Since both are closed, I am surviving on the little savings I have. I skipped paying two EMIs of my motorcycle. I just wish things are back to normal,” said Prince Anand, a delivery boy.‘Allow home delivery till 10 pm’The local hospitality industry has demanded that the UT Administration should allow home delivery till 10 pm. “We welcome the MHA decision to open restaurants for home delivery. However, the local administration should allow us to function till 10 pm against the current restriction for working from 7 am to 7 pm,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mha-order-rekindles-hope-of-earning-for-delivery-boys-86182
18-05-2020||---||Doffing PPE an uphill task, risky||Chandigarh, May 17It takes 30 minutes each to don and doff the personal protective equipment (PPE) worn by healthcare workers looking after Covid-19 patients. Doffing nevertheless is more important than donning as it is a high-risk activity and needs to be done with enough time as a single breach in the procedure will directly bring the healthcare worker in contact with the virus.Thus, an observer, also called as a "buddy", is deputed in the donning/doffing area to see if the correct procedure is being followed at the PGI. The buddy also ensures that nails are trimmed and there is no beard. After drinking, eating and using the washroom, a healthcare worker changes into surgical scrubs in the changing room and all personal belongings such as cellphone or wallet are kept in the locker. Healthcare workers are advised not to rush for doffing PPE kits as these are a potential source of infection.Arjun Ram, a nursing officer at the PGI, said: “After 10 minutes of wearing a PPE kit, our body gets drenched in sweat. After spending five to six hours donning the PPE kit, another task begins -- that of doffing. We have to sanitise our hands at least five times while removing each part of the PPE.” Jagdish Chaudhary, another nursing officer at the PGI, said: “We practise deep breathing to keep ourselves calm while we are at work. Sometimes we talk to patients so that we get distracted from the unease.”Before removing the PPE, it is ensured that the exhaust fan is on and the ceiling fan is off. As per the PGI protocol, surgical gowns are removed after being pulled forward and away from the body so as to remove these from the top. Healthcare workers perform hand hygiene using an alcohol-based hand rub after each step.The face shield has to be removed by bending forward. Similarly, the surgical hood is also removed by leaning forward and grabbing the top of the hood using one hand only.The leg cover is removed before the hazmat suit by touching only the inner aspect. One has to take care that one leg does not touch the other while removing the shoe cover.It is also important to disinfect shoes or OT slippers ensuring that you don’t have contact with body parts.Remember while donning PPE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doffing-ppe-an-uphill-task-risky-86184
18-05-2020||---||Viral video of leopard in MDC area found fake||Panchkula, May 17The wildlife and police officials have rejected a video of a leopard doing the rounds on the social media with a claim that it was spotted in the Mansa Devi Complex area.Actually, the video was from Hyderabad where a leopard stunned motorists by making an appearance on a busy road, officials said.After receiving several calls from the people residing in the area, wildlife officials remained on toes and conducted a search operation for the leopard, but found nothing. An official of the Mansa Devi Complex police station said, “The video was not shot in the Mansa Devi Complex area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/viral-video-of-leopard-in-mdc-area-found-fake-86186
18-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Sports Dept may review gradation policy||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 17 As the Indian Sports Ministry denied giving fresh recognition to the School Games Federation of India (SGFI), local sportspersons now fear losing gradation of their certificates.  While the local authorities maintained that they are yet to receive an official notification, sources said the department may consider grading of last year’s certificates. “We have not received any official confirmation as of now. But usually, the orders are implemented for the next or ongoing session. We need to first check the orders before deciding anything on it,” said Ravinder Singh, UT District Sports Officer.  “The department will consider certificates of last year for gradation. The gradation has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the department is likely to solve this issue before May 31,” said a source.  On May 11, the Sports Ministry granted recognition to 54 national federations till September this year, leaving out the governing bodies of archery, golf, gymnastics and paralympics among others. In the revised list, the ministry granted fresh recognition to the All-India Carrom Federation. The Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), Rowing Federation of India (RFI) and the SGFI were the ones denied affiliation. According to the UT Sports Department, achievers in disciplines, including archery, athletics, badminton, baseball, basketball, boxing, canoe/kayak, cricket, cycling, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, kho kho, rowing, shooting, softball, skating, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, volleyball, weightlifting and wrestling, will be considered under the gradation policy.  Benefits under gradation On an average, the UT Sports Department issues over 2,000 gradation certificates every year. The UT Administration has adopted the notification of other states/UTs on a reciprocal basis to give benefit of reservation only in admission under the sports category. The players get graded as per the existing policy of the Administration. Under the gradation policy, local players, who pass their qualifying examination from schools/colleges recognised by the UT Administration as regular students and have studied in Chandigarh schools/colleges for at least two years before applying for gradation certificate, subject to the condition that such students must represent Chandigarh state schools in the national level or other recognised tournaments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-dept-may-review-gradation-policy-86165
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Babla wants MC meet  via video-conferencing||Devinder Singh Babla, leader of the Opposition, MC, has asked the Mayor and Commissioner to hold a House meeting through video-conferencing. “I have written to them, but received no reply. If they cannot call a House meeting by maintaining social distance, they should at least hold a meeting through video-conferencing. When Resident Welfare Associations can hold meetings through video-conferencing, why can’t the MC?” he asked. The Congress councillor also slammed Mayor Raj Bala Malik for not “taking the matter seriously.” “She is just visiting places for giving masks, which is just a photo op. The Mayor could have at least replied to what she thinks of the idea. Every councillor has been allotted a laptop each, when will they be used? The Mayor failed to rise to the occasion. there are several city issues, including no fogging being done, which could have been raised and resolved,” he said. Meanwhile, the Mayor could not be contacted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-wants-mc-meet-via-video-conferencing-86166
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||High drama as criminal tries to escape, nabbed||High drama was witnessed at Mauli Jagran when a notorious criminal tried to escape when a police team went to arrest him. An eve-teasing complaint was registered against the accused.  Sources said that the accused, Lakhan, also manhandled police personnel. However, officials denied it. A woman had alleged that Lakhan stalked her and eve-teased her on various occasions. Acting on the complaint a police team, reached the spot. However, before they could arrest Lakhan, he tried to flee from the spot. Lakhan was nabbed after a chase. Police officials said around a dozen cases were already registered against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-drama-as-criminal-tries-to-escape-nabbed-86167
18-05-2020||---||Langar served to migrants||Langar served to migrants Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, May 17 BJP workers on Sunday served langar to labourers who were returning to their respective home states.  City party president Arun Sood asked his partymen, who have been preparing food at various community kitchens, to serve langars to labourers. They were also given food items for journey. A few of them, who were bare footed, were given shoes and ‘chappals’. Sood appealed to labourers to return to their workplaces after the situation gets back to normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/langar-served-to-migrants-86168
18-05-2020||---||Pharma experts attend webinar||Mohali, May 17 Pharmaceutical researchers, scientists and healthcare professionals got together for two-day international meet on ‘Pharmaceutical care and management prospectives of Covid-19 pandemic’, which concluded today. The e-conference was organised by the Rayat Bahra University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, in collaboration with the Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India (APTI). Experts underlined the need for making inter-disciplinary work approach to overcome the difficulties associated with drug discovery. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of the University, welcomed the delegates. Prof B Suresh, president of the Pharmacy Council of India, laid stress on the inter-disciplinary approach which could break down the barriers between different fields of pharmaceutical research. Dr Daljit Singh, Vice-Chancellor of Rayat Bahra University, said the webinar was to bring together leading pharmacologists and researchers to a platform for sharing their research experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pharma-experts-attend-webinar-86169
18-05-2020||---||2 trains take 2,754 migrants home||Chandigarh, May 17Two ‘shramik’ special trains with 2,754 migrants left for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh from the Chandigarh railway station today.With 1,296 passengers on board, the train to Bihar’s West Champaran, Begusrai and Barauni left on scheduled time at 2 pm, while the train to Azamgarh, Uttar Pradesh, ferrying 1,458 persons, too, left on scheduled time at 6 pm.The UT Administration has set up two holding centres at the ISBT-43 where the persons are medically examined. Due to the increase in temperature, women with small children, pregnant women, handicapped persons and senior citizens were accommodated in the trains on priority.One train for next 2 daysThere will only one ‘shramik’ train for the next two days instead of the usual two. On Monday, a train to Amethi (Uttar Pradesh) will leave at 5 pm, while on Tuesday, a train to Raibareli (Uttar Pradesh) will leave at 5 pm.20,181 passengers ferried so farA total of 20,181 persons have been transported to their hometowns in UP and Bihar through Sharamik trains, while 1,922 have been sent home via buses.Frontline railway staff get safety kitsThe Ambala Division of the Northern Railways, running ‘sharmik’ trains from various stations, including Saharanpur, Ambala Cantt, Sirhind, Patiala, Bathinda, Chandigarh and SAS nagar (Mohali), has given safety kits to its frontline staff.The officials of ticket checking, reservations and other commercial in-sectors staff on duty have been provided with hygiene kits comprising masks, gloves, sanitisers, soaps and tissue papers.UT stops registrationMeanwhile, Chandigarh has temporarily stopped the registration of migrant labourers. On May 13, the approximate number of registered migrants touched 1 lakh. Of these, around 70,000 are from UP, 22,000 from Bihar and the rest from other states.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare, Chandigarh, said due to the relaxations, many registered migrants had started refusing to go back. Moreover, of the city’s total population of nearly 12 lakh, almost one lakh had already registered to go back. The UT wanted to send them back first. Also, due to the smooth movement of migrants here, many workers from nearby districts had also started registering on the UT’s website. He said they would assess and take a call if there was any further need to send migrants home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-trains-take-2-754-migrants-home-86170
18-05-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula police get court rap in snatching case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 17The court of Additional Sessions Judge Narender Sura took a stern view against the police for not proceeding further in a snatching case wherein their investigation found no evidence against the accused.A senior police officer, after looking into the matter, had recommended discharge of the accused. Court Reprimands officials for misleading itThe court also reprimanded police officials, saying that they misled the court to ensure adjournment in the case so that the accused remained in custody.Besides, the court also highlighted the differences between two ACP rank officials – ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Deswal and ACP-1 Noopur Bishnoi — with regard to investigation in the case.The complaint against Surender was registered on November 22 last year at the behest of Jyoti Singh and her father, whereas the incident took place on November 21 as claimed by the complainant.On March 18, the father of the accused submitted a complaint to the DCP, Panchkula, seeking a fair investigation.The inquiry was marked to ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Deswal who in his inquiry report had said that there was no evidence against the accused and directed the Sector 5 police station SHO and Sector 2 police post in-charge to get the accused released as there was no evidence against him.On March 30, the inquiry report of Deswal was marked to ACP-1 Noopur Bishnoi for further action, which the court in its order said that it was against the rules.Defence counsel Abhishek Singh Rana expressed doubt over the police investigation and said the evidence was based on the version of the complainant. Moreover, the complainant and the accused were known to each other. He said there was no reason for any non-identification as mentioned in the complaint. It seemed to be a false complaint, he said.He said an RTI seeking Deswal’s inquiry report had been filed, but no documents had been supplied by the police till today.As per the recommendations of ACP Noopur Bishnoi, a departmental inquiry was initiated against ASI Narender Singh, who was the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-get-court-rap-in-snatching-case-86171
18-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||Doctor logs long hours at work during Ramzan||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17Fasting during the holy month of Ramzan does not deter Dr Sajila Khan from discharging her duties amid the Covid-19 crisis. Deputed at the Police Lines, Patiala, the doctor says she is doing her bit for society in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.After keeping fast for several days, the doctor says working during Ramzan has become a normal affair for her. “My parents taught me about keeping ‘roza’ when I was a kid. Since then I have not missed even a single day, even during my pregnancy.”The doctor is working at a dispensary at the Police Lines. Posted there since 2010, she says, “Taking care of police personnel is part of my job. Earlier, the fear of infection used to scare me but now I have managed to deal with it. Over 400 families of police personnel live at the Police Lines and we help them with various ailments.”She said at times police officials on Covid duty forget their medicines at homes. Dispensary staff make sure the medicines are made available to them.The doctor also makes sure her patients take medicines regularly for boosting their immunity. “Police personnel are doing their duties for 12 hours at a stretch. It is exhausting for them and more exhaustive for those with diseases. Therefore, in collaboration with the police, we ensure they regularly get multivitamins.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctor-logs-long-hours-at-work-during-ramzan-86174
18-05-2020||---||Mid-day meal cooks fail to make both ends meet||Patiala, May 17Getting merely Rs 47 per day, thousands of mid-day meal cooks are finding it difficult to make both ends meet during the lockdown. They are risking their lives every day by going house to house to distribute food among children.Mid-day meal cooks ended their week-long protest here today. They were holding the protest across the state to highlight their plight of meagre salary. During the protest, the cooks came out of their houses and clanked the utensils to demand a hike in their monthly salary.Clank utensilsMid-day meal cooks were holding the protest across the state to highlight their plight of meagre salary. During the protest, the cooks came out of their houses and clanked the utensils to demand a hike in their monthly salary.However, despite working for four to five hours daily, they are getting a monthly salary of only Rs 1,700.Mid-day meal cook Paramjit Kaur from Safdipur village said they had been making food for over 100 students daily. However, their own family members were under stress.She said: “We get around Rs 47 per day and a majority of the cooks are widows. Therefore, it becomes challenging to run household with such a meagre amount, especially, during the lockdown.”Moreover, over 43,000 cooks employed under the Mid-Day Meal scheme don’t have any health insurance.Rani, a cook, from Dalanpur village in Patiala has been worst-hit sans insurance. She narrated that she had been operated upon for her throat four times during the lockdown. She would have to stop her further treatment because she had already run out of money.Rekha Rani from Suniarheri village in the district said: “We have been getting meagre salary since long.”Vikram Dev, member, Democratic Teachers Front, said: “As per the Minimum Wages Act, an unskilled worker gets Rs 338 per day. It is unfortunate that the government is not giving even minimum wages to these workers. We demand that the government should immediately hike their monthly salary.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mid-day-meal-cooks-fail-to-make-both-ends-meet-86172
