19-05-2020||---||Chandigarh gets 3-star garbage-free tag||Chandigarh, May 19Chandigarh got a 3-star garbage-free city tag, on Tuesday, in the rating of cities for their garbage management.Mayor Raj Bala Malik said the Central Government, on Tuesday, released a rating of cities for their garbage management, giving the ‘3-star garbage-free’ tag to Chandigarh, while announcing that the Swachh Bharat Mission had been the greatest strength in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, said the star rating conditions were based on 25 key parameters across the solid-waste management spectrum and had been designed to both help cities assess their progress while encouraging them to move towards a better rating thereby improving their cities’ overall cleanliness and aesthetics.The Commissioner said the star rating was supported by a robust verification mechanism to ensure transparency and standardisation. Cities were required to carry out self-assessment and self-verification for achieving a certain star rating.This self-declaration was further verified through an independent third-party agency appointed by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) for giving stars for garbage-free ratings, he added.Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), said: “Nearby cities of Nawanshahr, Karnal and New Delhi also got a 3-star rating. Chandigarh, which got the 20th rank in the Swachh Survekshan 2019, is unlikely to come in the top 10 rankings in 2020.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-3-star-garbage-free-tag-87006
19-05-2020||New Delhi||Bank loan fraud: ED attaches Rs 18.5-cr assets in Chandigarh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs 18.5 crore, including over two dozen plots and some SUVs, in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to alleged bank fraud in Chandigarh, the ED said on Tuesday.The action has been taken against a person identified as Vikram Seth and his family members, who the agency claimed that connived with other accused and Bank of Baroda officials in “fraudulently” getting sanctioned 19 loans amounting to Rs 21.31 crore.The ED issued a provisional order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for attachment of 20 residential and six industrial plots, a house, three agricultural lands, two brick kilns and 10 commercial plots valued at Rs 18.17 crore in Phagwara and Banga in Punjab and Amb town of Una district in Himachal Pradesh.The seven movable properties include an assortment of SUVs like Tata Safari, Honda Jazz and Skoda Octavia worth Rs 33 lakh, it said.The ED case is based on a CBI FIR lodged in 2015.“The loan amounts were routed through various accounts of associated firms and companies and other fraudulent firms by the accused through a web of transactions and ultimately the amounts were siphoned off,” the central agency claimed.The probe found that Seth had “routed” the loan amounts through many bank accounts. After multiple layering of the proceeds of crime, the amount was found to be invested in acquiring assets in the name of his wife, son, brother and brother’s wife.“These family members did not have any legitimate source of income to acquire such immovable assets,” the ED charged. It added that a probe in the case was on. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-loan-fraud-ed-attaches-rs-18-5-cr-assets-in-chandigarh-86994
19-05-2020||Naina Mishra||From June, parents to pay tuition fee by mid-month: Chandigarh admn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 19The UT Education Department has allowed private-unaided schools to collect only tuition fees on a monthly basis from students until further orders. The last date to deposit tuition fee has been decided as 15th of every month from June 2020 onwards.However, the fee of April and May for this year is to be collected by May 31 with no late fee to be charged up to that date.“In case any parent is not in a position to deposit the fee in time due to adverse financial circumstances owing to the COVID-19 crisis, such request will be considered sympathetically on a case-to-case basis by the concerned schools,” reads the official orders.However, neither name of any student was to be struck off nor he/she was to be deprived of online teaching on this account during the lockdown period, the orders further read.The schools have also been directed to provide access to online education to all students, without any discrimination during the lockdown/vacation period. The schools have been asked to neither stop payment of monthly salary nor reduce the existing total emolument of teaching and non-teaching staff.It had come to the notice of the department that private schools had cut 40 per cent salary of the staff. The department has communicated in the official orders that schools would ensure timely payment of salary to the staff as per the regular practice of the schools.On March 30, the UT Education Department had directed all recognised private-unaided schools to reschedule the last date for depositing the fees and funds for the session 2020-21.It was directed that the last date would be fixed by giving at least one-month time to parents after reopening of the school and no late fees would be charged.The Independent School Association and seven other petitioners challenged this order by filing a civil writ petition. The petitioners pleaded that for the payment of salary and other expenses, the schools needed to collect fees from students.Parents fume“The practice of charging a consolidated fee, which very cunningly includes all hidden charges and extra funds, are now being ordered to pay in full. Moreover, schools are now demanding full hiked fees from parents suffering massive financial losses while the administration has not taken a single action against the defaulter schools for not uploading their balance sheets, apart from providing them with extensions and leverages,” said a parents’ body.Meanwhile, Chandigarh Congress has demanded fee waiver for students and relief package for management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-june-parents-to-pay-tuition-fee-by-mid-month-chandigarh-admn-86990
19-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Multani case: After Sumedh Saini, 4 former Chandigarh cops get anticipatory bail||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 19Four retired cops of the Chandigarh police, who were booked in a 29-year old case of alleged abduction and disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a CITCO employee, had been granted anticipatory bail by a court in Mohali on Tuesday.The four former cops identified as Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh, Anoop Singh and Kuldip Singh, had been named in an FIR registered against them in the Mataur police station by victim’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani. All the cops had retired as Inspector from the UT police.Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal, while granting the anticipatory bail to the four ordered that they must join investigation by physically appearing before the Investigating Officer within seven days from today.The court further ordered that in that event they be released on anticipatory bail on their furnishing personal bonds in the sum of Rs 50,000 each with one surety of the like amount.The court orders further restricted them not to leave the country and also directed to surrender their passports with the police. The court also directed the Investigation Officer to join the accused/applicant in investigation by maintaining social distancing and by following all the precautions mentioned for prevention of Covid-19.It is pertinent to mention here that former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had also been granted anticipatory bail by the court after being booked in the same case. The other two cops then Sub Inspector Satvir Singh and DSP Baldev Singh have passed away. Advocate HS Dhanoa and Himmat Singh Deol, counsel for the four cops, had contested the evidences of state by falsifying their claims of evidences produced in the form of statements of Sukhvinder Kaur, a resident of Phase VII and Sarabjit Kaur, resident of Phase X as well as the eyewitness Gursharan Kaur Mann, a practicing advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court that they have not named these cops in their statements.Dhanoa, while taking this as ground for seeking bail, argued before the court that witnesses have named then DSP Baldev Singh who has already passed away. “Apart from the statements of the Mohali residents and advocate G K Mann, Qadian police also could not ascertain the names of these four cops in any of any of their statements — which convinced the court to grant the anticipatory bail,” said Dhanoa.District Attorney Sanjit Batra, while opposing the anticipatory bail by refuting the claims of the defence submitted before the court, “Their claims are false and baseless and it seems that they have made the grounds before disappearing Multani as he was picked up by accused policemen from his house in Phase 7 on December 11, 1991 and statements of witnesses in this regard have been recorded by the police. Whereas now they are claiming that they picked him up from near KC Theatre. These cops were present in the team under former DGP Saini which had interrogated Multani.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/multani-case-after-sumedh-saini-4-former-chandigarh-cops-get-anticipatory-bail-86986
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vinay Kulkarni is now Director General in Military Engineer Service||Vinay Kulkarni, a 1982 batch officer of the Indian Defence Service of Engineers (IDSE), has been promoted as Director General (Personnel) in the Military Engineers Service --- the most senior position for civilian officers.He is currently posted as Additional Director General (North-East). He will take over from Devendra Kumar, who retires this month. Director General (Personnel)is responsible for human resource management in the MES, which has a large civilian component, and forms part of the Engineer-in-Chief’s Branch at Army Headquarters.A civil engineer by profession, Kulkarni has held a host of important executive and staff appointments in his 35-year-old career, including the quasi judicial post of sole arbitrator for the MES, which is said to be the country’s largest construction agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vinay-kulkarni-is-now-director-general-in-military-engineer-service-86946
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 new coronavirus cases in Chandigarh takes UT's tally to 200||Chandigarh reported three new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the city's count to 200. Two cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony---a hotspot in the city---and the third was from Dhanas.A 28-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman from the same family tested positive in Bapu Dham colony. They were both contacts of an already diagnosed COVID-19 case.The third case was a 34-year-old man who had returned from Delhi recently. He tested positive at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.This is the third case from Dhanas.Bapu Dham colony alone accounts for 65 per cent of the cases in the union territory. Of the city's 200 coronavirus cases so far, 143 are active.  The development also comes a day after UT administration issued new guidelines to ease some lockdown restrictions in the city. The UT guidelines, which was on the lines of the MHA guidelines that came the day before, said Chandigarh was still in the red zone but eased restrictions on public transport, except for containment areas, and allowed markets to be kept open. E-commerce of non-essential items have also been allowed after two months.(READ Chandigarh markets to buzz again, Sector 17 Plaza too)  Public congregation is still prohibited, however, and curfew restrictions continue to to be imposed from 7 pm to 7 am. Malls, multiplexes, and swimming polls will continue to remain closed, as will dine-in facilities at restaurants, although the guidelines have now allowed take outs. In containment zones like Bapu Dham colonies, however, only essential services are allowed.The new guidelines offer considerable easing of strict lockdown restrictions that had been in force in the city since March 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-new-coronavirus-cases-in-chandigarh-takes-uts-tally-to-200-86896
19-05-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Construction activity begins,  vendors back in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, May 18Life limped back to normalcy after over 55 days of the nationwide lockdown as the state government allowed a slew of relaxations marking the beginning of lockdown 4.0.A number of vehicles could be seen moving past the Ambala-Chandigarh Highway, Airport Road and even markets. Several auto repair, grocery and retail shops remained open till evening. Most shopkeepers allowed four to five customers to enter their premises at a time.It is pertinent to mention here that in order to check the outbreak of Covid-19, the state government had ceased the operation of mass public transport, including buses and mini-buses.With the government allowing plying of vehicles, near-normal level of traffic was witnessed on city roads today.People gathered in a large number outside shops, which opened early in the morning as the fourth phase of the lockdown began with the easing of certain restrictions.Construction activity also started and workers were seen back at the sites. Trucks were seen moving with building materials such as sand, steel and metal.Several vendors had put up their stalls on the Dera Bassi-Barwala stretch, while banks opened across the city and witnessed a rush of customers.People were seen visiting small markets and banks following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the district administration. While shops were allowed to operate till 6 pm, the police were seen enforcing the measures among violators at several places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/construction-activity-begins-vendors-back-in-dera-bassi-86569
19-05-2020||Mohali||Additional force sought to check sale of illict liquor||The Mohali administration has urged the Director General of Punjab to provide additional police personnel to keep strict vigil on sale of illicit liquor. Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all the entry points will be manned by a joint team of the police and the Excise Department.He said the city shares its border with Chandigarh and Haryana and liquor is comparatively cheaper there. He said post relaxation in the curfew there is a possibility of smuggling liquor from there.Dayalan said field teams headed by Excise Inspectors, patwaris and panchayat secretaries would survey old buildings, marriage palaces, rice mills, godowns, cold storages and slums. He said numberdars would also be responsible for reporting storage and movement of illicit liquor from their respective villages.He said to check pilferage, distilleries and bottling plants will be manned by joint teams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/additional-force-sought-to-check-sale-of-illict-liquor-86570
19-05-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Award for land in Dhanas, Dadu Majra postponed||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 18 UT Land acquisition collector today postponed the decision to announce award or compensation to landowners for acquisition of land in Dhanas and Dadu Majra, days after the matter came under judicial scanner. The land is being acquired to connect Dakshin Marg to ‘PR-4’ in Punjab. A petition challenging the acquisition, among other things, had alleged that value of land belonging to politicians and bureaucrats there would increase by several crore. It was also alleged that another road connecting Punjab to Dakashin Marg in Chandigarh was just 2 km from the proposed connecting road and the acquisition would not serve public purpose but amounted urbanisation. The officer, on March 13 had made public his decision to announce the award on May 18 following which the landlords already before the Punjab and Haryana High Court moved an application against the move. Available information suggests that the landowners were told that the announcement of the award was being deferred. Hearing counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri for the landlords almost at the same time, the High Court Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli issued notice on the admission seeking stay on announcement. UT standing counsel Aakanksha Sawhney accepted the notice on behalf of the respondents and prayed for time to file a response of the contentions, following which the matter was adjourned to July 14. The new bypass or PR-4 will take off from high-level bridge at Dadu Majra to the UT boundary on the Mullanpur side. The proposed road will come up on 18.13 acres to be acquired in Dadu Majra and Dhanas. Bagri had earlier contended on behalf of Jaspal Singh and other petitioners that numerous residential and commercial projects were being setup by ‘famous private companies and builders’ in Punjab abutting the PR-4 road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/award-for-land-in-dhanas-dadu-majra-postponed-86571
19-05-2020||---||Buses ferrying migrants sent back to Saharanpur again||Panchkula, May 18As many as 17 buses ferrying over 500 migrants from Panchkula district, which were brought back from the Uttar Pradesh border last evening apparently due to law and order problems there, were sent back this morning.Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu said: “All migrants, who were brought back in buses from the UP border, were kept in temporary shelter homes. All necessary arrangements, including food, were made for them during their stay.”“From now on, migrants will be ferried in a phased manner to avoid chaos. The Saharanpur administration also has a limited capacity to keep migrants before making arrangements to take them to their respective districts,” Sandhu said.A group of migrants, who stayed at a shelter home in Raipur Rani, said: “The government has made a mockery of our rights. We are being treated like as if we don’t belong to this country.”Migrants told to go back after long waitSeveral migrants, who were called at the Raipur Rani bus stand at 9 am on Monday morning to ferry them in buses to Saharanpur, claimed that officials told them to go back after a long wait in the scorching heat.Loss to state exchequer, says Congress leaderLocal Congress leader Vijay Bansal said: “The government has not only made a mockery of hundreds of migrants, but also lack of coordination between the two state governments has led to a loss to the state exchequer.” As per officials, over 24,000 migrants have registered themselves with the state government to move out of Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/buses-ferrying-migrants-sent-back-to-saharanpur-again-86572
19-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Mohali salon owners heave sigh of relief||Tribune News Service Mohali, May 18 Salon owners heaved a sigh of relief after the administration allowed the opening of salons in the district after almost two months. As a precautionary measure, salon owners sanitised their premises before inviting customers. Sonu, one of the directors of Ananya’s Beauty Studio and Spa, said the salon industry was the safest one as people working there had been maintaining social distancing and sanitising equipment. He said: “Hairdressers at the salon are wearing mask and gloves. Whenever customers visit for haircut, we wash their hair with shampoo before starting the work. After the haircut, hairdressers sanitise their hands. While doing pedicure and manicure, hands of the worker get sanitised automatically”. He said there were six chairs in his saloon, but they attend only three customers at a time to maintain social distancing. Even small salons functioning from booths were maintaining social distancing and sanitising their equipment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-salon-owners-heave-sigh-of-relief-86573
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Shramik’ train with 1,296 migrants leaves for Amethi||A ‘shramik’ special train with 1,296 passengers on board chugged off from the Chandigarh railway station for Amethi in Uttar Pradesh today. Yashpal Garg, secretary, Social Welfare, UT, said the train left for Amethi at 5pm. He said 10 stranded workers at Shelter Home, Maloya, were sent back to Murshidabad (West Bengal). After their medical screening, a special bus of CTU took them to Sirhind (Punjab) and from there they boarded a train for Durgapour.  Considering rise in temperature, women with small kids, pregnant women, handicapped persons and senior citizens were accommodated in the train on priority. He said a list is prepared from registration made either through helpline or website of the Chandigarh Administration. Then telephone calls are made to each migrant to reach the ISBT-43 for medical screening. Any person who has not received a telephone call should not come to the ISBT-43, he said. Garg said migrants from neighbouring states are advised not to enter Chandigarh as their journey will be arranged by the authorities where they are stuck. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shramik-train-with-1-296-migrants-leaves-for-amethi-86574
19-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||1,536 depart for West Bengal||Fifth ‘shramik’ train from Sirhind with 1,536 migrants chugged off for Durgapur, West Bengal, on Monday. Amrik Singh Sidhu, Additional Deputy Commissioner (D), said, besides migrants from Fatehgarh Sahib, labourers from SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Roopnagar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts also boarded the train.He said migrants from other districts were brought to Sirhind on buses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-536-depart-for-west-bengal-86575
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Donation to PM CARES Fund||Masks, sanitisers distributedChandigarh: Congress leaders on Monday distributed masks, sanitisers and packets of juice among safai karamcharis of the MC. City Congress president Pardeep Chhabra and youth Congress president Love Kumar said safai karamcharis were working on the forefront. Chhabra said safai karamcharis should also be provided with PPE kits. “They deserve all safety equipment as they are also putting their lives at risk,” Chhabra added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/donation-to-pm-cares-fund-86563
19-05-2020||---||CBSE releases date sheet for pending exams||Chandigarh, May 18The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced new date sheet for the pending exams of Class XII (all India) and Class X (only for North-East Delhi students) on Monday.The exams were put on hold due to the Coviod-19 pandemic.As per the new date sheet, exams for Class XII (All India) will begin from July 1 and held between 10.30 am to 1.30 pm.The Class XII exams, including home science (July 1), elective Hindi and Hindi-Core (July 2), informatics practices (New), computer science (New), information practices (Old), computer science (Old) and information technology (July 7), business studies (July 9), biotechnology (July 10), geography (July 11) and sociology (July 13), will be held during this period.All exams will be held from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm as per the conditions already printed on the admit card. The CBSE has also made it clear that students have to carry their own hand sanitisers in transparent bottles and cover their nose and mouth with mask.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-releases-date-sheet-for-pending-exams-86566
19-05-2020||Panchkula||Strict implementation to be ensured: Panchkula DC||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today issued an order regarding the implementation of the MHA guidelines for lockdown 4.0 till May 31. He said strict implementation of the instructions would be ensured to check the spread of the virus.Movement of individuals would remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am, except for essential services, the DC said.Ahuja said expect a few relaxations as per the MHA’s order, the lockdown guidelines issued by the district administration on May 5 would stay in place till further orders.What’s allowedWhat’s prohibited||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/strict-implementation-to-be-ensured-panchkula-dc-86567
19-05-2020||Shoolini University organised an inspirational webinar titled "Emotional intelligence is the key to success" for the staff of Tribune Model School||Tribune Model School, Chandigarh||Bhavan Vidyalaya, ChandigarhFour students from the science stream of Bhavan Vidyalaya qualified for the Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) Scholarship 2019. Guramrit Singh secured 277th rank, Pushpraj Poonia got 311th rank, Archit Sheokand bagged 741st and Alankrit Kadian was placed at 857th rank in the KVPY qualifier. The KVPY is an ongoing national programme of fellowship in basic sciences initiated by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, to attract exceptionally motivated students to pursue research careers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribune-model-school-chandigarh-86584
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Dhanas man dies, residents pelt policemen with stones||A 53-year-old man, a resident of Kachi Colony, Dhanas, which is among the six containment zones in the city, died under mysterious circumstances this afternoon. The incident led to a protest and stone pelting on cops by colony residents, who alleged that a delay in taking the man to hospital led to his death.The police said the victim, Babu Lal, was brought by his son Rattan (19) to a medical camp at a naka near Jallandhar Dairy at Kachi Colony.Dr Pawna, who, along with her staff, was on duty there, declared the man as brought dead. The police said the deceased was a Covid suspect and a resident of containment zone. As per protocol, an ambulance was called and he was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The doctors took the samples for Covid test.The police said there was no delay on their part. However, residents got agitated and pelted stones, leaving a cop injured. In his complaint, Head Constable Lakhwinder Singh stated that he saw a woman, identified as Bala, and a man, identified as Birju, provoking residents to protest and hurl stones at cops. Head Constable Gurdev sustained injuries in the attack.A case has been registered against Bala, Birju, Chamkila, Dharminder and others under Sections 332, 353 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sarangpur police station.The police said the man was suffering from paralytic attack for the past three years and was also an asthma patient. He was getting treatment from the GMSH-16 and was discharged from the hospital around 20 days ago.Inquest proceedings into his death have been initiated under Section 174 of the CrPC at the Sarangpur police station. The statements of his son and wife Rita have been recorded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-man-dies-residents-pelt-policemen-with-stones-86586
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Decision done away with, Admn tells HC||The UT Administration today told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the decision to lodge “returnees” coming from abroad on a priority basis at Hotel Mountview had been done away with. Taking a note of the submission, a Division Bench of the High Court disposed of a petition filed in the matter without passing any order.The matter was brought to the notice of the High Court by the Residents Welfare Association, Sector 10. In its petition against the UT Administration through the Adviser, the association, through senior counsel Akshay Bhan and advocate Rajiv Joshi, had expressed apprehension regarding aggravation and spread of the Covid-19 infection in Sector 10 in case the respondents were permitted to lodge the returnees at Hotel Mountview.At the onset, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain told the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker and Justice Arun Palli that the authorities had issued a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) on May 13 and the decision to lodge the returnees on a priority basis in the hotel had been done away with.Jain added apart from the two government hotels — Mountview and Shivalikview, the Administration had shortlisted four private hotels, which had expressed their willingness to lodge the returnees during the 14-day quarantine period.Jain further submitted the choice was left to the returnees according to their paying capacity to opt for the accommodation. The accommodation at Mountvew was costlier, while the other hotels were less expensive. “Not just that, a provision has been made for those returnees who cannot afford expensive accommodation by providing facilities at Panchayat Bhawan and Panjab University hostels,” Jain added.The Bench was also told that the test reports of the persons staying at Mountview were “negative”. “In such circumstances as the returnees coming from abroad have to be accommodated in quarantine centres for 14 days and as the authorities are not lodging any infected persons or patients in Mountview, but only those who are mandatorily required to go in quarantine for a period of 14 days, and all other precautions in this regard are being taken, we do not find any reason to modify or interfere with the new SOP drawn by the Administration,” the Bench observed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decision-done-away-with-admn-tells-hc-86591
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Woman among 6 held for assault||Six persons were held for allegedly thrashing a Sector 20 resident and his family staying in their neighbourhood over objecting to taking a pet dog for a walk without a leash. The suspects had entered their home and attacked them with sticks. The cars owned by the victims were also damaged.The incident was caught on a CCTV camera.The complainant, Vishal, alleged that a woman was taking her dog for a walk without a leash, following which his brother objected to it on May 15. The police were also informed about the incident, following which a PCR visited the spot and settled the matter.Vishal alleged that the next day, Kamal Dev, Pankaj, Rahul, Kulwant Singh, Labh Singh and a woman arrived at his house and thrashed him and his family. The injured complainant and his family members were admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-6-held-for-assault-86593
19-05-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Overworked, yet enjoying the challenge, says young medical officer||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 17Surajpur Primary Health Centre Medical Officer Snigdha Bansal and her team of health workers is a group of overworked professionals these days, nevertheless they are enjoying the challenge. The entire village and surrounding areas cannot thank these health workers enough for stopping the outbreak of Covid-19 in its tracks.These Covid warriors are on a constant guard even today and are making sure that the virus does not spread.After the Tablighi Jamaat incident, this village in Pinjore tehsil of Panchkula district, was divided in four containment zones and there were 50 suspected Covid cases, which had to identified, isolated and quarantined the same day.“We had instructions to quarantine them immediately. We counselled them and were able to persuade them for quarantine with the help of local support,” said the officer, a gold medallist in MD (Pathology).The task was difficult considering that Snigdha had joined as the medical officer here a month ago and was the lone medical officer at the centre.“We had instructions to administer three doses of HCQ in some of the cases. I was new in the area and it became a challenge as people were reluctant to break their fast in the month of Ramzan. With my medical team and local support, we were able to get their full cooperation,” she said.Immediately after joining here, the 36-year-old doctor had got down to work by screening the Amravati area as it had a lot of foreign-returned people. As many as 15-20 houses were quarantined and a daily monitoring of these people had to be done.“Ultimately, we screened each and every house of the area. We have conducted two rounds and now, random sampling of high-risk groups is being done. Operating a mobile medical unit is also an ongoing exercise,” she said.Bansal, accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and other health workers of the area are a shining example of how local support can be galvanised for the betterment of community health. Bansal said counselling people in villages became very crucial as the flow of information was slow here and people had to be dealt with sympathetically.“In the coming years, the role of ASHA and other health workers will be more prominent. They are dedicated and very effective in counselling villagers,” she observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overworked-yet-enjoying-the-challenge-says-young-medical-officer-86594
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 30-B residents feel ‘suffocated’||Residents of Sector 30-B here have demanded removal of the non-affected part of the locality from the containment zone.Councillor Devinder Babla has also written to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore in this regard citing various problems being faced by residents, including lack of basic amenities, essential items and medical facilities.“Some of us are losing jobs as we are not able to report at our workplaces. Several people have no money to buy essentials. They are not in a situation to pay power and water bills. Overall, the condition has become terrible for Sector 30-B residents at large,” said Roshan, a resident.No Covid-19 positive case has been reported from Sector 30-B for the past 11 days. As a precautionary measure, a large part of Sector 30-B was declared a containment zone and the entire area was sealed. Residents feel only the affected area should be included in it.Babla, in his letter to Badnore, wrote: “Residents of Sector 30-B have been living in deplorable and appalling conditions. They are frustrated. Medical facilities are becoming a big challenge here. Senior citizens and kids are locked down in small houses. They are feeling suffocated.”Babla requested Badnore to review the situation as the number of active cases here has fallen from 21 to a single digit and no new case was reported recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-30-b-residents-feel-suffocated-86595
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two residents of Sec 29 attacked||Cops celebrate 11-yr-old’s BirthdayMohali: A Class VI student, Avantika Malhotra, was surprised as a police team arrived at her residence in Phase V with a cake. The Phase I police station SHO, Inspector Manphul Singh, along with his team brought a cake at Avantika’s residence to celebrate her 11th birthday. “Due to the lockdown, children are not able to celebrate their birthdays. We can understand how special a birthday is for child. So, on getting information about Avantika’s birthday, we made a plan to surprise kid and her family today,” the SHO said. “I am thankful to the Mohali police for their wishes and a special gesture,” said Raj Malhotra, Avantika’s father. TNS10-year-old gets helpChandigarh: The NavSankalp Association provided medicines to a 10-year-old boy named Zidan, who suffers from short stature (due to growth hormone deficiency). The medicines were delivered to Bari Jalan (Kashmir) during the nationwide lockdown. The organisation also donated Rs50,000 to Zidan earlier this year. TNSChairpersons’ meet at puChandigarh: Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU, chaired an online meeting of the chairpersons, directors and coordinators of various departments, institutes and centres. Kumar appreciated the support of the PU faculty in the prevailing crisis. He called upon them to strengthen the mentorship mechanism for students. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University declared results of various examinations, including Advance Diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology (3rd semester), MA History of Arts (3rd semester), Certificate Course in Yoga and Meditation (6-month), BSc (Hons) Mathematics (3rd semester) and BSc (Hons) Zoology (5th semester). The students are advised to see their result in their respective departments/colleges/university website. TNSNational e-conferenceChandigarh: A national e-conference on ‘Prison Reforms in India: Socio-Legal Perspective’ was organised by Dr Anju Choudhary, Assistant Professor (Law) University Institute of Legal Studies. TNSWebinar at library deptChandigarh: The Department of Library and Information Science organised its 8th webinar as part of the series on ‘Information generation, dissemination and use during the Covid-19 lockdown’. TNS‘Urdu Ki Nayi Bastiyan’ webinarChandigarh: The Department of Urdu organised a webinar on “Urdu Ki Nayi Bastiyan”. Prof Shohab Inayat Malik, Head of the Department of Urdu, Jammu University, talked about the Urdu language. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-residents-of-sec-29-attacked-86598
19-05-2020||Dr GD Puri||Remote patient monitoring the way to strong healthcare||The SystemOnce established, the concept can be used for other diseases such as cardiac or kidney failure.Because of its nature to spread quickly, Covid-19 has created a challenge for medical fraternity globally. It is a mammoth task to avoid large-scale community spread of coronavirus as well as treat patients in a country of 1.3 billion people, with millions of those living in villages and slums. Meeting this challenge requires a systematic and scientific approach and the mobilisation of all stakeholders.All Covid-19 patients, symptomatic or asymptomatic, need to be isolated. A majority of these are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms that can be managed at home instead of admitting them to hospitals and exposing healthcare workers to possible transmission risk. Using a technology-driven strategy that can be easily deployed in the community with minimum direct human interaction can help in decreasing the hospitals’ load and to optimise existing health facilities.Remote patient monitoring and tele-communication has emerged as a major tech tool for safe and efficient communications. Currently, every health system globally is racing to enable remote care facility.A remote patient monitoring platform allows general public to self-screen, seek virtual clinical guidance, be triaged, or receive support during self-isolation/quarantine. The benefits are numerous from diagnosis to containment. It can be a major preventive measure for public health.The PGI is working to develop such a system locally and use it initially for patient management within the hospital. It can then be applied in remote places in community. The institution is already using two basic prototypes — one at the Covid ICU of Nehru Hospital Extension Block and another in a project involving “Detection of adverse cardiac events in non cardiac surgery patients”.The hardware has been prepared with the help of the local industry. The performance of the proposed system is being verified and evaluated by the PGI. The system has been designed to meet primary (sensing, processing, displaying, real-time transmission, auto alarm generation and threshold value identification) and auxiliary requirements (compatibility, comfort, low power consumption and cost, small size, and suitability for ambulatory applications).The developed patient remote monitoring device, the size of a large mobile phone that comes with little bulky but portable monitors, measures the temperature, respiration rate, heart rate and pulse oximetry of a patient in isolation or quarantine to detect worsening symptoms quickly. It can immediately warn the control room for early tele-consultation and or immediate evacuation to the hospital.This remote monitoring system can also facilitate communication between quarantined people and healthcare providers and effectively monitor those discharged recently or quarantined at home.The technology used in this system can not only help Covid patients but subsequently help experts to determine which group of patients can stay at home, and which group needs to stay at the hospital. It can also help monitor high-risk populations and intervene if early signs of deterioration are detected.Through the use of remote technology, ultimate goal is to move or keep those patients at home who do not need critical care.For patients from EWS sections, primary or government healthcare facilities or convalescent facilities may be used for remote monitoring.Once established, the concept can be used for other diseases such as cardiac or kidney failure.Monitoring devices can be made available at reasonable rates and can help paramedics in triaging the patients and avoiding unnecessary delays in shifting patient for clinical care.There is a need for policy makers to look into the use of remote technology rather than just looking at testing kits and ventilators as the solution for Covid care.The writer is Head, Cardiac Anaesthesia, PGI, and member of PGI Covid management committee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remote-patient-monitoring-the-way-to-strong-healthcare-86560
19-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Now, residents to keep vigil on neighbours for symptoms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18The UT Health Department has now sought the intervention of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) for reporting about persons with Covid-like symptoms in the neighbourhood.A letter written by the Director Health Services (DHS) to presidents of all RWAs reads: “Neighbourhood vigil can be activated wherein neighbours can inform the Health Department in case of any person suffering from symptoms.”The Director Health Services said: “These days, few patients are reporting to clinics and emergency OPDs with flu-like symptoms. That’s why, no case was reported in the city in the past four days. We have now requested RWAs for neighbourhood vigilance so that none of the cases go unnoticed.”The UT Health Department has decided to undertake capacity-building training of residents through master trainers to make them aware of the dos and don’ts and protocols pertaining to Covid-19.The department has also requested councillors of all wards/areas to disseminate awareness regarding the symptoms of Covid and to encourage residents to visit the GMSH, Sector 16, or GMCH, Sector 32, for sampling in case of any symptoms and they shall be moved in the ambulance of the Health Department.Besides, the Health Department has written to all dispensaries to refer suspects with Influenza-like Illness or SARI symptoms to flu clinic/medicine OPD or any other OPD. All such cases will be taken up for sampling.Fever clinicsEvery hospital — GMSH-16; GMCH-32; PGIMER, Chandigarh; Health Care Centre at Sector 22; Health Care Centre, Sector 45; and Health Care Centre at Mani Majra — had set up a fever clinic as the first level of screening so that medical officers may identify suspected cases and refer them to sampling centres for further assessment and testing if required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-residents-to-keep-vigil-on-neighbours-for-symptoms-86561
19-05-2020||---||Auto-rickshaws, cabs allowed to ply in Mohali||Mohali, May 18Under the lockdown 4.0, the Mohali administration today allowed to ply two and four- wheelers, cabs, rickshaws and auto-rickshaws between 7 am to 7 pm.Sports complexes and stadiums have been allowed to open without spectators, but subject to compliance of standard operating procedure (SOP).Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the relaxation has been allowed on condition that four/three-wheelers will have a maximum capacity of two persons plus driver. He said car pooling/sharing by taxi/cab aggregators has not been allowed.He said shops will remain open from 7 am - 6 pm, but this will not apply to shopping malls, shopping complexes gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls.The Deputy Commissioner said shops in rural and urban areas will open on odd-even basis. Restaurants and eateries can open, but only for home delivery and take away. Shops offering services, including saloons, will be allowed to open subject to compliance of the SOP.He said educational institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching institutes will remain closed, but online classes will continue.Hotels, restaurants (dine in) and hospitality services, other than those used by the state government for housing health, police, government officials, stranded persons, including tourists for quarantine will remain closed.The Deputy Commissioner said night curfew will be in place between 7 pm and 7 am.He said those above 65 years of age, with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age should stay indoors.Shops dealing in essential goods, including food, groceries, milk, medicines, restaurants/eateries for home delivery and take away, liquor vends and workshops/service centres for automobiles have been exempted from staggered rotation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-rickshaws-cabs-allowed-to-ply-in-mohali-86568
19-05-2020||---||Chandigarh markets to buzz again, Sector 17 Plaza too||Chandigarh, May 18Life and activity are all set to return to the market places in the city tomorrow. Nearly two months after the closure of shops and markets due to the lockdown, shopkeepers are looking forward to get back to business. Extending the lockdown in the city for two weeks from May 18, the UT Administration today announced a slew of relaxations, which are applicable outside the containment zones. However, the UT will continue to be in the ‘red zone’ till further orders.The Administration has finally allowed the Sector 17 market, Sector 34 market and shops on the sector-dividing roads to open.All shops in the internal sector markets (neighbourhood markets) will now open on all days except for weekly off. After almost two months, the Sector 46 rehri market, Shastri Market in Sector 22-D, Patel Market in Sector 15, Krishna Market in Sector 41, Sadar Bazar and Palika Bazar in Sector 19, Gandhi Market in Sector 18, Janta Market in Sector 27 etc will open on odd-even basis.The UT Administration has also allowed sweets shops and bakeries to open but without any dining-in facility. Only home delivery of cooked/packed food will be allowed.Similarly, restaurants are also permitted to operate kitchen only for home delivery. All non-AC buses will operate in the tricity with certain restrictions. Cars, taxis, auto-rickshaws, two-wheelers can ply with restricted number of passengers. The movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am.Limit on wedding, funeral gatheringsSocial distancing to be observed at marriage-related gathering where the maximum number of guests will be 50. Funeral/last rites-related gathering to have maximum 20 people; social distancing to be maintained.UT offices to open with 50% staffAll offices of the UT Administration will function from 10 am to 5:30 pm with lunch break from 1 pm to 1:30 pm. A half of the officials below the rank of Deputy Secretary will be attending the office. People can meet officials for their personal grievance redressal only between 11am and noon, preferably with prior appointments.Public dealing offices such as Sampark centres, RLA, Sub-Registrar office etc will remain open. Offices of the Central Government, neighbouring states, banks etc will have different office timings to avoid congestion on roads.The Administration has advised private offices to operate with 50 per cent staff and encourage work from home.However, defence and security services, health and family welfare, police, prisons, Home Guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, disaster management and related services, and municipal services will function without any restrictions.UT to remain in red zoneThe UT will continue to be in red zone till further orders. However, there will be regular review of the status by the Health Department. Containment zones as delineated and designated earlier will continue. The boundaries of containment zones and addition/deletion of areas will be reviewed regularly on the basis of field report, opinion of the existing committee and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines.WHAT'S OPENPASSENGER VEHICLESWHAT REMAINS CLOSEDBARBERS CAN'T OPERATE FOR NOWACTIVITIES PERMITTED OUTSIDE CONTAINMENT ZONEPROHIBITEDBUSES TO PLY IN CITYIN PANCHKULA TOO FROM TODAYPanchkula: Haryana has decided to run buses in Panchkula district. Ravinder Pathak, GM, Haryana Roadways, Panchkula, said, “We may run around 30 buses within the district from Tuesday. Though there is no movement to Chandigarh, buses from Delhi and various Haryana districts, including Gurugram and Narnaul, will come to Panchkula.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-markets-to-buzz-again-sector-17-plaza-too-86576
19-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Retailers feel the Covid pinch as profits squeeze||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18A 50-packet carton of salt of a popular brand used to cost Rs 860 to a Sector 30-based retailer before the lockdown. During the lockdown, when people were clamouring for essentials and more stock was needed urgently, his regular distributor didn’t even pick up his call and instead sold all stock to some wholesalers in Sector 26. The retailer had to buy the same carton from Sector 26 for Rs 950 + Rs 50 transportation cost. There was no profit margin for him on the MRP.Some wholesalers dealing with FMCG brands such as Hindustan Levers Ltd, P&G and many other MNCs would earlier offer incentives and schemes to retailers, keeping their profit margin to approx 10 per cent. The retailer was free to pass on the benefit to his regular customers as he deemed fit. Many wholesalers/stockists offered percentage point profit on sale of certain amount. All such schemes and incentives stopped, majorly affecting the retailers’ margin.Local producers, too, suddenly jacked up their prices. A packet of bakery biscuits that would cost Rs 37 to a retailer was suddenly available at Rs 44. Factoring in the GST, the same packet cost Rs 50 during the lockdown to customers from the earlier Rs 40.Local retailers dealing in essentials, who remained open during the curfew/lockdown, not only battled the risk of Covid but the also the "greed" of distributors and wholesalers as well as the ire of customers, who blamed the retailers for taking advantage of the situation. Many retailers claimed the distributors of products of many multinational companies as well as local firms, earned heavy profits by adopting unethical practices that directly affected the consumers’ pocket and retailers’ margin.“Many stockists made direct purchases from the companies and then released these products to retailers at their own will and with arbitrary margins,” said a Sector 30-based retailer.“Local producers also jacked up the prices of their products, while profit margins of the branded products hit a new low. We felt squeezed from all sides. Earlier, the distributors would give us one to two weeks credit. Now, a popular biscuit brand only wanted cash payment at the time of purchase. They sold products worth approximately Rs 1.5 crore on cash in two weeks. The margins of retailers have dipped to around 7 per cent,” he added.Many wholesalers or distributors have also stopped many schemes and incentives to retailers. Besides, the retailers were asked to pick up their orders (local products) from warehouses on their own. “The wholesale rates also increased due to a hike in the transportation charges and people blame shopkeepers for that. There has been a hike of 7 per cent in the MRP of some products but the retailer is not getting additional benefits,” said Parbhat Goyal, owner of a Mohali-based retailing shop.“A packet of baby milk powder was sold Rs 280 during pre-Covid days, but the company has now increased the MRP to Rs 300 because of sudden spurt in the demand. At the same time, our profit margin was squeezed.”Another retailer, who is based in Sector 22, said: “Most retailers operating from rented premises have to pay rents, electricity charges, salaries to staff and many other overheads. Pre-Covid, we would get various schemes and good margins and could meet our expenses. Some retailers filled their stocks before the lockdown, but a majority don’t have either the storage space and/or the money to stock themselves. Those dealing in dry fruits and pulses would purchase these items at wholesale rates, but since the lockdown, many stockists raised the prices of these products even on their old stock, causing us huge losses.” He claimed to have purchased 50 kg of pulses on a hike of Rs 9 (per kg) as compared to pre-Covid-19 time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retailers-feel-the-covid-pinch-as-profits-squeeze-86579
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two kids among 6 from Bapu Dham test +ve||After four days of lull, the city saw six new Covid cases, all from Bapu Dham Colony, taking the tally to 197. The city has tested 2,892 samples so far and 20 per cent of these were of Bapu Dham residents.The positivity rate of Bapu Dham stands at 22.4 per cent today as 128 of 569 samples taken from the area have tested positive for Covid. On May 12, the positivity rate of the colony was 29 per cent.On the contrary, the city’s positivity rate on Monday was 6.8 per cent.The number of cases in Bapu Dham accounts for 64.7 per cent of the total cases in the city. The fresh cases reported today include a 10-year-old girl, a 12-year-old boy, two women, aged 29 and 60, and two men, aged 48 and 60. Three patients are from one household while two are from another family. The boy is a contact of a Covid patient.Meanwhile, three more Covid patients from Bapu Dham were discharged from the PGI today. They are a 19-year-old girl and two men, aged 38 and 40. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-kids-among-6-from-bapu-dham-test-ve-86580
