20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jeev excited to have first swing after 2 months||As Chandigarh Golf Club threw open its sprawling greens on Wednesday after relaxation in lockdown guidelines, ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh said he was excited to have his first swing after two months but predicted no tournaments in the near future.The club was thrown open after the Central Government announced a slew of relaxations in the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown. However, barring the golf course, all other facilities like gymnasium and restaurants will remain close."I am really glad, this was something different. I am excited to be back on the golf course after two months. I thank God that I was able to play the game I love playing, which has given me recognition, chance to represent my country," said Jeev."When you have everything, sometimes you don't respect it that much. When you don't get these things, then you realise that this is not there forever, you must respect that. I realise that today," said the veteran golfer.Jeev said staying home in the last two months due to coronavirus-forced lockdown taught him not to take things for granted in life."Had great fun at Chandigarh Golf Club today when I finally played my first round of golf after staying home every minute since March 18," he said."I used to take golf, and many other things, for granted. Never again. Just need to count our blessings at everything life gives us," Jeev pointed.Asked about a time-frame when golf tournaments can restart, he said, "Not in the near future, it depends on country to country, how many cases they are dealing with. It depends on each country's COVID-19 graph, when the borders will open, when international flights will resume.”"In India, I feel golf tournaments should start by October. In Asia, I can say by September, in USA it starts June end, in Europe in September. Putting everything in a scenario, each country will decide accordingly," he added.On young golfers who are struggling financially due to lack of tournaments, Jeev said, "It is really tough for the youngsters who are starting out, it's their livelihood, it is there bread and butter. If tournaments are not happening, how will they earn.”"But my advice to them is they should practice and work hard, set standards. Be grateful that at least you have golf course to play and practice for the goal and when tournament starts be ready to go and make the most out of it," said Jeev, who last played in a tournament in the Malaysian Open in February. Meanwhile, club president Sandeep Singh Sandhu said it was for the first time in its six-decades history that the club had remained shut for so long. During the militancy days in Punjab in 1980s, the club had remained closed for a week or so.Sandhu said 180 golfers played on Wednesday as against a normal day turnout of 400 to 450. Strict social distancing and other norms have been put in place. Normal gap between one group and other group is eight minutes, which now is 15 minute to ensure social distancing.The summer tee off timings have been changed from 5:30 am to 7:30 pm to 7:30 am to 6:30 pm now."People were very happy to come back. This is one of the safest sports one can play with social distancing," said Sandhu.A sanitisation station has been set up by the club where golfers can sanitise their equipment. On every alternate hole, hand sanitisers have been kept. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jeev-excited-to-have-first-swing-after-2-months-87493
20-05-2020||New Delhi||Return of ‘Flop Show’ on Doordarshan emotional: Savita Bhatti||Veteran actor-producer Savita Bhatti on Wednesday said she feels “rejuvenated” after Doordarshan announced the re-run of “Flop Show”, the satirical sitcom which is an intrinsic part of her identity.“Flop Show”, created and directed by Savita Bhatti’s co-star and late husband, satirist Jaspal Bhatti, joins the long list of DD’s iconic old shows such as “Ramayan”, “Mahabharat”, “Buniyaad”, “Shaktimaan”, among others to make a come back on the small screen amid the coronavirus-led lockdown.On Monday, the national broadcaster revealed that it was bringing back the serial, which first aired in 1989.“#JaspalBhatti’s all time superhit #FlopShow is back. Watch everyday at 6pm only on @DDNational,” the channel said on Twitter.“The coming back of ‘Flop Show’ has rejuvenated my life... It’s emotional as it’s so intrinsic to my identity. All those layers of life’s ups and downs, they just disappear.“Now that it’s back on TV, your identity is being refreshed in your own eyes. Otherwise you question yourself thinking ‘Am I someone who can be a has-been at this stage of my life?’ Whatever happens in your life, you will always be a part of such an eternal show,” Savita Bhatti told PTI in an interview.Doordarshan’s announcement came over a month after fans on social media rallied for the re-run of “Flop Show”.In the April 1 interview with PTI, Savita Bhatti said she would love to see the show return to the small screen.The actor said she learnt about the show was returning after a good Samaritan alerted her on social media.“Last month, a lot of people told me that they have tagged Doordardshan on social media and asked the channel to bring back the show. On my personal level, I reached out to the former DD chairperson A Surya Prakash. The chairman was kind enough to get back to me saying he had forwarded my suggestion and it should happen quickly.“Someone told me on Monday on Facebook that the show is coming back. I checked Instagram and somebody had posted about this there. People, on their own level, have been sharing about it, but I didn’t receive any official confirmation.”     Savita Bhatti said watching the show on TV has spurred mixed feelings, especially when it involves seeing so many teammates who aren’t around anymore.Jaspal Bhatti passed away in a car accident on October 25, 2012, while co-star Vivek Shauq died of a heart attack the previous year on January 10.“But when you see their work, they live on. When you see Vivek, you see what a great actor he was. Other than the emotional part, the apparent part which hits me again and again is the bravery of Jaspal ji’s unique vision,” she said.At a time when Chandigarh was far away from the national capital of Delhi and Mumbai, the entertainment hub, Jaspal Bhatti showed courage by shooting the show in the city, she said.“He built a film environment in this city, used the locations for production and developed a pool of local talent. Also hats off to the team as well who latched on to the show as it were their own project.”She also praised her husband for “keeping the turban on”.“It was the first time we saw a Sikh gentleman on TV associated with intelligent thoughts and humour with great depth. We’ve always been in the periphery, we have been ridiculed, we are thought as people who could speak Punjabi and say ‘Oho ho’ and ‘Balle Balle’.”            But the bravest part of Jaspal Bhatti’s legacy is freedom of expression, without mincing words, she said.“Doordarshan, which censors so much content, didn’t edit a single word on ‘Flop Show’. The irony was the last episode of the show was about Doordarshan and the broadcaster aired that. A big thumbs-up to DD for that. But a greater kudos to Jaspal ji for his writing. Even if you break down, you remember the laughs,” she said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/return-of-flop-show-on-doordarshan-emotional-savita-bhatti-87441
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Will consider changing Chandigarh to Orange Zone: UT Adviser||The Chandigarh Administration would consider changing the city's status from red to orange zone, a top official said on Wednesday---a development that comes when the number of active cases in the city went down to 63 from 108 the same morning. "Thanks to doctors,only 63 active corona patients in Chandigarh now. We will consider changing red zone to orange," UT Adviser Manoj Parida said in tweet.  Thanks to doctors,only 63 active corona patients in Chandigarh now. We will consider changing RedZone to Orange.😊👍👌  The city reported five more cases on Wednesday--- all from Bapu Dham colony, a containment zone in the city. Among the new patients were two men, aged  25 and 50, who were admitted to Government Muti-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.The two other cases were a woman (28) and a six-year-old girl from a family. A four-year-old boy also tested postive for the virus.The union territory's COVID-19 tally now standa at 205. Chandigarh Administration lifted some of more stringent lockdown restrictions in most of the city in a recent order, and allowed public transport. However ,the order, which followed the central government's guidelines, had said Chandigarh would remain a red zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-consider-changing-chandigarh-to-orange-zone-ut-adviser-87377
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Day 1: Little biz, labour pangs||People visiting shops on sector-dividing roads and Sector 17 returned empty-handed as shop owners were busy rebooting their online payment system, sanitising premises and arranging staff duties today.No trial, no exchange norm at Apparel stores The scare of Covid-19 pandemic was visible in the markets on Tuesday as many shops adopted ‘no trial, no exchange’ system. A popular shop of women attire not only kept record of all visitors, but also kept a condition of ‘no touching’. “For the time being, we have decided to adopt this approach. Those coming to the shop will be clearly told not to touch any apparel. We will also follow no trial, no exchange system. It is for the benefit of all. We will bring up some samples, so whosever wanted to buy can see or touch these while taking precautions,” said Mukesh, the owner of the shop.Due to the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid outbreak, the shops located at these complexes were closed and today reopened after nearly three months. However, instead of doing business, all these shopkeepers were busy managing other affairs.“We have opened our shop for the first time since March 22. We have to sanitise the area, tally our billing details and clean the merchandise. So, there is no question of doing any business today. Many customers came to buy products, but we simply refused to sell,” said the manager of a popular baby product range in Sector 8.Manjeet, the manager of a popular cycle store in Sector 22, said many people came for getting their bicycles serviced. “We did not entertain anyone for want of workers. During the lockdown, many people bought cycles from nearby towns. We will start operations from tomorrow onwards,” he added.Taking precautionsShopkeepers also stressed on the need for adopting safety measures. “We urged traders to strictly implement the precautionary measures as advised by the Government of India in the common interest of public and their families. The UT Administration has formed a committee to suggest guidelines during these difficult times and we will follow those,” said Neeraj Bajaj, president, Chandigarh Business Council.Shortage of labour, sales executives traders’ concernOne of the major concerns of shopkeepers in the city remained low availability of labour and sales executives. The owners of hardware and appliances stores were the most worried lot as they would struggle to get labourers to load and unload products and make deliveries.“A majority of labourers, who unload, load or make deliveries, are off to their native places. Those who are paid regularly, got ration and work only for us are here. The temporary ones, who used to work as per their will, have left for their native states. If the market revives in the coming months, we will surely need more of them to carry out our operations,” said Ankit, the owner of a hardware store.“Many of our young sales executives from HP, Uttarakhand and Haryana had left for their native places when the lockdown was announced. We are trying to call them, but since the inter-state movement is yet to start, we have to wait. If they won’t come, we will have to hire afresh,” said Parkash, the owner of a sweets shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-1-little-biz-labour-pangs-87022
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||CTU buses to ply in tricity shortly||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will soon start bus service in the tricity.UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that tricity bus service would start very shortly. “As regards the inter-state bus service, necessary consent has been sought from the receiving states, so that the inter-state bus service could be resumed,” he said. He said buses would run with 50 per cent capacity and would be sanitised after every trip.There would be volunteers with thermal scanners at the bus terminals to screen the passengers before boarding, he added.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said the relaxations given in Chandigarh were basically aimed at re-starting economic activities.The Administrator appealed to the market associations, traders and shop owners to take special steps to ensure that the market areas remained sanitised. They should also ensure that the customers maintained proper social distancing and wore masks. The associations may provide hand washing facilities in sector markets in cooperation with municipal authorities to pre-empt chances of infection.The Administrator directed the health authorities to focus on containment zones such as Bapu Dhan Colony and Sector 30-B so that further infection in these areas could be contained. There should be regular check of temperature and also oxygen saturation check of vulnerable people in these areas, he said.The Administrator had detailed discussions with the PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, and other senior doctors, who gave several recommendations on Covid management. The Administrator requested all concerned to act upon the recommendations, which were found positive and useful.MC Commissioner KK Yadav stated that detailed guidelines had been sent to various market associations and sports complexes regarding keeping the premises sanitised and to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) for maintaining social distancing.The Commissioner further stated that entry and exit points of wholesale markets in Sector 26 and Sector 17 would be regulated to ensure that these places did not become a place for infection.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that all residents of Bapu Dham Colony had been provided dry rations. The area is being strictly contained to restrict the entry and exit of persons.Beds have been set up in local schools to provide special care to Bapu Dham Colony residents, who are willing to shift there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-buses-to-ply-in-tricity-shortly-87058
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cases in Chandigarh touch 200 mark, 37 discharged||The number of Covid cases in the city today reached 200. The first case was reported 64 days ago on March 18. The doubling rate in the city is now 85.7 days. It means that it would take 85.7 days to double the number of cases reported in the city a week ago, if the trend of positive cases during the last week continues.A total of 34 patients were discharged from the Covid care centre at Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic Hospital in Sector 46 after 10 days of treatment as per the revised discharge policy. UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed that these patients be kept in Sood Dharamshala, a post-discharge care centre.No new case reported in PanchkulaPanchkula: No new Covid case was reported in Panchkula district on Tuesday. As of now, there is only one active Covid case in the district, which has reported 25 cases so far. Others have been cured. TNSBesides, three more Covid patients were discharged from the PGI today. Among them was a 30-year-old ward attendant of the GMCH, Sector 32, who was the first Covid case from Bapu Dham Colony. The total number of recovered patients in the city now stands at 91 and the recovery rate at 45.5 per cent.Among the new patients is a 34-year-old man from Rehabilitation Colony in Dhanas. He had returned to the city on May 17 after spending two months in Delhi.On reaching the city, he went straightway to the GMSH in Sector 16 as he was suffering from fever. He was admitted immediately and sampled for Covid. He has four family contacts. All of them are asymptomatic. Two more patients from Bapu Dham, aged 55 and 28, tested positive in the city today.Follow new discharge policy: Badnore to PGIPunjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday directed the PGI authorities to comply with the Government of India directions regarding discharge of Covid patients.TimelineMarch 18: City reports its first Covid case; a UK-returned woman from Sector 21 tests positiveMarch 27: A Sector 30 youth tests positive on 14th day of his return from DubaiMarch 31: City’s first Covid health care worker from the PGI tests positiveApril 3: City’s first Covid patient dischargedApril 10: First case of “unclear” infection source came to fore as PU professor found infected with virusApril 24: GMCH ward boy from Bapu Dham, dubbed as “super spreader”, tests positiveMay 1: First Covid death in the city; an 82-year-old woman with comorbidity diesMay 4: Covid cases in the city cross 100-markMay 9: Highest spike in a day; 20 cases reportedMay 16: 12 patients discharged by the PGI as per old discharged policyCovid patient tests –ve, dies of cardiac arrestPanchkula: A 63-year-old woman from Sector 10, who was a Covid patient earlier, died due to severe cardiac arrest at the Civil Hospital on Tuesday. Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said the patient, Asha Rani, was undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital. A private lab found her samples positive for Covid-19 on May 14, after which she was admitted to the Civil Hospital. Her samples were against sent for testing on May 18, which were reported negative for Covid. She said the patient had died due to cardiac arrest and not due to coronavirus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-in-chandigarh-touch-200-mark-37-discharged-87095
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Driving without DL, RC top offences during lockdown||Driving vehicles without documents, including driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and insurance, made for the maximum number of offences by motorists since the lockdown in the city.A total of 11,938 traffic challans have been issued by the police during the lockdown till May 17. Of these, 7,293 were driving without the DL, besides other violations.Meanwhile, several people did not even have a single document while driving in the city following which they were issued a challan for multiple offences, including without DL, RC and insurance.Police information reveals that of the 11,938 challans, 7,293 were driving without the DL, 5,021 failed to produce the DL on demand by police officials, 5,626 were without a valid insurance and 4,671 persons did not have the RC.Police officials said the focus was to impound vehicles for curfew violations. On further checking, it was found that people were driving without a licence or without complete documents. “There were several cases in which motorists made traffic violations and were not in possessing of even a single document following which their vehicles were impounded, besides issuing challans,” said a police official.Meanwhile, another traffic violation that was witnessed during the period was helmetless riding. As many as 1,514 persons were issued challan for the offence, while 453 pillion riders were caught riding without a helmet. The police also issued 758 TVIS (traffic violation information slip) challans to violators.Police data reveals that a fine of around Rs 88.91 lakh has been collected so far through challans issued during this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/driving-without-dl-rc-top-offences-during-lockdown-87098
20-05-2020||---||Chandigarh gets 3-star waste-free tag||Chandigarh, May 19Chandigarh got the 3-star garbage-free city tag today for its waste management.Mayor Raj Bala Malik said the Centre today released a rating of cities for their garbage management, giving the ‘3 star garbage-free’ tag to Chandigarh.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the ratings were based on 25 parameters across the solid waste management spectrum and designed to help cities assess their progress.Yadav said the star rating was supported by a robust verification mechanism to ensure transparency and standardisation. Cities were required to carry out self-assessment and self-verification for achieving a certain star rating.This self-declaration was verified through an agency appointed by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for the garbage-free star ratings, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-3-star-waste-free-tag-87099
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Man duty-bound to maintain wife, but sum has to be within his means’||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a husband was duty-bound to maintain his wife and allow her to live with dignity in accordance with their social status and strata. However, the amount paid by him was required to be within his means.What the high court saidThe ruling by Justice Jaishree Thakur of the High Court came in a case where the court below allowed a monthly payment of Rs5,000 to the wife for rental accommodation. Justice Thakur took note of the fact that the petitioner-husband, drawing a pension of Rs23,000 per month, had already been directed to pay Rs8,000 per month towards maintenance. “An additional amount of Rs5,000 towards rent would mean he is paying a total of Rs13,000 out of Rs23,000, which is more than 50 per cent of what he gets,” Justice Thakur asserted.The ruling by Justice Jaishree Thakur of the High Court came in a case where the court below allowed a monthly payment of Rs 5,000 to the wife for rental accommodation. Justice Thakur took note of the fact that the petitioner-husband, drawing a pension of Rs 23,000 per month, had already been directed to pay Rs 8,000 per month towards maintenance.“An additional amount of Rs 5,000 towards rent would mean he is paying a total of Rs 13,000 out of Rs 23,000, which is more than 50 per cent of what he gets,” Justice Thakur asserted.The Bench, during the course of the hearing, was told that the marriage was solemnised between the parties in May 1979. Their daughter was married and the son was residing with the petitioner-husband. However, their marriage could not survive the test of time, following which the respondent-wife filed a petition under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for maintenance against the petitioner-husband in March 2009 at Chandigarh. The petition was allowed in October 2014 by the UT Judicial Magistrate First Class and the respondent-wife was allowed maintenance from the date of application.In her detailed order, Justice Thakur asserted the respondent-wife was seeking the payment of an amount towards her rental accommodation, for which she was entitled to under the Domestic Violence Act.The prayer was reasonable as the respondent-wife was residing separately from the petitioner-husband in a rented accommodation at Chandigarh. The affidavit furnished by the respondent-wife before the High Court on February 24 corroborated her stand that she was residing separately from her parents.Justice Thakur added the court below allowed Rs 5,000 per month for rental accommodation of the respondent-wife payable from the date the application was filed. The same was excessive, as the petitioner on the date of the application was having a pension of only Rs 13,500 per month. It was only on revision that the pension was increased to Rs 23,000 per month. Before parting with the order, Justice Thakur asserted Rs 5,000 towards rent was highly excessive and was being reduced to Rs 1,000 per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duty-bound-to-maintain-wife-but-sum-has-to-be-within-his-means-87101
20-05-2020||Panchkula||79 US returnees to be tested today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/79-us-returnees-to-be-tested-today-87102
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gives private schools the go-ahead to collect tuition fee||The UT Education Department has allowed private unaided schools to collect tuition fee on monthly basis from parents till further orders. The last date to deposit tuition fee has been fixed as 15th of every month from June onwards.Fee for the month of April and May will be collected by May 31 and no late fee can be charged up to the given date.Parents fume over decision of Education Dept“The practice of charging consolidated fee, which includes hidden charges and extra funds, is being promoted as parents are being asked to pay fee. Schools are demanding fee from parents who have suffered financial losses during the lockdown while the department has not taken action against schools for not uploading their balance sheets, apart from providing them extensions and leverages,” — Parents’ body“In case, any parent is not in a position to deposit fee due to adverse financial circumstances due to Covid-19 crisis, such request will be considered sympathetically on case to case basis by schools concerned,” reads the order.Schools can neither strike down name of any student nor he/she can be deprived of online teaching classes during the lockdown period, states the order.Schools have been directed to provide access to online education to every student without any discrimination.Schools have been asked not to stop monthly salary and reduce the existing total emolument of teaching and non- teaching staff.It had come to the notice of the Education Department that private schools had cut 40 per cent salary of their staff. The department has communicated in its official orders that schools will ensure timely payment of salary to staff.On March 30, the UT Education Department had directed all the recognised private un-aided schools to reschedule the last date for depositing fee and funds for 2020-21 session. It was directed that the last date will be fixed by giving atleast one-month time to parents after reopening of schools and no late fee will be charged.The Independent School Association and seven other petitioners challenged this order by filing a civil write petition. The petitioners pleaded that for the payment of salary and other expenses, schools need to collect fee from students.‘Do not charge fee for April, May’The Congress in a memorandum to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore urged that school fee should not be charged for the lockdown period (April and May).Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chhabra pointed that the Punjab and Rajasthan had ordered complete fee waiver during the lockdown perio. He said similiar step should be taken in Chandigarh as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gives-private-schools-the-go-ahead-to-collect-tuition-fee-87103
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Department yet to take final call on opening sports complexes in Chandigarh||Though the UT Administration allowed opening of sports complexes, the UT Sports Department is in no hurry to take any further step, considering the Covid-19 outbreak.On Monday, the Administration announced to open sports complexes, but on the condition of not organising any kind of close-proximity games (body contact disciplines).“We will check the Administration’s orders. Before opening any of our complexes, we will work on standard operating procedures to avoid any risk,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT.He further added, “The close proximity disciplines will be classified and further no activity will be allowed in such centres. However, considering the fitness view, we have to streamline things. We will plan something for members who use local facilities for leisure activities.”The department is maintaining sports complexes at Sector 46, Sector 42, Sector 7, Sector 38, Sector 39 and Mani Majra, besides Sector 17 football stadium, Lake Sports Complex, Sector 23 all-weather swimming pool, Sector 23 table tennis hall, Sector 10 skating rink, Sector 18 hockey stadium and Sector 16 cricket stadium. The sports complexes at Sector 43 and Sector 34, which were initially built for the Education Department, were also handed over to the Sports Department later on.Hostels to stay closedHostels are likely to remain closed till further orders. The players of state-run football, hockey and cricket academies reside in hostels located at Sector 42 Sports Complex and at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18. Almost all trainees at these academies belong to other states. As the department is yet to take a call on the guidelines, the training of these state-run academies is likely to remain suspended.No to swimming poolsAs many eight swimming pools, under the Sports Department are not allowed to open for trainees and for general members.Necessary stepsThe department is planning to make downloading of Aarogya Setu app mandatory; training in small groups on alternative days; children to train in separate groups; bottle of sanitizer is a must; no sharing of equipment; no activity for body contact games, including wrestling, judo, taekwondo, boxing, kho-kho, kabaddi and others; different time slots for members; sanitization of building; record of phone number and address of those coming to centres; thermal screening; screening of coaches on weekly basis; entry through identity cards at centres; allowing only fitness and others mandatory steps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/department-yet-to-take-final-call-on-opening-sports-complexes-in-chandigarh-87105
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vendors to operate from vending zones on odd-even basis in Chandigarh||Street vendors will operate from vending zones in the city on odd-even basis from Wednesday. The Municipal Corporation (MC) has also exempted vendors from paying Rs 1.80 crore as vending fee two months.Official concerned said vendors registered with the MC need not pay rent of April and May in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body had allowed 698 vendors during the lockdown/curfew to sell vegetables/fruits in the city.Now, all other registered vendors will be able to work from their respective vending sites on odd-even basis. Officials said they had screened vendors before they were allowed to sell essentials.The MC official said vendors will start operating from Wednesday. They will be instructed to wear masks and practise social distancing. Those in the containment zones will not be allowed to operate, said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-to-operate-from-vending-zones-on-odd-even-basis-in-chandigarh-87107
20-05-2020||Zirakpur||Commercial activity picks up in Zirakpur, residents upbeat||Zirakpur is slowly returning to its normal hustle and bustle as commercial activity starts picking up here.Most of the markets in the town were open today and people were seen shopping for daily needs. Vehicles were seen in good numbers on the road. Sweets shops, hardware, auto mechanics and liquor shops are opening on an odd-even basis.“It feels different as we witnessed a normal life after a long time. It is good restrictions have eased considerably. Now, it is up to people to behave responsibly,” said Madan Prakash, a resident.Meanwhile, a few salon owners on the Zirakpur-Ambala road said the police forced them to shut down their shops early in the morning. They met the tehsildar today and had been assured that their grievance would be addressed.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said: “Things will get streamlined once there is more clarity about the standard operating procedure.”VIP Road saw the maximum traffic as people approached the market to purchase stuff. Salons, too, were open here, but saw minimal rush as people are still apprehensive about the risk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commercial-activity-picks-up-in-zirakpur-residents-upbeat-87108
20-05-2020||Panchkula||Differently abled raped in Panchkula||A man has been arrested on the charge of raping a hearing and speech-impaired minor girl. In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother alleged that her daughter had gone outside to relieve herself at night when their neighbour committed the crime. A case was registered. A team of women police station arrested the suspect. He was produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/differently-abled-raped-in-panchkula-87110
20-05-2020||Panchkula||DLSA pitches for social distancing in Panchkula||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) is constantly making people aware of social distancing, wearing masks and other activities through advocates, besides providing information about various schemes of the Haryana Government for the needy.Chief Judicial Magistrate and Secretary DLSA, Sampreet Kaur, said as per directions of the District and Sessions Judge Subhash Mehla, panel advocates during the lockdown had visited various villages to distribute sanitisers. Apart from this, citizens were urged to wash their hands with soap and download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones.Sampreet said law students also distributed handmade masks to people working in villages of Barwala block. She the District Bar Association distributed masks to ticket vendors, typists and at tea shops in the court premises. She said the DLSA has set up a helpline number 0172-2585566 through which any person in the district can seek legal help, besides information about various welfare schemes of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dlsa-pitches-for-social-distancing-in-panchkula-87111
20-05-2020||Panchkula||213 migrants leave for Bhagalpur||Around 213 migrants were today transported to the Ambala railway station from where they boarded a train for Bhagalpur at 4 pm.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 37,173 persons had registered online for returning to their respective states. He said of these, 23,000 migrants are from Uttar Pradesh while 8,000 from Bihar and other states. He said 4,516 persons have registered to return to Panchkula.Ahuja said migrants were sent from Panchkula, Kalka, Pinjore, Raipur Rani and Barwala. He said eight buses were sanitized to ferry workers.He said migrants in Panchkula were screened at Tau Devi Lal Stadium. Similarly, workers at Kalka, Pinjore, Raipur Rani and Barwala were screened at health centres, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/213-migrants-leave-for-bhagalpur-87113
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police distribute slippers, masks||Assn donates Rs51K to PGIChandigarh: The Shantivan Co-operative House Building Third Society, Sector 43-A, today donated Rs 51,000 to the PGI for treatment of Covid-19 patients. RK Nayyar, president of the society, along with executive members R Musafir, J Sethi, GS Must, V Chopra and PK Puri handed over the cheque to Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI. TNSFOSWAC comes to migrants’ aidChandigarh: The Federation of Sector Welfare Association of Chandigarh (FOSWAC) today distributed 5,000 masks, 1,000 sanitisers and 200 pairs of slippers among the migrant labourers and their families at the ISBT-43. UT Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Nilambri Jagadale joined the FOSWAC team led by its Chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu. Pardeep Chopra, RDS Sahni, Rajan Pall Singh Brar, Rajinder Mohan Kashyap and other office-bearers of the association helped in distribution of goods. TNSRotary Club donates essentials for the needyChandigarh: The Rotary Club, Chandigarh, has donated 2,000 meals every day to frontline warriors. A total of 4,500 bags, comprising 10-day ration has been distributed at Faidaan village, Kachi Colony and Bapu Dham Colony with the help of the UT Administration. “Nearly, 500 bags in pockets of Mauli Pind, Rajiv Colony and Maloya through voluntary task force was also delivered,” said a spokespersons. “The Rotary Club runs a crèche, elementary classes and tuitions for class VIII to X. The president of the club received a distress call wherein students informed that they have run out of ration. Our volunteers provided food and ration to them,” said the spokesperson. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-distribute-slippers-masks-87115
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bail plea of 2 drug peddlers rejected||A local court today dismissed the bail application filed by two residents of Zirakpur who were caught with a large quantity of narcotics.Accused Karan Sharda and Durgesh Mishra were arrested by the police from Sector-29 on March 19. A police team on patrolling around 9.30 pm in Sector-29 saw Ford Endeavour coming from Sai Baba temple side. On seeing the police, the SUV turned backwards. Karan was driving the car. Getting suspicious, the police managed to stop the vehicle. During search, the police recovered 448 bottles of syrup, 310 tablets and 65 banned injections from their possession. Opposing the bail application of the accused, Additional Public Prosecutor JP Singh said that the police had seized a huge quantity of narcotics from them. “If they get bail, they can tamper with the evidence related to the case,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-2-drug-peddlers-rejected-87117
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||RLA appointments cut by half in Chandigarh||As a precautionary measure, the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has decided to reduce the number of slots allotted for various works daily to nearly a half.A senior officer said on usual days, more than 600 online appointments were given to people to visit the RLA office for works related to issuance of learner’s driving licence, transfer of registration certificates, etc. As a preventive step amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of appointments had been reduced to nearly 300 per day, he added. To avoid rush at the RLA, people without appointment would not be allowed to enter the office, he said.The UT Administration has already started online appointment for the office of Sub-Registrar. Now, the applicant has to book an appointment for the registration of documents on chandigarh.gov.in.The executants and witnesses of the documents would be required to remain present at the office at least 10 minutes before the allotted time. No person would be entertained for registration of documents after the expiry of the allotted time.In order to foster the minimum close personal contact among people, registration of 30 deeds per day has been fixed on all working days. The timings of the registration work have been fixed from 11 am to 1 pm and from 1.30 pm to 4:30 pm.The authorities are also planning to give online appointments for various works at the Estate Office. An official said they were planning to give 20 appointments per hour for registration of complaints or grievances. It would give nearly three minutes to the complainant to meet the official concerned.To maintain social distancing, only four persons were allowed to enter the Sampark centers for depositing bills, purchase of stamp papers, etc.An official at the Sampark centre, Mani Majra, said name and address of the person visiting the centre were being noted down in a register and only four persons at a time were allowed. “We have properly marked the area for the visitors to avoid crowding,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-appointments-cut-by-half-in-chandigarh-87128
20-05-2020||---||Ayurvedic anti-malaria drug trial at Dhanwantry soon||Chandigarh, May 19After hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug, showed efficacy in treating Covid-19 patients, the government plans to check an ayurvedic anti-malaria drug for the same.For this, Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, here, is all set to initiate an exploratory clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of “Ayush-64” as adjunct treatment to standard of care for the management of mild to moderate Covid cases.Memorandum signedA memorandum of undertaking has been signed between the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, New Delhi, and Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46. The duration of the project will be six months and the work will be carried out on the hospital premises.The trial of ayurvedic drug, “Ayush 64”, on Covid patients will be started from May 24. “Ayush 64” is a formulation that was prepared to fight against malaria.Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital will provide infrastructure such as PPE kits, masks, sanitisers and other things required for the safety of patients and team taking care of Covid patients.A memorandum of undertaking has been signed between the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi, and Shri DhanwantryAyurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46. The duration of the project will be six months and the work will be carried out on the hospital premises.A standardised coded ayurvedic drug will be provided by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences for the clinical trial. The entire funding for the projectwill be extended by the CCRAS through Central Ayurveda Research Institute for Respiratory Disorders, Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayurvedic-anti-malaria-drug-trial-at-dhanwantry-soon-87131
20-05-2020||---||Chandigarh plans 10 more trains for migrants||Chandigarh, May 19The UT Administration has planned to run 10 more ‘shramik’ special trains to carry migrant labourers and stranded persons to their native states.146 workers from Zirakpur leave for UPWith the opening of markets and industry, nearly 50 per cent of the remaining 75,000 registered workers now wanted to stay back in the city, a senior official said. Meanwhile, a ‘shramik’ train with 1,440 persons departed for Raebareli in Uttar Pradesh at 5 pm from here today.Nearly one lakh migrant workers and stranded persons have registered with the UT Administration to go back to their native places. Of these, nearly 70,000 are from Uttar Pradesh, 22,000 from Bihar and the remaining are from other states.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore advised the officers to ensure that necessary medical screening should be strictly conducted and food and water be provided to the passengers while boarding the trains.CCET new holding centre for passengersThe UT Administration has decided to set up a new holding centre for people, who had registered for boarding ‘shramik’ special trains. The Administration had earlier set up two holding centres where the registered persons were being medically examined. However, considering that the movement of CTU buses may commence from the ISBT-43 shortly, the holding centres will now operate from Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET).Yashpal Garg, secretary, Social Welfare, UT, said, “From now onwards, the stranded persons are required to reach the holding centre at the CCTE to avail of the facility of ‘shramik’ special trains.”No special train for 2 daysThe UT Administration today announced that there would be no ‘shramik’ special train from the Chandigarh railway station for the next two days (Wednesday and Thursday).The next train will leave the city for Motihari, East Champaran, Bihar, on Friday. The medical screening of passengers will be done at the CCET, Sector 26. The Administration is coordinating with different states and railways for more special trains and is also finalising the schedule of movement of stranded persons to nearby states through special buses. The schedule for Jounpur and Hardoi in UP is being finalised.Six trains to leave from Friday May 22: Motihari (East Champaran), BiharMay 23: Gaya (Bihar) and Dhanbad (Jharkhand)May 24: Chapra (Saran), BiharMay 26: Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh)May 27: Sultanpur (Uttar Pradesh)May 28: Madhapura (Bihar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-plans-10-more-trains-for-migrants-87135
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t be irresponsible worker, says RPF constable escorting migrants||Ever since the first ‘shramik’ train started in Chandigarh on May 10, Seema Yadav, a constable with the Railway Protection Force (RPF), has been clocking a12-hour shift at the railway station.In her 14 years with the RPF, this is the first time Yadav has seen a train run only for migrants and stranded persons. “This is possibly the largest movement of people in the middle of a pandemic and lockdown and that too on a public transport,” she says.Managing such large number of people, she is quite cautious of the risk of infection. “Every day, since the special train started, a minimum of 2,000 people visit the station. My job is to escort the migrants to the coach. That does raises my risk of contracting the infection, but I strictly follow social distancing guidelines and take all necessary precautions,” she adds.A typical mother, Yadav is more worried about her 12-year-old son than herself. “When I reach home, I immediately have a bath and disinfect my uniform.”She escorts at least 500 persons daily to the coaches. “I am not so sure if these people are infected or not, as there are asymptomatic carriers too. I just hope I don’t contract the virus. My husband is posted in another city and I am the only one who is looking after my son. I can’t be an irresponsible mother, but I can’t be an irresponsible worker either.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-be-irresponsible-worker-says-rpf-constable-escorting-migrants-87136
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for attempt to murder in Chandigarh||The UT police today arrested two persons for allegedly thrashing two residents of Sector 29.A team of Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO at the Industrial Area police station, nabbed Shohib Ansari, alias Rahul (20), a resident of Indira Colony, Mani Majra, and Ajay, alias Jaddu (26), a resident of Sector 29, from a hotel in Kajheri village, Sector 52.Cops said the accused had planned to escape to Uttar Pradesh and were arranging money for the same.The knife used in the crime has been recovered. Both accused were produced in the court, which sent them to judicial custody. The police said an assault case had already been registered against Ajay at Baddi, Himachal Pradesh.The victim, Wasim Ahmed, had stated that Shohib and Ajay thrashed him over an issue in Sector 29 on May 17. They fled as he raised the alarm. Wasim then called his friend Asif to drop him home. As they reached near his house, the accused came there and attacked them. Asif, who was stabbed around nine times in neck and stomach, is battling for life at the PGI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-attempt-to-murder-in-chandigarh-87137
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parole, interim bail of Burail jail inmates extended||The authorities have extended the parole and interim bail granted to inmates of Burial Jail for their safety from the Covid-19 pandemic.The parole and interim bail of nearly 251 convicts and undertrials have been extended. They have been asked to return on conclusion of their parole and interim bail from July 2 onwards.An action-taken report pertaining to the release of convicts and undertrials was submitted via video-conferencing before the high-powered committee comprising State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) Executive Chairman, Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Principal Secretary (Home) Arun Kumar Gupta and IG (Prisons) Ombir Singh.District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) Secretary Ashok Kumar Mann and SLSA Secretary Mahavir Singh were also present on the occasion.Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, DLSA, said undertrials and convicts were released from Model Jail, Burail, on special parole and special interim bail initially for 60 days and later the period was extended. The period of extension of the special parole and interim bail will end from July 2 onwards and all inmates to report back by July 25.As many as 174 convicts were released on special parole for eight weeks and 77 undertrials were released on special interim bail for 60 days. At least 31 prisoners had undergone their sentence during a special Lok Adalat held for those involved in petty crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parole-interim-bail-of-burail-jail-inmates-extended-87138
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Waive electricity charges of biz enterprises: Cong||Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chhabra today sent a memorandum to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore with suggestions for combating the hardships faced by residents due to the prolonged lockdown and to boost the local economy after the lockdown.The Congress suggested that to mitigate the loss suffered by both employer and employees, the financial burden should be shared equally amongst the employer, the employee and the government. “The government should waive the electricity charges, water bills of the business enterprises,” they stated. The party said the tenants of both residential and commercial properties, who had to pay monthly rent, were facing huge losses. The Congress recommended the burden should be shared equally by the tenant and the owner of that particular property. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waive-electricity-charges-of-biz-enterprises-cong-87139
20-05-2020||---||Mohali goes all out to thwart liquor smuggling attempts||Mohali, May 19Going all out to thwart liquor smuggling attempts, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today called upon people to join the movement and call or WhatsApp to report liquor smuggling.How to give infoAnyone can give a tip-off regarding liquor smuggling by calling or sending a WhatsApp message on 9888422998 or by calling on the control room number 0172-2219506.Anyone can give a tip-off regarding liquor smuggling by calling or sending a WhatsApp message on 9888422998 or by calling on the control room number 0172-2219506.Dayalan said they had developed a strong mechanism to crackdown on liquor smuggling in the district.He said the administration was increasing vigil, nakas, surprise checks and raids. It was also roping in people as they could be good informants about illegal activity in their neighbourhood.He assured that due precautions would be taken for the safety and security of informants. The administration would also suitably reward the informant whose tip-off leads to the seizure of liquor. Strict watch was also being kept on outward movement of trucks to ensure that they carry the required documents such as bills/bilty and e-waybill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-goes-all-out-to-thwart-liquor-smuggling-attempts-87140
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||No hike in power rates this year||Two held for not wearing maskChandigarh: Two persons were held for not wearing a face mask on May 18. According to the police, Suraj Kumar of Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra, was arrested from near the Shastri Nagar light point and Arpit Kumar of Sector 47 was arrested while taking a walk at a park in the sector without wearing a mask. Both of them were later released on bail. TNSAmphan not to impact on tricityChandigarh: Cyclone Amphan will not have any direct impact on the tricity. However, thunderstorm activity is expected from May 21 to 23. This was stated by the Chandigarh Meteorological Department on Tuesday. Met Director Surender Paul said, “There will be some thundershower activity around May 21 to 23.” TNSSocial distancing norms floutedChandigarh: People of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, gathered in large numbers without maintaining social distancing norms when the area SDM visited the colony on Tuesday. Police officials said some of the residents wanted to meet the SDM to share their problems while being under the containment zone. However, they were later asked to go inside. The colony has already seen several violations. Notably, it is the worst affected Covid-19 affected area in the city. TNS42-year-old Man found deadZirakpur: A 42-year-old owner of a call centre was found dead in his flat at Maya Garden City. The deceased, Abhishek Pratap Singh, was alone in the flat as his family lives in Chandigarh. The police have handed over the body to his relatives after the post-mortem examination. TNSOne arrested with country-made gunZirakpur: Rajinder Singh, alias Ravi, a resident of Zirakpur, has been arrested with a country-made gun and four rounds of live ammunition have been recovered from his possession. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-hike-in-power-rates-this-year-87141
