21-05-2020||---||Liquor to cost more in Chandigarh, UT administration announces 5 per cent Covid cess||Chandigarh, May 21The Chandigarh administration has decided to levy an additional 5 per cent Covid cess on minimum retail sale price of liquor with immediate effect.A notification issued by the administration stated that the cess shall be collected and remitted to the Municipal corporation by the Excise department. The amount will then be kept in separate account for taking necessary emergent measures, for preventing and checking the spread of COVID-19.Earlier, this month, the Administration imposed ‘cow cess’ while announcing the Excise policy for the year 2019-20.  The two cesses_Cow and Covid _will effectively mean an increase of 12 per cent in the retail sale price of liquor in the city.The UT Adviser Manoj Parida also tweeted the decision.Plus 12 percent increase in duties on liquor as compared to last year,which will go to government of India..ThusCorona cessCattle cess12 percent duties increase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-to-cost-more-in-chandigarh-ut-administration-announces-5-per-cent-covid-cess-88015
21-05-2020||---||Mohali district becomes coronavirus-free||Mohali, May 21Grappling with the coronavirus infection for the last two months, Mohali district achieved the feat of having zero active cases with the discharge of two patients from PGI, Chandigarh, on Thursday.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said as of now, there is no active case in the district. He added that there were a total of 105 positive cases in the district out of which 102 patients have been discharged and sent home after treatment and three patients have died due to the deadly disease during the last days.He said among the patients discharged on Thursday, 30-year-old is from Nayagaon while 24-year-old belongs to Milkh village.Giving a note of caution to the district residents, Dr Manjit Singh said although district has become free of coronavirus cases but people should not assume the deadly disease has been fully contained and eradicated. “The threat of coronavirus is still there. The fact that the curfew has been lifted, relaxations given or there is not a single case of the disease in the district does not mean that the disease has gone away forever. If we adopt a careless attitude and do not use precautions, the disease can strike us again in no time,” warned the civil surgeon.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all the necessary precautions and guidelines should be followed to stay away from the disease and added that every person should cover his or her face with masks, handkerchiefs, piece of cloth etc. He asked people to maintain necessary distance from each other and wash hands frequently.Girish Dayalan said appealed to the people not to leave their homes and only go out when there is an urgent need and asked them to visit hospitals in case of any serious problem only.Instead, they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for the expert advice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-becomes-coronavirus-free-87975
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s graph of recoveries consistently rising as 24 more discharged at PGIMER||With the graph of recoveries consistently rising, it seems that Chandigarh has finally managed to flatten the curve as 24 more patients were discharged from PGIMER’s COVID Hospital on Thursday.Of these 24, three were discharged in the morning batch, including a 27-year-old female nursing officer of PGIMER and a grandmother-granddaughter duo from Sector 37 aged 55 and 8 respectively, who were sent to their home where they will be home quarantined for  seven days, as per the standard protocol to be followed by all COVID-19 patients.The evening witnessed the discharge of 21 asymptomatic patients, including 19 (11 males and 8 females) from various locations in Chandigarh comprising Sector 30, Bapudham, Sector 25, Sector 32, Mauli Jagran, Sector 52, Manimajra, Maloya and two persons from Mohali (1 male & 1 female) who lined up to usher out of the isolation ward of NHE Block, PGIMER’s dedicated COVID Hospital and discharged under revised discharge policy for COVID-19 patients issued by the Union Health Ministry. All these 21 patients completed over two weeks’ quarantine here at PGIMER, but remained asymptomatic.Hence, as per the revised policy, they were eligible for discharge and were not tested before being discharged as per the new guidelines.Of them, 19 were shifted to post discharge care centre in Sector 22 for another seven days’ isolation and two were shifted to post discharge care centre in Mohali.At the time of discharge, Prof. Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER was personally present to congratulate them and boost their morale.He was accompanied by Prof. Vipin Koushal, in-charge COVID Hospital, Prof. Ashok Kumar, Addl. Medical Superintendent & Official Spokesperson, Dr. Swapnajeet Sahoo, Department of Psychiatry, and many other PGIMER COVID-19 team members including faculty, residents, healthcare workers present outside the Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE), greeting them and wishing them well for a long and healthy life.Sharing his observations, Prof. Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER said, “Every discharge is a huge inspiration for our frontline warriors, our pillars of strength in this war against COVID-19. They are stretching beyond the call of duty to ensure that the best of service is delivered to the patients and their hard work is paying off with the recoveries far more outnumbering the infections now.”“Though the situation seems in control as of now but there is absolutely no room for complacency as far as the precautions are concerned like social distancing, wearing masks, washing hands etc. These should be the new normal for all of us to contain the transmission of the virus. Let’s follow these diligently and together we can beat it,” the director added endorsing everyone’s engagement.  The nursing officer of PGIMER was the first one to be discharged today after her two consecutive negative tests of COVID-19.Visibly beaming, she thanked everyone for their support as she stated, “Being an employee of PGIMER, I knew the strengths of my institute. But staying in the hospital as a patient after being tested positive gave me another perspective on patient care in PGIMER. There were days when I felt low and frustrated and had almost given up. But it was the constant encouragement by COVID-19 team that made me win this war of COVID-19.”It was followed by the discharge of grandmother-granddaughter duo from Sector 37.The little girl garnered everyone’s attention as she walked towards the ambulance parked there holding her drawing sheets which she had painted during her stay in the hospital.Accompanying her was her grandmother, all elated to be re-united with their family, as she said, “I had heard a lot about PGIMER but on testing positive for COVID-19, we were admitted here and had to stay here for 37 days, which is a long time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-graph-of-recoveries-consistently-rising-as-24-more-discharged-at-pgimer-87970
21-05-2020||---||55-year-old cancer patient found positive in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 21A cancer patient from Sector 2 here was found positive for coronavirus on Thursday, taking the district tally to 26.The 55-year-old has been kept at an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.Health officials have also begun tracing people who might have come in contact with the person.Panchkula district now has two active cases. The second infected person is a Rajiv Colony resident, who is yet to recover from the infection.On Tuesday, a 63-year-old cancer patient from Sector 10 had died of heart attack, two hours after she was tested negative for COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-year-old-cancer-patient-found-positive-in-panchkula-87955
21-05-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI retracts, says not told to compare Bapu Dham with Dharavi in Mumbai||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21A day after a team of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) doctors submitted the field visit report to UT Administrator in which there was a comparison between Mumbai’s Dharavi and Bapu Dham Colony of Chandigarh, the institute retracted by issuing an official statement on Wednesday.The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) clarified that the administration has not asked it to carry out any survey of comparing the parameters between slum dwellers of Dharavi in Mumbai and Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh."We cannot compare different colonies of different magnitude without comparing the ultimate outcome of patients coming out of these," the PGIMER said in a statement.UT Administrator had asked PGIMER to send a Public Health team to visit Bapu Dham and make specific recommendations for improving field operations. A four-member team of experts from the PGI was formed to analyse the ground situation and make recommendations to stop the further spread of Covid-19 infection in the colony.The recommendations made by the institute included oxygen saturation tests of the residents, mapping of high- risk population and special practices for elderly.PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram had constituted the team of Prof JS Thakur, chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee, Dr Ashish Bhalla, Dr RK Ratho and Dr Ishani Bora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-retracts-says-not-told-to-compare-bapu-dham-with-dharavi-in-mumbai-87903
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||16 contract COVID-19 in Chandigarh, tally rises to 218||Sixteen more persons contracted COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 tally to 218 in the Union Territory.Among them, 12 persons are residents of Bapu Dham Colony, the worst-affected area in the city, as per the medical bulletin.A total of 3,369 samples have been tested so far, with 3,125 samples coming out negative while the reports of 25 samples are awaited, as per the bulletin.A total of 37 cases are active in the city, the bulletin stated.So far, three persons have died of the virus in the city.Meanwhile, UT Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed grave concern over the rising number of positive cases in Bapu Dham Colony.“It was decided to have a local sample collection centre in a school inside Bapu Dham Colony so that more testing could be done,” said an official release. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-contract-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tally-rises-to-218-87881
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with 24-gm heroin||A Sector 52 resident was nabbed with 24-gram heroin.The suspect has been identified as Rajbir (42), alias Rina. The police said a patrolling team noticed a pedestrian trying to flee near Electricity Colony on seeing cops. He was nabbed and on search, the heroin was recovered from him.A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station.His interrogation revealed that the he had hired a taxi for Janakpuri, Delhi, on the pretext of getting money from his acquaintance. However, he purchased heroin there and returned to the city in the same vehicle. The suspect will be produced in a court on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-24-gm-heroin-87721
21-05-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula gets zero rating||Panchkula has got zero rating in the list of garbage-free cities released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. It had got a 2-star rating last year.MC Commissioner Sumedha Kataria said, “It is a setback for us. We have made a plea for revision in the rating. We were expecting a three-star rating.”In December 2019, Panchkula had got 54th rank in Swachh Survekshan-2020 league. The city had bagged 71st position in March 2019 in the survey. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-gets-zero-rating-87722
21-05-2020||---||Man found dead at house in Sector 36||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20A 55-year-old man, working as a peon with the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB), was today found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in BBMB Colony, Sector 36.The police got information about a person lying dead in a house following which they reached the spot.The police said neighbours had noticed that the man had not come out for the past two days and was not opening the door. They peeped in and found the victim lying on a bed.The door was locked from inside. The police broke it open and found the victim, identified as Subhash, dead.The spot was photographed and videographed and a medical team from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, dealing with suspected Covid cases, was called to the spot and the body shifted to the mortuary. The police said preliminary investigations revealed that the victim died two days ago. He was a peon in the BBMB and was residing alone in the house. His family was at their native place at Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh. The police said one of the victim’s relatives reached the spot and said he was a patient of “black jaundice”. The victim’s family was informed. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 36 police station. After seeking medical opinion, futher action would be taken accordingly, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-house-in-sector-36-87723
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||BMW catches fire in Sec 28||Cops give ration to the needyChandigarh: Officials of the UT police are doing their bit to help Bapu Dham Colony residents. Nearly 200 ration bags, 20 LPG cylinders and free medicines have been distributed by the cops among the needy.An official said they had stocked ration bags at the police post. He said, “We are providing all help to people as they cannot move out of the colony to earn their livelihood.” TNS1,560 from Mohali leave for BiharMohali: many as 1,560 migrant workers left for their home by a special train to Katihar in Bihar from the Mohali railway station on Wednesday. The train left the station at 1 pm. The district administration provided the travellers with food, water and refreshment. They were also screened according to the revised guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. TNS2 booked for abducting minorMohali: The police booked two youths for abducting a minor girl on the pretext of marriage on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as Nikki and Suresh, both residents of Dashmesh Nagar, Nayagaon. The police said Nikki abducted the girl from her house when her parents were sleeping. Suresh had helped Nikki in this act. They said both victim and suspect might be in a relationship and the suspect might have lured her on the pretext of marriage. “We have conducted raids at the houses of suspects, but he was not found there. Further investigation is on,” said ASI Surjit Singh said. Meanwhile, a case has been registered at the behest of the girl’s father under Sections 363, 366-A and 120-B of the IPC at the Nayagaon police station. TNSHelpline for quarantinedMohali: The Mohali administration in collaboration with the Indian Medical Association, Mohali, has launched a helpline for providing counselling and psychological support to the people in isolation and quarantine. The helpline numbers are 0172-3509784 and 0172-3509783 and the service is available from Monday to Sunday (10 am to 5 pm). The aim is to ensure that the people share their concerns, anxiety, depression and sadness with the doctors. In case, people living in isolation or quarantine require emergency medical aid with regard to the above mentioned situations, then it would be provided through local health workers by the nodal officer. TNSHealth teams visit vaccination campsMohali: The district health authorities visited various hospitals and health and wellness centres across the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh led the drive and visited the vaccination centres at Mohali, Madanpur, Mataur and Sohana villages and inspected the arrangements. District Immunisation Officer Veena Jarewal said despite the imposition of the curfew, the Health Department ensured over 95% immunisation of children and pregnant women and the remaining target would be achieved in the coming days. TNSSubsidy worth Rs 140L releasedMohali: The Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development and Financial Corporation has released a subsidy of Rs 140.40 lakh for the poorer section of the SC category to help them in the Covid crisis. As many as 1,404 beneficiaries will get the money to set up their own venture under the bank tie-up scheme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bmw-catches-fire-in-sec-28-87743
21-05-2020||---||2 active cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, May 20In a major relief to residents of the district, 54 Covid-19 patients of 56 have been cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital. Now, only two cases are active left and they are reported to be stable.Moreover, no positive cases had been reported in the district from the past six days, said Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon.He said on an average 100 to 150 samples are collected daily from various areas of the district, particularly of all those with travel history or those who came in contact of positive patients.He said till today, 2,714 samples have been taken and 2,425 were reported negative and the results of 233 are awaited. He called upon people to strictly follow the guidelines such as staying at home, social distancing, use of mask and washing of hands to defeat Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-active-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-87745
21-05-2020||---||Parents protest school fee hike||Panchkula, May 20Several parents today held a protest outside St Xavier’s High School, Sector 20, alleging that the school authorities had been asking them to pay the increased tuition fee on a quarterly basis.According to several parents, the current monthly fee being charged by school is higher than what they paid previous year.It was totally against directions issued by the Education Department, they said.“Last year, I paid Rs 3,850 monthly tuition fee, this year they are asking Rs 4,200. Even Rs 400 computer fee is being charged. On the top of that, our children are being deprived of online teaching. They just send a study PDF document for the sake of it,” said the father of a Class VII student.District Education Officer Urmila Rohilla said: “We have received over 30 such complaints against several schools. We have also issued a show-cause notice to all such schools and waiting for their clarifications,” she said.However, school authorities couldn’t be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-school-fee-hike-87747
21-05-2020||---||Bhavan students  donate ration||Chandigarh: Students of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, donated 500 dry ration kits to families living in Bapu Dham Colony. The ration kits contain rice, pulses, sugar, salt, tea and oil. Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh, received the donation from School Head Boy Prabhav Sharma and Vice-Captain Armaan Angra. Vineeta Arora, Senior Principal of the school, said the donation was the school’s way of showing solidarity with people of the tricity. TNS5,000 sanitary napkins for needyChandigarh: Rehmat Swani (17), a student of Class XII at Strawberry Fields High School has collected and donated 5,000 sanitary napkins for the underprivileged women of Bapu Dham Colony. Rehmat says: “I was able to collect sanitary napkins through community donations. The napkins were handed over to the Sector 26 police for distribution among the needy at Bapu Dham Colony, which is a high-risk area with a population of more than 60,000.” TNSStrawberry fields students donate PPE kitsChandigarh: Class XII students of Strawberry Fields High School — Nehmat Sandhu, Aanya Malik, Aadya Batra and Saumya Lamba — on Wednesday donated 150 PPE kits to the Chandigarh Police. They handed over the kits to DGP Sanjay Baniwal at the Police Headquarters. Last month, the school alumni had donated 45,000 sanitary pads through the Police Relief Fund. Additionally, the school, under the aegis of the Durga Das Foundation, had contributed Rs10 lakh to the PM CARES Fund for which all staff members had a day’s salary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavan-students-donate-ration-87788
21-05-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Golfers set ball rolling at course||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20No Relief For Desperate CaddiesJeev Milkha Singh and 150 others set the ball rolling at the course today as the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) resumed limited operations for the first time since March 24. The club is among the first in the region to start functioning even as sports complexes are gearing up for maintenance and repair work after things came to a halt with the lockdown.Armed with masks, golfers set the course on fire with their lust hitting under the scorching sun today in sets of four. Jeev checked in around 11.30 am and had a round of golf till late in the afternoon.“I had my first round of golf after staying home every minute since March 18. Just need to count our blessings at everything life gives us,” said the 48-year-old golfer.Club president Sandeep Singh Sandhu and other members of the managing committee too did not let the opportunity go.CGC president Sandeep Singh Sandhu said: “Flat pin is installed in such a way that by removing the pin, you can take the ball out. The golfer will take out the ball himself. No one else touches the ball.”“Only four people will play at a time as a precautionary measure. Golfers will play with masks on, maintain social distancing and make use of hand sanitisers before and after the play. Only one person is allowed in the golf cart,” Colonel (retd) Iqbal Singh, a managing committee member, laid out the guidelines for play.Club timings (7.30 am to 6 pm) have been synchronised with the UT Administration guidelines and only packaged refreshments are available on the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golfers-set-ball-rolling-at-course-87806
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||6.5K passports  dispatched||The Regional Passport Office, closed to public since on March 24, has printed and dispatched over 150 police clearance certificates (PCCs) to the applicants who were not able to collect them from the seva kendras in Ambala, Ludhiana and Chandigarh.The PCC is required by most embassies for students going abroad or those applying for permanent residence (PR). The applicants had applied for the PCC in various passport seva kendras for availing of PR mostly for Canada, said Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj. The PCCs were mailed to the applicants. A hard copy has also been sent via speed post. The RPO, till date, has also printed and dispatched 6,500 passports, pending due to the lockdown. Thereby, the office has cleared full pendency. The RPO may start public dealing from May 26, subject to receiving of orders to do so, added Kabiraj. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-5k-passports-dispatched-87807
21-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||RTI queries keep govt staff busy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20As local government offices reopened after almost three months, clerical staff are busy clearing queries filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.Approximately 50 various departments, except 11 government teaching institutions and many sub-offices, function under the UT Administration. On an average, 26 government departments ranging from education to local audit receive 3-4 RTI queries on a daily basis.The offices under the Administration were closed due to the lockdown. However, now since the staff members have rejoined their duty, their main focus is on releasing RTI replies to the designated addresses.“There have been many cases where the last date to reply or submit fee was after March 22. As we were unaware of the lockdown implementation, we acted accordingly. We have to clear these files as soon as possible to avoid appearing before the appellate authority,” said a nodal officer at the Estate Office.Similar is the situation in the Municipal Corporation office. An official said, “The period of replying to the queries started from the day of opening of the offices. We are likely to receive more RTIs in the coming days as the postal service must have been holding many due to the closure of the offices. Due to this pandemic, no one will be punished. But since we are back to work, so are the rules.”As per the guidelines, information sort by a correspondent is to be provided within 30 days (48 hours where life or liberty is involved), 35 days (where request is given to assistant public information officer), 40 days (where third party is involved) and 45 days (human rights violation information from listed security/ intelligence agencies). The time taken for calculation and intimation of fee excluded from the time frame. “In our department, we have many cases wherein a correspondent has submitted the fee and asked for a registered post for getting the final documents. Since the lockdown suddenly came into force, we were unable to initiate the process,” said a clerical staff at the Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rti-queries-keep-govt-staff-busy-87808
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kainth writes to Badnore||With the city getting the 3-star garbage-free tag, Congress councillor Satish Kainth today wrote to the UT Administrator.“The MC has been regularly struggling to achieve the best ranking, but it’s strange that we got only a 3-star in the Swacchta ranking and slipped to the 27th position. All parameters, which are fixed to get 5-star ranking, are not fulfilled by the BJP-led MC,” Kainth wrote.“There is no shortage of funds for providing of all facilities. All funds are going waste in the name of Swacchta ranking and clean city. I regularly raised the issue of garbage dump at the Dadu Majra dumping site and signing of proper MoU with door-to-door collectors, but they have not acted on it. Proper segregation is not happening in Chandigarh,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kainth-writes-to-badnore-87814
21-05-2020||---||Karnal man found dead||Mohali, May 20A 42-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his rented accommodation in Sector 70 here.The deceased has been identified as Gurlal Singh, a resident of Karnal, in Haryana. Gurlal, whowas staying in a rented accommodation here, was working as a taxi driver, said the police.According to the police, the body was recovered from his room today. He had committed suicide around five days ago.When some residents saw blood coming out of his room today, they informed the police about it. “We entered the room after breaking open the gate as it was locked from inside. The body, which was badly decomposed, was sent to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here. We are trying to trace his family members through his cell phone.We are also trying tocontact the police station near his residence in Karnal,” said investigating officer Sub-Inspector Amandeep Singh.The Mataur police said they had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karnal-man-found-dead-87817
21-05-2020||---||48 more discharged, 63 active cases in city now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20A day after the UT Administration advised the PGI to adhere to the new discharge policy for Covid patients, the institute today discharged as many as 45 asymptomatic patients and three patients post-recovery.As many as 139 patients have defeated Covid in the city now. With this, the recovery rate of the UT has spiked to 68 per cent and the number of active cases has decreased to 63.The UT Administrator has stated that all three medical institutions should follow uniform discharge policy framed by the Centre.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Administration would now consider shifting the UT from red zone to orange zone category.The patients were discharged in two batches. The first batch comprising seven male patients and 11 females was discharged in the morning and the second having 27 patients, including 14 male patients and 13 females, was discharged around 3 pm.As per the new guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry, asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic and very mild symptomatic cases can be discharged from isolation health facility without testing provided they had been asymptomatic (no fever, breathlessness) for more than three days.“The 45 patients discharged today were quarantined at the PGI for over two weeks, but remained asymptomatic. As per the revised policy, all of them were eligible for discharge from the hospital,” read a PGI press release.All of them have been shifted to Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, where they will be kept under quarantine for seven days.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to ensure that poor patients could be kept in institutional post-discharge care centres for nourishment.PGI on new discharge policy “It has been found that the condition of most Covid patients worsens within five-10 days of becoming sick. It is one of the reasons that the patients, who are asymptomatic till 10 days, are being shifted out of the hospital to a post-discharge patient care centre for recovery, before they are sent home,” read a statement from the PGI.2 kids among five from Bapu Dham test +ve Five new cases of Covid were reported from the city on Wednesday, all from Bapu Dham Colony. A four-year-old boy, a six-year-old girl, a 28-year-old woman and two men, aged 50 and 25, tested positive for the virus, taking the city Covid tally to 205 and active cases to 63.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/48-more-discharged-63-active-cases-in-city-now-87657
21-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Airport ready for May 25 take-off||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 20With the Central Government announcing the start of domestic flights from May 25, the Chandigarh international airport will once again buzz with activity as various flights will operate from the local airport.Before the lockdown was announced nearly two months ago, various airlines, including Indian Airlines, SpiceJet and GoAir operated 43 flights from the city and two international flights to Dubai and Bangkok.Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Civil Aviation Minister, tweeted, “Domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from May 25. All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from May 25. SOPs for passenger movement are also being separately issued by ministry.”The Chandigarh international airport is a joint venture company with the Airports Authority of India having 51 per cent stake and the Punjab Government and the Haryana Government each having 24.5 per cent equity stake to operate, develop and maintain it.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Offer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said though they were yet to get official confirmation, they were ready for resuming the operations. He said they were ready for arrival and departures of five flights per hour, adding that they would have to wait for the schedule regarding the number of flights to be made operational.Bhardwaj said their office had been working as usual and security was in place as earlier. He said the airport would be sanitised in line with the directions of the Health Department. Screening and checking of passengers would be carried out as per the guidelines, he added.Airport to be sanitisedAjay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Offer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL), said security was in place as earlier and the airport would be sanitised in line with the directions of the Health Department. Besides, passengers would be screened as per the guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/airport-ready-for-may-25-take-off-87659
21-05-2020||---||CTU buses back on city roads with few on board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) resumed the service on different local routes today. As many as 47 non-AC buses were run on 16 different routes and a flat rate of Rs 20 has been fixed for each ticket.The buses operated from the ISBT, Sector 43, while taking various precautions. “For the time being, buses will operate from the ISBT-43 with travel tickets priced at Rs 20 each, irrespective of the distance. The process to purchase tickets is almost contactless, as the commuters will have to drop the Rs 20 currency note or coins in the conductor’s bag and in return they will get the ticket,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, Transport, UT.Meanwhile, the UT Administration has sought permission from Punjab and Haryana to run the local buses (for tricity) in peripheral areas falling in their respective jurisdictions. Once the nod is received, the operations will be scaled up and 159 buses will ply on 52 routes from 8 am to 6 pm daily in the tricity.The standard operating procedure (SOP) was followed today, wherein all buses were sanitised twice a day, thermal screening of passengers was done at entry points and of the crew at depots and drivers and conductors were provided with reusable masks in addition to gloves, face shields and sanitiser bottles.Taking precaution on seating arrangements, the passengers have to sit at a distance of 9 metres in small buses, which would now accommodate a total of 13 passengers, and 12 metres in the bigger buses, which would now have a seating capacity of 17. Those not wearing a mask will not be allowed to board a bus. The entry and exit points of the buses will be different.Meanwhile, only a handful of commuters travelled on CTU buses, informed an official. “On an average, two or three persons per route travelled on Wednesday. Things may return to normal once permission to operate in the tricity is received,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-buses-back-on-city-roads-with-few-on-board-87665
21-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Covid hits auto operators hard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20For 36-year-old Lucky, his lone source of income is the auto-rickshaw he drives. The vehicle, which he purchased at the cost of Rs 2 lakh, had been lying useless ever since the lockdown was imposed.Like Lucky, there have been many auto-rickshaw drivers, who have faced the wrath of the Covid-19 pandemic. A recent order issued by the UT Administration, which capped the number of passengers in autos, has added to their misery.“It’s a harsh decision as our earning was solely dependent on this auto-rickshaw. I run my household, submit EMIs and manage savings from this single source of income. I supported the decision on shutting down the service, but once it’s resumed, the government could have allowed us to operate with at least two passengers,” said Lucky.Lokesh, another auto operator, said: “We used to take multiple passengers to a destination. For instance, we charged Rs 20 per customer for a journey from Sector 35 to Dhanas from a total of four passengers. One passenger won’t agree to pay Rs 80 for this journey. Since this Covid-19 pandemic has already changed people’s perception, such rules of taking sole passenger will definitely bring us under debt.”He added, “Earlier, we used to drive diesel autos. Later, the Administration prohibited plying of diesel autos in the UT and allowed only CNG-run three-wheelers. We just demand that the Administration should at least allow us to carry two passengers at a time. We are ready to follow all safety instructions and can even make temporary partitions in our vehicles.”“We are bound to follow the MHA rules for tackling this pandemic. The orders are not only restricted to auto-rickshaws but also to bike-taxi service, cabs and even two-wheelers,” said an official of the Transport Department, UT.Reports suggested that there are nearly 4,000 CNG autos registered with the State Transport Authority (STA) while 2,000 others from Mohali and Panchkula are allowed to operate in the UT. The vehicle permit is renewed every five years, for which a fee of Rs 5,000 (excluding Rs 300 inspection fee charged every two years for first eight years), is charged.An auto-rickshaw is allowed to run on roads for the maximum 15 years, while most owners have to pay EMIs for eight to 10 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-hits-auto-operators-hard-87668
21-05-2020||---||No spl non-AC train from UT||Chandigarh, May 20To felicitate the movement of passengers, the Railways had yesterday announced to start 200 non-AC special passenger trains daily from June 1.As per the list provided by the Railways, no train will originate from the Chandigarh railway station.Aimed at gradually restoring normal services, the special trains will start from June 1 on specific routes and run on notified timings. The tickets can only be booked online on the IRCTC website or mobile application.No counter ticket, including platform ticket, shall be issued at the railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-spl-non-ac-train-from-ut-87670
21-05-2020||Manpriya Singh||Bittersweet story, trade down to 10%, say eatery owners||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20Now that the UT Administration has allowed sweets shops to open, Day 1 of opening might have been driven by the pent up hunger pangs of those ready for a plate of “gol gappas’. However, whether the consumers’ confidence survived the Covid scare can only be judged Day 2 onwards.“When you open a shop after a gap of two months, a majority of the first day goes by in preparations,” says Deepak Kalra, manager of Sindhi Sweets, Sector 8. He admits to the business being down to a fraction of what usually used to be on summer days in these months.“We are delivering through Zomato and Swiggy and the business is down to 10 per cent and we didn’t expect anymore. We command brand loyalty. So, consumers will eventually get back to us. We do not expect them to make a beeline any sooner,” he said, adding that the staff had been strictly adhering to the precautions.“Business is just 10 per cent of the usual and it comes from families that are regular visitors,” shares Raghavendra Jit Sharda from Sai Sweets in Sector 22. “Members of our family are themselves delivering the orders,” adds the owner’s son, who said all their staff members had been residing with them since the “Janata Curfew”.He adds: “We are focusing on specialities — ‘ras malai’ and ‘chana bhatura’.”Deepak from Krishna Chaat Bhandar in Sector 34 admits to delivering as many as 80 plates of “gol gappas” on Day 1 of opening. “Even on Day 2, we sold 70 to 80 plates,” says Deepak’s father Ram Kishan. “We’ve been running this shop for 32 years, but never did we see a situation this grim. We expect more customers to start flocking only June onwards.”Meanwhile, Rakesh Kumar, owner of Giani Dhaba, Chandigarh, feels the decision to not allow dhabas to operate is a little discriminative. “If sweets shops can open, restaurants can open, why can’t we?”Meera Dhir, a 38-year-old homemaker in Sector 34, says even though summer months have always meant evenings at street food corners, this time it’s different. “What’s the point of eating out if that becomes a source of stress. Any food item from outside is a cause of concern,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bittersweet-story-trade-down-to-10-say-eatery-owners-87671
21-05-2020||---||UT Admn may reduce containment zones||Chandigarh, May 20With the implementation of new guidelines, the UT Administration may consider reducing the number of containment zones in the city. The tag of containment zone can only be removed if there is no Covid-19 positive case reported from the area for the past 28 days.The Administration had declared Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, part of Sector 52, Shastri Nagar in Manimajra and part of Sectors 38 and part of 30-B and Bapu Dham Colony as containment zones to prevent the spread of coronavirus to neighbouring areas and completely sealed the areas. Except, Bapu Dham Colony, no positive Covid-19 cases have been reported from other containment zones for the past some time.In the five containment zones, the expected timeline for the removal of the containment zone tag has been fixed by the Administration if no positive case was reported within the stipulated period.The expected time for removal of the containment zone from part of Sector 38 is May 26, Sector 52 is May 27, Shastri Nagar is May 30, part of Sector 30 is June 4, and Kacchi Colony, Dhanas, is June 8.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar said all essential items were being delivered to the residents. The DC further stated that 79,993 cooked food packets have been distributed among the needy.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Beniwal to make sure that there were no relaxations in screening at the inter-state borders.The UT remains in the red zone as positives cases of Covid-19 continue to rise in the city. So far, 202 cases have been reported from the city.Adviser Manoj Parida said the matter had been taken up with the Centre for giving ration to those without ration cards or those who did not figure in the list of beneficiaries prepared by the Administration on the basis of earlier guidelines.Meanwhile, the Administrator appealed to the trader associations, market associations and shop owners to ensure proper social distancing and hygiene practices at their establishments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-admn-may-reduce-containment-zones-87674
21-05-2020||---||Drone for public area monitoring||Chandigarh, May 20Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) here has designed and developed an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to monitor public areas for checking that guidelines issued to combat Covid-19 are being implemented.The system has been successfully demonstrated to the Chandigarh Police at the police residential complex and at Bapu Dham Colony.The drone is capable of undertaking real time surveillance as well as broadcasting public announcements. The system ensures safety of the citizens by enforcing and monitoring the guidelines to be followed, as well as the safety of police personnel by enabling them with the capability of aerial patrolling without coming in close proximity of containment zones.Dr Manjit Singh, TBRL Director, said the drone was capable undertaking of real-time surveillance as well as broadcasting public announcements. “An operator in a remote location controls the drone through a hand-held tab and can not only survey a particular area but also make appropriate announcements to guide public,” he said.While the design and development of the drone has been done entirely by TBRL scientists, the laboratory is collaborating with a Noida-based private firm for its production.The UAV has a range of 3 kms and the capability of way point navigation. It can provide real time video feed to law enforcers and its controlling software has built in artificial intelligence tools for analysis and decision making.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drone-for-public-area-monitoring-87676
21-05-2020||---||Badnore asks hospitals to share OPD burden||Chandigarh, May 20CONTACT PGI ATAdvanced Cardiac Centre: 0172-2755993Advanced Pediatric Centre: 0172-2755994Oral Health Sciences:0172-2755995The UT Administrator has stated that a mechanism should be formulated in consultation with management of institutions to make sure that the burden of OPDs is shared among all medical institutions in the city.However, all three medical institutions are depending upon tele-medicine service to avoid congregation of people and maintaining social distancing.“The GMCH, Chandigarh, is striving hard to control the spread of Covid-19. Due to the pandemic, it is not feasible to start the routine OPD services as it may require screening and social distancing of a large number of patients,” said the official spokesperson of the GMCH. The telemedicine services were started with effect from April 4 and daily consultation is provided to approximately 140-150 patients in different clinics.As the lockdown and restrictions on travel may continue for some more time and patients may also not like to travel to the hospital, the telemedicine facility has further been added to the Departments of Urology (Tel. No. 2501999), Neurosurgery (Tel. No. 2501001) and Dentistry (2501888).The PGIMER also started telephonic consultation services from May 18.For tele-consultation services, patients will have to call the dedicated telephone numbers of the respective OPD centres between 8 am and 9 am for registration on days as per the existing OPD schedule available on www.pgimer.edu.in.Once the registration process is done, patients will receive a call from respective specialty during the day between 10 am and 5 pm.The patients are requested to provide a working mobile number preferably with WhatsApp facility. The opening of physical OPD services will be announced separately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-asks-hospitals-to-share-opd-burden-87678
21-05-2020||---||Consider getting paper bags made by women labourers: HC to Admn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the UT Administration to consider providing work of making newspaper and fabric bags to women labourers to help them wade through tough times.Justice Ritu Bahri of the High Court also made it clear that Chandigarh was bound to give low rental houses and food to the women and children living in colonies in accordance with Article 21 of the Constitution, which provided for protection of life with human dignity to every citizen.Justice Bahri also asked senior counsel appearing for the Union of India, Chetan Mittal, to get instructions as to why the file regarding identification of land for constructing houses in Chandigarh was not being cleared “keeping in view the recent decision taken by the Centre for making low rental houses for labourers/slum-dwellers”.The direction came after counsel appearing for the Chandigarh Administration submitted that land had been identified, but the file was pending with the MHA for clearance. “The court is of the view that cost of the land cannot be made basis for construction of the houses of labourers/slum-dwellers in Chandigarh, keeping in view the present situation. Now, the UT Administration is to take a decision to implement the decision of the Centre regarding giving of low rental houses and meals to the labourers so that the crime rate may not increase,” Justice Bahri added.The High Court was told that there were eight colonies in Chandigarh — Kacchi Colony, Dhanas, (1,200 households), Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25, (1,600 households), Madrasi Colony, Bapu Dham, (15 households), Colony No. 4, Industrial Area, (1,000 households), Tin Shed Colony, Kajheri, (1,500 households), Tin Shed Colony, Palsora, (80 households), Gwala Colony, Maloya, (150 households) and Shahpur Colony, Sector 38 (W) (200 households).UT counsel Pankaj Jain and Ashima Mor were also asked by Justice Bahri to get instructions on Administration’s plans to construct low rental houses. “UT Chandigarh shall also upload the information on the official website/programme developed by them that for construction of houses for labour and MNREGA how much budget has been sanctioned,” Justice Bahri asserted.Justice Bahri made it clear that proper uniform could be given to safai karamcharis collecting garbage from outside the houses to ensure their dignity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-getting-paper-bags-made-by-women-labourers-hc-to-admn-87679
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Day 2: Nothing much to cheer about, say shopkeepers||Markets on sector-dividing roads and Sector 17 witnessed a mixed response from purchasers on the Day 2 of opening after the lockdown restrictions were lifted today.While famous eateries received a nominal footfall, those into the business of selling appealers claimed to have received a poor response. “Rise in temperature and Covid-19 scare have people to shy away from making purchases,” said Pardeep Kumar, owner of a clothing house in Sector 17. Meanwhile, owner of a famous footwear shop in Sector 17 said: “The market saw a good footfall than yesterday, but there was no sale. As a layman, we would also think thrice before purchasing any non-essential product,” said Paraveer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-2-nothing-much-to-cheer-about-say-shopkeepers-87682
