24-05-2020||Mohali||Mandatory COVID-19 test at Chandigarh airport for all travellers bound for Punjab||With the Centre resuming domestic flight services from May 25, the Mohali district administration, on Sunday, said all air travellers bound for Punjab would be tested for COVID-19 upon their arrival at the Chandigarh airport and then mandatorily stay quarantined in their homes for 14 days.It, however, clarified that COVID-19 tests would be done only on passengers whose destination is Punjab.Those moving through the airport on the way to Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and the Union Territory of Chandigarh, would be dealt with as per the protocol of the recipient state, the district administration said.“In the wake of directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs to resume air travel from May 25, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has issued orders that all passengers belonging to Punjab shall be tested for COVID-19 at the airport,” a government release stated.All such persons would be required to undergo mandatory home quarantine for 14 days from the date of arrival. In case, the test comes out to be positive, the person shall be shifted to an isolation facility, it said.If the test is negative, the person would still be required to undergo home quarantine for 14 days, the order stated.This is being done in line with the directions of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which specifically mentions that “states can develop their own protocol with regard to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandatory-covid-19-test-at-chandigarh-airport-for-all-travellers-bound-for-punjab-89400
24-05-2020||Vijay Mohan||Medical report delinked from annual appraisal of Central Government officers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Central Government officers will not be required to submit their annual medical check-up report along with their Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) in view of the situation arising due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The same will be done separately with extension in dates.“In view of the prevailing situation, it has been decided to delink the submission of a summary of the medical report from recording and completion of the APAR for the year 2019-20,” a memorandum issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on May 22 states.According to standing instructions, the APAR, along with the medical report is to be submitted by April 15 each year for the previous financial year. Submission of the medical report has not been done away with this year but has been made independent of the regular APAR process. It will have to be submitted separately till December 31.Earlier, orders issued by the DoPT had extended the time for submission of the medical report to June 30. The timelines for submission of the APAR were also extended as a one-time measure for the 2019-20 fiscal year.The date for distribution of blank APAR forms was extended from March 31 to May 31, while the date for submission of self-appraisal by the officer concerned to his immediate superior was extended from April 15 to June 30.The timelines for subsequent action on the APAR further up the hierarchical chain have also been similarly extended. December 31, 2020, has now been fixed for the end of the entire APAR process.Generation of the APAR in the Central Government is now an online process only through a system called “Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Online Window” (SPARROW).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medical-report-delinked-from-annual-appraisal-of-central-government-officers-89399
24-05-2020||Rohtak||BJP suspends Karnal leader who fell from Chandigarh flat||The BJP on Sunday suspended Chanderprakash Kathuria, a special invitee to the party’s state executive committee, from the primary membership of the party for six years.Karnal-based Kathuria’s membership was suspended by BJP Haryana unit president Subhash Barala, as per an official statement issued by Gulshan Bhatia, the office secretary at the state BJP headquarters here.Kathuria, who was the chairman of Sugarfed, recently courted controversy as he fell and injured himself while trying to descend from the second-floor balcony of an apartment in Chandigarh with the help of a cloth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-suspends-karnal-leader-who-fell-from-chandigarh-flat-89323
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: PGIMER depts asked to share safe OPD patient load considering social distancing||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has asked its departments to share the number of outpatient department (OPD) patients they can accommodate considering social distancing norms amid the coronavirus outbreak. However, no date has been set for the reopening of the service, which has been shut since March 20.Each department has been asked to prepare a plan based on the space allotted to them in the New OPD block, advanced eye centre, advanced cardiac centre and PGIMER's other wings.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER said that they cannot abruptly throw open the services as the hospital witnesses a rush of patients which could cause social distancing norms to go for a toss.“So far the stress has been on teleconsultation, but a physical diagnosis is also must for the patient as well as the consultant. The appointment will be provided only through the teleconsultation services which will be based on the requirement of the patient and the concerned doctor will take a call on it. So far, we have planned this,” Dr Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER said.Even though the lockdown in Chandigarh has been relaxed to an extent, the health facilities in the city have not restarted, as the OPDs and PGIMER are also focusing on strengthening the referral system.“The hospitals in the city need to devise a plan on how patient load can be shared,” Dr Ram said.Around 10,000 patients visit the PGIMER in a day, most of whom travel long distances from neighbouring states for better medical services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-pgimer-depts-asked-to-share-safe-opd-patient-load-considering-social-distancing-89288
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports fourth Covid death; 28 more test positive in Bapu Dham Colony||Chandigarh reported fourth death due to Covid-19 on Sunday, with a three-day-old girl dying of infection. She was tested for the virus after her death.Meanwhile, the city reported 28 new coronavirus, taking the union territory's COVID-19 infection tally to 262.All the new cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, which has emerged as an "epicentre" of the virus infections in the UT.Among those found positive are four women—aged 23, 30, 30 and 37—and an 18-year-old boy.The union territory had reported 14 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, all from Bapu Dham Colony.Three of the reported cases were detected by the on-site sampling centre in Bapu Dham, where teams from the GMSH-16 and the GMCH-32 are taking samples of suspected patients. Among those found positive were two women and an 18-year-old boy.The union territory now has 72 active coronavirus cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-fourth-covid-death-28-more-test-positive-in-bapu-dham-colony-89277
24-05-2020||---||School merged other charges with tuition fee, allege parents||Chandigarh, May 23Around 50 parents protested outside AKSIPS, Sector 45, for demanding tuition fee during the lockdown.Sunil Goyal, a parent, said: “As long as the lockdown continues, we will be unable to pay fee. The school has already taken fee till March 31. Now, they want fee for two months. The Education Department has allowed schools to charge tuition fee, but AKSIPS has merged other fee heads to the amount sought from us. I should not have to pay Rs6,390 for two months.”School Executive Director Jasdeep Kalra said: “The contention was that the parents didn’t want to pay fee because the schools were closed. We have never struck off the name of any student from the rolls for not being able to deposit fee. We need to maintain expenses and pay salary to the staff. We have told parents that they can pay later when circumstances get better. The parents have submitted a representation and we will consider their requests.”Parents fume as school demands feeZirakpur: Parents of children studying at Dikshant Global School today held a protest and alleged that the school authorities were asking them to pay tuition and admission fee for the months of April and May and purchase books from the institute at higher prices.The protesters alleged that the school was providing Class II book set for Rs7,405 while its market price was around Rs3,200 in the market.Parents said the state government had directed schools not to force parents to deposit fee. The school management refuted the allegations of charging higher price for books and said they were ready to refund admission fee if parents were not satisfied. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-merged-other-charges-with-tuition-fee-allege-parents-88978
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Shramik’ train runs with 73% occupancy||A total of 1,179 passengers boarded ‘Shramik’ special train, which departed at 2.10 pm for Gaya in Bihar and Dhanbad in Jharkhand today.On Friday, the UT Administration had called 3,403 migrants on their mobile phones, of which, only 1,602 gave their consent and a considerable number (1,801) of them did not turn up to board the train. Capacity of the train was 1,600 thus more than 400 seats remained vacant. The train had 73 per cent occupancy. The Administration said after opening of industrial and commercial units, numerous migrants are not interested to return to their respective states. On Sunday, a special train will leave at 2pm for Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh.1,600 leave for BiharA total of 1,600 migrants left for Bhagalpur, Bihar, from the Mohali railway station today. As many as 1,625 homoeopathy tablets of ‘Arsenicum Album 30’ were distributed among the migrants and staff on duty. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shramik-train-runs-with-73-occupancy-88979
24-05-2020||Mohali||Two policemen suspended for thrashing scribe||Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal today suspended two policemen for thrashing a journalist near Phase 1 police station on Friday. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against ASI Om Parkash and Amarnath.The victim, Major Singh (52), alleged a clash broke out between two groups at Gurdwara Kalghidhar Sahib. He was making a video of the incident and the police objected to it. When the cops taking those involved in the fight to police station, Major asked them to release one of the apprehended persons. He said he was also taken to the police station where Om Parkash and Amarnath thrashed him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-policemen-suspended-for-thrashing-scribe-88981
24-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Sports complexes open in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23After nearly 60 days, the UT Sports Department opened its complexes for sportspersons today.Partial facilities at the sports complexes of Sector 38 (West), Sector 7, Sector 34, Sector 42 and Lake Sports Complex have been allowed in the first phase as per the manual issued by the department. Trainees of various disciplines, including badminton (Sector 38 sports complex), athletics (Sector 7), table tennis (Sector 50, Sector 34 and Sector 23), archery, tennis and weightlifting (Lake Sports Complex and Sector 42) attended session in small groups today.“The training has begun in a partial manner at some sports complexes. All operations at complexes will start within a day or so. We have issued a seven-page standard operating procedure (SOP),” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, UT Director Sports. He further added: “Any training equipment used should be disinfected and athletes are allowed to use personal equipment.”Members not allowedThe Director Sports said the complexes have only been opened for sportspersons and not for members. “We will open all complexes for all concerned in a phased manner,” said Saini.The department has also decided not to take any bookings for competitions. “The events have been bifurcated into four categories. However, close proximity events sports, including wrestling and judo, will not be allowed,” said Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer (DSO).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-complexes-open-in-chandigarh-88982
24-05-2020||Mohali||Cleanliness need of the hour: Minister||Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today visited various markets in Mohali to take stock of the situation. He emphasised on maintaining cleanliness is the need of the hour to combat Covid-19. Shopkeepers raised various issues, including courtyard work in Phase 11 Palika market, installation of pavers in Phase 10 market and poor sanitation in Phase 9 market, among others. He said Rs1.45 crore will be released for development of cooperative housing societies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleanliness-need-of-the-hour-minister-89004
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court cancels summer vacations for self, lower courts||Two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode following the Covid outbreak, it has decided to cancel the summer vacations for itself and the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The cases would continue to be heard in the HC through video-conferencing.An order passed on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha Saturday said it was notified that the summer vacations in the Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh from June 1 to June 26 stood cancelled.It also notified that the vacations in the subordinate courts from June 1 to June 30 also stood cancelled and the courts would function with the present arrangement of hearing of cases. The order comes at a time when the total pending cases in Haryana is 8,92,041, while no less than 6,46,342 cases are awaiting adjudication in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-cancels-summer-vacations-for-self-lower-courts-89078
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||6 sans mask arrested||Man violates lockdown, heldChandigarh: A resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, was arrested on Saturday for allegedly violating the lockdown and manhandling a cop. The suspect has been identified as Sanjay Mishra. He has been booked under Sections 188, 269, 270, 332, 353 of the IPC. TNSLabourer dies in freak mishapDera Bassi: A 22-year-old labourer died after a girder fell on him on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Harvinder Singh, a resident of Mubarikpur. According to sources, the girder, which weighed several tonnes, was being transported for construction work and it suddenly fell on the victim. OCBrace for heat wave in tricityChandigarh: Heat wave conditions are likely to prevail in the tricity for the next three-four days. According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the maximum temperature is expected to hover between 42°C and 44°C. Some relief from the hot weather is expected by the end of May. “Thunderstorm is expected from May 27 to 28,” said Surender Paul, Director, Met Department. TNS2 fire incidents reported in ChandigarhChandigarh: Several fire tenders were pressed into service after fire broke out at a landfill in Dadu Majra on Saturday. Officials said in summer, fire often breaks out at the waste dumping ground. In another incident, fire broke out near Sai Baba Mandir, Sector 29. Two fire tenders were pressed into service. TNSCops nab five fraudstersChandigarh: The cyber cell of the Mohali police have arrested five persons who duped people by distributing fake petrol pump dealership. The suspects have been identified as Mahinder Singh, Brahm Prakash Shukla, Jatinder Singh, Asif Khan, and Akash Singh. The police have recovered Rs4.90 lakh, a Scorpio, two laptops, mobile phones SIM cards from them and freezed Rs2.50 lakh. Superintendent of Police (Detective) Harmandeep Singh Hans and DSP Rupinder Kaur said the gang used to target gullible people.Chemists’ Association irked over finePanchkula: The Panchkula Chemists’ Association on Saturday alleged that the MC challaned some distributors for not wearing gloves. Sanjeev Goyal of the association, said, “We are unaware of any such order that makes gloves necessary.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-sans-mask-arrested-89005
24-05-2020||Panchkula||No respite for maids, delivery boys in Panchkula||Rahul (19), working with Licious, a meat delivery company, is waiting for a customer outside the gate of GH-79 Sandeep Vihar (AWHO Housing Complex) in Sector 20 as he is not being allowed to make the delivery on the doorstep.“Since we are not allowed to enter the housing society, we call the customer to collect their food,” he said.Even as the Panchkula administration has issued an order allowing the entry of maids and delivery boys in housing societies, things are yet to fall in place.Chanda, a maid from Khark Mangoli, said, “Our employers are not calling us back to work and the government is not making arrangements to send us back home. We are helpless.”Parveen Kataria, president, RWA, Sector 4 Mansa Devi Complex, said, “Maids are still not allowed in residential areas of our sector due to fear of contracting the virus. However, some residents are still calling their maids to help them in household chores. They don’t listen to us.” He said they were unaware of any administrative order on restoration of maids’ services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-respite-for-maids-delivery-boys-in-panchkula-88973
24-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Chandigarh airport to resume operations from Monday||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 23After a gap of two months, the Chandigarh international airport is all set to resume domestic flights to seven destinations in a phased manner. Seven flights will start operating on May 25, two on May 27 and four on June 1.Various airline operators will start their flights to Srinagar, New Delhi, Mumbai, Leh, Bengaluru, Dharamsala and Ahmedabad.From May 25, IndiGo flight (6E 495/264) will arrive from Mumbai at 11.30 am and depart at 12.30 pm. Another IndiGo flight (6E 0545/455) will reach here from Delhi at 11.40 am and depart at 12.40 pm. Yet another flight of the operator will land in the city from Bengaluru at 2 pm and depart at 2.40 pm.Air Asia’s flight (I51325/1825) from Bengaluru will arrive at 12.25 pm and leave at 1 pm. Air India’s flight (9I 9713/714) from Dharamsala will land at 2.25 pm and fly back at 3.05 pm while its second flight (9I 9831/832) from Delhi will reach the city at 8.35 pm and return at 9 pm. Vistara’s flight (UK 706/707) from Delhi will arrive at 2.45 pm and depart at 3.30 pm.From May 27, Air India’s flight (AI 3415/16) will land here from Leh at 11.30 am and return at 1.40 pm while its second flight (AI 463/464) will arrive from Delhi at 12.10 pm and leave at 2.10 pm.On June 1, GoAir will resume operation of its four flights, two from Ahmedabad and one each from Delhi and Mumbai.To ensure social distancing at the airport, markings have been made on the floor to help passengers stand with a minimum gap of 1 metre. Passenger seating arrangement is also done in a manner that ensures social distancing.The airport has also formulated standard operating procedure for the safety of passengers and staff. These measures include social distancing, stringent thermal screening, besides ensuring sanitisation of the airport. Separate dustbins are kept at various locations to dispose of the PPE.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said the airport was fully geared up to fight the threats of Covid-19 and the safety and security of passengers was always on the top of the agenda.He said dos and don’ts were displayed on the flight information display system. Passengers were requested to adhere to all instructions, Bhardwaj added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-to-resume-operations-from-monday-88975
24-05-2020||---||Panchkula barber shops to open from today||Panchkula, May 23Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours in the district can be opened from tomorrow.In an order issued today, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja allowed opening of these shops between 9 am and 6:30 pm on all days, subject to mandatory health and safety requirements. He said they should wash their hands, spray disinfectant on chairs and clean their tools for the next customer. Persons with fever, cough, cold and throat pain shall not be allowed inside the shops. Disposable towel/paper sheet should be used for each client.Banquet halls, parks open tooAs per the order, marriage halls can also operate with the maximum 50 guests at any time. Permission for holding an event there has to be obtained from the DC office. The administration has also permitted to open parks in residential sectors and housing societies from 7 am to 10 am and 3:30 pm to 6:50 pm with conditions. However, performing yoga, use of the open gym and exercise will be prohibited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-barber-shops-to-open-from-today-88976
24-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Help maids: FOSWAC to Chandigarh administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23A day after UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that the RWAs had “no business to decide who’s to be stopped and who’s not to be stopped from entering anyone’s house”, the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) asked the UT Administration to extend financial help to maids and casual workers.A fortnight ago, Parida had advised RWAs to see whether social distancing was being followed. Now, he says we have no business (in stopping entry of maids). Who will check the safety of maids, as they have to go to different houses? — Baljinder Singh Bittu, FOSWAC ChairmanSpeaking to Chandigarh Tribune, Pardeep Chopra, general secretary, FOSWAC, said, “It is strange that the government has not stepped in to help people engaged in the informal economy. One cannot be forced to avail of the services of a maid if one doesn’t feel the need for it, especially with the deadly virus around. It can spread from me to my maid too.”He added, “Ideally, the government should have made a list of maids and gave them salary or ration, which is being done by residents. Why can’t the PM CARES Fund be used for the welfare of the unprivileged?”While on the one hand, Parida stated that a maid or a resident could make a call to the UT police if they are stopped by the RWAs, not many are brave enough to bell the cat. A resident of Sector 49, requesting anonymity, said, “I live in a society. I will not want to get into trouble with the RWA president by going against the majority sentiment. If people don’t want my maid to enter the colony, I can’t fight them and invite hate.”On the other hand, maids are too scared to become the target of both RWAs and the police.A domestic help said, “If I call up the police, both RWA and my employer will trouble me. Moreover, who would want to fight a case?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/help-maids-foswac-to-chandigarh-administration-88977
