25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Allow parents to sell kidneys: City parent writes to governor, PMO||Disturbed by the present state of affairs, a city parent has written a letter to Governor VP Singh Badnore and Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting them to allow parents to sells kidneys to pay school fee.A resident of Chandigarh, Sector 52, whose daughter is studying in Class VII at a Sector 44 school writes, “I have been the sole earning member of my family. I was working at a private company on contractual basis before the COVID-19 struck hard on the middle class families like me.”The letter further reads, “Now I have no source of income as I am jobless. I was surviving on whatever little reserves I had till date and a huge family of five members. I am unable to pay my house rent, monthly EMIs, insurance premiums, medical expenses, basic utility bills, and the huge amounts of debts taken from friends and family to cater to my financial obligations. I am now in debt of various people.”He alleged that the school is demanding the full hiked fees for the current academic session summing up to Rs 32,000 without giving any reprieve to the grieving parents.The parent also alleged that a namesake fee regulatory committee has been created to cater to such complaints and a formal complaint has been duly lodged with the same but the committee is yet to act upon the complaint.He appealed to the governor to allow him to sell kidneys and other organs to pay the school fee for ensuring continuity of education of children and feed the greed of the schools if the government is incapacitated to form stringent laws to curb the commercialisation of education.The parents further writes, “I am under huge stress that if I fail to pay the school fees, they will impose even more late fees which I would not be able to afford. The school may even strike off the name of my daughter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-parents-to-sell-kidneys-city-parent-writes-to-governor-pmo-89844
25-05-2020||---||29-year-old woman of Nayagaon tests positive; total count now 106||Mohali, May 25After a two-week lull, a new positive COVID-19 case has surfaced in Mohali district, taking the total count to 106 with only one active case in the district.The fresh case is of a 29-year-old woman, who is a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon village in the district. She had recently delivered a child at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said they took her sample after she gave birth as a routine checking, the report of which came on Monday.He said the health teams had traced all her contacts and their samples would be taken on Tuesday. The hospital had sealed the area after shifting the patient to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), he added.Earlier also, eight persons from Nayagaon were tested positive for COVID-19.The district count now stands at 106, of which 102 have defeated the virus while three deaths have been reported and one active case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-year-old-woman-of-nayagaon-tests-positive-total-count-now-106-89812
25-05-2020||---||Chandigarh airport becomes operational with Indigo flight arriving from Mumbai||Sanjay Bumbroo Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 25Two months after the lockdown in view of the coronavirus the Chandigarh International Airport once again became operational with a flight arriving from Mumbai on Monday morning.The Indigo airline arrived at the airport with passengers wearing PPE kits. The passengers had to undergo screening and Covid tests conducted by teams of the health department led by Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. Passengers Mukesh Kumar, wife and son, residents of Hamirpur in Himachal, said the situation is very bad in Mumbai with most of the coronavirus cases surfacing there. He said he was working there in a private company while his wife was doing her PhD.Deepak Kapoor, an actor and a resident of Bathinda, said that till Sunday evening it was not clear whether the flights would run or not. He said it was known only after they received the message that they had to reach the Mumbai airport in the morning. He said they had been at their apartment for the past two months and wished to return with their parents even if home quarantined. He said they had been issued advisory by the airliner to be home quarantined for 14 days after their arrival at Chandigarh Airport.Five flights would be arriving and departing from the airport to various destinations. A total of 13 flights to seven destinations, including Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Dharamsala and Leh would be operational from the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-becomes-operational-with-indigo-flight-arriving-from-mumbai-89781
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Mother, 3-year-old son discharged in Chandigarh||A mother and her 3-year-old son were cured of coronavirus and discharged from PGIMER in Chandigarh on Monday.The two patients are from sector 30 and the son was admitted to the Nehru Hospital Extension on May 1, after he tested positive for the contagion. The 34-year-old woman was allowed as an attendant for her child. After 18 days, the woman also tested positive for the deadly disease.The mother tested negative for coronavirus on May 24. As the child continued to be indeterminate (considered positive), both of them stayed together in the COVID ward. The duo was discharged for home-quarantine together on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-mother-3-year-old-son-discharged-in-chandigarh-89778
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||13 more test coronavirus positive in Bapu Dham Colony; Chandigarh tally reaches 276||As may as 13 more people have tested positive from Bapu Dham Colony on Monday. Most of them are contacts of positive patients from two households.Among them are a one-year-old girl and a five-year-old girl from one household and a 25-year-old woman from another household.With this the total infected cases in the UT have reached 276; of these 85 are active cases.Of the recent nine cases from the colony are a 48-year-old man, a 14-year-old boy, a 23-year-old youth, a three-year-old boy, a 40-year man and a 37-year-old man; besides three women, aged 22, 35, 45.Of these three cases are that of on-site sampling and six were sampled at GMSH, Sector 16, with mild symptoms. They are contacts of the positive cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-bapu-dham-colony-chandigarh-tally-reaches-276-89768
25-05-2020||Ambala||Fabric made to cut infection risk up to 90%, claims firm||An Ambala-based firm NUFAB Technical Textiles Private Limited has claimed to develop a non-woven fabric, which will significantly reduce infection risk to frontline medical workers.The firm has claimed that the developed fabric is comfortable, lightweight, and breathable, which will help frontline medical workers by reducing the infection risk up to 90 %.Director, NUFAB, Salil Goyal said, “The fabric was sent to Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to determine the resistance of protective clothing materials to penetration by blood and body fluids, and the fabric has been certified and approved by DRDO. It is useful in making coveralls gowns — PPEs used by our health warriors. The PPE kits being used by frontline warriors doesn’t allow air to cross which make them sweat a lot. Besides, being light weight, the new fabric is breathable and thus, reduces chances of infection substantially. The other benefit is that it is recyclable and eco-friendly.”“The fabric available in UK and USA cost around Rs2,000 to 2,500 per kg, while our product costs just Rs175 per kg. We are in touch with the government so that the frontline warriors could be provided kits made of this fabric,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fabric-made-to-cut-infection-risk-up-to-90-claims-firm-89462
25-05-2020||---||3-day-old baby dies of Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24A three-day-old baby girl from Dadu Majra died of Covid today, taking the toll in the city to four. Besides, 29 more cases were reported from the UT today, which is the biggest spike in a day, raising the tally to 262.According to the information, the baby was born three days ago at the Civil Hospital in Sector 22. However, as her health deteriorated, she was referred to the PGI. She was declared brought dead at the hospital on Saturday.Her samples were collected for a Covid test, which were reported positive today.The samples of her mother have been taken and the report is awaited.Meanwhile, 28 of the total 29 fresh cases reported from the city were of Bapu Dham Colony.Among them were four women (aged 23, 37 and two in their 30s) and an 18-year-old boy. Six members of a family also tested positive for the virus. Among them were three boys, aged 14, 18 and 19, and three men, aged 42, 29 and 56.Three members of another family, including two men, aged 28 and 45, and a 38-year-old woman, were also found infected today.Further, eight persons from Bapu Dham were reported positive for Covid in the evening. Among them were two women, aged 25 and 23, belonging to different families. A 12-year-old boy and a 32-year-old man from another house were also found infected with the contagion. A six-year-old girl and a 28-year-old woman from another family and two teenaged girls, aged 15 and 18, from yet another house tested positive for the virus.Late in the evening, six more persons from Bapu Dham tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, seven UT residents were discharged from hospital after they defeated the deadly virus. Among them were a six-month-old girl, a seven-year-old boy, two women aged 25 and three men, aged 32, 35 and 44.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-day-old-baby-dies-of-covid-89529
25-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh  Administration may rid 6  Bapu Dham pockets of containment tag||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24The UT is mulling to lift sealing in six small pockets within Bapu Dham Colony as no case has been reported from there so far.The UT has also ruled out making the colony, which has a population of 50,000, a containment zone. The area is divided into four zones and each zone is divided into five pockets. There were a total of 20 pockets of which two are in the containment zone, whereas the rest fall in the buffer zone with strict perimeter control.Adviser Manoj Parida said, “We have ruled out the suggestion for making the entire Bapu Dham Colony a containment zone as all 50,000 persons living there cannot be caged like animals. We will open clean pockets in Bapu Dham too as we are daily reviewing the situation there. To start with, at least six pockets in the buffer zone will given relaxation as no case has been reported from there since the beginning of the pandemic.”An onsite sampling centre was set up at Bapu Dham. So far, 841 samples have been collected by the GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 doctors. As many as 181 cases have been reported from the colony.Bapu Dham is a densely populated colony with EWS flats and residences, which are housing a minimum of 6-8 members per household.The reasons for the rising cases can be attributed to violation of social distancing norms. Residents had been found sharing hookahs, cigarettes and bidis and gathering for drinking and card-playing sessions during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-may-rid-6-bapu-dham-pockets-of-containment-tag-89541
25-05-2020||---||Panchkula salons back in biz with safety measures||Panchkula, May 24Salons and barbershops in the city resumed operations after a gap of two months with safety measures today.Though not all branded salons in commercial markets were operational, a majority of the barbershops in inner markets and neighbourhood were open.Praveen Singh, owner of Looks salon in Sector 9, said “We witnessed huge rush on the first day of reopening the shop. With safety and hygiene becoming a prime concern, most of the consumers availed of basic services.”Virender Bhandari, owner of Naomi’s Headmasters, Sector 8, said, “We are attending limited number of customers and that too on the basis of prior appointment only. Our 90 per cent customers asked for basic services such as haircut, which are loss-making. Also, we are taking all precautionary measures and following hygiene and sanitisation rules such as wearing masks and gloves.”Raj Malhotra of Sector 12-A said, “I visited a salon in Sector 8. I was happy to see that the staff there had taken all preventive measures. I made the payment online.”According to the standard operating procedure, all staff at the barbershops should wash their hands, disinfect chairs and clean their tools before attending the next customer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-salons-back-in-biz-with-safety-measures-89565
25-05-2020||---||Mohali shops issued directions on hygiene||Mohali, May 24The district administration today issued directions to barbershops and salons on maintaining hygiene and sanitisation in order to ensure safety from Covid-19.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the owners of barbershops and salons would have to ensure that any staff member having Covid-19 symptoms would stay at home and seek medical advice. Similarly, no client having such symptoms should be attended, he said.Dayalan said apart from the owner and staff, clients should also wear a mask while availing of services. The owner should also ensure that there was no unnecessary crowding.He said all guidelines related to the prevention of Covid such as frequent hand washing with soap or using sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing of one metre following respiratory hygiene and keeping a watch over symptoms should be followed. He said though the shop owners should encourage digital payment, in case of cash payment, the shopkeeper, staff and clients should sanitise hands before and after each transaction.The Deputy Commissioner said indoor areas, including service rooms, waiting areas and workstations, should be cleaned every 2-3 hours and floors should be cleaned with one per cent sodium hypochlorite. He said the furniture and frequently touched surfaces and articles should be regularly cleaned/sanitised and most importantly, tools such as razors, scissors and combs should be wiped with one per cent sodium hypochlorite after every use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-shops-issued-directions-on-hygiene-89567
25-05-2020||---||Lined up to buy veggies, man collapses, dies at PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24A 50-year-old man, a resident of Sector 30-B, a containment zone, died at the PGI today. He was admitted to the hospital yesterday after he reportedly collapsed while standing in a queue to purchase vegetables.The victim, identified as Jarnail Singh, an electrician, was standing in a queue to purchase vegetables from a CTU bus, which provides essentials in the containment zone, when he collapsed around 9.30 am.Since the residents could not move out of the containment zone, the man had to be taken to a hospital in an ambulance. It is alleged that the ambulance arrived late. The victim was rushed to the PGI at 11.30 am. The police claimed that the victim had suffered an epilepsy attack.Jarnail Singh reportedly died during treatment at around 4 am today.A few hours later, residents gathered in the containment zone to express their resentment against the alleged delay in taking the victim to the hospital. UT officials and cops pacified them.Meanwhile, the man’s samples were taken for a Covid test, the report of which turned out to be negative.The police took the Jarnail Singh’s family members in an ambulance to perform his last rites at the cremation ground in Sector 25. Later, the cremation, a team of the Health Department conducted medical screening of the three family members — his wife and two daughters, aged 26 and 18 — before they were dropped at their home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lined-up-to-buy-veggies-man-collapses-dies-at-pgi-89569
25-05-2020||---||Testing on arrival must for Punjab travellers||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 24With domestic flights resuming from the Chandigarh international airport from tomorrow, the district administration has ordered that all passengers belonging to Punjab will be tested for Covid-19 upon their arrival at the airport.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said as the Chandigarh international airport fell under the jurisdiction of the district, so the entry of inbound persons into the state needed to be regulated in line with the protocol of the Punjab Health Department to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Therefore, all passengers belonging to Punjab would be tested for the virus at the airport, he said. Foreign returnees to be quarantined in UTChandigarh: People returning to the city from abroad will be quarantined for seven days in hotels. Sharing this on Twitter, UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that they would be tested for Covid during their quarantine. Those testing negative will be allowed to go home. They will have to observe self-quarantine for seven days. Those positive will be admitted to a hospital. Asymptomatic passengers of domestic flights can go home. They will have to monitor their health for 14 days. TNSDayalan said in case, the test came out to be positive, the person would be shifted to an isolation facility and if the test came out to be negative, the person should undergo a 14-day home-quarantine and should self-monitor his/her health status and report to the nearest government health facility in case he/she developed any symptoms. Dayalan said that this was being done in line with the directions of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, which specifically mentioned that “states can develop their own protocol with regard to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment”.However, it has been clarified that the mandatory Covid- test should be done only on those passengers whose destination is Punjab. Those travelling to Haryana, HP, etc, will be dealt with as per the protocol of the recipient state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-on-arrival-must-for-punjab-travellers-89572
25-05-2020||---||440 liquor boxes in milk tanker||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24The crime branch of the UT police today nabbed a man for allegedly smuggling liquor to Gujarat in a milk tanker.A team comprising Inspector Ranjit Singh and ASI Rajinder Singh Dhanda was patrolling in the city when they received information regarding liquor being smuggled from Chandigarh in a milk tanker bearing a Gujarat number.The police said they had information that the liquor to be smuggled would be loaded at the Industrial Area, Phase I, and would be delivered in Gujarat. Accordingly, they laid a naka near the Poultry Farm chowk and stopped the vehicle.During checking, the police found 440 liquor boxes containing 21,120 quarters of whisky, which were concealed in a tank. The driver, Gaurav Khatri (36), a resident of Phase V, Mohali, was arrested. The driver disclosed that the liquor was being supplied to Gujarat on the directions of the owner of a liquor factory in the Industrial Area.Sources said the police then raided the factory, which was found to be locked and the owner was also absconding.The bootleggers had written ‘milk not for sale’ on the vehicle to avoid any suspicion. The investigation also revealed that liquor had been smuggled into Gujarat several times in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/440-liquor-boxes-in-milk-tanker-89574
25-05-2020||---||Water supply to be hit in Chandigarh, Mohali today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Mohali, May 24The water supply in Chandigarh and Mohali will be affected tomorrow.The supply will be hit in Mohali as the grid that supplies power to the Kajauli waterworks will be repaired tomorrow.Due to this, there will be no regular pumping of raw water from Kajauli to Chandigarh, which will hit the supply in the city. While water will be supplied at normal pressure in the morning (from 4 am to 9 am), there will be no supply in the afternoon. In the evening, the supply will be at low pressure from 5 pm to 9 pm.Anil Kumar, Executive Engineer, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, Mohali, said the water supply would be affected in the areas, including Phase 1 to 7, 9 and 11, Sector 70 and 71, Mataur and Shahi Majra villages, and the Industrial Area Phase 1 to 5.He said water would be supplied at low pressure on Monday morning and evening while there would be no supply in the afternoon. On May 26, water would be supplied as per its availability, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-chandigarh-mohali-today-89575
25-05-2020||Mohali||In Mohali, over 50% prefer to stay back||In what could be seen as a sign of normalcy returning to the district, a Shramik train left the Mohali railway station today with only 866 migrants for Motihari in Bihar.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said earlier, the number of migrants going back to their home states from the district varied between 1,300 and 1,600 per train on an average. However, with the industrial sector opening and construction activities having been allowed, more migrants are choosing to stay back. He said of over 55,000 migrants registered to travel by Shramik trains so far, 26,239 returned to their native places. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-over-50-prefer-to-stay-back-89577
25-05-2020||---||Labourer killed in fight, 1 held||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 24A 32-year-old labourer was allegedly killed by three persons following a fight between them in a slum at Phase 8 here last night. The police have arrested one of the suspects, while two others are at large after committing the murder.The victim’s identity was not yet clear. However, he used to call himself as ‘Haryanvi’, said the police.According to the police, the suspects and the victim were in an inebriated condition around 11.30 pm. A scuffle broke out between ‘Haryanvi’ and the suspects after some heated arguments.In the meantime, Pardeep attacked ‘Haryanvi’ with a sickle on his right arm. The suspects later fled from the spot leaving the victim behind in a pool of blood.After getting information, the police reached the spot and sent the victim to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here, in an ambulance. However, the victim succumbed to his injuries on his way to the hospital. Before his last breath, he had revealed the names of the suspects to the police.After sometime, the police arrested the prime suspect, Pardeep, from Phase 7. The other two suspects have been identified as Pawan and Ranjit, who are yet to be arrested.“The victim and the suspects hail from Uttar Pradesh. They were living in a slum near the Phase 7 traffic lights. We are interrogating Pardeep and he will be produced before a court tomorrow,” said investigating officer Beant Singh.Later, the police apprehended three more accomplices of Pardeep for questioning, confirmed Inspector Rajnish Choudhary.A case was registered against Pardeep and two other suspects under Sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourer-killed-in-fight-1-held-89579
25-05-2020||---||Week on, Dhanas boy thrashed  by four dies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Four persons have been booked for culpable homicide after they thrashed a Dhanas resident on May 17, who later died at a hospital.The police said Suraj (19), a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, had an argument with the suspects, identified as Billa, Sandy, Talli and Dhanush, over an issue. The suspects then thrashed the boy, after which matter was reported to the police. Both sides entered into a compromise on May 21.However, Suraj developed pain in the body in the evening, after which he went to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, for a check-up. The police said he returned after taking medicines. However, the problem aggravated and the next day, he went to the PGI for a check-up where he died.The victim’s father Raju, a vegetable vendor, submitted a complaint to the police, following which a case under Sections 304 and 34 has been registered against the suspects at the Sarangpur police station. The police said the boy’s samples had been taken for a Covid test.The body will be handed over to the family after an autopsy, which will be conducted on Monday, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/week-on-dhanas-boy-thrashed-by-four-dies-89580
25-05-2020||How can tricity authorities mitigate migrants’ woes?||Cash transfer to poor & labourers can stop exodus||Resolve migrants’ issues on priorityThe worst affected social group during the current lockdown are the labourers, particularly migrants, who left their homes for odd jobs at various places, both urban and rural in industries, services, construction and even in agriculture. Migrants were caught unaware when the lockdown was announced. These are the people, who will play a key role in national reconstruction. Attending to them at this hour is the need of the hour. Can government provide large-scale unemployment allowance for sustaining them through the crisis until they are gainfully employed again?Sanjay Chopra, MohaliNo salary during lockdownDuring the lockdown sales and marketing person in the private sector did not receive salary from February 20 onwards. Nothing is happening as per the government instructions. My colleague factory workers and others have a painful experience in this regard.Dinesh Kumar Sadera, ChandigarhGive income security to ‘mazdoor’The biggest challenge for the revival of our beleaguered economy will be paucity of migrant labourers. The country has been put into a vicious circle of the lockdown with no wages for labourers forcing them to go back home. We should have a large fiscal stimulus not ‘jumlas’ rolled out for the industry. If state provides health, social and economic security there is no need for labourers to move out.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurEase lockdown to provide livelihoodThe plight of migrant labourers is heart wrenching. The way our Administration is handling the situation is deplorable. The treatment given to them is not only sad, but inhuman too. All that our Administration can do is to give them food and shelter at the ISBT, Sector 43, and the railway station instead of sending them back to their accommodations. Priority must be given to women and children. Easing the lockdown will provide them livelihood.Sehaj Kaur, ChandigarhIt is a matter of trustThe authorities concerned have to take such steps such as safeguarding their interests so that migrants have faith in it. They should be shown visuals of those, who suffered harshly while on their way back to their home states. They should know that industry is opening up. Meanwhile, these migrants should be relocated to suitable locations with all essentials.Anil Nanda, PatialaRebuild labourers’ confidenceA big chunk of migrants has already left the city. This was facilitated by political parties and the government. It was done to score some brownie points. Hapless migrants were not given cash and food. The need of the hour was to counsel them. The UT Administration and all political parties must use their resources to prevail upon leftover labourers to rebuild their shattered confidence.SC Luthra, ChandigarhSet up sheds near rly station, bus standIn the absence of both food and shelter, migrant workers are forced to fend themselves in streets. Arranging temporary sheds near areas like bus stands and railway stations can bring some respite for them. Migrants, who take shelter, must be educated about social distancing. They should be provided three meals per day and clean water. Temporary toilets can be used in this situation.Anmol Kaur Mongia, MohaliArrange convenient, safe evacuationMigrants too feel home sick and want to leave for their native places. Hopefully, in the wake of relaxation a few of them, who have been living with their families may postpone return to their home states. Doubtlessly, migrant workers are indispensable for us. Therefore, they should not be stopped against their will. Rather, the Administration should arrange for their safe and convenient evacuation.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliMore trains for migrantsThe BJP government is making fool of people. Monetary relief announced in the name of migrants or other sufferers is eyewash. All money is pocketed by ministers and their ‘chamchas’. Special trains have been announced, but migrants are being asked to pay fare. The tricity authorities should arrange free trains for migrants with Rs 1,000 cash per head do that they can reach their destinations comfortably.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhMake registration process easyMigrant works built Chandigarh brick by brick. They have been hit hard by the pandemic. Fear of death, no food, no money in hand and their near and dears finding difficult to sustain life have forced them to go back to their native places. The tricity administration must make registration of migrants easy and pool busses to take them to their destinations. Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliLot more can be doneMigrants return to their native places has become a major issue. The Administration should start more buses and trains to ferry migrants to their places of destinations without charging fare. They should be provided good food on the way. We owe much to migrants and treat them well so that they can return after the lockdown ends.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhShare bread with the poorThe tricity authorities should do their bit to look after problems of poor migrants. The Administration should arrange proper transportation and meals for those migrants, who want to leave for their native places. Those who are interested in staying back in the tricity should be looked after well. They should not feel neglected. Moreover, tricity residents should share their bread with the poor. Migrants are the backbone of country.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPersuade them to stay backThe labour class is the worst sufferer due to the curfew/lockdown. Labourers are migrating to their native states due to non-availability of food and work. In the present scenario, labourers need sympathy. Employers know more about problems of their employees. So, they can encourage labourers to rethink about their decision of going back to their home states. Even if they want to return, then particular state governments should provide transportation by road or rail. Remember, labourers are also humans.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhConstitute migrants’ welfare commissionDespite several trips of ‘shramik express’ trains, migrants are venturing out on long journeys and that too on foot. Migrants and work are inseparable. With picking up of commercial and industrial activities due to relaxation in restrictions, demand for additional workforce will tempt migrants to return. The Union Government can constitute migrants welfare commission to regulate their mobility and deployment vis-a-vis dignity, distress and exploitation.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaGive free train ticketsUnsure of finding work, food or shelter, hundreds of migrant workers across the country began their journey home on foot. The administration in the tricity should cooperate and provide essential services to migrant labourers and the homeless poor, who are on roads. They don’t’ have money to buy bus or train tickets. Give free tickets only to them so they can back to their home states.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhProvide work to the needyMigrants are upset as they are suffering due to the coronavirus. The tricity authorities should solve problems of migrants and poor in time. A good A Jack makes a good Jill. Food and medicine should be provided to them. The authorities should arrange buses and trains for their travel if they want to go to native places. There should be proper arrangement of food and drinking water during their journey. The authorities should provide work to them if they want to stay in the tricity. No one should die without food.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliMany have lost hopeWe hear every day that number of accidents and deaths of migrants travelling home by foot are increasing. The first step to stop it is to make migrants believe that they will reach their home soon. Most of them have lost hope of reaching home by trains and buses. So, they started travelling by foot. Now, it’s time for the government to become stricter and punish those travelling by foot.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhIncrease frequency of trains, busesAs we daily read about deaths of migrants, the most important step the government should take is to increase the frequency of trains to various states. This will ensure that there are no more accidents involving people travelling on foot. Also, migrants will reach their homes safely.Isha Aggarwal, ChandigarhCan this be Partition revisited?So it appeared on seeing hapless migrants trudging on highways in thousands. They are never anyone’s baby. Year after year, they descended on us and then disappear on their own. This is time of calamity. All migrants desperately want to rush back home to be with their families. There wasn’t time enough to make some money at the workplace or gather provisions for the flight homewards. Their plight failed to elicit any emergency response, which could have mitigated their hardship.Jai Singh, ChandigarhCitizens given raw dealIt is heart-breaking that our own citizens have been given such a raw deal despite the vociferous sloganeering that India is a welfare state. Labourers should be provided all wherewithal. The PM-Cares Fund must put to good use by giving dignified compensation to the deprived and the dejected. Arrangements should be made to transport migrants to their home states by trains and buses along with adequate food and drinking water.Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhIt is never too late to be mindfulCovid-19 crisis has rendered migrants orphans. The government’s apathetic attitude has compounded their problems. When migrants had nothing to fall back on, they started spilling into streets. They started their arduous journey to their home towns on foot in the absence of transportation. This caught the authorities off guard. Had they let theirs hearth burning, things would not have reached to such a pass. Address problems of vulnerable section of society diligently and swiftly.Veena Mahajan, ChandigarhPoverty has aggravated sufferings of poorEmotionally and financially drained by the lockdown crisis it is shameful that migrants are trudging on foot back to their native states. It is true that poverty has compounded Indians suffering. Perhaps it is lack of coordination between states and Centre. Trust deficit among the poor is quite visible. The government and civilised people should come together to mitigate migrants woes.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaOpen industrial hubs in statesCovid-19 and the resultant lockdown have played havoc with the lives of migrant labourers. Most daily wage earners have no food and shelter. They want to go back home. Due to lack of transport and trains, migrants are rushing back to native states on foot, cycles and trucks. There is utter chaos everywhere. Some states have revived the industry to absorb labourers. The states should open industrial hubs to employ them once the lockdown is over.Harish Kapur, ChandigarhTreat daily wage earners with dignityThe government has failed on the migrant labourers front. Else, why should they be walking on roads in this hot weather to reach homes? It’s sad for humanity. They live on daily wages, which they have lost since March 25. The government should arrange for their safe travel back to their home. The authorities should also give atleast Rs 2,000 per migrant so that they can purchase their daily need items. At least Rs 5,000 should be provided to those, who wish to stay back.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttConvince them not to leaveMigrants make important contributions to the tricity economy. They should not be left to their fate. Migrants need food to survive and some monetary aid to come out of the crisis. The tricity Administration should strengthen PDS system, provide subsidised or free food grains and convince migrants not to leave. The MC should start re-carpeting of city roads as it will give employment to migrants.Col Balbir Singh mathauda (retd), ChandigarhCentre, state govts must act responsiblyThe deadly Covid-19 has shattered many lives and economy. Apprehending worst situation the exodus of laid off migrants has started. This happened as the government couldn’t gauge pathetic and alarming situation while ordering the lockdown without warming. As of now, much is yet to be done. The Centre and state governments must rise above petty politics and act responsibly through well-coordinated actions and provide adequate facilities for safe repatriation of migrants back to their native states.SS Arora, MohaliGenerate employment to stop exodusThe Administration should take strict action against those migrants, who violate directions and endanger others’ lives. ‘Shramik’ trains are running, but migrants should pay for its tickets to prevent misuse of free service. State governments should generate employment for local people under MNREGA. Migration of labourers creates many problems like mushrooming of illegal colonies and crime.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhQUESTIONAre we getting out of the lockdown too soon? Or should we join the collective fight against the pandemic and return to normalcy with all personal/social precautions in place so as to help revive the economy?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cash-transfer-to-poor-labourers-can-stop-exodus-89590
25-05-2020||Kritika Kanwar||Quarantined nursing officer upbeat about joining back||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Shivani Parsheera (30), a nursing health officer posted at the PGI’s Covid ward, has been leading from the front in the fight against the virus.Hailing from Lahaul Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, the last she met her parents was in November. She stays at the women’s hostel of the PGI and is currently quarantined at Hotel Parkview. However, she is quite upbeat about joining back.Posing cheerfully in her protective suit, she seemed undaunted by the risk of infection in the Covid ward. “I joined the institute five years ago, but never came across any such medical emergency. This is so far the most challenging situation of my career. Initially, I was reluctant to serve at the ward, but when I saw every employee — from those in the administration to the doctors — at the forefront, I decided to take it head on.”“It is heartening to see young nursing officers going all out to deal with the pandemic,” she added. Talking about her challenges, she said: “Donning the protective suit for six hours and then disposing it of is difficult. You sweat a lot as the air conditioning system remains off. We can’t even take a toilet break during the duty. Gradually, you get used to it.”She said the PGI authorities are leaving no stone unturned to ensure their safety. The nurses serving in the Covid ward have vacated the hostel premises and have been quarantined at the hotel.“I believe even the ones who are looking after us are also Covid warriors in their own way. They are at our service all the time. Everybody is doing his/her bit.”She says positive attitude and maintaining hygiene shield her from the virus. Back in Himachal Pradesh, her parents remain worried for her safety. But Shivani says she is happy that her family stays away from her and that she will meet them only after the situation normalises. For now, she is happy serving her patients and feels contented seeing them recover from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantined-nursing-officer-upbeat-about-joining-back-89591
25-05-2020||---||Appointment of DSW not on PU Syndicate agenda||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24High drama was being expected during the upcoming PU Syndicate meeting over the appointment of the Dean Student Welfare (DSW). However, the meeting agenda does not mention any discussion on the issue.Sources said there were plans to bring the item on the agenda of the May 30 meeting. “There are two lobbies in the Syndicate. Both want their candidate to be selected for the post. The DSWs are believed to be the right hand of the Vice-Chancellor. The matter was not highlighted in the agenda, but it may be brought up on the day of the meeting. This is pressure tactics and may be a way to buy some time to finalise the name of a candidate by both lobbies,” said a source.The Syndicate has been divided over the DSW selection process. Syndics want the chosen DSW should not have a political inclination. “It’s the call of the Syndicate, but they should be asked on why the rule was not implemented in the previous years. As per the criteria, the Vice-Chancellor has to propose a name and both lobbies want to see the candidates appointed,” said a Syndicate member.Meanwhile, the PU will propose fee hike for self-financed course ad traditional courses. It will also take approvals regarding six working days in a week in the first academic term, semester exams to be conducted from July 1 to 30, declaration of results for finals by August 1, starting of intermediary exams from August 14. The matter related to 5 per cent sports quota seats for University of Business School (UBS) and two seats under the girl child quota in BDS will be also discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/appointment-of-dsw-not-on-pu-syndicate-agenda-89592
25-05-2020||Mohali||No quarantine for frequent travellers||Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today issued orders that “frequent interstate travellers who need to move outside the state keeping in view the demands of their respective professions — salespersons, transporters, doctors, journalists, business executives, engineers, traders and consultants — will not be home-quarantined.”He said such people would be issued passes by the DCs and the SDMs and they would give an undertaking regarding self-monitoring of health. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-quarantine-for-frequent-travellers-89594
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rotarians distribute ration||Lending a helping handPanchkula: The Vishwas Foundation distributed ration and immunity booster medicines among residents of a slum area near Mamta Enclave in Panchkula on Sunday. As many as 50 families were given ration. The Haryana Ayush Department also distributed 1,200 vials and juices among sanitation workers in Sectors 11, 12,12A, 14, 15, 16, 17, 7 and 8. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rotarians-distribute-ration-89595
25-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Fee regulatory panel in deep slumber||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Even after nearly two years of its formation, the Fee Regulatory Committee has received and heard just one complaint against an unaided school. Ironically, status of the complaint is pending to date.Parents have been protesting against private schools for collecting fee during the lockdown period.An RTI query has revealed that the Fee Regulatory Committee, which was formed in September 25, 2018, received a complaint from a resident of Dhanas, against Sector-25-based school.The reply dated May 11, 2019 states that ‘information has been obtained from the school while final decision is under process.’This shows the lackadaisical approach of the UT Education Department as they have failed to address the issue within 60 days of the complaint.As per Section 11 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act 2016, “Any complaint received under this Act shall be scrutinised by the regulatory body within a period of 15 days from the date of its receipt in accordance with prescribed procedure, and it shall be finally decided within 60 days.”Rubinderjit Brar, Director, School Education, said, “I will have to check the status of the sole complaint filed with the committee. As a matter of fact, there has been only one complaint with the committee. We take note of every complaint filed with us.”“We have received a few complaints this month from parents. We are in the process of issuing a show-cause notice to schools concerned,” said Brar.The committee comprises the Education Secretary, District Education Officer and seven other members.Parents hesitate to file plaint in person“We fear that if we come forward and complain against a school, they will make our children suffer. This is the reason why we like to stay anonymous. There is provision that the complaint has to be filed by student, parents or guardian.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fee-regulatory-panel-in-deep-slumber-89596
25-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||No plan in place to financially help maids, says Chandigarh Adviser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24The UT Administration has little role in private sector management, said UT Adviser Manoj Parida to the UT Administrator and added that there are no arrangements to extend financial help to maids in the city.However, the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), Red Cross and other Central funds have been used to help migrants and others employed in unorganised sector.“We have no data of maids as it is a private arrangement. We have helped eligible beneficiaries, comprising around 70,000 families in containment areas with three-month advance money for ration along with 15-kg wheat and -kg pulses,” he said.Parida said,“The Centre gave money directly to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families while the Food Corporation of India gave grains for around Rs15 to Rs17 crore.”Parida said nearly, Rs1 crore from a total of Rs5 crore State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) has been used for running ‘Shramik’ trains. “We are bearing the cost of running ‘Shramik’ trains. One train costs between Rs5 lakh and Rs6 lakh.”Around 50 lakh food packets were given to the needy through the Red Cross. “The Deputy Commissioner runs a Covid Red Cross Fund where we get donations and 80 per cent of food packets were given by us while the rest were distributed by various NGOs,” said the Adviser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-plan-in-place-to-financially-help-maids-says-chandigarh-adviser-89597
25-05-2020||---||PGI launches DOOT, a barrier between Covid +ve patients, medicines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, launched a state-of-the-art low-cost automated robotic trolley for Covid patients here yesterday.Acronymed as DOOT (delivery, observance and an orchestrated telecommunicator), the robotic device has been developed by two resident doctors — Dr Pranay Mahajan and Dr Shailesh Gahukar — from the Department of Hospital Administration for Rs25,000. It minimises the contact of healthcare workers with patients and contaminated surroundings.Prof Jagat Ram said: “The robotic device is PGI’s step forward in self-reliance and safety. By delivering medicines and food to patients at the isolation wards, the trolley will help ensure safety of healthcare workers.”Dr Mahajan said: “We have attached mobile app-based Cloud camera to the trolley that empowered it with features such as motion-sensing, night vision, thermal sensing embedded with an online signaling system which would help in remote observation of contaminated areas.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-launches-doot-a-barrier-between-covid-ve-patients-medicines-89598
25-05-2020||---||1,600 board train to UP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24The ‘Shramik’ special train that left for Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh at 2pm today had 1,600 passengers on board. Till date, a total of 29,290 migrants in the city have been sent to their respective states, including 27,313 passengers through special trains and 1,977 passengers through buses.The next train is scheduled for Tuesday to Lucknow with stoppage at Moradabad, Shahjanpur and Bareli. Registered migrants have been asked to reach the holding centre at Polytechnic College (CCET), Sector 26, at 8 am where they will be medically screened.Schedule to be revisedConsidering the response, schedule of special trains to be run post May 26 will be revised in consultation with the state governments concerned and the Indian Railways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-600-board-train-to-up-89599
25-05-2020||---||Man rams bike into barricades, arrested||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24A person was held by the Chandigarh Police for ramming his motorcycle into the police barricades at Sector 37/38 dividing road.The suspect has been identified as Vijay Kant Mishra, a sector of Sector 40, Chandigarh.Sub-Inspector Ram Babu alleged that the suspect was under the influence of alcohol when he rammed his motorcycle into the barricades.The Sub-Inspector said the incident took place on May 23.The police said a case of rash driving and under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered against the suspect at Sector 39 police station.The suspect was arrested by the Chandigarh Police and later, released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-rams-bike-into-barricades-arrested-89600
25-05-2020||---||Woman suffers bullet injuries||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 24A woman (in her 30s) suffered bullet injuries after a person allegedly opened fire at her over a property dispute at her house in Ambala Cantonment today.The injured has been identified as Preeti. She was married in Kanpur and had been living with her mother for the past six months.After the incident, she was taken to the Civil Hospital from where she was referred to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh. Her condition is reportedly stable.Preeti’s mother Asha said: “I was sitting outside our house when a person came on a motorcycle and entered our house. I heard the gunshots. I don’t know anything else.”After the incident, the suspect fled the spot.Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal said: “The victim claimed that a person named Abhishek from Kanpur opened fire at her. Further investigation is on.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-suffers-bullet-injuries-89601
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Phone Tree comes to rescue of the needy||The Child Welfare Committee, Chandigarh, has been working to protect children during the Covid-19 outbreak.“Financial shocks and instability is a major cause of child labour, marriage and trafficking. As Chandigarh has 20 per cent population of internal migrants, we started a programme called ‘Phone Tree’ to find kids facing shortage of food due to loss of livelihood in family,” said Sangita Vardhan, Chairperson, Child Welfare Committee.She said, “The concept is based on two goals, directly helping the needy kids by providing dry ration and mobilising community spirit transmission of fellow feeling to counter fearful transmission power.”During these testing times, the committee planned to gather intelligence on child abuse via chain-calling system where each volunteer contributes. “It starts with a volunteer seeding his/her own phone tree by calling five people who may be in need. Every person gives more names of people who need assistance or becomes a donor volunteer and motivate more people to donate dry ration. We have been able to reach 400 children and over 200 families. We have found small children, pregnant women, children living alone because parents have been stranded in villages. We also found a child in a serious medical condition,” she said.The feedback from each phone group is sent to the District Child Protection Society. Through ‘Phone Tree’ Maloya residents requested that rent for EWS flats should not be charged.“We are forwarding the same to the Social Welfare Department. ‘Phone Tree’ is working in Dhanas flats, Dhanas Milk Colony, Kaimwala, Daria, Maloya village and Maloya EWS flats,” she said.During these testing times, the committee has received four cases of sexual abuse/assault, a case related to infanticide and four runaways, informed Vardhan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phone-tree-comes-to-rescue-of-the-needy-89602
25-05-2020||---||‘Landran junction to be 4-laned’||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 24Health and Family Welfare Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today took stock of the ongoing road construction project at Landran junction.Sidhu directed the Public Works Department to speed up the work as construction activity had come to a halt during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19.He said the 800-metre section of two-and-a-half km Landran junction will be four-laned at a cost of Rs25.33 crore.He said thousands of commuters use this road to reach Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The minister said scores of devotees also use this route to pay obeisance at Fatehgarh Sahib.Sidhu said the road from Mohali to Landran would be completed soon and beautification work on 28-km Mohali to Sirhind stretch has begun on war footing.Sidhu said Mohali offers world class infrastructure and as a result, multinational companies are heading to set up their base in the district. He said this would further increase employment opportunites.While lauding the district administration and the Health Department to make Mohali Covid-19 free, he said prompt decisions taken by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh resulted in keeping Covid under check.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/landran-junction-to-be-4-laned-89603
25-05-2020||---||Sector 8 resident  duped of Rs 2.90L||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24An unknown person has been booked by the police for duping a Sector 8 resident of Rs 2.92 lakh by making purchases through latter’s credit card.The incident was reported in June last year. The police said the complainant, SMS Sandhu, reported that an unknown person did shopping of Rs 2.92 lakh through his SBI credit card on June 26.After registering a case at the Sector 3 police station an investigation has been initiated into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-8-resident-duped-of-rs-2-90l-89604
