01-08-2021||Lucknow||Centre approves industrial clusters in Agra, Prayagraj||The state government on Sunday got approval from the Centre to develop industrial clusters in Agra and Prayagraj districts. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had sought a nod from the Centre to allow development of two Integrated Manufacturing Clusters (IMCs) at a greenfield site near Saraswati Hi-Tech City in Prayagraj and near expressway in Agra.These clusters will come up along the 1,839 km long Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC) 57 percent of which is in Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) will execute the projects. The clusters are expected to attract an investment of more than ₹15,000 crore and will generate more than one lakh direct and indirect employment.According to CEO, UPSIDA, Mayur Maheshwari, the Centre has given its consent to the two projects. Located about 20-kilometre away from the Agra Fort and the Taj Mahal, the proposed IMC in Agra will be in around 1,050 acres. Similarly, the manufacturing cluster at Saraswati Hi Tech City, Prayagraj, will be on ​​1,139 acres of land located around 10-kilometre away from Prayagraj. In order to ensure holistic development of these clusters, the state government has conceptualised these two IMCs as integrated township projects.The UPSIDA plans to develop these IMCs on the pattern of smart cities. The Centre will have an equity stake in the special purpose vehicle to be created for building the clusters while a master planner of international repute will be appointed to conceptualise the projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centre-approves-industrial-clusters-in-agra-prayagraj-101627842383555.html
01-08-2021||Other||Fresh austerity measures in UP to fund Covid -19 and other work||Lucknow: Following the Centre’s move to restrict expenditure of various ministries to 20 per cent in the second quarter of 2021-2022, the state government has also initiated fresh measures for austerity in Uttar Pradesh. It has asked departments to enforce cash management measures to ensure availability of sufficient funds to fight Covid-19 and carry out other necessary work in the state. It has asked departments to review all the ongoing projects and give priority to implementing such ongoing and new projects that may be completed in 2021-2022. It has asked departments to cut down budgeted expenditure on certain heads, not buy any new vehicles and restrict travel of senior officers to economy class only. Chief secretary RK Tiwari sent fresh directives in this regard on July 31 to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries and heads of department while referring to World Health Organisation (WHO) decision to declare the Covid-19 a pandemic and measures needed to contain it. Tiwari has quoted union finance ministry’s order number F.No.12(13)-B W&M)/2020 dated June 30, 2021 “providing to restrict expenditure of different ministries in second quarter of 2021-2022 to 20 percent” and said eight important austerity measures had been listed for cash management in the state. “(1) Different departments should make efforts to get in time from central ministries the central share in centrally sponsored schemes being implemented in the state. (2) Different departments should review all the schemes and priority be given to such ongoing or new schemes that may be completed in 2021-2022,” said Tiwari in his order. “(3) Appropriate allocation of funds has been made in the state budget for 202102022 under heads of office expenditure, travel expenditure, leave travel facility, maintenance of computers, buying stationary, printing and publishing. Keeping in view the special circumstances, the departments should cut down expenditure against budgetary allocations under these heads. (4) Departments should not buy new vehicles,” he said. Tiwari further said, “(5) Necessary arrangements for outsourcing should be made against old vehicles being put out of use and special attention should be paid to expenditure on fuel and maintenance of vehicles. (6) Travel for government work should be minimized and all possible meetings should be held via video conferencing. Travel of officers entitled for air travel should be minimised to economy class. Executive class and business class travel will remain banned in the current financial year. (7) Only necessary withdrawal of funds should be made against the provisions made in the budget. (8) Departments should take all necessary and effective action to enforce financial discipline and austerity.” He also said, “The new directives will be applicable to all local bodies, autonomous institutions/development authorities and state universities.” “It is justified if the government is curtailing wasteful expenditure in the name of austerity. However, the axe should not fall on expenditure on schemes for development and social security etc. An increase in public expenditure is necessary to revive and boost the economy and infrastructure projects having longer timeline for completion should not suffer,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-austerity-measures-in-up-to-fund-covid-19-and-other-work-101627842322721.html
01-08-2021||Lucknow||Only 33 active cases in Lucknow||: State capital on Sunday slipped to seventh place in terms of active cases under treatment. The city has now 33 active cases. Among the districts having active cases, Prayagraj is on the first place with 56 cases, followed by Mainpuri 53, Kushinagar 52, Mathura 44, Gautam Budha Nagar and Kanpur 35 each. Rae Bareilly also has 33 active cases, according to the state health department data. “The recovery rate in Lucknow stands at 98.87%. The city has so far reported a total 238577 Covid cases and of them 2,35,893 have recovered,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In Uttar Pradesh, 52 districts reported zero fresh cases while the remaining had below five new cases where maximum four were reported from Sultanpur, the data said. For the second consecutive day on Sunday, the state reported no fatality while 36 new Covid cases were reported in the state, it said. On July 26 also, no fresh fatality was reported, but this was for the first time this year that no fresh deaths were reported for two consecutive days. Active Covid cases under treatment in UP came below 700 on Sunday as 76 more patients recovered from infection during the day. State has now 664 active cases. “In all, 36 new Covid cases were reported, and 76 patients recovered. The recovery rate in the state is 98.6%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/only-33-active-cases-in-lucknow-101627842322153.html
01-08-2021||Noida||Man held for abducting minor girl, raping her||Noida police arrested a 21-year-old man on Sunday for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 16-year-old girl in an area under Phase 2 police jurisdiction. Police said the family reported the kidnapping on July 21 alleging that an unknown person had taken the teenager. A case was registered under section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the station.On July 25, the girl found her way home and based on her statement, police added IPC section 376 (rape) along with relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act (Pocso). Police said they identified and tracked the suspect who is from Lucknow and lived in Noida’s Salarpur area. He was produced before a magistrate who sent him to 14-day judicial custody, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-abducting-minor-girl-raping-her-101627842262162.html
01-08-2021||Gurugram||Rain light but mercury well above average||Residents woke up to a rainy morning on Sunday, with the city recording 3.6mm of light rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Heavy rainfall was predicted on Monday and a “yellow alert” was issued for the city.Even as the underpasses and roads remained majorly unaffected due to the rain, waterlogging was reported from Sushant Lok-1 and Mayfield Gardens in the morning hours. However, the water dried up by 11am, as the temperature increased.“Across the city, there was no severe waterlogging. Major roads were clear. Rainwater mostly receded within 30 minutes after rains subside. By 11am, roads were cleared of waterlogging,” said a senior MCG official.A weather warning bulletin issued by the IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh predicted “heavy rain at isolated places” in Gurugram on Monday. From Tuesday onwards, the weather department predicted that one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely. “A yellow alert has been issued for Gurugram district on Monday due to heavy rain predictions. The district has been receiving light rain over the past few days, but the intensity of rain is likely to be high on Monday,” an official with the Chandigarh meteorological centre said. During a yellow alert, waterlogging in low-lying areas or disruption of electricity and water supply is likely. On Sunday, despite the rainfall, the maximum temperature was slightly higher than usual in the city, with a recording of 30.3 degrees Celsius (°C) that was four degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 23°C, three degrees below the normal. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, the temperature is likely to rise over the next three days. The maximum temperature can rise to 33°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 24°C. Meanwhile, the air quality on Sunday remained in the satisfactory zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin, with an air quality index (AQI) of 80. On Saturday, the city had an AQI of 56. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain largely in the satisfactory category over the next five days, according to a bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rain-light-but-mercury-well-above-average-101627842205554.html
01-08-2021||Gurugram||Transfer of C&D waste plant operations under scanner||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) initiated an inquiry against its concessionaire for the Basai construction and demolition (C&D) waste plant for allegedly subletting the facility to a third party, said officials on Sunday.Officials clarified that they are checking if the same was allowed under the agreement and said that “it could be a violation” of the agreement. Representatives for the concessionaire, IL&FS, said that the plant was earlier being looked after by a subsidiary that was sold to another company, due to which the operations of the plant were also transferred.The matter was raised during the MCG House meeting on Saturday. Taking cognisance of the issue, mayor Madhu Azad initiated an inquiry in the matter and gave MCG officials till Wednesday to submit a report on the matter.The C&D plant at Basai, Haryana’s first such facility, was inaugurated in June 2017 by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and has been operational since December 2019. On average, it processes around 20,000 tonnes of waste per month.“I have initiated an inquiry into the matter and MCG officials have been given a deadline of four days (till Wednesday) to submit a report. Officials were directed to check whether the agreement allowed subletting the operation and maintenance of the plant to a third party, and if not, what are the ramifications for it, such as penalties and termination of the contract,” said Azad.The MCG and IL&FS had signed an agreement for the project in July 2016.MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that the civic body is investigating the matter. “An investigation has been initiated in the matter (of subletting the plant). Depending on the findings of the report, the next step of action will be taken,” said Ahuja.According to IL&FS officials, they sold their subsidiary, IL&FS Environmental Infrastructure & Services Limited (IEISL), in April. “We have sold our waste management businesses under IL&FS Environment in April 2021 as a part of the Resolution Process,” the spokesman for IL&FS said.At the Basai plant, concrete aggregate products, such as gravel, sand, stones and concrete (items primarily used in construction), and value-added products, such as kerbstones, tiles, pavement blocks and concrete bricks, can be recycled from C&D waste.Although the MCG has five designated spots, in Sector 56, Kadipur, Transport Nagar near Rajiv Chowk, Wazirabad, and Sector 110, for dumping C&D waste, illegal dumping of such waste across vacant plots and empty roads is a common occurrence, and the need for processing C&D waste with an equipped facility was a long-standing demand of residents and environmentalists.According to MCG officials, the city produces around 800 tonnes of C&D waste daily.In a meeting held last March, officials of the concessionaire had informed the MCG that 300 tonnes of waste were being processed every day, but the capacity can be increased to 1,500 tonnes if the need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/transfer-of-c-d-waste-plant-operations-under-scanner-101627842204526.html
01-08-2021||Gurugram||Majority of 84 rainwater harvesting systems checked by admin team choked||The majority of the 84 rainwater harvesting units checked by the district administration over the past two weeks, after the city received intermittent spells of rainfall, were choked, officials said.According to a report filed by a team that checked rainwater harvesting units in areas under nine residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), 54% of 84 drains were found to be dirty and choked. Further, the report stated that 33% of the drains need to be cleaned and 13% are in good condition. The inspections were conducted on July 15 and 22.The team has been inspecting rainwater harvesting (RWH) systems in various sectors of the city to ensure that the structures are functional. The team includes officials from the Department of Town and Country Planning, municipal corporations of Gurugram and Manesar, and GuruJal society. There are over 400 RWH systems in the city. The RWH enforcement drive report of July 22, after drives were conducted in housing societies in Sector 92, also suggested the construction of new RWHs and expansion of current structures in a few societies. At housing societies in Golf Estate, the report stated that rainwater harvesting structures need de-silting and cleaning. After an inspection on July 15, RS Bhath, the district town planner (enforcement), said water was released into the RWH structures but it was found that it did not diffuse into five of the underground pits. “We have asked developers and RWAs to take corrective action at the earliest. Such inspections will be conducted in all the residential areas and commercial buildings in the coming days,” he said. The official further said in case rainwater harvesting structures are not functional in housing colonies, residents can lodge a complaint through email, at dtpenf2.gurugram.tcp@gmail.com. “We are trying to ensure that RWH pits across the city are functional so that rainwater does not get wasted. If all this water is saved, the water table will rise. The developers and RWAs will be asked to ensure these pits are made functional and maintained,” Bhath said. Last week, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, during a statewide review meeting of work done under Jal Shakti Abhiyan, had said that a target of installing 2,106 rainwater harvesting structures is set for the district, with 405 structures already having been built. In the first week of March, the district administration launched a comprehensive campaign for water conservation, to improve the groundwater level in the district. As part of the campaign, the district administration has now started checking the functionality of rainwater harvesting structures, especially in large-scale residential and commercial establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/majority-of-84-rainwater-harvesting-systems-checked-by-admin-team-choked-101627842203376.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh tricity logs 4 cases, lowest in 16 months||The tricity welcomed August with the lowest single-day tally of Covid-19 cases in 16 months. With just four people testing positive on Sunday, including two in Mohali district and one each in Chandigarh and Panchkula, the tricity continued to witness a downward trend in the pandemic. Meanwhile, the death toll stood at zero on Sunday.During the peak of the pandemic, tricity’s daily cases had shot up to an all-time high of 2,612 on May 10 and a record 38 deaths were logged on May 5. Against 46,245 infections and 790 deaths in May, which proved to be the deadliest month for the tricity since the pandemic broke out in March last year, the figures dropped to 443 and 13, respectively, in July.On Sunday, Mohali reported two fresh cases, taking the district’s total to 68,457. A case each surfaced in Mohali city and Dera Bassi. Meanwhile, two more patients recovered from the disease and now the number of active patients in the district is 42. In Chandigarh, which has reported 61,954 cases so far, there are 30 active cases. The lone case in Panchkula district surfaced in Pinjore. It took the total to 30,641 and number of active cases to six. Doctors have urged people to keep exercising caution and adhere to Covid safety protocol, which is needed to avert the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-tricity-logs-4-cases-lowest-in-16-months-101627841782700.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Youngsters fake gun fight, cops make their video||Five youngsters were approached by Navghar police after their video, enacting a fight and killings where they used a pistol which looked real, reached the senior police inspector and the police initiated a probe to ascertain if the pistol was real. After the police found that the youngsters had used only toy guns while making the video which was uploaded on a video sharing platform, the police rounded up the youngsters and made a video of them apologising for the same in a bid to warn and deter other youngsters from indulging in such acts. Police officers also called their parents and counselled the youngsters to not use weapon or commit such acts which could lead to trouble in the future. All five youngsters are residents of Mulund and made the video at the newly constructed road connecting Tata Colony to Kelkar College in Mulund (East). According to police, the video shot using a mobile phone showed six to seven youngsters standing around when one of them slaps another. It then showed four youths fleeing while another enters the frame carrying a pistol which he hands over to his victim friend who shoots the assailants. After a local resident sent the video to the police on July 30, a search was undertaken in the area. “Police personnel were alerted and we inquired in the vicinity and got few details. Meanwhile a team also stood where the video was made hoping that the boys would come again to make another video,” said sub-inspector Mahesh Lamkhade, Navghar police station. “When they came again on Saturday, a police team nabbed them at 4pm and brought them to the police station. Initially, they avoided giving us their addresses or parents’ contact numbers. When they finally relented, the parents were called,” added Lamkhade. The youngsters, in their statement, said the video was recorded for entertainment purposes and they were not aware that it could impact other people or the society. They were then counselled as some of them were minors and were released after warning. When asked about the video that they police made of the youths apologising, inspector Sanjay Londe said the video was not released on any social media platforms but was meant to be a record of their inquiry as well as a means to warn the youngsters from indulging in such acts.However, advocate and activist Abha Singh said, “It is a gross violation of the right to dignity of the youngsters. The police cannot use their authority to insult or demean others by making them do sit ups holding their ears and recording their apology. Apart from that, as some of the youngsters are minors, they should not have faced uniformed policemen at all. Action should be initiated against the police personnel who are responsible for making the video even if it meant for their record.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-youngsters-fake-gun-fight-cops-make-their-video-101627841662688.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC set to revert to manual sweeping of roads||The Mohali municipal corporation is all set to revert to manual sweeping of roads in the city, for which it will be recruiting 1,334 sanitation workers. The agenda will come up for approval in the General House meeting scheduled on August 3.For the past six years, Delhi-based firm Lions Private Limited was managing the city’s sanitation through mechanised sweeping at a cost of ₹18 crore per year. The move comes amid allegations by councillors that despite being paid a hefty amount, the company failed to deliver. In August last year, Mohali had slipped to 157th rank out of 382 cities in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan. In 2019, the district’s rank was 153, while in 2018, it was 109. Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said: “The firm failed to clean the city. We are recruiting 1,334 sanitation workers. However, the company’s contract will be extended till we complete the recruitment process.”Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal said the company was allotted the contract in 2015 when the House was not elected. “The contract ended on June 15 last year, but due to the pandemic, it was extended by one year and again by two months,” he said.The House will also take up the issue of increasing the funds given to Shri Gauri Shankar Dev Dal, which is running a gaushala in Balongi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-set-to-revert-to-manual-sweeping-of-roads-101627841602728.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Revamp of BDD chawls take off; Thackeray, Pawar lay foundation stone||After several years of delay, the redevelopment of Bombay Development Department (BDD) chawls, spread across 86.98 acres in central Mumbai, took off on Sunday, as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar laid the foundation stone for the project. Mooted in the 1990s, the redevelopment of the British-era chawls faced several hurdles and delays. The redevelopment of 195 chawls (buildings with small tenements) spread across in Worli, Naigaon and Lower Parel is expected to take three years, following which over 9,500 families will get a 500sqft house of their ownership. As the housing colonies are now over 90 years old and have completed their life-cycle, the state government decided on its redevelopment. The projectThe 195 chawls occupy 86.98 acres, with the Worli BDD chawls occupying the maximum area of 59.69 acres. Of the 195 BDD chawls, the maximum of 121 chawls and 9,689 beneficiaries are in Worli. In all, there are 16,203 tenements, of which 2,937 tenements have been earmarked for police housing. The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) has been appointed as the nodal agency for the entire project, while a consortium of Tata Projects and Capacite Infraprojects will undertake the Worli phase of the project that is expected to be completed in three years. The buildings will be 40-storey and will also have amenities, including open spaces, volleyball court, etc. The government has decided to keep one chawl building housing 80 houses intact and convert it into a museum. Built in the 1920s as a low-cost housing solution for the city, these chawls in central Mumbai became the identity of Mumbai. Used as a British-era prison initially, following which it was housed middle-class Marathi mill workers, mainly from the Konkan region, the Shiv Sena’s stronghold. The idea to first redevelop these chawls was mooted in the mid-1990s but never took off. The project was launched in 2017 under Devendra Fadnavis’ tenure, but it was entangled in several complexities and the contract lapsed. The politicsCentral Mumbai, which is dotted with chawls and lower-middle class dwellings, has been a traditional stronghold and vote bank for the Shiv Sena. The Marathi population in these areas has been a part of the party’s journey since the mid-1960s and has largely backed them politically. The kick-off of the project assumes greater political significance for the Sena, ahead of the civic election in February 2022. Chief minister Thackeray said the chawls have given a lot to Mumbai for which they will be indebted to them. Thackeray said, “These chawls, which are now going to transform into towers, have a rich history in Mumbai. They have given us more than what we can do for them. We can never repay their debt… You are getting the homes in your name today which will build in front of your eyes. We have to preserve the culture of chawl. The chawls have a separate history and where many agitations and movements were given birth. After you get the homes, do not fall prey to any luring and preserve the culture.” Pawar also echoed the same sentiments that the residents should not sell the homes after they are built, but continue to stay there. “Today, we have taken a step to resolve the issue of the people who have spent their lives and sweat for this city. This is a historic day. The BDD chawl has seen the fight for independence. Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar has been here. Prabodhankar Thackeray (Uddhav Thackeray’s grandfather), Annabhau Sathe, Comrade [Shripad Amrit] Dange too lived in the vicinity… Here people from Konkan and ghats have come and lived here. Towers will come up here but I request people not to sell this and keep it for your future generation. The Marathi voice should continue [from] here,” said Pawar The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) presented a united front at the foundation laying ceremony in Worli. Besides NCP chief and minister from his party, Congress ministers Balasaheb Thorat and Aslam Shaikh, who is also the guardian minister Mumbai city, was also present. Aaditya Thackeray, environment and tourism minister, took potshots at the previous government on the BDD redevelopment being stuck despite the launch. “During the tenure of the previous chief minister, the project was launched in a haste, then it did not move ahead. But in this government, all projects that were stuck in Mumbai were taken up to resolve and move ahead. I went to the chief minister and said the foundation stone for Worli BDD chawl has been laid three-four years ago, but nothing has moved forward. Today, we have not just held a function but the work on these sites has started,” said Aaditya, who is also the Sena MLA from Worli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-revamp-of-bdd-chawls-take-off-thackeray-pawar-lay-foundation-stone-101627841422979.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon: Chandigarh recorded driest July in five years||With 128.6 mm rain, the July gone by was the driest since 2016, when 109.5 mm rain was recorded in the entire month, according to data for Chandigarh available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Scattered showers are expected in the city in the coming days while heavy rain remains elusive in the city.According to the IMD, normal rainfall (average of the past 30 years) for Chandigarh in July is 291.5 mm, pointing to 55% deficiency this year. Overall too, monsoon has remained 37% deficient, as only 267.5 mm of rain has been recorded against the normal of 421.7 mm. “In the earlier part of July, easterly winds weren’t blowing in the region and monsoon had become subdued. Later, we have seen good rainfall in parts of Punjab and Haryana. However, due to local conditions, Chandigarh didn’t receive as much rain. As a whole, both states, which were earlier deficient in rain, have now received normal rain,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh.Singh said the city will have to wait for heavy rains for a few more days. “Scattered moderate showers are expected in the coming days and rainfall can go up to 30 mm, but it likely to be interspersed by sunny weather. It is likely that some parts of the city will end up getting more rain than the others due to local cloud distribution,” he said. Chandigarh witnessed an early onset of monsoon on June 13, though it remained subdued thereon. Since June 1, which is the technical date for the beginning of monsoon, the highest rainfall of 47.1 mm was recorded during premonsoon showers on June 12. In July, the highest rain in 24 hours was recorded at 30.8 mm, on July 28.Meanwhile, maximum temperature of the city marginally dipped from 35°C on Saturday to 34.9°C on Sunday. Minimum temperature went up from 26.2°C to 27.7°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 33°C and 35°C while minimum temperature will remain between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoonchandigarh-recorded-driest-july-in-five-years-101627841305251.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay researchers develop fortified food to reduce malnutrition||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay have created a combination of fortified foods that can help reduce malnutrition among children. Micronutrient Fortified Foods (MFF) are foods enriched with micronutrients including vitamins and minerals. Researchers from the Centre for Technology Alternatives for Rural Areas (CTARA) and the department of Humanities and Social Sciences have developed packets of premix MFF. The efficacy of these packets was studied over a period of six months by members from IIT-Bombay, Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital in Sion, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and Society for Nutrition, Education and Health Action (SNEHA). Researchers found that MFF premix packets were more efficient in reducing malnutrition as compared to the packets distributed by the state government. Their findings were published in the peer-reviewed Pediatric Oncall Journal last year. Almost 69% deaths in children below the age of five in India are caused by malnutrition, a 2019 Unicef report found. The government of India has launched a flurry of schemes to address malnutrition among children including mid-day meal scheme. However, these schemes are more suitable for children in rural areas, said experts. Niti Aayog, the country’s premiere planning agency, has also highlighted the need for revising the nutrient content and food composition of the foods given to children aged between six and 36 months. One of the measures is to provide soya flour or gram flour fortified with micronutrients such as zinc, iron and calcium and vitamins A and C. These flours are distributed as take-home rations which are prepared and eaten as porridge at home. The bag of flour is often shared among the family. “Government agencies generally tend to take a one-size fits all approach. Though easier to implement logistically, it is not effective most of the time,” said D Parthasarathy, professor in the HSS department, who was a part of the study.In Mumbai, researchers conducted a study by distributing take-home packets among children in 300 anganwadis in Dharavi. They carefully selected a set of food items for the fortified food product development by identifying diets and food consumption of children in households in Mumbai such as upma, kheer and zunka. They designed the fortified foods as seven-in-one packets for each child to consume. The nutrient profile and shelf life were also analysed by IIT-Bombay researchers. Children in the six-24 months age group received a seven-in-one1 packet of MFF consisting upma premix, ladoo premix, ragi porridge premix, wheat payasam premix, kheer premix and two packets of ready-to-use multigrain flour. Older children, in the age group of 25-60 months, received a mix of semi-solid and finger foods providing 450- 500 kCal and 12-15g proteins. The seven-in-one packet for these children included upma, ladoo, zunka premixes and nankhatai.After three months of offering these packets, researchers screened the children and found that the number of children with malnutrition had reduced by 39.2% in the group that used researchers’ fortified food and by 33% in the group that used take-home rations. Owing to the variety, researchers’ fortified foods were also more popular with 75%-80% of the packets consumed. Shankar Das, professor and dean of the School of Health Systems Studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences-Mumbai who was not a part of the study, said, “Underlying causes of hunger and malnutrition among children in large pockets of India have often been attributed to verifiable factors such as poverty, social inequity, lack of access to food, sickness, conflicts, a climate emergency and lack of safe drinking water. Recent studies report that Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam have the highest malnutrition levels in the country despite the substantial drop-in morbidity and mortality rate.” “The fact that malnutrition has not substantially reduced in Maharashtra can be a basis for developing alternatives for the take-home rations. It can be a basis to look for other follow up mechanisms to bring down malnutrition,” said Narendra Shah, professor, CTARA, who is one of the first authors of the study.“At the micro-level, efforts should be dedicated to improving the involvement of the communities. It is vital to enhance their awareness of the importance of nutritious food, where more women should be educated on a home-based low-cost nutritious diet. The communities must be educated to build understanding on the advantages of exclusive breastfeeding and how bad feeding and hygiene practices can affect children’s growth. This is particularly important in the present era of the coronavirus pandemic where children and mothers hailing from poor households need constant support and necessary resources to help them to endure and survive these adversities,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-researchers-develop-fortified-food-to-reduce-malnutrition-101627840823095.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Sena Bhavan row: Language of intimidation will not be tolerated, says Maharashtra CM||In a veiled attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that a befitting reply will be given to the ones who use the language of intimidation. Thackeray’s statement came in the backdrop of BJP leader Prasad Lad’s statement on demolishing Shiv Sena Bhavan. The Sena chief said that they will give back a tight slap ensuring the other person does not get up.Lad’s remark had stirred a controversy prompting an angry and agitated response from Sena leaders on Saturday. However, the BJP legislator in the Upper house of the legislature later retracted the statement saying it was presented out of context. A video clip showed Lad saying that Shiv Sena Bhavan, party headquarters in Dadar, would be demolished if the time comes.Speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony of BDD Chawl in Worli, the chief minister recalled dialogue from a Hindi movie, saying, “Thappad se darr nahi lagta…” (Not scared of being slapped). Thackeray said that some people are speaking the language of intimidation. “Nobody should speak the language of slapping us. Because we will give back more than what we get. We have been doing that (hitting back) and will continue to do so. We will give such a tight slap that the other person will not get back on his feet,” Thackeray said without naming Lad or the BJP.Reacting to Thackeray’s statement, Lad said that the CM, being the head of the state, should not have made the statement during an official programme. “I have already expressed regret over the statement which was circulated out of context. The building (Sena Bhavan) was built by (Shiv Sena supremo) Balasaheb Thackeray whom we idolise, so I will never disrespect it. However, expressing regret doesn’t mean that we are scared...CM is the head of the state, and he should not have made such a statement at an official event,” Lad said, adding that the BJP will give an appropriate response.Earlier in the day, Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that he doesn’t intend to respond to Lad’s statement as shakha level functionaries will respond to it. However, later in a tweet in Marathi, Raut attacked the BJP indirectly and said, “There is an urgent need to start a de-addiction program in Maharashtra. Otherwise, Marathi manoos (son of soil) will beat up these politicians on the sidewalk of Shiv Sena Bhavan. Shiv Sena Bhavan is a shining symbol of Marathi identity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-bhavan-row-language-of-intimidation-will-not-be-tolerated-says-maharashtra-cm-101627840642540.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 47-year-old assaults, forces man to eat trash; arrested||Meghwadi police on Saturday arrested a 47-year-old man and his accomplice for allegedly assaulting a man and forcing him to eat garbage from public dustbin over a petty fight. The accused recorded the entire ordeal and then uploaded it on social media, said police. Police officers of unit 10 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch said they were alerted about the clip, following which they started searching for the accused. After getting input from informers, police apprehended the accused, Abdul Khalid Malik Shaikh, from Jogeshwari Railway station area on Saturday evening. “The accused has several cases registered against him at Meghwadi police station as well as Borivli and Andheri government railway police stations. He is member of the fake gang,” said an officer from unit 10 of crime branch. The incident took place on Wednesday when Shaikh and his accomplice, Fahim Zaid Ali, 20, were walking along Pascal Colony in Jogeshwari (East) and picked up a fight with the victim, Mohammed Ali Shaikh, 21. The accused, who were carrying iron rods and knives, assaulted Ali and dragged him towards the public dustbin where he was forced to lick the latch of the bin and eat garbage. The officers said the victim was taken to a hospital by locals after the police was informed. Police officers have registered a case of assault. “After we watched the video and recorded statements of the victim and witnesses, we registered a case of attempt to murder against the duo,” said an officer from Meghwadi police station. Crime branch officers on Saturday handed over the accused to the police who are conducting further investigation and tracing Fahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-47-year-old-assaults-forces-man-to-eat-trash-arrested-101627840222670.html
01-08-2021||Other||SPPU introduces new course in drone technology||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has introduced a new programme in drone technology under which students can apply for under-graduate, post-graduate and certificate courses. The programme will commence from this academic year and the entrance for the same will be held in August, university officials said.According to the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed by SPPU officials with Forforces Aero Products India Limited on Friday, two certificate-, under-graduate and post-graduate courses have been introduced in the varsity. The MoU was signed in the presence of Dr Nitin Karmalkar, vice chancellor, SPPU; Dr N S Umrani, pro vice chancellor; Dr Apurva Palkar, director of innovation, incubation and linkages; Dr Aditya Abhyankar, head of the technology department; and officials of Forforces Aero Products India Limited.The certificate course, “Introduction to Drone Technology” will be conducted over two weeks. A 12-week course titled “Advanced Course on Drone Technology” will be introduced, and a drone pilot training course will be completed in one to two weeks. The course, “Bachelor of Autonomous Vehicle” will be covered in three years while a two-year post-graduate programme, “Master of Autonomous Vehicle” will also be introduced. Dr Aditya Abhyankar said, “The course includes guidance from experts in this field from Forforces Aero Products India Limited. It will give students an opportunity for demonstrations along with theory. They will also be assisted in terms of internships in various companies. The course will open up job opportunities for students in companies such as Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Bharat Forge and Mahindra Defence Systems Limited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-introduces-new-course-in-drone-technology-101627839742067.html
01-08-2021||Other||Minor raped in Mainpuri, accused held||Agra The Mainpuri police arrested a 23-year-old married man on Sunday for the alleged rape of an 11-year-old girl on July 27. The accused, who came to know on Saturday that a case had been registered against him, consumed poison and is undergoing treatment at the district hospital in Mainpuri in police custody. The incident occurred in a village under Kisni police station in Mainpuri. The minor girl had gone to watch television in the house of the accused whose mother and father were also watching television. The girl’s father alleged in his complaint that the accused took the girl to the next room without his parents taking notice. He then raped the girl who returned home and told her parents. It was also alleged that the accused, carrying arms, threatened the family of the victim to remain silent but her father lodged an FIR at Kisni police station. “A case was registered at Kisni police station under POCSO Act, the victim being a minor. Later the accused was found and was detained,” informed Begram Singh, in charge of Kisni police station. The accused is married, with two children. He reportedly consumed poison after the case was registered against him. Police took him in custody while he was undergoing treatment in the District Hospital in Mainpuri. The victim girl was referred to Saifai Hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-raped-in-mainpuri-accused-held-101627839681955.html
01-08-2021||Other||NGT western zone bench to resume hearing cases after 3 years||PUNE The Western Zone bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), will see the light of day three years after it was shut due to an absence of appointments at key posts that was pointed out by the bar association of western zone.The NGT has four zonal benches and one principal bench - principal bench in Delhi, southern zone in Chennai, central zone in Bhopal, western zone in Pune and eastern zone in Kolkata - each requires at least one judicial member and one expert member to function.A look at the pendency statistics shows the reflection of the western zone bench being out of action - it has the highest pendency of the five benches: even more than the principal bench in Delhi. The principal bench has 561 cases pending, while western zone has 641, the southern bench has 526, followed by eastern zone with 387 and central zone with 207 as on June 30, 2021.However, the principal bench of the tribunal has also managed to dispose of some cases from the western zone jurisdiction. Between July 2020 and June 2021, the 404 cases were disposed of by the tribunal from the western zone jurisdiction. Of the 404 cases, July 2020 and September 2020 saw highest number of disposals - 60 and 72 respectively - while disposing 44 cases in May 2020 and 64 cases in June 2020.In 2017, the expert member at Pune-based western zone bench retired. For a few months, the bench operated without an expert member.This discrepancy was pointed out by the NGT Western Zone Bar Association which approached the Supreme Court. A reference was made to a 2017 circular by the Ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF), that stated that the NGT bench cannot function without both members present.On January 31, 2018, while hearing the submission made by the NGT Bar Association (western zone), the Supreme Court said that no single-member bench will be constituted in compliance with the 2017 circular of central ministry. The very next day, the western zone stopped hearing cases. A few months later the Principal Bench started hearing important cases through video conference. However, the zonal bench in Pune had remained shut.Now, Justice M Sathyanarayanan will take over as judicial member and Dr Arun Kumar Verma as the expert member. So far, the principal bench with one chairperson, multiple judicial and expert members were hearing urgent cases through video conferencing.Even on Monday, the hearings will commence through video conferencing. However, the pending cases were piling up as only urgent cases were being taken up by the principal bench||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-western-zone-bench-to-resume-hearing-cases-after-3-years-101627839621969.html
01-08-2021||Other||Social distancing takes flight at Lohegaon airport as passengers complain oif weekend chaos||PUNE Due to a rush of passengers at Lohegaon airport on the weekend, passengers have complained about the improper traffic management at the entry and exit points of the airport. Passengers also raised the issue of social distancing and being made to walk in the rain.Sudhir Mehta, a businessman who was at Pune airport on Sunday, said, “In terms of traffic and social distancing, it’s pure chaos.”“I was travelling from Pune airport at 9.30 am. It took 75 minutes from checking in to security. The number of counters is inadequate and no social distancing is enforced. Airports reflect the ethos of the city and so we should be able to do better,” said Mehta.“Also passengers were being made to walk in the rain and wait for embarkation without any protection from the elements, while an aero-bridge lies idle,” he added.Another regular passenger Mohan Phadnis said, “The security area is especially chaotic at the Lohegaon airport. CRPF makes you take everything out from the bags but there is no space to empty the bags. They regularly run out of trays and there is a single X-ray machine. This is a super spreader gallery.”Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior official of the Airport Authority of India (AAI) said, “As it was the weekend there was a rush of flight operations and our airport staff was trying to handle and monitor it carefully. There are several development works going on currently at the airport due to which some inconvenience is caused to passengers and we are working to resolve the passenger facilities issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-distancing-takes-flight-at-lohegaon-airport-as-passengers-complain-oif-weekend-chaos-101627839321991.html
01-08-2021||Other||E-waste collection rises four-fold since 2018||PUNE With persistent and near-continuous lockdowns forcing people to work from home, e-waste has increased four-fold since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. This in turn has brought to the fore the immense increase in use of electronics items.Harshad Barde, director, Swach, said, “E-waste consists of any appliance that runs on electricity which has the potential to cause damage to the environment if it is not disposed of in a responsible way. Common items that contribute to electrical and electronic waste are large household appliances (refrigerators/freezers, washing machines, dishwashers); small household appliances (toasters, coffeemakers, irons, hairdryers); information technology (IT) and telecommunications equipment (personal computers, telephones, mobile phones, laptops, printers, scanners, photocopiers); consumer equipment (televisions, stereo equipment, electric toothbrushes); lighting equipment (fluorescent lamps); electrical and electronic tools (handheld drills, saws, screwdrivers); toys, leisure and sports equipment; medical equipment (with the exception of all implanted and infected products); monitoring and control instruments; and automatic dispensers.”When Swach and the solid waste department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) initially began e-waste drives in 2018, electronics items were not as popular and hardly 12.5 tonne of e-waste was collected annually. In 2019, the annual e-waste collection plummeted to 10 tonne per annum. However, Covid-19 and the consequent work-from-home situation led to e-waste collection increasing to 13 tonne per annum.According to Swach however, the average e-waste collection has risen due to increased outreach efforts and V collect drives held across the city. The organisation carried out 154 V collect drives over a year between July 2020 and June 2021 resulting in an e-waste collection of 19.5 tonne till date. Barde said that the maximum e-waste collection took place in areas such as Aundh, Kothrud, Warje, Erandwane, Hadapsar, Dhankawadi- Sahakar Nagar and Dhole Patil Road.Barde said, “All the e-waste is sent to authorised recycling / dismantling vendors while functional electronics are directed towards waste-pickers and slum communities. We are planning to connect with the manufacturers of tube lights and bulbs so as to coordinate for the recycling of such items. The children of waste-pickers have a dire need for smart phones and laptops due to online schooling. Any donations will go a long way in supporting the waste-pickers’ children’s education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ewaste-collection-rises-four-fold-since-2018-101627838842018.html
01-08-2021||Other||Ganpati idol manufacturers claim rain has washed away hard work this year||PUNE It has been a tough year for Prakash Shinde, a maker of Ganpati idols from Uruli Kanchan, who claims huge losses due to the heavy rains in the last couple of weeks. “We are already suffering financially due to Covid since last year and our production has also reduced, but this time, due to the abnormal rains, more than 200 idols got damaged. Idols which were kept in the open are yet dry got completely due to the rains,” said Shinde.It is the same for other idol makers. Before the Ganpati festival starts, in the last one month production of new idols is undertaken, especially for the Ganpati mandals.Talking about this year’s idol issues, Chaitanya Tagade, owner of Shree Ganesh Kala Kendra company, said, “We have been making idols for more than 12 years now and the last two months before the Ganpati festival are very crucial for us. The painting and finishing of the idols is done during this period. This year, due to the sudden rains most of the idol makers who keep the idols in open spaces to dry are facing huge losses.”Last month, the state government’s home department issued guidelines regarding this year’s Ganpati festival, with restrictions on the height of the idols. As per the notification, the height of idols in homes is restricted to two feet, and for mandals, it is restricted to 4 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganpati-idol-manufacturers-claim-rain-has-washed-away-hard-work-this-year-101627838422063.html
01-08-2021||Other||Death by suicide: 17-yr old jumps from high-rise in Nanded City||PUNE: A 17-year-old girl died after falling from a high-rise building in Nanded City on Sunday.The Class 12 student was a budding equestrian rider and is suspected to have jumped from the higher floors of the building where she lived with her family on the first floor.A state and national-level horse rider, the girl was a meritorious student at school, according to the family.The girl was rushed by onlookers and family members to a private hospital, but declared dead on arrival, according to the police.An accidental death report was recorded at Haveli police station of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-by-suicide-17-yr-old-jumps-from-high-rise-in-nanded-city-101627838302479.html
01-08-2021||Other||Woman riding pillion with daughter killed in truck crash, driver absconding||PUNE: A woman, 35, riding pillion with her daughter, 16, was killed in a road accident in Kondhwa in the morning on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Pooja Shailendra Chaturvedi, 35, a resident of Heaven Hill Society in Kondhwa Khurd area of Pune. The driver of a red-coloured truck, who caused her death, is absconding.S K Sonawane, police sub-inspector of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case, said, “We have security footage of the incident. The truck was speeding and came in front of them and also caused the woman’s death. We are yet to speak with the family.”The deceased’s daughter, 16, was riding a two-wheeler from Jyoti Chowk to NIBM Road without a license. The deceased was riding pillion with her daughter when at around 9.30am on Saturday, an unidentified vehicle started speeding towards them. The two-wheeler rider hastily applied the brakes only to lose control before flying off the vehicle in front of them. The woman fell on the right side of the two-wheeler and the red truck that was speeding from the front ran over her, killing her on the spot, according to the police.A case under sections 279 and 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with sections 184, 132(1)(c) and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicles Act was registered against the unidentified truck driver at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-riding-pillion-with-daughter-killed-in-truck-crash-driver-absconding-101627838301940.html
01-08-2021||Other||No decision yet on reducing stamp duty again: Balasaheb Thorat||PUNE Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said no decision has been taken to reduce the stamp duty again. Developers have demanded to reduce the stamp duty to at least to 2% till March 2022, similar to what government had done to help real estate sector. On being asked about if government is planning to reduce the stamp duty again, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat asserted that no such decision has been discussed yet.The government of Maharashtra had slashed stamp duty after the first Covid wave and it had generated more revenue for the state government. “After the first Covid wave we had taken a decision for 6 month to reduce the stamp duty. This decision had positive results. Many transactions got registered. It helped people who bought homes. The decision helped developers as well. Even if we had given concession , we got more revenue from that duration than the last year. But we haven’t decided anything about implementing this again. We had given this concession for 6 months now it has stopped and the stamp duty has return to its previous levels again,” said Balasaheb Thorat, revenue minister while interacting with media representatives in the Pune collector office.Maharshtra government on August 26, 2020 had decided to temporarily cut the stamp duty on housing from 5% to 2% until December 31, 2020. Stamp duty from January 1, 2021 was kept at 3% up to March 31, 2021, when it was reinstated to 5 %.Meanwhile, Thorat asked to exercise caution on the decision of giving relaxations from the Covid induced curbs. “We are facing the risk of third wave and exercising precaution. Citizens life is of most important. While focusing on that, life can be brought to normal. But after easing some curbs all the safety measures go for the toss. In my own district cases have started to rise again,” said Balasaheb Thorat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-decision-yet-on-reducing-stamp-duty-again-balasaheb-thorat-101627838061928.html
01-08-2021||Other||Nigdi resident arrested for killing wife during domestic dispute||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a 27-year-old owner of a dairy, for killing his 22-year-old wife during a domestic fight in Nigdi on Saturday night.The arrested man has been identified as Chetan Govind Pawar (27), while his now-deceased wife was identified as Vaishnavi Chetan Pawar (22), both residents of Akash Society in Sector 26 of Nigdi, Pune. The man allegedly strangled the woman and hit her on the head with a blunt object, causing her death, according to the police. The incident happened at 10:30pm at their house, when the residents in the area placed a call to police control room.“He was habitual of drinking and because of the age difference and other trivial reasons they never got along since their wedding two years ago. They had a violent fight in the morning as well. He went to work and came back before they resumed the fight. The police responded to the call and found him in one part of the house while the body was in the other part,” said assistant police inspector Vishal Jadhav of Dehu road police station who is investigating the case.The man is a Class 5 dropout while the woman was a Class 12 dropout and they had been in an arranged marriage, according to the police. The now-deceased woman’s mother Meena Suresh Waghere (46), a resident of Waghere Ali area of Pimprigaon is the complainant in the case.“Their parents had tried to solve their fights, but to no avail,” said API Jadhav.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Dehuroad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nigdi-resident-arrested-for-killing-wife-during-domestic-dispute-101627837821849.html
01-08-2021||Other||CMs of Assam, Mizoram tone down rhetoric after Shah’s intervention||After days of tension between both states following Monday’s clash along their borders that claimed the lives of 6 Assam policemen, the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram agreed on Sunday that the existing border dispute between them should be resolved through talks, HT has learnt. The development came after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga held a telephonic conversation with Union home minister Amit Shah. The CMs, who traded charges on social media following the clash, are likely to meet soon. “As per telephonic discussion with Union home minister and Assam chief minister, we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue,” Zoramthanga tweeted on Sunday morning.“In the meantime, in order to prevent any possible escalation of the situation, I request the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicious use of their social media platform,” he added. Sarma reciprocated by stating that both CMs would talk again soon. Zoramthanga is at present under quarantine after he came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient recently. A date for talks between him and Sarma is expected to be fixed once the quarantine period is over. “Our main focus is on keeping the spirit of North East alive. What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. Honble CM Zoramthanga has promised to call me post his quarantine. Border disputes can only be resolved through discussion,” he tweeted. Following Monday’s incident, police on both sides have lodged cases against each other. Assam lodged a case of murder and trespass against Mizoram officials and is also probing a Mizoram MP who said “all Assam police personnel will be killed” if they enter the state again. The Mizoram police also lodged an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six senior officials of the state in Kolasib district, accusing them of an attempt to murder and assault. On Sunday, Mizoram indicated that Sarma’s name could be removed from the FIR. “I will discuss with the concerned police officer who filed the FIR and if there’s no legal fit in that, we would like to remove the name of Assam chief minister from the FIR,” Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuango told reporters in Aizwal on Sunday. Speaking to HT, superintendent of police of Kolasib district in Mizoram, Vanlalfaka Ralte, mentioned that they won’t proceed with the case against Sarma, but the investigation against the Assam officials could continue. “The case is not withdrawn, but we are not going to investigate the matter against Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma in order to have a peaceful atmosphere,” Ralte said. The newly appointed superintendent of police of Cachar district in Assam, Ramandeep Kaur, mentioned that none of the officials of Mizoram Police who were named in the FIR filed by Assam reached the Dholai police station on Sunday to record their statements. “None of them have come today. We will send notices to them again and if they fail to appear we will send summons through court. The situation on the ground is normal, but while our security personnel have withdrawn from the border areas and it is being manned by CRPF personnel, Mizoram is yet to call back their forces,” she said. Following the clash on Monday, some Assam residents blocked sections of National Highway 306 and uprooted a stretch of the lone railway track connecting Mizoram to the rest of the country, resulting in disruption of transportation of people and goods to and from Mizoram, which further escalated tensions. There were also accusations that Mizoram was not honouring the agreement to withdraw its police force from the four-km disputed stretch between Vairengte in Mizoram and Lailapur in Assam along NH-306. The tensions continued to simmer with Assam issuing an advisory to residents against travelling to Mizoram and both sides issuing provocative statements.The two states share a 165-km-long border and a decades’ old dispute over stretches of the boundary that has seen each accuse the other of encroachment. Since October last year, there have been skirmishes along the border resulting in the torching of huts, damaging crops, and injuries to people. Mizoram claims action by its police on Monday was in retaliation to Assam police personnel entering their territory forcibly and targeting police personnel and residents. Assam maintains that the team had gone to discuss the border issue when they were attacked without provocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cms-of-assam-mizoram-tone-down-rhetoric-after-shah-s-intervention-101627837523936.html
01-08-2021||Other||PMC to reframe urban street design guidelines for EV charging stations||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to reframe the urban street design guidelines (USDG) with the state government saying in its recent electric vehicles’ (EV) policy that it will set up 500 EV charging stations in the city to urge citizens to use electric vehicles.While the state has said it will set up 500 EV charging stations under the PMC, the PMC has given its nod to two private companies to provide e-bikes on rent in the city. Under the e-bike project, the respective companies will develop the infrastructure for the e-bikes including setting up 500 EV charging stations across the city while the PMC will provide space for these charging stations, as per the project proposal. The approved companies have prepared a rough list mentioning 500 locations which are on the cycle tracks.Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Though it is the responsibility of the companies to set up charging stations for the e-bikes, they will have to take permission from the PMC and set up charging stations under our supervision. The stations should not create obstacles in the path of pedestrians or cyclists. At present, we are developing roads as per the USDG which will provide obstacle-free footpaths for walking as well as cycling. But now we have to introduce e-bike charging stations in the USDG as we will have to provide charging stations either on footpaths or along the road. We have decided to frame a policy for electric vehicles for the long term.”“Other than e-bikes, we will also have to reserve land for four-wheeler charging stations in the coming days as the central and state governments have decided to promote EVs in city areas,” Dr Khemnar said.V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent of the road department, said, “As per the proposal, the companies require a minimum 87 square feet space along the roadside for two e-bikes and a maximum 3,030 square feet space for charging ten e-bikes. At present, the companies have identified 500 locations that were considered for the bicycle-sharing project as that is one of the components of the urban street design policy (USDP).”“We cannot provide space for charging stations along roads which are less than 18 metre in width. Under the USDG, we have considered a cycle track along with the footpath as part of the road. Now we have to reframe the USDG and include e-bike charging stations and parking,” Kulkarni said.The PMC approved the USDG in 2016 and decided to start work on prominent roads in the city but the actual works started in 2017. The aim of the USDG was to ensure that appropriate street types and design elements are implemented to create better streets for the citizens of Pune. Under the USDG, roads include components such as carriage ways, footpaths, cycle tracks, service roads, parking, storm water conservation and utility belts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-reframe-urban-street-design-guidelines-for-ev-charging-stations-101627837462491.html
01-08-2021||Other||Delayed restoration of dug-up roads a major problem for city residents||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation ( PMC) is facing a problem restoring roads that have been dug up for laying of drainage and water lines.PMC’s water and drainage department carried out most of the work during the lockdown, but it has not completed its restoration of roads in Kothrud, Karvenagar, Shivajinagar, Sinhgad road, and Hadapsar.Sandeep Khardekar, president of the Creative Foundation, said,”We have registered complaints with the concerned officials of PMC. But, nothing has happened yet. Residents are not able walk on the roads as they are digging and restoration it. We have given an ultimatum to complete the restoration work in 10 days. Otherwise, we will file a public interest litigation (PIL) in court.”Ketki Kadam, resident of Sinhgad road, said, “It was better time to carry out development work, especially road-related work, as there was no traffic on roads. But,it is very unprofessional approach to continue work in the monsoon and after the lifting of restrictions in city areas.”Vivekanand Bhosale, a resident of Hadapsar Malwadi, said, “We can drive or walk on roads where there are potholes. But, it is not easy to walk on roads and drive vehicles when half of the road is dug up during the monsoon. “ V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department said, “This year, potholes are not a major issue in the city, but restoration of roads are a major concern. Water and drainage department has carried out substantial work in different parts of the city. The digging has already stopped, but, restoration work has not been completed. “He further added, “PMC’s own departments are responsible for the bad conditions of roads in the monsoon season. We have given instructions to complete the restoration work. However, it isn’t completed and people are suffering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delayed-restoration-of-dug-up-roads-a-major-problem-for-city-residents-101627837461831.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders authorities to sell property of developers if they fail to pay tenants||The Bombay high court (HC) recently directed a developer and his sons to pay the rent amount, pending since 2019, to the tenants of a redevelopment project they had undertaken at Mazgaon. They had failed to complete the project and had not paid the rent as well. The court also directed the developers to pay the amount in a time-bound manner, failing which the authority concerned can attach the personal properties of the developers and recover the pending rent and loan amount.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing three writ petitions filed by tenants of Hirji Bhojraj Chawl at Mazgaon, was informed by advocates Aditya Pimpale and Kiran Jain that the tenants had entered into a redevelopment agreement with the developer prior to 2017 and had vacated the premises. The developer had undertaken to pay them monthly rent till he handed over permanent accommodation to them on completion of the building and getting the completion certificate (CC). The bench was informed that thereafter the chawl was demolished and a shell structure was constructed after which the work stopped. It was also submitted that while some of the tenants had received rent till August 2019 following court orders, it stopped thereafter. The bench was further informed that the developers had assured the court of paying the pending rent but on each occasion they had reneged as a result of which the tenants were left high and dry and were unable to pay for their rented accommodations, thus forcing them out.The court was also informed that the developers had mortgaged the sale component and taken a loan of Rs30 crore from State Bank of India, but after paying the first instalment, stopped paying the bank and siphoned of the entire amount. Pimpale and the advocates in the other petitions impressed upon the court that the developers had repeatedly failed to abide by the payment schedule they submitted to the court and as contempt petitions were filed against them, in November 2019 had asked the court to take over the project. However, the court had declined as the sale component was already mortgaged and whatever amount was recovered by selling the flats would go towards settling the loan as a result of which the project would remain incomplete. The petitioners advocates then submitted that as per section 77 (a-1) and section 91A of The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Amendment Act), 2020 as the developers were not in a position to complete the project, the no-objection certificate (NOC) and intimation of disapproval (IOD) issued to the developers in 2014 should be cancelled and MHADA should be directed to take over the project and complete it. On their part, the developers disputed the outstanding rent demanded by the tenants, but did not dispute the claim of non-payment and informed the court that due to financial constraints they were not able to pay rent. However, on being asked whether they were willing to give an undertaking to the court on making payment towards the pending rent in a time-bound manner or face the consequences that would follow, the developers refused to give such an undertaking. After hearing the arguments and perusing previous orders the bench observed that as the advocate for the developers had sought some time by way of last chance to show their bonafides to pay the rent within stipulated time and complete the rehab building it was directing the developers to pay pending rent till July 2021 within four weeks and thereafter pay the rent before the 10th day of each month till the handover of the permanent alternate accommodation. The court then observed that if the developers defaulted on the present order, the NOC dated October 21, 2014, and the IOD dated November 21, 2014, issued to them would forthwith stand cancelled and tenants could apply to the relevant authorities, including MHADA, to initiate process for acquiring the said land and building for the purposes of developing/completing the development of the said building under the MHADA Act, including the Amended Section 91A, if the same is brought into force. The court further added that in case of default and cancellation of NOC and IOD the authorities “shall initiate such action as is permissible by law, including attaching the moveable and immoveable assets of the Respondent Nos. 5 to 8 (developer firm and father and two sons) to recover the outstanding amounts towards monthly compensation in lieu of temporary alternate accommodation and to have the subject Land and Building released from mortgage created in favour of State Bank of India.” The court also restrained the developers from disposing of or creating third party rights of their movable and immovable assets and said that in the event of default they would be issued show cause notices as to why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against them and also restrained them from leaving the country. The petitions have been posted for further hearing to August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-authorities-to-sell-property-of-developers-if-they-fail-to-pay-tenants-101627836987812.html
01-08-2021||Other||Various factors make Pune vulnerable to infectious diseases, but timely identification key to containment, say experts||PUNE As Pune is still exiting the second Covid-19 wave, on July 30, the first case of Zika virus in the state was reported from Pune district. The history of virus outbreaks in the state shows that Pune has been vulnerable to infectious diseases, be it swine flu in 2009 or Covid from 2020. Experts say that the climate in Pune and western region of Maharashtra is suitable for the transmission of respiratory diseases caused because of viruses such as swine flu and Covid. Also the rapid speed of urbanisation and the pattern of these vector diseases are possible reasons. Experts asserted that the higher rate of identification and health surveillance in Pune helps catch the viruses early. “The weather in Pune and western Maharashtra is suitable for the spread of respiratory infections such as swine flu and Covid. Vector diseases such as dengue are identified mostly in urban areas. Aedes mosquitoes breed in this environment. In western Maharashtra, the rate of urbanisation is higher. In Pune, the population has been rapidly increasing. There is no special reason behind outbreaks of infectious diseases in Pune,” Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, said. Experts say that the awareness in Pune region helps to identify the new cases early. “The detection rate is higher in Pune. There is more awareness and of course more testing in Pune. That is why the cases to light early. Even if other parts have such cases, those would not be reported if not detected. Pune is one of the advanced parts of India. Pune also has high international contact. So if any outbreak happens in the world, the probability of it affecting Pune is usually high. It is not only with Pune, it is also the case with Delhi and Mumbai. Because of the high detection rate cases get identified in Pune,” said Dr Sudhir Patsute, medical superintendent, Dr Naidu Infectious Disease Hospital, Pune. On July 30 the first case of Zika virus in the state was detected in Pune district. Officials say that the further investigation would continue in the neighbouring villages. “We are now conducting a rapid survey in the neighbouring villages and if we find any atypical cases then those samples would be sent to the NIV again,” said Dr Awate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/various-factors-make-pune-vulnerable-to-infectious-diseases-but-timely-identification-key-to-containment-say-experts-101627836441796.html
01-08-2021||Other||NSCN (IM) to protest against Centre’s silence over 6 years old agreement||Prominent Naga armed group, the Isak-Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) on Sunday announced to register protest against what it termed the government of India’s “silence” on the Framework Agreement which was signed between the two on August 3, 2015.The NSCN (IM), in a statement, expressed dismay that the Center is yet to fulfil its commitment to the Naga peace process made through the Framework Agreement even after the passage of six years.“Six years down the line, there is no positive response yet from the Government of India. The Nagas cannot be taken for a ride in this manner. While Naga people appreciate the Government of India for recognizing the historical and political rights of the Nagas by signing the FA, the matter should not end there. What had been committed should be taken to a logical conclusion,” the NSCN (IM) stated.As a mark of its protest against the Centre “for keeping silent” on the Framework Agreement, the rebel group stated there will be closure of shops and business establishments in Nagalim (all Naga inhabited areas). The curfew period is for 12 hours, from 12 am on August 2 midnight till 12 pm on August 3, the NSCN-IM mentioned in a separate email.The organization further appealed to the Naga people, public and business groups to show solidarity to the cause and cooperate on said day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nscn-im-to-protest-against-centre-s-silence-over-6-years-old-agreement-101627836324148.html
01-08-2021||Other||Pune trade assoc to keep shops open till 7pm from Aug 4; protest against state indecision on Aug 3||PUNE With the state government not immediately altering the restrictions on timings for shops in the city, the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) has decided, from August 4, to keep open all shops in Pune open till 7 pm. To protest against the state government’s indecision the association is going to hold a protest in the city on Tuesday, August 3.“As the Covid cases in Pune city are under control for some time now, a change in shop timings can be done. Cases in the rural part of the Pune district should not be the reason for curbs in Pune city. Current timings are not suitable for shopping, so customers are also facing problems. We had a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and he assured us he would do the needful, but nothing happened till now. The time has come to show the unity and power of traders, so we will be holding a protest on Tuesday in the city and from August 4, we will keep open our shops till 7 pm. We are ready for any police action,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of the association, at a press conference on Sunday.All shop ownersare going to participate in the agitation, dubbed the “Ghanta Naad Aaandolan”, on August 3, between 12 noon and 12.15 pm outside their shops. The demand of traders is that shops should be allowed to function from 11am to 8 pm for five days or between 11am and 7pm for all seven days of the week.“In case the required changes in timings for keeping shops open are not considered by the concerned authorities then from August 4, the shop owners will keep their shops open till 7pm and be ready to face the consequences. All these decisions were taken unanimously at a meeting of office bearers of the federation held on July 31,” added Ranka.While association vice-president Suryakant Pathak said, “Shops and many business establishments have remained closed for a very long in the last 16-18 months, especially during the festival seasons, due to which there have losses to the tune of Rs75,000 crore. Shop owners, traders and their employees are suffering due to the financial losses, so now we should be allowed to function as per the timings demanded by association”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-trade-assoc-to-keep-shops-open-till-7pm-from-aug-4-protest-against-state-indecision-on-aug-3-101627835721783.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Two fake firms ‘evaded’ ₹20 crore in GST||The commercial taxes department in Patna has detected two fake firms that claimed a false input tax credit (ITC) and evaded around ₹20 crore tax by flouting rules of goods and services taxes.On Saturday, during a raid by the commercial taxes department, addresses of the two firms, submitted as their principal place of business in Patna and Munger, were found to be fake.Commissioner and secretary, commercial taxes, Dr Pratima said the two firms claiming to be dealing in mustard oil and oilseeds are suspected to be shell companies that falsely claimed huge sales in states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. The commissioner said the firms had claimed to have done business worth ₹400 crore over the last few years.“There are businessmen involved in this clandestine trade and tax evasion, who were [purportedly] supplying mustard oil to mills. They were claiming false ITC and flouting other GST rules. We are carrying out further investigation to track these fake dealers,” the commissioner said.In the last month, the commercial taxes department has searched and raided many firms dealing in marbles, edible items, iron and steel in the state revealing tax evasion in crores of rupees. The department has been selecting suspicious firms through data analytics and human intelligence to create their 360-degree profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-fake-firms-evaded-20-crore-in-gst-101627835001753.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Jha meets I&B minister, bats for local FMs||Bihar information and public relations minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Sunday met union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur and drew his attention towards the unregulated and unbridled round-the-clock programming from strong FM and other frequencies in Nepal, which is accessible in the adjoining districts of Bihar.“These programmes have an overwhelming reach among the populace of several north Bihar districts. It would be effective to address the situation by expanding the reach, intensity, quality and appeal of local programmes using the existing breach of All India Radio stations in north Bihar. Maithili is an official language spoken by over 33 million people of the region and that can be used to reach more and more people with quality programmes to provide the people with an alternative,” he wrote to the union minister.Jha said that he has also underlined the need for increasing the duration of local programmes in Maithili on 10 kW FM frequency to reach out to a large population, as Nepalese programmes are also broadcast in the same language and also in Nepali. Jha’s concerns are significant as even during elections, FM stations in Nepal are known for even carrying the content through advertisements related to elections and candidates contesting them. The Nepalese FM channels are favoured because they come cheap, offer a wide range of choices and cover more than 100 constituencies., as Bihar has a 750-km long border with Nepal.In 2019, the Center had approved seven projects for setting up FM transmitters in the premises of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) to strengthen FM coverage along the Indo-Nepal border. These included Bathnaha (Araria), Narkatiaganj (West Champaran) and Sitamarhi in Bihar. Highlighting the Centre’s thrust on popularising community radio networks in the country, Jha said that it could be immensely helpful for Bihar, especially in the wake of the strides Bihar has made on several key social and development indicators. Alongside, Bihar has a thriving network of social entrepreneurial initiatives ranging from agriculture, rural development to women empowerment. It thus seems most expedient to synergize such significant changes at the grassroots with the potential of community radio to enhance future opportunities for our youth, women and children,” he added, urging the union minister for the upgrade of the infrastructure in the interest of enhancing programming quality and reach in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jha-meets-i-b-minister-bats-for-local-fms-101627834641713.html
01-08-2021||Other||Agri min lays foundation stone for rural roads in Ara||Agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh on Sunday laid foundation stones for various rural roads in Ara and said that they will lead to “all-round development of the area”.The roads are Mathwalia to Lakshmanpur, Ara-Barhara main road to Bhakura main road, and Bhakura village to Gundi.On the occasion, Singh asked executive engineer concerned of the rural works department to supervise construction of the upcoming roads so that their quality is not compromised.On Monday, the agriculture minister will lay foundation stones for other rural roads, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agri-min-lays-foundation-stone-for-rural-roads-in-ara-101627834583675.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Two persons shot dead in separate incidents||Two persons were shot dead at separate places in Patna in the last 24 hours. In the first incident, two criminals killed Jitendra Kumar Singh (55), an autorickshaw driver, at Parsa Bazar railway station parking under the same police station on Sunday morning. No arrests have been made so far, police said.“Two criminals pumped a bullet in his head and escaped from the spot,” police said.Trainee DSP Priya Jyoti said that prima facie, land dispute appears to be the cause of the murder.In another incident, unidentified criminals gunned down Vishnu Kumar Paswan (35), a cook at Ambedkar hostel under Bahadurpur police station on Saturday night. His body was sent to NMCH for an autopsy.SHO of Bahdurpur police station Sanowar Khan said, “The cause of the murder is uncertain.The deceased’s brother Robin Kumar has lodged a case with Bahadurpur police station against unidentified criminals,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-persons-shot-dead-in-separate-incidents-101627834583008.html
01-08-2021||Other||Katihar Mayor murder case: 5 more held||The police on Sunday arrested five more persons in connection with the recent killing of Katihar Mayor, officials said. With this, all together nine persons, including a mother-daughter duo, have so far been arrested in the case.Shivraj Paswan alias Shiva Paswan, 40, was shot dead late Thursday evening when he was returning his home.Katihar superintendent of police Vikash Kumar, while confirming the recent arrests, said among the five persons held on Sunday, one named accused was arrested from West Bengal’s Siliguri. His remand was taken and he is being brought to Katihar on August 3, he said.However, a local BJP MLA’s nephew, who is a named accused in the FIR, is still at large, the officials said. “Police is on a hunt to nab the MLA’s nephew,” Kumar said.Meanwhile, leaders from various political parties have started visiting the house of the deceased Mayor. Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who recently visited the family of the deceased, faced wrath of locals who suspected a partial probe as the nephew of a BJP MLA was involved in the case. Earlier on Saturday, Congress leader Tariq Anwar visited Paswan’s family and demanded an impartial probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katihar-mayor-murder-case-5-more-held-101627834581687.html
01-08-2021||Other||Four cops suspended in separate incidents||East Champaran superintendent of police suspended four policemen and served show-cause notices to five, including a sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), police said on Sunday. “While sub-inspector Pramod Kumar Rai, a driver and a chowkidar have been suspended for their alleged involvement with a smuggler, a policewoman was suspended for training a rifle at munshi of a police station on July 22. Besides, an SHO has been sent to the police line and departmental proceedings would be initiated against him for allegedly letting a civilian work at the police station,” said Navin Chand Jha, superintendent of police, East Champaran.The development came days after two videos about different incidents went viral on social media.SDPO Shivendra Kumar Anubhavi could not be contacted for comment..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-cops-suspended-in-separate-incidents-101627834582323.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Bihar to receive widespread rain till August 5: MeT||While heavy rains lashed south-west and south-central parts of the state and light to moderate rains occurred at most places during past 24 hours, meteorologists have predicted widespread to fairly widespread rain in southern and western parts of the state till August 5.According to weather officials, the state will witness heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning on Tuesday and Wednesday owing to conducive weather mechanisms.As per daily bulletin issued, Indrapuri received 120mm rain, Dehri 90mm, Adhwara 80mm, Dinara 70mm, Bhabhua 60mm and Sherghati 50mm rain during past 24 hours.Explaining the meteorological condition, weatherman SK Mandal said, “The state is likely to receive enhanced rain activities in first week of August under the influence of weather system formed over neighbouring states. As per the current numerical model and radar observation, a monsoon trough line is passing through Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Besides, a well-marked low-pressure area has formed over south-east Uttar Pradesh which is likely to move north-eastwards across southern parts of Uttar Pradesh in next two days.” Winds at the speed of 20 to 30kmph are likely to blow in south Bihar, he said.The Patna MeT centre has also issued a yellow colour warning for thunderstorm and lightning activities till August 4. Meanwhile, the state registered 19% surplus rain during June and July. As per MeT data, Bihar has received 613.1mm rain against normal rainfall of 516.7 mm between June 1 to July 31. Of 38 districts, 20 received normal rain, 14 excess, two large excess and two deficient between the same time period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-receive-widespread-rain-till-august-5-met-101627834522374.html
01-08-2021||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar is PM material: Kushwaha||JD(U) national parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday termed Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as a “Prime Minister (PM) material,” asserting that the JD(U) strongman has all the abilities to hold the top post. “We are in the NDA, we have PM Modi, who is doing good work. But some others also have the potential to become the PM. Of them is Nitish Kumar. He can be called Prime Minister material,” said Kushwaha, while talking to the journalists on returning to Patna from New Delhi after attending the JD(U)’s national executive.Kushwaha’s bid to eulogise the chief minister comes a day after there was a change in the party’s top organisational post with Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh replacing union minister RCP Singh as the JD(U) national president. There were speculations that Kushwaha himself was one of the contenders for the top post.“The party will get strengthened under the leadership of Lalan Singh, who is a senior leader and has a grip on the organisation of the party. I will be playing the role of Arjun in the party and work to strengthen it and expand its base,” Kushwaha said.Besides, the senior JD(U) leader also advocated caste-based census stating that the central government should carry the caste enumeration along with census, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-nitish-kumar-is-pm-material-kushwaha-101627834521675.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Vaccine shortage leads to Patna falling short of target||Inadequacy of Covid-19 vaccines led to Patna’s failure to achieve its target of giving the first jab to its eligible adult urban population by July 31, said officials. Earlier last month, Patna had set an initial target to complete the task by July 25. It had launched an intensive 10-day vaccination drive on July 15, but the shortage of vaccines led to an extension of the deadline by a week. However, the state capital could achieve 89% first-dose vaccination by end of last month. Inoculation of the remaining 11% will be complete in a week after receiving sufficient vaccines, the officer added. Patna received 1,97,180 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and 92,920 doses of AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine between July 24 and 30, as government officials admitted to the shortage of vaccines. “We were 64% short in terms of vaccine doses by the end of the last month. We received only 2,90,100 doses against our requirement of 4,51,951 in the last week of July, leaving us short by 1,61,851 doses. The shortage compelled us to curtail our vaccination drive at some session sites, due to which we could not inoculate our target group within the given timeframe,” said a government official, requesting anonymity for fear of being indicted by seniors. A gag order, circulated among officials by the health department, has reminded them of the official secrecy clause they were bound by, making them liable for punishment for any leak of sensitive information. The order also indirectly refrains them from talking to the media. Barring the three 24x7 session sites at the Government Polytechnic in Patliputra Colony, Hotel Patliputra Ashok on Beer Chand Patel Path and the Patliputra Stadium in Kankerbagh, the other vaccination centres were closed on Sunday due to the shortage of vaccines. Even at the three 24x7 centres, first-timers did not get the vaccine of their choice. “I wanted to take Covaxin, but it was not being administered to those taking the first shot yesterday (Saturday) at the Government Polytechnic. However, the same officials allowed my husband Ravindra Kumar to take the second dose of Covaxin,” said Shilpa Devi, 28, a homemaker, who resides in New Patliputra Colony. “Unlike other Sundays, the AN College vaccination centre, where I went for my jab, was closed today,” she added. With 89% first-dose vaccination in urban areas, Patna’s achievement in terms of Covid-19 inoculation has been good as compared to the rest of the state. The district has achieved 48% overall first-dose vaccination as compared to 28% by the state. Patna’s second-dose or full vaccination coverage is 15% as against 5% achieved by the state. Rural Patna, with a first-dose vaccination achievement of 24%, has been slow to keep pace with urban areas. Rural Patna has a target population of 29.12 lakh against 14.36 lakh in urban Patna. “Patna has made significant achievement by administering the first dose of the vaccine to 89% of its eligible urban population. In addition, we administered 40,524 doses to beneficiaries yesterday, taking the total number of people vaccinated to 27,44,150, an important achievement by all standards,” said Pramod Kumar, district public relations officer. “The district magistrate has asked his officials to complete the unfinished task as soon as possible while congratulating them for the achievement,” he added. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has set an ambitious target to complete vaccination of the state’s 7.22 crore eligible population by December 31..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaccine-shortage-leads-to-patna-falling-short-of-target-101627834461642.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body bribed to protect illegal construction, Awhad alleges; officers deny claims||Cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad in a tweet alleged that officials of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) took bribe to protect illegal constructions including hotels and pubs at Kothari Compound. He said TMC is instead focusing on demolishing structures in Yeoor. However, TMC officials have refuted the claim and said that they have just started the demolition drive and it was delayed due to the pandemic.Awhad, who owns a bungalow in Yeoor, in a tweet on Saturday, said, “I was rather surprised when AMC (assistant municipal commissioner) of TMC went to demolish a structure in Yeoor, Thane. Let’s see how far this goes. I will feel proud if TMC breaks five unauthorised bungalows and also looks into Kothari Compound where your officers took lakhs of rupees from bar owners.” Many politicians own hotels and pubs in Kothari Compound. An official from TMC, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Due to the pandemic, some of our other routine administrative activities had taken a back seat. We resumed the demolition drive recently. We are looking at it area-wise. Our focus is on all types of structures for demolition. We shall consider other areas as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-bribed-to-protect-illegal-construction-awhad-alleges-officers-deny-claims-101627832842159.html
01-08-2021||Delhi||Huge sinkhole under IIT-Delhi flyover repaired, traffic resumes||The massive sinkhole that appeared on the road under the IIT-Delhi flyover on Saturday was repaired overnight and traffic resumed on Sunday. Officials said that the repair work was completed in ‘record time’ by workers of the Delhi Jal Board and the Public Works Department.“The tireless efforts of our @DelhiJalBoard officials have restored the broken water pipeline before yesterday midnight under the IIT flyover. Thereafter, our @pwddelhi officials worked round the clock and repaired the sunken road under the IIT flyover in record time,” Delhi minister Satyender Jain said in a tweet. He further added that the water supply that was affected in several areas due to the sinkhole resumed by midnight.An official told news agency PTI that the cavity was 40 feet long and 12 feet wide and workers were very careful while conducting the repair work. Due to the cavity on the road, the Delhi traffic police asked commuters to take alternative routes. The PWD said that the cavity occurred due to a leak in an underground Delhi Jal Board (DJB) line.Officials also said that the repair work was of complex nature due to the pipeline under but as traffic was stalled, repair work was done in a speedy manner. “Now we have allowed straight traffic on Aurobindo Marg by repairing the road. Efforts are still on for repairing the side lane on Outer Ring Road,” a PWD official was quoted as saying by PTI. The crossing is now open for regular traffic.However, police officials said that an associated deep sewer work by the Delhi Jal Board is underway at the at-grade road towards IIT-Delhi. “Vehicles coming on Aurobindo Marg from AlIIMS would not be able to turn right on the at-grade road towards IIT-Delhi. Vehicles coming along the at-grade road along IIT flyover from Outer Ring Road, Panchsheel side would not be able to go straight across the IIT crossing,” a statement said.It also said that only one lane would be available for traffic coming from Adchini on Aurobindo Marg. “Due to the current scenario, vehicles coming from AIIMS on Aurobindo Marg and seeking to turn right towards IIT can take a left turn on Outer Ring Road, take a U-turn under Panchsheel flyover/Panchsheel Crossing and use the IIT flyover to cross over towards IIT-Delhi. Alternatively, they can go straight on Aurobindo Marg and take a U-turn at Mother’s International School T-point or from Adichini T-point,” the statement said.“All commercial vehicles on Aurobindo Marg from Mehrauli, seeking to take a left turn towards IIT-Delhi at the crossing, can take a left turn at Adichini Crossing on Shaheed Jeet Singh Marg. They can go towards Aruna Asif Ali Marg, Vedant Deshika Marg for their onward travel,” it further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/huge-sinkhole-under-iit-delhi-flyover-repaired-traffic-resumes-101627832399075.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After a delay of 3 years, Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover opens for traffic||The 2.9-km-long Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover was opened for traffic from Sunday after much delay. The flyover is expected to bring relief for those travelling between Navi Mumbai and Mumbai from the traffic congestion on Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link Road. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who inaugurated the flyover, for which construction started half a decade ago, asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to ensure the surface of the flyover is made smooth.The construction of the flyover started in February 2016, for which the cost was above ₹500 crore and was supposed to be ready by January 2019, however, the project got delayed. According to BMC officials, it has also levied a fine of ₹40 lakh on the contractor for the delay in completing its construction.The BMC had also made a design change in the flyover by adding a connector to the Deonar dumping ground due to which the construction cost of the flyover was increased to over ₹700 crore. The flyover is expected to bring relief to the traffic on Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link Road that is used by motorists heading towards Navi Mumbai, Lonavala and further to Pune.The flyover will be connecting Sion-Panvel Highway. All the vehicles coming from Eastern Express Highway and Santacruz-Chembur Link Road can use the flyover. It is also expected to bring relief to the heavy vehicle traffic considering its connectivity to the crucial highways leading further towards Konkan and Bengaluru, the officials said.While inaugurating the flyover for traffic, Thackeray said, “It is a relief today for thousands of citizens with the opening up of this flyover. Previously, I did not even feel like passing through this stretch but now with the construction of this flyover, it will help motorists bypass the traffic below. I just have a small request to the BMC that the surface of the flyover should be made more proper to ensure a smooth experience. However, I am proud that the BMC in such a challenging period of Covid-19 pandemic managed to complete its work.”Earlier, a controversy had flamed up over the naming up of the flyover. The Shiv Sena member of Parliament (MP) Rahul Shewale had demanded that the BMC should name the flyover over Sufi saint Khwaja Gareeb Nawaj Moinuddin Chisti. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had opposed it and sought it to be named after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Following this, on July 29, a proposal was cleared in a works committee meeting to name it after Shivaji Maharaj. However, the name is yet to be approved by the BMC’s general body which is expected to take place in the coming days.On Sunday, the event was also attended by suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, mayor Kishori Pednekar, local MP from BJP Manoj Kotak and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, who is also an MLA from Anushakti Nagar constituency.However, Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who is the leader of opposition in the BMC, alleged that he was not invited to the event in violation of the protocol to invite opposition leaders for such events. Raja said, “The councillors and group leaders were expected to be invited for events. The leader of the opposition post has an important place in a democracy. Also, the state government has given statutory status to this post in the civic body by law. We will not tolerate this insult by the BMC administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-after-a-delay-of-3-years-ghatkopar-mankhurd-flyover-opens-for-traffic-101627832362184.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||34-year-old falls into open duct in Thane, injured||A 34-year-old labourer was injured after he fell into an open duct of an under-constructed building, on Saturday night. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Thane.Ganesh Nirmal, a resident of Court Naka; had stepped out at around 2pm to attend nature’s call when the incident occurred.“He was at an under-construction building adjacent to the Thane Municipal Corporation’s headquarters in Panchpakhadi. There was an underground duct that resembled a basement tank on the ground floor of the building, where he fell. Along with the fire brigade, regional disaster management cell (RDMC), emergency tender, quick response vehicle and an ambulance rescued him and provided immediate medical support. He has sustained injures on the head and limbs,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/34yearold-falls-into-open-duct-in-thane-injured-101627831941979.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Kushwaha says Nitish Kumar is Prime Ministerial material||Janata Dal (United) leader Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday said Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is suited to become the Prime Minister as he has all the potential and qualities fit for the post.“We are in NDA and we have Prime Minister Narenrdra Modi, who is doing good work but there are others who have potential to become the Prime Minister. One of them is Nitish Kumar. He is Prime Minister material,” Kushwaha said.Kushwaha was speaking with reporters following his return from New Delhi after holding the JD(U)’s national executive meeting. Kushwaha, who is JD(U)’s national parliamentary board chairman, made these comments after Lalan Singh alias Rajiv Ranjan Singh was made the JD(U) national president. There were speculations that Kushwaha himself was a contender for the party top post. He expressed his confidence in Lalan Singh and said he will continue to work as ‘Arjun’ of the party. Kushwaha on being asked if the JD(U) is planning to project Nitish Kumaas the Prime Ministerial candidate said that no discussions were held regarding such propositions.Kushwaha’s comments also come in the backdrop of opposition parties deliberating to form a united front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Though JD(U) is an ally of the BJP in Bihar, it said it will have discussions with BJP ahead of the UP elections and also said that if the seat-sharing plans do not work out it will fight the elections alone. It did not contest in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections.(with inputs from Anirban Guha Roy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/kushwaha-says-nitish-kumar-is-prime-ministerial-material-101627827464614.html
01-08-2021||Other||Tripura health workers cross hurdles to vaccinate people in remote areas||Sanjay Urang, a multipurpose worker, covers long distances every day on foot, including crossing a rivulet, to reach the remote areas in Tripura carrying vaccines to vaccinate the people who are still unaware of the necessity of the vaccination.Like him, many health workers, ASHA employees, including doctors, are always on the front lines to deliver vaccines to some of the hardest-to-reach places in different parts of the state.Mulyarampara, Nandirampara, Nabajoypara, Bikramjoypara in North district are some of remotest places where vehicle ride is still a dream. Most of Tripura’s indigenous hamlets are in hilly areas and are poorly connected.“It’s our everyday part of life. All the centres are located in hilly areas. Distance of these centres from our health centre varies and are within 7-12 kilometres. After covering few kilometres on a vehicle, we walk on foot and also cross a rivulet without any boat,” said Dr Dwaipayan Roy, medical officer-in-charge of Laljuri primary health centre in the north district.Nearly 200-300 people are residing in these villages and of them, 50-60 are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination.“We have administered vaccines to almost all of them. Like in other areas, we also have to convince most of them about the importance of vaccination with the assistance of the higher administrative officials including additional district magistrate, sub-divisional magistrate, block development officer etc,” said Dr Roy.Along with him, the multipurpose workers, ASHA employees are moving to these remotest villages crossing the rivulet, only to educate the villagers and administer Covid-19 vaccines. Dr Roy could name a few health workers, Sanjay Orang, Archana Sharma, Rahul Deb, whose tireless work in the pandemic has attracted attention.Nanda Rani Nath, an ASHA facilitator of Laljuri primary health centre walks for 3-4 kilometres every day to visit rural places, like North Laljuri, Ujan Machmara, Nandirampara. She said that the road is not smooth enough but her determination and job never make her feel tired. “Not only me, we all are experiencing the same. Our job is to bring all people for vaccination. We also face objections from people, but it is our duty to convince them,” she said.After her household works, she starts her day at 9 am that continues till the evening.The health activists engaged in Jampui primary health centre in the district, close to the Mizoram border, are experiencing similar things.Bamboobari, located near the Mamit district of Mizoram, is nearly 22 kilometres from Jampui hospital. It’s a non-motorable place where walking on foot is the only option left to the health workers to reach there.“Bamboobari is one of the extremely hard areas to reach in North Tripura and has witnessed strong vaccine refusal area as well,” said Dr Bimal Das, medical officer of Jampui primary health centre.Sharing his one-day vaccination programme experience in the village, Dr Das said that they started for the village at 4 am by foot and reached there at around 11:30 am. After their hectic programme ended in the evening, they had to spend the whole night in the village as they claimed it is not possible to return in the dark.Misconception about the vaccine is prevalent in these areas, especially in Bamboobari.“The locals have some false assumption regarding the Covid-19 vaccination. We conducted awareness programmes involving the village head, community leaders apart from the villagers and tried to clear their doubts as much as possible. After spending hours with them, we got one or two persons who came willingly for vaccination. Later, our team conducted a house-to-house visit programme. Now, a change in their mindset is visible to us. That’s our achievement,” said the medical officer.Dr Dipankar Debbarma, medical officer-in-charge of Damcherra primary health centre said that there are some places where one cannot move only with vehicles, be it Gangajoypara, Handuraipra or Khagendrapara.“Khagendrapara is one of those remotest villages in the area. We have some remote areas where we need to reach mostly by walking,” said Dr Debbarma.Chief Medical Officer of North district Dr Arunabha Chakraborty said,” Our vaccination programmes in different parts of the district are going on in a full-fledged manner. There are many places where road connectivity is not so good, still, our health workers, crossing all hurdles, actively take part in reaching the vaccines to people’s doorstep.”Apart from these villages, health workers and doctors are working to meet the target of vaccination in other rural parts of the state such as Nabachandrapara, Rambhaktapara in the West district.According to the latest health department’s record, the state has a total of 516,180 doses in stock. The state is expected to receive additional 404,210 doses in August and another 8,650 in September.“We have been promised to deliver 3.92 lakhs doses in July and we got total 9.55 lakh doses,” informed National Health Mission director Dr Siddhartha Shiv Jaiswal.He also informed that a total of 24 oxygen plants are supposed to be set up in the state of which three have been completed. The rest of the plants are expected to be set up by August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-health-workers-cross-hurdles-to-vaccinate-people-in-remote-areas-101627826243953.html
01-08-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata youth arrested for attempt to sell guns on social media||The Kolkata Police on Sunday arrested a 24-year-old man for attempting to sell improvised firearms to members of two groups created on WhatsApp and Facebook, police said.The accused, Kishan Jaiswal, was arrested from the Manicktala area in north Kolkata. “A single-shot country-made pistol and a cartridge were seized from his possession. Jaiswal had posed with these in photographs that he posted. The groups were not public and only the members could access these,” an officer of Manicktala police station said on condition of anonymity. During interrogation, Jaiswal told the police that the other firearm he posed with was lying with one of his associates who lives in the Bhatpara area of North 24 Parganas district. The associate is an accused in criminal cases, he said. Raids are being conducted to nab the second suspect, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-youth-arrested-for-attempt-to-sell-guns-on-social-media-101627823842528.html
01-08-2021||Other||Two days after quitting Congress; Assam MLA joins ruling BJP||Two days after he resigned as the primary member of Congress, Sushanta Borgohain, MLA from Thowra seat in Assam’s Jorhat district, joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. The 43-year-old joined the BJP at the party’s Assam head office. BJP state president Bhabesh Kalita, minister Pijush Hazarika and several senior party officials were present on the occasion. “I congratulate Borgohain on joining BJP and am sure the move will strengthen our party. I wish him the best in his new innings. Congress is now almost non-existent in Upper Assam,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said after Borgohain met him on Sunday. The two-time legislator had resigned from Congress on Friday citing differences. On Saturday, in a letter addressed to Speaker Biswajit Daimary, he had resigned as MLA from the assembly. “Since I have left Congress, I would not like to comment on the internal issues of that party. As I felt I had more possibility of serving my constituency better by joining BJP, I took that decision,” Borgohain said after joining BJP. Borgohain is the second Congress MLA after Mariani legislator Rupjyoti Kurmi quit the party and move to BJP. The developments come within three months of the formation of the second BJP-led government in the state. On Friday, the BJP Assam president told HT that another legislator, Phanidhar Talukdar of the opposition All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) from Bhabanipur seat, will also join the party towards the end of August. “Assam CM isn’t focused on tasks at hand. The state is fast losing friends in the northeast thanks to his actions like issuing travel advisory urging residents of Assam not to visit Mizoram,” said state Congress president Bhupen Borah. “Sarma is indulging in cheap politics like saying there is no need of opposition. Despite enjoying majority in the assembly, he and the BJP are busy poaching opposition MLAs and trying to establish a monopolistic regime,” he added. In the assembly elections held in March-April this year, BJP had won 60 of the total 126 seats and returned to power with the support of Asom Gana Parishad which got 9 and United Peoples Party Liberal that got 6 seats. On the other hand, Congress bagged 26 and AIUDF got 16. Less than a month after elections results were announced on May 2, two newly elected MLAs-Leho Ram Boro of UPPL and Majendra Narzary of Bodoland Peoples Party died due to Covid-19 complications. With Congress’s Kurmi resigning, three seats are vacant in the state at present. With the elevation of former chief minister and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal to the rank of a cabinet minister in New Delhi, his seat will get vacant soon. And with the entry of Borgohain and Talkudar to BJP, two more seats are likely to become empty in the next few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-days-after-quitting-congress-assam-mla-joins-ruling-bjp-101627823123190.html
01-08-2021||Bhopal||IMD issues rainfall alerts for 26 districts in Madhya Pradesh||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued alerts for 26 districts of Madhya Pradesh, warning of "very heavy to extremely heavy" rains in 10 districts, and "heavy to very heavy" showers in the remaining 16, in the next 24 hours. A "red alert" is issued for the former category, while an "orange alert" is issued for the latter."Showers ranging from 115.6 mm to 204.5 mm or above, along with thunderstorms and lightning, are very likely at isolated places in Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena, Bhind, Neemuch and Mandsaur," PK Saha, a senior meteorologist at the IMD's regional office in Bhopal, informed about districts for which the red alert has been sounded.Saha further forecast rainfall in the range of 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm, along with thunderstorms and lightning, at isolated places in 16 other districts. These are: Bhopal, Rewa, Sidhi, Satna, Singrauli, Sagar, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Panna, Tikamgarh, Raisen, Rajgarh, Sehore, Vidisha and Agar-Malwa. The official further projected rains in most districts under 10 revenue divisions including Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Gwalior, Chambal and Ujjain.Saha further explained why areas in the state close to the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh were experiencing torrential rains. "A well-marked low-pressure area is persisting over south-east Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to move west-northwest over the next two days," the meteorologist said.Heavy rains lashed Madhya Pradesh during the 24-hour period that ended at 8:30am on Sunday. According to the weather department, Rewa district's Hanumana area received the highest rainfall at 155.4 mm, while Raghogarh in Guna district in the western region of the state recorded the lowest rainfall in this period, at 88 mm.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/imd-issues-rainfall-alert-for-26-districts-in-madhya-pradesh-101627815940592.html
01-08-2021||Bangalore||BJP central leadership likely to decide on Karnataka cabinet expansion by August 2, says CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the decision of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s central leadership pertaining to the state cabinet expansion would arrive at the latest by Monday (August 2). When asked if the party’s central leadership would take a week to decide on the issue, Bommai said, “I expect it today or tomorrow,” news agency PTI reported.Earlier on Saturday, too, Bommai made similar comments when he said he expected a message from the party’s high-command in a couple of days regarding the state cabinet expansion. He was on a two-day visit to Delhi during which he had met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party president JP Nadda, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Mansukh Mandaviya and other ministers from Karnataka.Upon his return from the visit to Bengaluru, Bommai also said that he could not reveal if the cabinet expansion will take place in two stages. Further, he also said that he had not submitted any list of ministers to the senior leaders in Delhi.Also read | After CM change, buzz grows over Karnataka cabinet rejigMeanwhile, Bommai also said that he would visit Delhi again soon following which the cabinet would be decided. “I could not meet JP Nadda (BJP National President) today, but had met him yesterday. Most likely they will send a message to me in two days and I will have to go to Delhi once again. We will finalise the cabinet,” news agency PTI quoted Bommai as saying earlier on Saturday, adding, “Ours is a national party. Suggestions and discussions should happen. After that a decision will be taken (on cabinet expansion).”Bommai was elected for the state’s top post on July 27 at the BJP’s legislature party meeting after former chief minister BS Yediyurappa decided to step down. He assumed office on July 28 and is currently the only cabinet member of his government.Several senior leaders within the party and members who joined from the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition in 2019, have already expressed their desire to be part of the cabinet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-central-leadership-likely-to-decide-on-karnataka-cabinet-expansion-by-august-2-says-cm-bommai-101627815938122.html
01-08-2021||Pune||Pune rural accounts for 60% Covid cases in district; positivity rate stays above state average||The villages and municipal councils in rural Pune have been contributing to over 60 per cent of the district’s daily caseload (from July 24 to July 30) which is now driving up the district’s overall Covid-19 count.The positivity rate currently stands above six per cent which is above the state average.A total of over 1,300 villages and 16 municipal councils account for the Pune rural population of over 52 lakh.With the sowing season round the corner movement of farmers and villagers remains difficult to control. Although rural Pune continues to remain under Level four restrictions with added restrictions than the city on paper, on the ground the movement of people remains undeterred.During the weekly Covid-19 review meeting on Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that while the city has a lower positivity rate despite more relaxations as compared to the villages, people living in rural Pune are found to floating Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.He said, “People in the villages are not wearing face masks which is leading to an upsurge in the daily new cases and active cases in the villages. Villagers are not strictly following mandatory regulations as basic as wearing a mask.”Dr Abhishek Lunawat, who runs his private hospital, Anand hospital, in Shirur taluka, said, “When people come to us with flu-like symptoms and then we recommend them to undergo Covid-19 tests, they simply decline it and change the doctor. People give excuses including that they got wet in the rains and caught a cold or drank cold water but deny to undergo tests.”“During the weekly market, people ignore all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and crowd the markets. People remove their masks while talking to someone even in our hospitals. Although there is a huge crowd for vaccination, villagers do not observe precautions as much as they should,” he said.However, the rural administration states that the rise in the numbers is because of better reporting and because of the highly susceptible population in the rural areas.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “The population which was not exposed earlier is now being infected. The fear factor is also proportional to the number of new cases being reported.”“We can also see that there is some non-compliance from the people regards wearing masks or social distancing. However, the rural police are doing their job to penalise people. We have penalised ten times more than the number of people penalised in the Pimpri-Chinchwad,” he said.“Another reason why Pune rural is reporting more cases is because of the concentrated testing that is happening in the hotspots where we are bound to find more cases. Instead of doing random testing, we are detecting more cases from the hotspots so that there could be early isolation and early treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-accounts-for-60-covid-cases-in-district-positivity-rate-stays-above-state-average-101627815261572.html
01-08-2021||Pune||Your Space: Penalise those who build bad roads, risk lives, say Punekars about sloppy monsoon work carried out by PMC||The rains have exposed the sloppy monsoon preparedness works carried out by Pune Municipal Corporation across the city. As broken pavement blocks and pothole-ridden roads pose threat to pedestrians and vehicle-users, what strict actions should be taken against officials and contractors? Penalise those responsible for bad roads Firstly, all the extra budget of pavements should be diverted towards road repairs. We have seen pavement blocks changed frequently even if it is in good condition. Secondly, if there is a pothole on a particular road, the contractor and the person whose duty is to oversee the quality of work should be suspended immediately as it’s a kind of theft where taxpayers’ money is wasted on sub-standard and compromised quality of work thereby endangering the lives of citizens, especially two-wheelers. If anyone suffers serious injury due to bad roads, the people involved in making that stretch of the road should be booked for culpable homicide. Sachin Khandelwal Focus on quality of infrastructure The current weather has clearly exposed the sloppy monsoon preparedness by the Pune Municipal Corporation. As an awakened citizen, I believe that this is blatant underuse of taxes that we common people pay. The issue raised here is not about whether or not PMC and their officials have prepared and carried out the work to build roads and pavements for citizens, my point is that the civic body and officials truly need to focus on the “quality of the infrastructure” that they are building. This brings us to a question — what action must be taken against such officers and contractors? I personally feel that simply cancelling the licence is not the apt action that can be taken. My suggestion would be to simply pass an order against such contractors and officers to get the work done under the “zero profit condition” or, on identifying such a case of poor quality of work, to simply ask the contractors to redo the work under conditions that only 1/3 of the cost shall be paid from the PMC treasury (the tax that the common people pay) and the rest shall be borne by the contractor and officer from their personal expense. It will result in their financial loss which is far greater than them being suspended for the action. I condemn politicising the issue as the duties of officers and contractors know no political party and each and every citizen must understand this. Krutarth K Kotnis No development after coming under PMC I am a plastic surgeon, a veteran of the Indian Armed forces. We have been living in Mohammadwadi and Undri areas since 2003. Prior to coming under PMC, we accepted that the local panchayats are guilty and responsible for poor roads. But conditions have only become worse since we have come into the municipal limits. Mushrooming unplanned housing societies have led to a tremendous increase in traffic. And road conditions worsen especially in the monsoons. My neighbour’s daughter met with a major accident on her scooter because of potholes in this area. The NIBM road from Clover Highlands to Palace Orchard is being continuously dug up by various agencies leading to extremely dangerous situation. Presently, pipeline work is on, decreasing the lane width and creating massive potholes on the remaining stretch. With Undri developing rapidly, the infrastructure is not progressing at that pace. Poor roads, no potable PMC water supply, irregular electricity supply make us wonder if we were not better off when we were still Undrigaon under a village panchayat and not PMC. Col Dr Ravishanker (retd) Law to claim compensation for bad road injury Citizens should start claiming compensation from PMC for hardship and injuries caused due to poor civic works. Especially those who suffer sprains or injuries due to potholes, footpaths and bad roads. There has to be a law to claim compensation from the contractor. Name and contact number of contractor and work order number is still not displayed on each work site. Workorder should be available to citizens on PMC web site. It will be a worthy step towards Smart City. Surendra Birje Penalise official, blacklist contractor Officials who are not doing their duty should be punished with salary cuts and stripped from job. The contractor concerned should be blacklisted and licence cancelled. Chetan Wadkar PMC ignores scientific road laying methods Residents undergo trauma and hardship on roads for pothole, cracks, fissures that appear during monsoon season. Pothole-ridden roads often hidden beneath flooded areas, lead to accidents and fatalities. While the only section who benefits are road contractors as they get to do repeated repairs, maintenance or even lay new roads. It is evident that PMC engineers do not follow standard, norms and techniques framed for road laying in STAC (Standing Technical Advisory Committee) report. STAC report was prepared by a technical committee comprising experts in the field of road engineering and construction in order to advise PMC on road-making strategy. It is a detailed and meticulous report, result of PIL filed before the high court’s order. PMC has no record of the road that must be laid. They only go by pressure tactics of elected representative. The state government is equally at fault for not understanding the seriousness of such an important issue, to issue a GR for mandatorily compliance so that tax paying citizens do not have to face deteriorating road condition. Qaneez Sukhrani||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-penalise-those-who-build-bad-roads-risk-lives-say-punekars-about-sloppy-monsoon-work-carried-out-by-pmc-101627815081648.html
01-08-2021||Lucknow||Owaisi opposes UP's population policy; asks Yogi to focus on jobs, healthcare||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi voiced his opposition to the draft population control bill proposed by Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government and criticised the chief minister for what he called the government’s failure to address issues like unemployment and livelihoods in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Owaisi also highlighted that last year the Centre in an affidavit submitted to the apex court said ‘any coercion to have a certain number of children is counterproductive and leads to demographic distortions’ and asked the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to clarify on their collective stance.“According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data of 1999-2000 (the recent data is not published yet), the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) in Hindus was 1.2% while for Muslims it was 1.66%. I challenge BJP to tell me whether this data is true or not. If they think it is true, then why is this bill in place,” the AIMIM chief was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Owaisi cited a projection report to claim that the population in India continues to drop, and claimed that Uttar Pradesh's demographic dividend will last till 2050.Owaisi said that Uttar Pradesh has at least 4 lakh malnourished children but the healthcare sector in the state continues to dither owing to lack of adequate primary healthcare centres, sub-centres and community health centres. He also took a dig at the state government for its “failure” to answer as to why “dead bodies were floating in rivers and people died due to shortage of oxygen.”“Population control 'law' is against the fundamental right of the people of India. ICMR study says the real extent of COVID spread is far more than reported numbers. In states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh the majority of Covid cases weren't counted. The government failed in preventing the second wave, then deserted Indians in need. Forget providing treatment, it didn't even care to count properly,” Owaisi said in a series of tweets.Last month, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled the state's Population Policy 2021-2030 on the occasion of the World Population Day. He said that every community has been taken care of in population policy. These developments come just months ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated for next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/owaisi-opposes-up-s-population-policy-asks-yogi-to-focus-on-jobs-healthcare-101627813843166.html
01-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Less than 1,000 fined for not wearing mask for 16th day||Delhi Police issued fewer than 1,000 challans (penalties) to people in the capital for 16th consecutive day on Saturday for not wearing face masks amid the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials told news agency PTI on Sunday.On Saturday, the police issued 833 challans. Of these, 37 people were prosecuted for not following social distancing, 34 for spitting and 22 people were prosecuted for consuming liquor, betel leaves, tobacco, gutka, data showed.Police officials told new agency PTI that on July 15, as many as 1,113 people were prosecuted for not wearing a mask and since then, the penalties have remained below the 1,000-mark.Between April 19 and July 31, as many as 164,562 people were prosecuted for not wearing a face mask and 194,496 challans issued, the Delhi Police’s data further showed. During this period, over 26,000 people were fined by the police for not following social distancing; 1,558 for taking part in large public gatherings and congregations; 1,481 for consuming liquor, pan, tobacco and gutka; and 740 people for spitting, data released by the police showed.The national capital was placed under a complete lockdown from April 19 when there were 23,000-28,000 cases daily. However, the situation started improving in the middle of May and the Delhi government began easing the restrictions in place to contain the virus from May 31.More than 14.36 million cases of the coronavirus disease have been reported in Delhi till now of which 1,410,631 patients have recovered, 25,053 have died and the active cases stand at 581, according to the health department’s bulletin. On Saturday, there were 58 new cases, 56 recoveries and one more death due to Covid-19.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-less-than-1-000-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-for-16th-day-101627810818811.html
01-08-2021||Delhi||Metro meddle: Have seat, won’t sit!||What was the biggest concern for Delhi Metro travellers uptill now? Getting a seat, right! But now that the Metro authorities have allowed 100% seat occupancy, which amounts to 20% full capacity of a Metro train, there’s still a concern. While it might seem like a dream come true for commuters, it’s actually proving to be a deal breaker for many reeling under the stress and fear of Covid-19. “Delhi is still reporting cases of Covid every day, and in such a scenario, sitting with my shoulders rubbing onto a fellow passenger that too in a closed space like a metro train is unimaginable for me,” says Tarun Verma, a resident of Pitampura, adding, “I had some work in Noida and initially thought that I’ll take the metro. But this 100% seating rule has made me change my mind. I’m not comfortable sitting so close to someone. There is no way to know if the other person is vaccinated. It’s not like ki koi vaccine status check kar raha hai!” “Thodha adjust karna” is something that one often heard in the Metro, in the pre pandemic times, when people expected fellow passengers to shift a little and accommodate them in the seating arrangement. But this habit of travellers has become annoying to another level in the present circumstances. Sarthak Mishra, a student of DU’s Ramjas College, says, “People are not allowed to stand in the metro now. So now they are asking for seat more often saying things like ‘Beta, thoda shift ho jao’. Arre but uncle ji I don’t want to sit so close to you, Covid abhi gaya nahi hai! How do I explain this to every second person. Par ab yehi ho raha hai… three seats par four people want to sit chipak chipak ke so that they are not fined for travelling while standing.” And it’s not easy for everyone to ditch the Metro because commuting via public transport is certainly more budget friendly. Ruing about the skyrocketing fuel prices, Ashish Jain, a resident of Adarsh Nagar who travels daily to Gurugram for work, says, “It’s impossible for me to take a cab every day from my house to my office. So I’m forced to take the metro and travel in a packed compartment even if the fear of a third wave of corona is hanging on my head and my family worries about me. I understand ki baithna zaroori hai, but ab agar seat nahi milegi toh kitni trains miss karun? I have no option but to travel while standing, as I can’t report late for work everyday on the pretext of waiting for a seat in the Metro!” In such a scenario, travelling with babies is a complete no-no for mommies. Manisha Verma, a teacher from Shalimar Bagh says, “My parents stay in Malviya Nagar and it would have been convenient for me to take the Metro, especially because roads are usually waterlogged in the monsoon. But I can’t think of taking my baby with me and sitting right next to someone in the metro even if I’m getting ample sitting space in the ladies coach. If there’s no social distancing then I can’t take a chance to expose myself or my kid to someone who might be an asymptomatic carrier since kids aren’t even vaccinated yet. I’ve been reading that the third wave is going to be very dangerous for kids, and kids being kids even refuse to wear mask at all times.” While many may feel that the present situation means ending up in an overcrowded metro, Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited (DMRC) says: “In view of the revised guidelines issued by the government, travel in the Delhi Metro has been permitted from 50% of its seating capacity to 100% with no standing travel from July 26. In this regard, DMRC would like to reiterate that even with these revised guidelines, a maximum 50 passengers per coach are permitted as against 300 prior to Covid. Entry to stations will therefore continue to be regulated. Currently, Metro is offering only about 1/5th (20%) of its overall carrying capacity in adherence to the guidelines.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-meddle-have-seat-won-t-sit-101627811308242.html
01-08-2021||Lucknow||'Our doors open...' Akhilesh Yadav hints at alliance for 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||As political parties in Uttar Pradesh gear up for the 2022 assembly elections, which are likely to take place early year, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday extended an invitation to small regional parties for an alliance, remarking that SP's doors are open "for all small parties.""Doors of our party are open for all small parties. Many smaller parties are already with us. More parties will come with us," Yadav told news agency PTI in an interview. On a possible alliance with his uncle Shivpal's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, Yadav said his party would try to unite everyone against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The former UP chief minister further said there have been no talks with the Bhagidari Sanklap Morcha, a coalition of parties led by Om Prakash Rajbhar's Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party.Yadav also asked the other two main Opposition parties in the state, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress, to decide whether they are with the BJP or SP. The two parties have attacked the SP over various issues. Incidentally, the SP had formed an alliance with the Congress for the 2017 assembly elections, and with the BSP for the 2019 general elections. However, both the elections were swept by the BJP.On his projections for the upcoming assembly polls, he said the SP would win 350 seats, calling the figure "realistic." Yadav said, "Resentment is brewing among the people and they are waiting for a chance to uproot the BJP from the state. With the development work done during our term, people have realised they were fooled in 2017 and made a mistake by voting for the BJP." The Yogi Adityanath government, he said, has mishandled every issue, be it the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic or farmers' protests.Yadav described youth, development and welfare of all sections of the society as the primary election issues for his party.In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP came to power by winning more than 300 seats in the 403-member assembly. Meanwhile, the SP won just 47 seats, as against 224 in the 2012 polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/our-doors-open-akhilesh-yadav-hints-at-alliance-for-2022-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101627808342630.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid: Lalbaugcha Raja Mandal to celebrate Ganesh Charturthi in traditional way||As Maharashtra continues to battle the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal said it would celebrate Ganesh Charturthi in traditional way this year in adherence to virus norms necessitated to contain the spread of the virus, news agency ANI reported on Sunday. The 11-day festival, which is celebrated with much enthusiasm in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra, will begin from September 10.In 2020, the Lalbaughcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal, for the first time in 86 years of its existence, did not celebrate Ganesh Charturthi owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and instead held an 11-day blood and plasma donation drive which assisted health workers in Mumbai in their fight against the viral disease. The Maharashtra government had last year issued guidelines for Ganesh pandals and set the height for all idols at four feet.According to ANI, this year too, the state government has issued guidelines to restrict the height of Ganesha idols to up to four feet. The height of the idols in public celebrations has been restricted to four feet while those in homes have been limited to two feet.It has appealed to residents to carry out all festivities in line with Covid appropriate behaviour and also avoid crowding. Ganeshotsav Mandals have also been directed by the government to seek permission from the local administration.Maharashtra has so far recorded 6,303,715 cases, 132,791 deaths and 6,090,786 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease. On Saturday, nearly 7,000 people were detected Covid-19 positive while 225 succumbed and 7,467 recovered from the viral disease. The ongoing Covid-19 restrictions in 25 districts, including Mumbai, may see more relaxations today as they have a lower Covid-19 positivity and growth rate than the state’s average.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-lalbaugcha-raja-mandal-to-celebrate-ganesh-charturthi-in-traditional-way-101627808560322.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis seeks all-party meet to discuss measures for tackling floods||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to convene an all-party meeting to discuss long-term measures for tackling floods, in the wake of some parts of the state facing deluge after heavy rains last month.Fadnavis, who toured flood-ravaged areas of the Konkan region and western Maharashtra over the last few days, in a letter to the chief minister said all previous reports pertaining to floods should be studied and their recommendations be implemented.He also sought a separate disaster management authority for districts in Konkan, considering the frequency of natural calamities in the region."For deliberating on long-term measures, an all-party meeting should be convened," the former CM said in the letter while listing 26 demands.He sought a separate fund to provide immediate financial assistance to the kin of the flood victims and the affected people. Cleanliness of the flood-hit areas should also be taken up on priority, Fadnavis said.He demanded that the administration take steps to provide food, clothing, medicines and temporary shelter to the flood affected people. Fadnavis said around 700 Covid-19 patients and 25 deaths are reported every day in Kolhapur, and demanded special safety precautions against the viral infection.Notably, Kolhapur in western Maharashtra was severely affected by floods last month.Fadnavis said the financial aid for crop losses and cleaning of agriculture land should be deposited in the bank accounts of farmers immediately. He also demanded financial assistance for fishermen in the Konkan region and for shopkeepers in flood-hit areas. The BJP leader further sought relief for handcart pullers and street vendors. He also demanded an allowance for those whose houses have been damaged, till they are rehabilitated.Special loan scheme at concessional interest rates should be formulated for different sections of society to resurrect their lives, he said.The government should help banks to implement such a scheme, he added Fadnavis also said a scheme initiated during his government's tenure about the construction of diversion canals to channelise flood waters to drought-hit areas should be expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/devendra-fadnavis-seeks-all-party-meet-to-discuss-measures-for-tackling-floods-101627807885957.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana man kills 2 kids before dying by suicide over wife’s extramarital affair||A 32 year old man, who was disturbed over his wife’s alleged extramarital affair with his neighbour, killed his two kids late on Saturday night before dying by suicide in a village in Haryana's Karnal district, said police.His family members said the deceased was living with his 3 year old son and 6 year old boy after his wife allegedly eloped with his neighbour. He killed them both before hanging himself, the police said.A police complaint has been filed by the family accusing the deceased’s wife and her lover of forcing him to take this step.According to the complaint, the deceased was married 8 years ago but his wife later started an affair with their neighbour and eloped with him on June 25, leaving her husband and kids behind. The duo also threatened the deceased, forcing him to the brink, the complaint alleged.Sachin Kumar, incharge of Indri police station said a case has been registered against deceased’s wife and her lover under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Panel Code. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and investigation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-man-kills-2-kids-before-dying-by-suicide-over-wife-s-extramarital-affair-101627805661029.html
01-08-2021||Patna||Two fake firms in Patna found to have evaded ₹20 crore in GST||The commercial taxes department in Patna has detected two fake firms that claimed false input tax credit (ITC) and evaded around ₹20 crore tax by flouting rules of goods and services taxes (GST).On Saturday, during a raid by the commercial taxes department, addresses of the two firms, submitted as their principal place of business in Patna and Munger, were found to be fake.Commissioner cum secretary, commercial taxes, Dr Pratima said the two firms claiming to be dealing in mustard oil and oilseeds are suspected to be shell companies that falsely claimed huge sales in states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. The commissioner said the firms had claimed to have done business worth ₹400 crore over the last few years.“There are businessmen involved in this clandestine trade and tax evasion who were [purportedly] supplying mustard oil to mills. They were claiming false ITC and flouting other GST rules. We are carrying out further investigation to track these fake dealers,” the commissioner said.In the last one month, the commercial taxes department has searched and raided a large number of firms dealing in marbles, edible items, iron and steel in the state revealing tax evasion in crores of rupees. The department has been selecting suspicious firms through data analytics and human intelligence to create their 360 degree profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-fake-firms-in-patna-found-to-have-evaded-rs-20-crore-in-gst-101627804340644.html
01-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt issues SOPs for reopening schools in state from Aug 2||The education department of Uttarakhand has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools in the state from August 2 for the students of 9-12 classes and from August 16 for 6-8 classes."All schools have been asked to strictly follow Covid 19 protocols and classes will function in two shifts where number of students is higher", Uttrakhand education minister Arvind Pandey tweeted.State education secretary Radhika Jha has issued the SOP order on Saturday, stating that classes for 9 to 12 will commence from August 2, and classes for 6 to 8 will be conducted from August 16 in the schools of all education boards.The order also said that before the opening of the schools, all the classrooms, laboratories, libraries, toilets, drinking water, etc. such places where physical movements of students and teachers take place, should be thoroughly sanitized.A nodal officer should be nominated by the concerned school, who will be responsible for compliance with the guidelines related to social distancing and Covid protocols.If any student or teacher or other school staff shows symptoms of cough, cold, or fever, they will be sent back home after giving first aid.The SOP order said, If a situation of infection arises among the students, teachers, and other staff of the school, then the concerned principal and the nodal officer will be required to inform the district administration or health department immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-sops-for-reopening-schools-in-state-from-aug-2-101627799208470.html
01-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to open Grey Line extension, Pink Line segment on August 6||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Sunday that the Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line of the Delhi Metro and the Trilokpuri section of Pink Line will be inaugurated on August 6. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri will unveil the two sections through video conferencing, the DMRC said. The Delhi Metro network will now expand to 390 kilometres with 286 stations.“The Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line and the Trilokpuri section of Pink Line will be inaugurated by the Hon’ble Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Sh. Hardeep Singh Puri & the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi, Sh. Arvind Kejriwal on 6th August,” the DMRC shared the news on Twitter on Sunday, adding passenger services on both the sections will commence at 3pm on August 6 itself.Officials told news agency PTI on Sunday that the 891-metre long Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section will take the Delhi Metro further into the interior areas of Najafgarh. Hindustan Times reported in July that the DMRC would soon open its first ever underground integrated parking facility, which will come up at the upcoming Dhansa bus stand station on the Grey Line.The Najafgarh - Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line and the Trilokpuri section of Pink Line will be inaugurated by the Hon'ble Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Sh. Hardeep Singh Puri & the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Delhi, Sh. Arvind Kejriwal on 6th August.Meanwhile, the opening of the Trilokpuri section between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations will fully link the entire Pink Line of the Delhi Metro and will also connect important spots in the national capital including Nizamuddin railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Anand Vihar railway station and markets in Lajpat Nagar, INA and South extension, the above mentioned officials added.The Pink Line of the Delhi Metro comprises 38 stations. However, a small portion in Trilokpuri area, which is located in east Delhi, proved a bottleneck for metro authorities for a long time due to which the line remained disjointed for some distance there, PTI further reported.Since July 26, metros in Delhi have been running at their full seating capacity amid an improvement in the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Authorities have banned standing travel inside coaches and a maximum of a maximum of 50 passengers per coach are only permitted, the DMRC had earlier said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-open-grey-line-extension-pink-line-segment-on-august-6-101627799697012.html
01-08-2021||Jaipur||BJP MP held for disturbing peace after hoisting community flag at Rajasthan fort||Rajasthan Police on Sunday arrested Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Member of Parliament from Rajya Sabha Kirori Meena for disturbing the peace and said the tribal leader had sneaked into Ambagarh fort and unfurled a white coloured tribal flag despite police restrictions.Meena’s act was a show of protest against independent MLA Ramkesh Meena, who is accused of having removed a saffron flag from the fort a few days ago and planning a rally accusing Hindu outfits of interference in the culture of the tribal community.The fort historically belongs to the Meenas and people of the community often visit the shiv temple located there. Recently, a group from the community allegedly led by independent MLA Ramkesh Meena removed and tore a saffron flag at the fort, accusing Hindu outfits of trying to tamper with the tribal culture.Ramkesh Meena, who is supporting the ruling Congress government in the state, is also planning a rally in Jaipur on the issue apart from giving a memorandum to chief minister Ashok Gehlot.After a video of the removal of the saffron flag went viral, Hindu outfits raised objections.BJP MP Kirori Meena accused Ramkesh Meena of misleading the community and creating disharmony. He said that Meenas were Hindus and Ramkesh Meena was distorting facts.Demanding action against the MLA, Kirori announced he would unfurl a flag at Ambagarh fort on Sunday. Following his announcement, there was deployment of heavy police force in the area but Kirori Meena dodged the police to enter the fort with his supporters from the rear side after trekking through the hilly terrain in the early hours of Sunday despite rains.Reacting to Meena hoisting a white flat in the fort, Ramkesh Meena said he didn’t have a problem with it. “There would have been no dispute if Kirori would have stated that he was going to hoist the community flag and not a saffron flag. The community flag is already there,” he said.Ramkesh Meena also suggested that his group had not removed and torn the saffron flag at the fort. “We raised our objection to the forest officials, who called the people who hoisted [the] saffron flag. They accepted their mistake and themselves removed the flag,” he said.BJP leader and former CM Vasundhara Raje has condemned Kirori Meena’s arrest and demanded his immediate release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-mp-held-for-disturbing-peace-after-hoisting-community-flag-at-rajasthan-fort-101627799540423.html
01-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 32 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deaths||Jharkhand reported 32 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, which pushed the tally to 3,47,137, a health department bulletin said.The Covid-19 death toll rose to 5,128 in the state with two fresh fatalities due to the contagion reported from East Singhbhum and Bokaro, it said on Saturday.Of the 32 new cases, Ranchi reported six cases followed by East Singhbhum (3).Jharkhand currently has 260 active Covid-19 cases while 3,41,749 people have recovered from the disease so far in the state, it said.In the last 24 hours, a total of 50,954 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-32-new-covid-19-cases-2-more-deaths-101627795742215.html
01-08-2021||Lucknow||Bank officer’s wife involved in embezzlement of ₹9.46 cr arrested in Prayagraj||Wife of a Kotak Mahindra Bank officer who was jailed last year in ₹9.46 crores embezzlement case was arrested from Civil Lines in Prayagraj on Friday for allegedly conniving with her husband in misappropriation of embezzled funds among other charges. Mansi Pandey was evading arrest since July last year when her husband Anshuman Dubey was arrested for siphoning off funds from Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Civil Lines branch in the city, police said.During questioning after her arrest in the past two days, she has confessed to have known her husband’s complicity in the embezzlement and having wilfully spent the illegal proceeds for buying a residential property and jewellery, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. Some other information provided by her is now being probed, he added.Mansi’s husband Anshuman Dubey, a service delivery officer (SDO) with Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Civil Lines branch was arrested for conniving with at least 11 other individuals including the branch manager for siphoning off ₹9.46 crore within a year and a half before a police complaint was lodged against him on April 5, 2020, station house officer (SHO) of Civil Lines police station Ravindra Pratap Singh said. The complaint alleged that Dubey had swept away bank’s funds he was responsible for depositing at Bank of Baroda’s Khuldabad branch in Prayagraj since Kotak Mahindra didn’t have a currency chest in the city. During investigation, it also emerged that Dubey used to lend money at high interest rates.Singh added that police investigations revealed involvement of around a dozen people in the embezzlement, following which, Anshuman Dubey, his landlord Kamalraj Sachdeva, former bank manager Matambar Pandey, Pinku Tiwari, Praveen Kumar Dubey and Ajay Sharma were arrested on July 3, 2020.The police also managed to recover ₹1.02 crore in cash, jewellery worth ₹70 lakh and luxury vehicles worth ₹25 lakh from the accused. However, Anshuman’s wife Mansi Pandey could not be arrested then, the SHO said.After her arrest a year later, police have found that Mansi’s bank accounts in Punjab National Bank, HDFC, State Bank of India and Kotak Mahindra received huge deposits during the period of embezzlement, which were withdrawn later. She has been sent to jail and further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bank-officer-s-wife-involved-in-embezzlement-of-rs-9-46-cr-arrested-in-prayagraj-101627794320302.html
01-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may relax Covid-19 curbs in 25 districts today, decide on Mumbai trains soon||Maharashtra may on Sunday loosen the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions in as many as 25 districts across the state. Announcing that the government is mulling over a plan to do so, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier this week that authorities are also considering allowing fully vaccinated people to travel on local trains in Mumbai.As of now, malls and theatres have been completely shut across the state. Section 144 is applicable and not more than five people can gather at a public place while movements should be minimal after 5pm. Shops selling essentials are allowed to stay open till 4pm on a daily basis and those related to non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Gyms and saloons are operational only till 4pm, with appointments and without air-conditioners. Restaurants can open till 4 pm only on weekdays, after which, only takeaways will be allowed.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting on Thursday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, health minister Tope said that coronavirus curbs are likely relaxed in the 25 districts, including Mumbai, which have reported a lower positivity and growth rate than the state's average.No relaxations will be given to the remaining 11 districts which have positivity and growth rates more than the state average, the health minister said, adding that a joint proposal from the state health and relief and rehabilitation departments was submitted to the chief minister in the matter.This means there will be no relaxation in Covid-19 curbs in the districts of Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Beed, Raigad Pune, and Osmanabad. All of these regions have reported infection growth rate more than the state's average -- 0.11 per cent.The Maharashtra health minister also said that if necessary, the administration might also consider imposing stricter Covid-19 curbs in these areas.Maharashtra imposed stricter Covid-19 norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three after cases of Delta-plus variants were found last month. The first two levels having maximum relaxations were removed till further order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-relax-curbs-in-25-districts-today-decide-on-mumbai-trains-soon-101627784564325.html
01-08-2021||Kolkata||CPI(M) to discipline former leader’s daughter for article on Mamata Banerjee||The West Bengal unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), is all set to take action against Ajanta Biswas, daughter of former state secretary Anil Biswas, for writing an article highlighting chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s role in women empowerment, which was published in Jago Bangla, the daily mouthpiece of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). The article, which appeared on Saturday, projects the chief minister as a nonconformist while arguing that the firebrand leader played a historic role in state politics and ensured empowerment of women and movement at the grassroots level. Biswas is a member of the CPI(M). She will be asked to explain why she wrote it. The party will decide its action after examining her reply, CPI(M) leaders told HT. CPI(M) leaders have been facing a major embarrassment since Wednesday when Jago Bangla started printing a four-part series on women empowerment in Bengal politics written by Biswas, who is an associate professor of history at Kolkata’s Rabindra Bharati University. The articles were prominently carried on the editorial page. Biswas has not been active in politics ever since her father died in 2006. Before that, she was a prominent face of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) unit at Presidency College (now a university) where she studied. The SFI is the students’ front of the CPI(M). While her first three research-based pieces highlighted figures such as Basanti Devi, Sarojini Naidu, Suniti Devi and others from the pre and post-Independence era, the last one focused entirely on Mamata Banerjee.The agitation Banerjee led against farmland acquisition for the Tata small car plant at Singur in Hooghly district contributed largely to her landmark victory against the Left in 2011, the last article said. The Left Front’s 34-year-long rule ended that year. Revered by CPI(M) workers to this day, Anil Biswas was one of the most successful strategists against the TMC. It is widely believed that the TMC managed to build up successful movements after Biswas died in 2006. He was also the editor of Ganashakti, the Bengal CPI(M)’s daily mouthpiece, and a bitter critic of Banerjee. “A CPI(M) local unit in Kolkata will ask Biswas to explain why she wrote for the TMC’s mouthpiece. This has created a stir in the party. Usually, a member is given a week to reply to a show-cause notice. But given the nature of the situation, she will be given less time,” Kallol Majumdar, secretary of the CPI(M)’s Kolkata district committee, told HT on Saturday night. Breaking her silence after three days, Biswas told the media that her articles were based on research. “I am proud to be the daughter of Anil Biswas. It is my family identity. As a professor of history, I wrote the article (on Banerjee) in view of her contribution to politics and her role in empowerment of women,” she said hours before the CPI(M) decided to take action against her. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, who has known Ajanta Biswas for many years, said, “The articles are based on research and should not be seen in the light of the current political scenario. The show-cause notice shows why the CPI(M)’s tally in the state assembly has reduced to zero. The party will soon cease to exist.” Now the state president of the TMC’s trade union front, Ritabarata Banerjee was general secretary of the SFI and a CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member before he was expelled in 2017 on disciplinary grounds. “I am not surprised at all. The CPI(M) is known for its history of issuing show-cause letters. Anyone who does not bow before the leadership faces action,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cpim-to-discipline-former-leader-s-daughter-for-article-on-mamata-banerjee-101627785979410.html
01-08-2021||Delhi||Water supply in these parts of Delhi to be affected today||Water supply in some parts of Delhi will be disrupted on Sunday as the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will repair the leakage under a flyover in the Hauz Khas area. The water board tweeted about the repair work late on Saturday after a portion of the road on the stretch caved in."Due to repair of leakage under Hauz Khas IIT fly over, the morning and evening water supply on 01.08.2021 in the areas of Sarvodaya Enclave, Sarvapriya Vihar, Azad Apartments, Kalu Sarai, Begumpur, Ber Sarai, Jia Sarai, Part of Adchini. Katwaria Sarai, Mehrauli, Green Park,Hauz Khas, RK Puram and adjoining areas will be affected," the Delhi Jal Board said."Residents are requested to store sufficient quantity of water," DJB said as it provided phone numbers to call for water tankers.The board did not say when is the water supply is likely to be restored.The public works department (PWD) said the portion of the road caved in because of the leakage in an underground line of the Delhi Jal Board. "Our engineers are on the spot and are fixing the road. The road caved in because of an underground DJB line which is leaking," PWD engineer-in-chief Shashi Kant told PTI."The leaking line eroded the road leading to cave-in. It is being attended on priority," Kant added.The portion of the road under the IIT-Delhi flyover caved in following heavy rains in the national capital in the last few days, affecting traffic in the area on Saturday, officials said. PWD's assistant engineer UB Singh said It was brought to notice to authorities between 9:30am to 10am."We barricaded the area and informed the traffic department. It is not confirmed but the cause can be a cracked sewer line connected to Delhi Jal Board. No one was injured," UB Singh told ANI.(With agency inpu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-these-parts-of-delhi-to-be-affected-today-101627777176634.html
01-08-2021||Other||Meet Himachal’s first tribal woman to make a mark in filmmaking||It is tough to enter filmmaking when you come from a small state like Himachal, and even tougher to stay put.What makes Renu Negi’s success even more remarkable is the fact that she is the only tribal filmmaker from Himachal who has carved a niche for herself in the world of filmmaking.Born and raised in a humble family in the lesser-known Dubbing village of Kinnaur, a tribal district dotted with rugged mountains, lovely meadows, orchards and furious rivers, Negi has learnt values like diligence, sincerity, integrity and hard work in the early formative days of her life.Her love for nature stimulated her creative side and she had guts to enter a field where only a few women have ventured so far.After completing her education from Shimla, Negi completed her apprenticeship with some of the known film-makers, which helped her in acquiring the finest nuances of filmmaking.“When I look back, my journey has been full of struggle. It was never easy. I have gone through various hardships to reach where I have been today,” said Negi.Negi began with the making of small videos of Himachal folk dances which were telecast on a royalty basis on Doordarshan, Delhi.Later, she started producing documentaries related to Himachal, Art and Culture as well as health issues in 1997.To promote her films, Negi approached the Himachal Pradesh government which got her films previewed by a committee comprising expert filmmakers like Rajiv Mehrotra and government officers. The appreciation from the committee encouraged Negi to start professional filmmaking.“In the struggling years, my endeavour was to extend a helping hand to her father in making a good living and gradually opted for the mainstream media,” said Negi.The New Delhi those days was an established media hub and the journey, in the beginning, looked arduous but I chose not to give in, she added. After the initial struggle, she got empanelled for the various Ministries of Government of India and Doordarshan as an independent filmmaker and started her own production house RN Productions in 1998.“My tribal background was initially seen as an instrument of undermining my strengths but my resilience and determination paid,” said Negi.She has made more than 95 films on various subjects of national and international importance and for government and private agencies.Despite her work being recognised at various levels, Negi said, she continued to work on improving the quality of my films.The big moment in her filmmaking journey came in 2018 when she won two awards at 8th National Science Film Festival of India (NSFFI). Her film “Yak: The ship of Mountains” was awarded the best science film. Besides, she also won the best cinematography award for beautifully depicting the beauty of Kinnaur. Negi said her production house always gives opportunity to budding talent—many of them the newcomers who opt for the internship to get the first-hand knowledge and technical experience in filmmaking.She has portrayed the tribal art and culture in her films and the Himalayan tribal belt is her domain of proficiency with the Himachal Pradesh being her first love.Recently, she has produced a documentary film on “Homestay in Himachal” titled “Ghar Se Door Apna Ghar”. Most of her films were focused on tribes of Himachal including Lahaula, Pangwala, kinnaura, Gaddi and Gujjars.She also produced films on the culture and customs of Uttrakhand’s Buxas tribe, Bhil, Gond, Bega tribes of Madhya Pradesh and also tribes of Northeast.Her film on Nishi Tribe Serial “Ek Nishi Aurat Ki Kahani”, fiction film “Wapsi” and documentaries on Mishmi, Khamti, Sherdukpen, and Khasis of Meghalaya and Tribal Musical Instrument of India were telecast in the weekly programmes titled “Janjatiya Darpan” on DD National.Presently, Negi is also doing science-based programmes for India science OTT TV Channels & DD Science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meet-himachal-s-first-tribal-woman-to-make-a-remark-in-filmmaking-101627769959278.html
01-08-2021||Other||Increased human intervention leading to spike in natural disasters, say experts on Kishtwar cloudburst||The cloudburst in Kishtwar on July 28 was so far from Jammu and Kashmir’s worst natural disaster though not the first one to strike. At least 11 adverse weather events such as cloudbursts and flash floods have struck Jammu and Kashmir this year, five of them in July alone. As many as seven people died and 19 went missing after a cloudburst at Honzar village of Kishtwar district on July 28. Srinagar-based meteorologist Farooq Ahmad Bhat said the frequency of adverse weather events is increasing in J&K. “We often see cloudbursts and flash floods in summer, particularly after monsoon rains in July and August and in winter, we experience avalanches after snowfall,” he said. “The frequencies of these have increased due to increased human interventions into nature. There is an increase in deforestation, illegal mining and macadamisation in hilly areas,” he said. “Earlier after the cloudbursts in upper reaches, the flash floods would be less as the forests were thick, there would be more green areas and there was also less macadamisation and cutting of hilly areas,” he said. Shakil Ahmad Romshoo, professor at the department of Earth Sciences and Head Geoinformatics, University of Kashmir, Srinagar, said that there was an increase in the reporting of adverse weather events such as cloudbursts and flash floods. “The reporting of these events has increased but there is no record of observations of these events, except of extremes, in higher reaches in J&K, Ladakh and other Himalayan areas. These phenomena happen in upper areas mostly and we don’t have instrumentation and observatories there to record these events,” he said. “But since communication has improved and internet has reached remote areas, the reporting of these events has increased,” he said. He said cloudburst was an atmospheric phenomenon, but its impacts have increased over the years. “There is a proliferation of construction and roads in otherwise remote areas. So, when a cloudburst hits, it causes a huge damage. Earlier, it was not so as people would not live there,” he said. He said there was a need to not cut mountains indiscriminately for construction of roads. “We can’t implement the strategy of plains in the mountains,” he said. “Our frequency of landslides has increased not only in Kashmir but even in the northeast where road constructions have increased more so for military purposes. People’s activities and urbanisation have direct bearing on landslides,” he said. He said there should be environment friendly infrastructure plans and also proper instrumentation was very necessary to record and observe the adverse weather events such as cloudbursts, landslides, flash floods, earthquakes. “So that an early warning system could be developed, and the extent of damage can be reduced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/increased-human-intervention-leading-to-spike-in-natural-disasters-say-experts-on-kishtwar-cloudburst-101627768938481.html
01-08-2021||Other||Powerful IED detected, defused on Jammu-Poonch highway||Security forces on Saturday morning averted a major tragedy on Jammu-Rajouri- Poonch national highway after alert troops detected a powerful IED concealed in a milk can kept along the highway. “Vehicular traffic on Jammu-Rajouri-Poonch highway was suspended for around three hours and restored after the IED was safely detonated,” said a police official. “Specific information was received by police that some suspicious activity has taken place in Dalogra area along the highway in Rajouri. We immediately suspended the traffic and an operation was launched during which security forces detected an improvised IED,” he added. A bomb disposal squad (BDS) of police reached the spot and safely defused the IED. The IED was planted by suspected terrorists under a culvert at Bathooni-Daogra on Jammu-Rajouri national highway and was subsequently defused by the bomb disposal squad of the Army at 9.10 am. The terrorists are believed to have planted the IED during the intervening night under the cover of darkness, the officials said, adding that a massive search operation is on to arrest the terrorists who were planning to set off the blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/powerful-ied-detected-defused-on-jammu-poonch-highway-101627768698417.html
01-08-2021||Other||Vaccinate students on priority, LG Sinha tells J&K officials||Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha on Saturday said the average first dose vaccination coverage in the 45-plus age group has reached 99.9% in the Union Territory, while underlining priority inoculation of the college and university students. In a meeting with the deputy commissioners and district police heads, Sinha directed for adopting zero-tolerance against non-observance of Covid appropriate behaviour to ensure that the Covid situation remains under control. “As the Covid situation in J&K has improved significantly, now, we can work out a plan to open educational institutions in a staggered manner,” he said. He said as against the committed 6.5 lakh vaccine doses for the current lot, the government of India provided more than 16 lakh doses to J&K. “This will also help the UT government to achieve its target of covering 60% of the population with the first dose by August,” he said. He said positivity rate has dropped to 0.2% and all districts were in the green zone. Divisional commissioners and DCs were instructed to monitor the working of joint teams for effective enforcement of containment measures.118 fresh Covid cases Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 118 fresh novel Coronavirus infections and no death related to the disease. There were 78 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 40 infections. Officials said with 19 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 15 in Baramulla. Fourteen districts had no or single-digit cases. Officials said 58,463 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 113 and the number of active positive cases stood at 1,176. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 318, followed by Jammu district with 111 active cases. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,15,908, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,21,462 and 4,378 people have succumbed to the virus. Jammu district has the highest (1,139) virus-related fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 832 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinate-students-on-priority-lg-sinha-tells-officials-101627768578464.html
01-08-2021||Other||JeM terrorist linked to Pulwama attack among 2 killed, say police||A top Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander allegedly involved in the planning of the 2019 Pulwama attack, which left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead, was among two militants killed in an exchange of fire with security forces on Saturday, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said.The attack brought India and Pakistan on the verge of another war as it prompted New Delhi to launch an air strike on a JeM camp deep inside the Pakistani territory. The Pakistani air force carried out a retaliatory attack and captured an Indian pilot before releasing him days later.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar identified the commander as Ismal Alvi alias Lamboo alias Adnan and said he was a relative of Masood Azhar, who founded JeM after his release from an Indian prison in exchange of passengers of a hijacked plane in 1999.The second militant killed in Saturday’s encounter was identified as Sameer Dar, a militant from Pulwama. “He was also involved in the Lethpora terror attack and figured in NIA’s chargesheet. Out of the 19 accused, eight terrorists have been killed so far,” said Kumar. Kumar said Alvi was killed along with another unidentified JeM operative in the exchange of fire in Pulwama district triggered during a cordon and search operation in a forest. He added Alvi was involved in conspiracy and planning of Pulwama attack and stayed with Adil Dar, the suicide bomber who rammed his explosives laden car into a CRPF convoy, till the day of assault. He added Dar’s video on the attack also featured Alvi’s voice. “The identification of the second terrorist is being ascertained,” said Kumar.The IG said that 14 FIRs were registered against the slain Jaish commander. Kumar said that the chargesheet produced by the NIA in the Pulwama had also named the slain commander.“He was also involved in the killing of SPO Fayaz Ahmed, his wife and daughter in Tral eatlier this month,” said Kumar and added that a M4 rifle, AK 47 rifle, Chinese and a glock pistol were recovered from the encounter spot.General officer commanding 15 Corps, Lt Gen D P Pandey giving details about the operation said the information was generated about the commander and then operation was launched taking all the precautions. “In the morning, contact was established in the forest area and the commander and his associate was killed,” said Lt Gen Pandey.Pandey termed the Jaish commander a highly motivated militant who was an IED expert. “He was also responsible for brainwashing and recruiting youths into the militancy fold,” added Pandey.Jammu and Kashmir Police called the commander’s killing a big success and a setback to Jaish. The killing comes as security forces have intensified the counter-insurgency operations in the Valley.At least 87 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year. They include top commanders of groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jem-terrorist-linked-to-pulwama-attack-among-2-killed-say-police-101627768338557.html
01-08-2021||Other||Two more killed in rain related incidents in Himachal||Two people were killed as the landslides and heavy rains continued to batter Himachal Pradesh.In Chamba, a man was killed after the JCB was hit by a landslide. The deceased identified as Keshav Ram was operating the JCB and was on his way to restore a blocked road.Meanwhile in Kinnaur, one person drowned. No trace of missing persons in Lahaul-Spiti & KulluThere is still no trace of three people who went missing in a flood in Tozing Nullah near Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district on June 28.The rescuers have now pressed sniffer dogs into the rescue operation. Twelve people were swept away when a cloudburst triggered flashflood in Tozing Nullah of which bodies of seven people were discovered and two injured were rescued.In Kullu too, rescuers could not find the bodies of four who were swept away in Brahm Ganga rivulet.Meanwhile, helicopter sorties could not be held for the second consecutive day to evacuate tourists stranded in Udaipur subdivision of the district.As many as 241 people were stranded in Udaipur, Trilokinath, Thirot and Pattan. On Friday, about 150 were rescued.Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, who is supervising the rescue operation, said it will take about 20-25 days to restore all roads. He said footbridges have been set up to rescue stranded people.He said a zip line has been set up by the mechanical wing of PWD and Mountaineering Institute at Shansha Nala to evacuate the stranded people.Schools closed till Aug 9 Schools in Lahaul and Udaipur subdivisions of Lahaul-Spiti district will remain closed till August 9. The decision was taken by the district administration in wake of the prevailing bad weather condition.Deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said schools were to reopen for Class 10, 11 and 12 on Monday but due to weather conditions in the district, it would not be wise to open schools in two the worst-hit subdivisions.Meanwhile, traffic was also disrupted on two national highways due to landslips.The Chandigarh-Manali higway remained closed for traffic for about five hours after a landslide near Pandoh early morning. The highway was restored in the afternoon.In Kullu, National Highway 303 remained closed for over three hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-more-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-in-himachal-101627767678474.html
01-08-2021||Other||SFJ founder Pannun booked for threat calls to Jai Ram||A day after Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur received threats against hoisting the Tricolour on Independence Day, police booked Gurpakhwant Singh Pannun, the founder of US-based banned pro-Khalistani group, ‘Sikhs for Justice’, on Saturday.The FIR has been registered at Cyber Crime police station in Shimla under Sections 124 (sedition), 153-A (act prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 506 (intimidation), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, besides Section 66 of IT Act 2000.“This case has been registered against one Gurpakhwant Singh Pannu based on a recorded audio clip received by many journalists and citizens of Himachal Pradesh on their phones,” Himachal police said in a press statement.The threat received through the alleged audio clip from Gurpakhwant Singh Pannu is under investigation to mitigate any terrorist activity propagated by pro-Khalistani outfits, the statement added.Police said the investigation so far has revealed that these audio clips landed in the phones of journalists and citizens of Himachal Pradesh through international numbers/VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol). “Voice spectrography of the alleged audio clip will be conducted in due course of time to fix criminality of accused,” said the police, adding that the investigation has national and international ramifications, therefore, Himachal Pradesh Police is seeking cooperation from various central agencies to crack down the case and bring the accused to justice.It is worth mentioning that the state police have beefed up the security of the CM and other dignitaries in the state following the threat calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sfj-founder-pannun-booked-for-threat-calls-to-jai-ram-101627767498301.html
01-08-2021||Other||Scientists raise concern over frequent landslides, flashfloods in Himachal||Reoccurrences of landslides and flashfloods in Himachal Pradesh this monsoon season have left the environmentalists and geological experts concerned. The state has recorded an increase of 116% in the landslide incidents while cloudburst occurrences have gone up by 121% this monsoon season compared to 2020. Himachal has recorded 35 major landslides from June 13 — the onset of monsoon season in the state — till July 30, a pointer to the fragile ecology of the Himalayan region. Last year, 16 landslides were recorded across the hill state. Similarly, 17 incidents of flashfloods were reported across the state this year compared to just nine last year. “Climate change signs have started showing up. Planning in accordance with the changing environment is required. Coordinated efforts from all quarters are needed to save the ecology of the state,” says Jagdish Chander Kuniyal, scientist and head of Centre for Environmental Assessment and Climate Change, Mohal (Kullu). The tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, the worst hit this season with a total of 13 landslides and 11 instances of flashfloods, four of them triggered by cloudbursts, an unusual occurrence in the district which is a cold desert. Mandi and Shimla have reported four major landslides while three were reported in Kullu and two each in Chamba, Kinnaur and Solan. Two flashfloods each were reported in Chamba, Kullu and Kangra. Increased occurrences in such incidents have not only caused damage to the property but also claimed about two dozen human lives. In Kangra, 10 people died and five were injured in a landslide that occurred on July 12, while nine tourists died in a landslide in Kinnaur on July 25 when the vehicle they were travelling in was hit by shooting stones at Batseri. Three people have died in landslide incidents in Chamba. A total of 10 people died in flashfloods, maximum seven in Lahaul-Spiti after a cloudburst flooded Tozing Nullah near Keylong on July 28. Two labourers’ tents and two vehicles were swept away in gushing waters. In Kullu four people were washed away after a flashflood in Brahm Ganga rivulet at Manikaran. There is no trace of the missing. Man-made disaster Scant regard to the environmental laws and the government’s failure in protecting the green cover is one of the major reasons behind the landslides. A team of geological experts that visited the Kinnaur tragedy site felt the need for more forestation in the region. “Mountains in Himachal Pradesh that are part of Himalayan range have one of the most fragile ecosystems. Steep slopes, poor soil, and heavy monsoon rains make the hills vulnerable to erosion. Deforestation accelerates the process, as topsoil slides down into rivers. There is need for planting more shrubs and trees to strengthen the soil strata,” said Manoj Kumar, director, Geological Survey of India, who led the three-member team to Sangla. The panel has made a number of suggestions to the district administration. “We will compile our report when we return. There is a need for erecting more walls along the hillside to check the soil erosion,” he said, adding that the final recommendations will be submitted to government soon. “It’s development at the cost of nature. Constructions activities in Kinnaur have been taking place without paying attention to the fragile ecosystem,” says RS Negi, a retired IAS officer and leader of Him Lok Jagriti Manch (HLJM) that vehemently opposed the hydel power projects in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scientists-raise-concern-over-frequent-landslides-flashfloods-in-himachal-101627767198387.html
01-08-2021||Other||153 new cases, 1 death in Himachal||Himachal on Saturday recorded 153 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the state’s tally to 2,06,027 while the toll mounted to 3,505 as one patient succumbed to the contagion.Among the new infections, 32 were reported in Shimla, 31 in Mandi, 21 each in Chamba and Kangra, 20 in Kullu, 10 in Hamirpur, five in Una four in Solan, two in Sirmaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases have climbed up to 1,217 while recoveries reached 2,01,270 after 72 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,391 cases followed by Mandi (27969), Shimla (25,707), Solan (22,412), Sirmaur (15,371), Hamirpur (14,557), Una (13,439), Bilaspur (12,906), Chamba (12,081), Kullu (9,134), Kinnaur (3,310) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,750).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/153-new-cases-1-death-in-himachal-101627767018412.html
01-08-2021||Delhi||July ends with record rainfall in Delhi, August likely to be surplus too||Starting off as an unusually hot month, July ended up with 507mm of rain -- twice the city’s average of 210.6mm for the month, making it the wettest in the past 18 years, another weather extreme that was characteristic of the patterns being observed in the capital since August 2020.The city has been breaking a weather record every month since August 2020. For instance, this February was the second warmest in 120 years, with the mean maximum temperature in the month touching 27.9 degrees Celsius (°C), falling marginally short of the all-time record of 29.7°C in 2006.Then March this year recorded the hottest day in 76 years, with the mercury levels touching 40.1°C on March 29.But then, after a sweltering February and March, the conditions changed again in April and the lowest minimum temperature in at least a decade was recorded on April 4, at 11.7°C.July 2021 has kept with the record-breaking pattern: it started off with an unusually hot day when the maximum temperature spiked to 43°C. Over the next eight days, there were four heatwave days – a frequency not seen since 2014. Around this time, the monsoon should have arrived – but it would not till nearly the middle of the month on July 13, which was the latest onset since 2013. And in a span of three weeks, the monsoon has now dumped more rain this month than it did in any year since 2003.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said Delhi has received “excess” rainfall this July, adding that more rain is expected over the next couple of days.“More showers are expected over the next couple of days. Given that the month of August, when the city receives its maximum rainfall, is beginning, we may have a slightly above normal monsoon this year. However, we have to watch out for how much it rains in September. Even last year, August received very good rainfall but September went almost dry, making it slightly below normal monsoon,” he said.Besides registering a record for the month, the rain over the city was erratic and inconsistent in its geographical pattern. The rain spells have also been short and intense, instead of being uniformly spread over the month, with some areas getting heavy rain on days when others got trace or no rain.Though Safdarjung station recorded 507.1mm rain, Aya Nagar weather station received 295.7 mm rainfall.This phenomenon can also be seen in the rain data of July 30, when Safdarjung observatory received 41.6 mm rain between 2.30pm and 5.30pm, but barely two kilometres away, at the Lodi Road station, showers were more intense (62mm). Similarly, on July 29, when rains lashed Safdarjung (72mm) and Lodi Road (73.4mm), areas around southwest Delhi’s Palam observatory were almost dry.RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the IMD, explained, “Rainfall does vary within a few kilometres. On Friday, around the Lodi Road area clouds suddenly built up from the east, and there were already favourable weather systems. Local land use and land cover also impact weather activities in an area.”Private weather forecasters also said that a change in monsoon patterns, which is being observed over the region over the last few years, was more prominent this season.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, said the change in pattern is being observed because over the last few years most of the rain received in this region was through convective clouds, which cause short, more intense rain spells that cover a smaller area.“Convective clouds, unlike sheet clouds (altostratus clouds), cover a smaller area. So, there are chances that one area might receive intense rainfall and another, just within its 8-10km radius would be completely dry. Earlier, the clouds used to cover 300-400km radius of area and the showers would also be more uniform and continue till days,” Palawat said.This can be seen from the fact that the rain recording of 507.1mm at Safdarjung in July was a result of just nine days of rain in Delhi. Till 2001, Delhi used to record an average of 15-20 days of rains in July.Forecasters also said that August is likely to be an “above average” monsoon month for Delhi.“Looking at the forecast, it does seem like August will also record a surplus for Delhi. The coming few days are also favourable for moderate to heavy rains in Delhi and NCR,” Palawat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/july-ends-with-record-rainfall-august-likely-to-be-surplus-too-101627765999630.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area saw Covid figures decline by 98% in July||With the fierce second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic having ebbed away, tricity’s cases have plunged by 99% over the last two months and deaths are also down by 98%.Against 46,245 infections and 790 deaths in May, which proved to be the deadliest month for the tricity since the pandemic broke out last year, the figures dropped to 443 and 13, respectively, in July.During the peak of the contagion, tricity’s daily cases had shot up to an all-time high of 2,612 on May 10 and a record 38 deaths were registered on May 5.As a slew of restrictions were enforced in May across Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, stopping public movement, the pandemic figures showed a steady downturn that continued through June. As July progressed, the number of cases even came down to zero in Panchkula on seven days, and just one on multiple days in the UT and Mohali, lowest in 15 months.Better yet, the tricity achieved the milestone of zero deaths on 20 of the 31 days, first on July 3, reflecting a drop in serious cases as well, a major respite for the health infrastructure that was left stretched as the virus raged in May.From jumping past 20% just two months ago, tricity’s daily positive rate – indicating the samples testing positive – is now less than 0.4%, lowest in Panchkula at 0.01%.Even the recovery rate stayed over 98% across the board for most of July.Don’t lower guard, caution expertsDr GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of the Covid management panel, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “Due to restrictions in the tricity and neighbouring states, the infection-chain was broken, resulting in a major dip in fresh infections. As cases were low, hospital admissions also decreased and only a few people died due to the virus in July. However, while celebrating the low cases, people must not forget adherence to Covid safety protocols, crucial to averting the third wave.” Dr Sanjeev Palta, nodal officer of ICU management at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said, “Most of the population has acquired immunity against the virus, either naturally or through vaccine. Due to this, the virus couldn’t multiply and the daily cases plateaued. But new variants of the virus are spreading fast, hence safety protocols are essential. The peak will return if people show negligence. Eligible people must also get vaccinated at the earliest.”In Mohali, civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said they were already preparing for the third wave by setting up in-house oxygen plants at all government hospitals and training the healthcare staff, with special focus on paediatrics. Orders have been placed for seven pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “With dipping numbers, the responsibility of residents increases. People need to follow all Covid-19 guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining social distance, apart from getting vaccinated promptly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-saw-covid-figures-decline-by-98-in-july-101627765458897.html
01-08-2021||Other||Random Forays: The insatiable need to impress others||One of our commonest human proclivities, one that refuses to go away, is the urge to impress fellow men and women. In many cases that should read ‘women and men’, but we will go with the flow here! The journey begins when a toddler tries his best to impress his mamma about the necessity and urgency of purchasing an attractive toy. The teenage years, quite naturally, see the emergence of the universal need to impress the opposite sex. Thus, the boys will start shaving their soft cheeks much before they’re supposed to, and the girls will hide short skirts in their rucksacks, to be worn during an unauthorised outing once school is over. The hair, the clothes, the mannerisms, the words, the social media posts, the choices and preferences of such teenagers will continue to reflect their need to make an impact on the opposite sex, as the years roll on. I remember that one of our classmates in middle school would shave even at 5 am since he had to attend basketball practice before school. And of course, the girls were inevitably present for the practice session as well. We would make fun of him, but he was the darling of the gals and so we also nursed envious feelings within. Youngsters who appear for interviews are also susceptible to the ailment of trying to over impress the panel. According to Harvard Business Review, popularly known as HBR, one cannot really discern or anticipate the preferences of the interviewers. It is always better to be yourselves, the renowned publication advises all candidates. Young professionals who have just entered their careers find the need to impress others -- bosses, clients, seniors, and the like. They realise that the impressions they create by virtue of the qualities which they bring to the table, might not be enough for them to grow as fast as they would like in their fledgling careers. Many of them learn very soon to resort to tendencies like sycophancy and false praise. The cut-throat nature of the corporate world is such that the art of buttering-up others becomes a necessary component of their repertoires. A largely attended meeting in any organisation might see the chairperson praising one individual in particular, to the exclusion of all others. And unless the individual in question is a highly popular fellow, most others will back-bite later that he is obviously the ‘chela’ of the boss. And much worse adjectives will doubtlessly be used in the locker room! But as life goes on, the need to impress people recedes into the backdrop. Most people realise that it is simply not worth it- to live for what others may think. The need to create an impression is not as compelling, in the second half of life. One learns, or should learn, to be comfortable in one’s own skin, so to say. Yet, men will be men, and they continue to change their accents as well as their mannerisms when in fair company! Women, on the other hand, settle into a groove with superior emotional intelligence. They tend not to try and impress anyone in their later years, except perhaps when they dress up for a ‘do’, in which case they will be disappointed if no one compliments them! Be that as it may, human beings are forever in need of appreciation and praise. The art of praising one’s life partner fades away with years, but a genuinely expressed word of gratitude will do wonders for a relationship. It is said that of all material desires, the desire for fame, popularity, even acknowledgement, remains with us long after lesser desires for money, power and physical gratification have died down. Thus, even if a chef is not cooking to impress, he will love the shower of accolades that comes his way, if the meal has been relished. An author will take great delight in being told that she has written her book with great felicity and style, even if she wrote it only for the becalming of her own soul. ‘Dressing to kill’ may thus not be one of life’s major requirements but receiving a word of praise never did anyone any harm! vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/random-forays-the-insatiable-need-to-impress-others-101627764918212.html
01-08-2021||Other||Kidnapping bid foiled, Ludhiana locals nab two accused||Locals nabbed two men while they were attempting to kidnap three minors near Baba Than Singh Chowk.Gurminder Kaur of South City said she gone out with her two children, aged 2.5 years and 8, along with a 13-year-old helper. She stopped her car near Baba Than Singh Chowk and went out to buy snacks while the engine was on. Meanwhile, the accused drove away with the car with the children inside. The children and woman raised the alarm, after which the locals chased and managed to nab them. Then, they handed them over to the police.Sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO at Division Number 3 police station, said that Kaur has not yet recorded her statement and an FIR will be lodged after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kidnapping-bid-foiled-ludhiana-locals-nab-two-accused-101627763478116.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC jumps gun in imposing ban on single-use plastic||While the civic body is making tall claims regarding imposing a complete ban on single-use plastic in the city from August 1, it is yet to finalize the list of items to be banned under the head. No final decision has yet been taken in this regard even though over two weeks have elapsed after the general house of the municipal corporation (MC) made the announcement in this regard.The authorities on Friday constituted a 13-member special team for the imposition of the ban. The team members are also in a dilemma over the list of items to the banned. Jasdev Sekhon, MC secretary and head of the special team, informed that the team will conduct a meeting on Monday to finalize the list of items to the banned under the single-use plastic as per the directions of the National Green Tribunal. We’ll take action against the violators after that, he added.Though the state government had imposed a complete ban on plastic carry bags in April 2016, the use and trade of plastic bags go unabated four years on in absence of proper checks.One of the MC’s health branch officials, requesting anonymity, said the department is yet to finalize the list of items to be banned, and the resolution to ban single-use plastic has been approved just as a formality under the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge 2021-22’. He further said banning items such as drinking straws, disposable thermocol plates, packaged drinking water bottles/cups, etc., will be a herculean task especially when the civic body couldn’t even impose a ban on plastic carry bags.Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said,” The focus will be on imposing a complete ban on plastic carry bags, as apart from polluting the environment, the plastic bags also choke the sewer lines during the monsoon. Action will also be initiated against single-use plastic and those will be banned in a phased manner.” Even as the authorities have announced a ban on single-use plastic, plastic water bottles were served during the meeting of councillors conducted by mayor Balkar Sandhu regarding the LED street lights project in Rose Garden on Saturday.MC should work on waste management: IndustryWith no alternative present in the market, the plastic industry representatives rued that the decision to impose a complete ban on plastic items will destroy the industry, which is already struggling to make ends meet amid the pandemic.Mukesh Marjara, general secretary of the Plastic Manufacturers and Traders Association, said the government should work on waste management rather than destroying the industry by imposing a complete ban. Over five lakh people are involved in this sector, directly or indirectly, he added. “How will a shopkeeper or a street vendor sell items without plastic carry bags,” questioned Marjara, while adding that the industry is ready to help the government in managing the waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-jumps-gun-in-imposing-ban-on-single-use-plastic-101627763419416.html
01-08-2021||Other||Registration process begins: Vaccination mandatory to attend offline classes, say PU affiliated colleges||The colleges affiliated with Panjab University have started updating their websites to provide information to students regarding registration procedures for admissions in undergraduate and postgraduate courses.Several college authorities have stated it is mandatory for students who want to attend classes on campus to get jabbed and submit their Covid-19 vaccination certificate as proof of the same.The admission process for undergraduate and postgraduate classes will commence from August 10 and August 8. The new academic session will commence from September 1 for first-year students. The classes for the post-graduate students will start on September 13. Arya College has launched its e-prospectus for the academic session 2021-22. While at DD Jain Memorial College for Women, the prospectus will be available in the first week of August. Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management will update the online registration schedule on August 5, while GGN Khalsa College, Civil Lines and AS College, Khanna, have already commenced the online registration process. The prospectus of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, is available on the premises.Savita Uppal, principal of Arya College, said, “We have launched the e-prospectus and all the details regarding admissions are available on the college website. In the admission form, we have asked the students to share their vaccination status. Students must get themselves vaccinated only then they can attend offline classes.” Mukti Gill, principal of Khalsa College for Women, said, “We have updated the college website for students’ convenience so that they can learn about various courses from the safety of their homes. The forms are also available at the college counter.”As per the state government, the teaching and non-teaching staff has been vaccinated in all colleges, and colleges are also sharing the details of vaccinated students with the director public instructions (Colleges). Sarita Behl, principal of DD Jain Memorial College for Women, said, “We have received the PU academic calendar and will start the admission process for undergraduate classes from August 10. The prospectus and forms will be available from next week. We will also ensure that students are vaccinated and will hold vaccination camps on college premises. The students who want to attend the offline classes will have to submit vaccination certificates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/registration-process-begins-vaccination-mandatory-to-attend-offline-classes-say-pu-affiliated-colleges-101627763418130.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two boys drown in pit on horticulture varsity land in Karnal||Two boys aged 9 and 11 drowned in a pit filled with rainwater on a piece of land belonging to Maharana Partap Horticulture University (MPHU) at Uchani village of Karnal district on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Jassi Sharma and Krishan Kant of Agra in Uttar Pradesh and their families were visiting their relatives in Uchani village.On the complaint of Jassi’s father Satparkash, police have registered a case under Section 304A against unnamed officials of the university. Karnal sadar police in-charge Baljeet Singh said action will be taken as per the findings of the investigation.Satparkash said a girl accompanying the boys told them what had happened and by the time they reached the spot, it was too late. The clothes of the victims were lying near the pit, pointing that they entered it for bathing.Samar Singh, vice-chancellor of the MPHU, said, “The incident is very painful and the university will also order an internal investigation and action will taken accordingly.” He said the pits were dug by a private company for some construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-boys-drown-in-pit-on-horticulture-varsity-land-in-karnal-101627761497909.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt asks V-Cs to plan reopening of varsities||With coronavirus infection on the decline, the Haryana government on Saturday asked the vice-chancellors of universities to plan re-opening of universities. Extending the minimal lockdown on account of coronavirus spread by another week till August 9, the state government on Saturday sought initiation of immediate action to fully vaccinate hostel students, day scholars, faculty and staff of the universities. The state government has already re-opened schools from class 6 onwards. Among the fresh relaxations, all shops have now been allowed to operate from 9am to 10pm and all shopping malls can open from 10am to 10pm. An order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said restaurants and bars in shopping malls and hotels can continue to open from 10am to 11pm. Standalone restaurants can open from 8am to 11pm while restaurants in hotels can continue round-the-clock service. Night curfew will continue from 11pm to 5am on all days. 29 fresh cases in state Haryana reported 29 coronavirus infections, 27 recoveries and two deaths on Saturday. The active case count was 712. Hisar district continued to lead the active case tally with 106 cases. It is followed by Panipat (93), Gurugram (83), Rohtak (76), Karnal (54) Sirsa (53) and Bhiwani (51). The day’s positivity rate was 0.11%, recovery rate was 98.66% and fatality rate was 1.25%. Six students test positive in two Fatehabad schools Rohtak As many as six students, five girls and a boy, aged between 10 to 16, have tested positive for Covid-19 in two government schools of Fatehabad’s Jakhal area. Fatehabad district education officer Dayanand Sihag said the health department had taken samples of students of government schools at Gullarwala village and Karandi on July 28. “Six students have tested positive for the virus. Taking cognisance, we have directed school authorities to get all students and teachers tested for Covid-19,” he added. The state government has already reopened middle, high and senior secondary schools. Education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar had said that the government is planning to open primary schools in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-asks-v-cs-to-plan-reopening-of-varsities-101627760958991.html
01-08-2021||Other||Patiala Police use mild force on protesting teachers||Patiala Police used mild force to disperse protesters demanding jobs under the banner of Unemployed Teachers’ Sanjha Morcha on Saturday. Police stopped the protesters near the YPS Chowk, when they started to march towards the residence of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Sukhwinder Singh, state president of Unemployed BEd TET Pass Union, said a joint forum has been formed, under which jobless physical education teachers, multi-purpose health workers, PTI teachers, and art and craft unions have come together.“Police resort to lathicharge every time we try to protest near the CM’s residence. The government has failed to open recruitment in past four and half years,” he said, adding that their protest was peaceful, yet the police used force. “We are well-qualified and have cleared all eligibility tests, but the government is testing our patience and exploiting us by not opening any job opportunities, especially in the education department,” members of the union claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-police-use-mild-force-on-protesting-teachers-101627760899186.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three UP residents killed, 13 hurt in Panipat road accident||Three Uttar Pradesh residents, including a woman, travelling in a bus were killed and 13 sustained injuries when a truck rammed the passenger vehicle from behind on the NH-44 near Khadi Ashram in Panipat on Saturday. Police said the incident took place around 6.30am when the bus driver reportedly applied brake abruptly and the truck tailing it rammed into the bus. The deceased have been identified as Sangeeta Rani (18) of Sultanpur, Rahul (18) of Kushinagar and Chintu (30) of Azamgarh of Uttar Pradesh. Police said eight people with serious injuries have been referred to PGIMS Rohtak and others are being treated at a Panipat hospital. Driver of the truck also sustained injuries as the truck overturned after the accident. Police officials who reached the spot said the bus carrying 45 migrant labourers was going to Patiala from Azamgarh in UP. Panipat deputy commissioner Sushil Kumar also reached the spot and directed the officials for medical assistance to all the injured passengers. Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the bus driver, who was detained, stopped the bus in the middle of the road. He said an FIR under Section 304 of the IPC has been registered against the bus driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-up-residents-killed-13-hurt-in-panipat-road-accident-101627760837968.html
01-08-2021||Other||Witerati: Munch ado about Bhelpuri||Poor humble Bhelpuri will never be the same again. Blame it on a deluge. Blame it on a flood. Nah, the allusion ain’t to the rain that’s the muse for Eliza Doolittle-esque odes, “The rain in Spain stays mainly in the plain ...”It’s a rain that knows no rein.It’s a condensation that may look more like condescension.It’s a rain of Tharoorisms again.Getting a taste of Tharoorisms is bechaari Bhelpuri.That popular snack of the streetside foodie, that chatpata crunchy which has spiced up many a kitty party, that station-side savoury mapping many a commoner’s train journey. Lyrically speaking, life will never ever be the same for Bhel again. Come rain, or shine.The way poor Poppadom was plucked out of obscurity when it made it to the palatial high table amid the pandemic, courtesy Prince William and podcasting cronies, much in the same manner, the Bhelpuri has been saved from a life of anonymity.Albeit Bhelpuri owes its 15 minutes of fame not to a Prince, but to a deluge of Queen’s English.One of those times when the bechaari Bhel found itself in a ‘pickle’. What with Shashi Tharoor’s tweet describing it as “exotic crispy puffed wild rice from the Western Ghats rainforest … bathed in … Assamese Bhoot Jolokia chillies …”One of those times when Twitterverse found itself in the throes of a tizzy and a tickle. What with Netizens egging on Tharoor to also dish out his farrago of fabled Tharoorisms for other sundry savouries, Golgappas to Paani Puri. Tweeple even prodded him to unlock a Foodosaurus, a la Tharoorosaurus.One of those times when even as half the planet has been consumed by a virus, our esteemed parliamentarian-grammarian has been consumed by the benevolent intent of bestowing upon Bhelpuri a better fate -- being viral. The curious case of ‘Who Moved My Grammar-Ease’.Of Idligate and ‘Isms’ Alas, not all Indian foods invite the privilege of going viral powered by Tharoorisms.Months ago, poor dear Idli found itself going viral riding Idligate. Blame it on a British professor who thought Idlis were too “boring” for his palate.In the midst of a pandemic, the way food gets Twitterverse to unite, ignite or bite, it happens only in India. The way desi food trolls toss up tribes of Twitterati jingoists, it happens only in India.Take Idligate. It spawned all sorts of species spewing as many “isms” as there are Indian states. Or states of mind.Be it Twitterati postulating Puttu patriotism, Rava regionalism and south jingoism, or Tweeple tattling food colonialism to food racism to even food nepotism.One of those times when Twitterverse is rather confused as to what is worse. The virus of India or food of India going viral?When the beloved Bhel goes viral, how can our quintessential comic couple, Lollita and Lamba ji, not take up a pot, or take potshot! Upon sighting Lamba ji cacophonously pottering with pots ‘n’ pans, Lollita can’t help but chortle curiously, “Darling, what’s it you’re struggling to cook?”Inspired by the Tharoorisms bestowed upon Bhel, Lamba ji waxes lyrical.“Honey, here’s unveiling baked wheat-flour spherical sumptuousness from the pristine prairies of Punjab … embellished with a farrago of micro-greens from mint meadows of Himalayan hillsides … stuffed with heritage potatoes plucked from the Peninsular Plateau, a la Banaskantha-ise, crowned with molten golden swimming pools from Verka-ise ....” Lollita sweetly cuts short the Tharoorisms and cuts Lambaji to size, “Sweetheart, please try not to scorch the ... Parantha!”The curious case of ‘Honey, I Shrunk the Tharoorosaurus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/witerati-munch-ado-about-bhelpuri-101627760597873.html
01-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana carcass utilisation plant faces stiff opposition from villagers||Ludhiana A first-of-its-kind project for the state, a carcass utilisation plant is facing strong opposition. Residents of around a dozen villages have set up a tent at the entry point of the approach road towards the plant in Rasulpur Patti village, Noorpur bet area, 21km from the city, and are on a 24-hour protest since July 13, the day the project was to be inaugurated. Once the plant that is meant to dispose of bodies of dead animals is functional, the contractor will sell their skin. A meat bone meal will be processed out of their bones and other body parts, which can be used as poultry feed. Currently, animals are skinned at the ‘Hadda Rodi’ on the banks of the Sutlej river in Laddowal area. The skinners dump the waste into the river, adding to the pollution. Villages, however, fear that a population of 40,000-odd will face health issues when the plant becomes operational and also claim they were not consulted. Rasulpur Patti former sarpanch Baldev Singh said, “The carcass plant cannot be established within 10km of a residential area according to the Supreme Court orders. Here, we have houses within 100-feet of the plant. Ground water level in the area is around 20 feet. Dumping of the plant’s wastewater will contaminate the ground water. Farming will be hit and the stink will affect development.” The project, part of the Smart City mission, has now been indefinitely postponed; it has already been hanging fire since 2013. Work on the ₹8 crore project started only in July 2019. The villagers claim that they had objected to the plant four years ago as well, but officials misled them into believing that a poultry feed manufacturing unit is being established. The protesting farmers have also moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the establishment of the plant. “If no pollution will be created, then the MC should install the plant within its own limits,” claimed a farmer. Noorpur Bet sarpanch advocate Gurdev Singh and Rasulpur Patti sarpanch Sucha Singh said that transportation of dead animals in the area will result in unhygienic conditions.“We will not allow the MC to commission the plant at any cost. The MC has created wells in the plant to dump the waste. Dumping the waste water will contaminate the ground water and if the land turns infertile, farmers will loose their livelihood. People will avoid visiting the area, which will hit growth,” said Gurdev Singh. No pollution willhappen, says mayorThe municipal corporation, however, has been asked by the NGT to start the project without further delay. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The plant has been established for disposal of dead animals in a scientific manner and it is the first-of-its-kind in the state. We studied the model in Jodhpur first for it. We only want that no pollution is created while skinning the animals. Waste water generated will be also treated and the plant will not pollute the environment. We will allay villagers’ fears.” ***************************Strap/BlurbVillages fear that a population of 40,000-odd will face health issues when the plant, hanging fire since 2013, becomes operational and also claim they were not consulted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-carcass-utilisation-plant-faces-stiff-opposition-from-villagers-101627760537926.html
01-08-2021||Lucknow||UP Board results: Not yet 11 years’ old, Lucknow boy scores 79.16% in class 10||A Lucknow boy, who is 10 years and eight months’ old, cleared Uttar Pradesh Board high school (class 10) with 79.16% marks. The result was declared on Saturday.The boy, Rashtram Aditya Shri Krishna. was elated after scoring 86% in drawing, 84% in social science, 83% in English, 82% in Hindi, 76% in science and 64% in mathematics.HN Upadhyay, the principal of MD Shukla Inter College (Lucknow) where Rashtram studied, was equally happy.He said Rashtram took admission in class 9 after his parents obtained special permission from deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma about two years ago.According to UP Board rules, a student needs to be at least 14 years of age to appear in class 10 board exams. Exceptions are made only in special cases.As many as 99.53% students passed the UP Board high school (class 10) and 97.88% cleared intermediate (class 12) as girls outshone boys at both levels in the results which were declared on Saturday about two months after the exams were cancelled in view of an aggressive second wave of Covid-19. The students were assessed on the basis of an alternative methodology in 2021 and the results were determined accordingly.“Aditya had never been to any school (before). He was being educated at home (by his parents). Two years ago, after the UP Board gave him special permission, he got admission in Class 9 at a school in the Nakkhas area of Lucknow,” said his father Pawan Kumar Acharya, who is an astrologer and author.Rashtram said, “I practised yoga, pranayama and learnt meditation from my father. I played chess with him. This boosted my interest in studies.”He said although he had not made up his mind, he may join the air force or do commando training after completing his education. He could also opt to be a robotic engineer as he has an interest in robotics. He may try his luck in the civil services exams too, he said.Ultimately, he wanted to serve the nation (rashtra) and live up to his name Rashtram Aditya Shri Krishna, he added.His father said: “I chose this unconventional path of home-schooling, because I felt if he can manage to learn advanced books, let him try. I worked on this project. I prepared him psychologically, then academically.”“Simultaneously, I worked for permission from the administration. I thank all those who genuinely helped me in this endeavour. I also thank those who discouraged me, because then I thought, I have nothing to lose but the chains of traditional tracks of education and if I win, I open a new path for extraordinary children,” he said.The boy’s mother Richa Pawan said, “He has been an intelligent and a disciplined child since the beginning. He could easily focus on the subjects I taught. He is a keen observer and a good listener. He learnt the subjects easily. When he started playing in between studies, sometimes I had to be strict. But, in general, he has been a brilliant student of mine while (I have been) playing the role of a teacher. I kept him away from the domestic gossip and disturbances and thus could maintain a good atmosphere of development at home.”“Aditya has always been extraordinarily talented. He spends a lot of time in my private library, browsing reading advanced books. He is extremely studious and curious and comes up with a lot of questions. We moved an application with the UP Board and it was acknowledged,” said Acharya.About 14 years ago, Sushma Verma of Lucknow became the country’s youngest matriculate in 2007 when she passed the UP Board high school examinations. Born on February 2, 2000, Sushma was just seven years’ old at the time. The achievement earned her a place in the Limca Book of Records. She secured 354 marks out of 600 in the exams.At 15, Sushma added another feather to her cap by becoming the youngest postgraduate in the country. She followed this up by becoming the youngest Indian to enrol in a PhD course (at the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow).Sushma outdid her elder brother Shailendra, who became the youngest computer science graduate in the country in 2007. Shailendra was just 14 when he completed his Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) course. At present, he is pursuing MBA from a Bengaluru-based institute.Shailendra passed Class 12 at the age of 11. He also cleared the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) and Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and secured admission at a university in the United States of America. However, he could not join the university due to financial problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-board-results-not-yet-11-years-old-lucknow-boy-scores-79-16-in-class-10-101627760478624.html
01-08-2021||Other||Row over NPA: Senior docs join stir; Monday shutdown in Patiala, Amritsar govt hospitals||Patiala Medical and dental college doctors and faculty members continued their protest against the state government’s acceptance of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission on Saturday. Their major demand is restoring the Non-Practise Allowance (NPA) to its previous levels and re-link it again with basic pay. Faculty members from Chest and TB hospital and paediatric department of the medical college also staged a three-hour protest as part of their indefinite protest at the Rajindra Hospital. Twenty renowned senior doctors, including former director, research and medical education, Punjab, Dr Ajmer Singh and renowned city physician Dr Janak Sachdeva have come out in support of protesting doctors. They even joined their protest. Meanwhile, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, has declared total shut down of OPD and operation theatre services in Government Medical and Dental Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar on Monday, along with teaching of dental students for the entire day. The dental faculty has also decided not to do any administrative duties and will organise a protest rally.Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary, PSMDTA, said, “The association has decided to intensify the agitation, if the NPA demand is not accepted by the government within the next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-npa-senior-docs-join-stir-monday-shutdown-in-patiala-amritsar-govt-hospitals-101627760358278.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate polls begin on Aug 3; 28 booths to be set up in Chandigarh, Punjab||As many as 28 polling booths will be set up in Chandigarh and Punjab for the election of two constituencies of Panjab University (PU) senate on August 3.On August 2, four polling booths will be set up in Chandigarh and 24 polling booths will be set up in different districts of Punjab. To check unauthorised voting, videography will be carried out at each booth. Also, a centralised control room will be functional from 8am to 6.30pm on polling day to facilitate the presiding officers and polling officers on duty.The constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges will go to polls on August 3. Three members will be elected to the PU senate from each constituency. Five candidates are contesting from the constituency of principals and four candidates are in fray from staff of technical and professional colleges. “Our observers will visit almost all the polling centres to check that polling is conducted fairly. We will also provide assistance through a centralised control room on polling day,” said a university official.Four booths in ChandigarhIn Chandigarh, the polling booths will be set up at Government Home Science College, Sector 10; Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Sector 26; Government College of Education, Sector 20; and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 (outside the Auditorium Sarai Building).In Punjab, polling booths will be set up in Abohar, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Moga, Sri Muktsar Sahib and Nawanshahr (SBS Nagar).While the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges has 52 voters, the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges has 789. The counting of votes will be held on August 5 for both the constituencies.After August 3, two constituencies of teachers of PU teaching departments will go to polls on August 10. From all eight constituencies of the senate, over 100 candidates are in fray for the election of 47 members.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of PU. While 36 members are nominated by the chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected. The elections to the PU senate have been pending since August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-polls-begin-on-aug-3-28-booths-to-be-set-up-in-chandigarh-punjab-101627760058034.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Proclaimed offender wanted by Haryana Police held in Ludhiana||The special branch of Ludhiana police on Saturday arrested a proclaimed offender wanted by Haryana’s Kaithal police. The accused has been identified as Raj Kumar of Chimni Road area.Inspector Beant Juneja, incharge of special branch, said that they received a request from Kaithal police for arresting the proclaimed offender wanted by them in a drug peddling case lodged against him in December 2005. Following the information, the police arrested the accused from Kwality Chowk, where he was living in a rented accommodation.The inspector said that the accused is already facing trial in eight cases of drug peddling. He had come out of Patiala jail three months ago on bail.The accused has been handed over to the Kaithal police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/proclaimed-offender-wanted-by-haryana-police-held-in-ludhiana-101627760006317.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||‘Missing’ LED lights: Ludhiana mayor orders survey as councillors complain||Amid the row over installation and maintenance of LED streetlights, councillors have accused Tata company of installing less number of lights in the city in comparison to the number mentioned in the official record submitted to the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC). Ordering a survey in the city during a meeting of councillors held at Rose Garden on Saturday, mayor Balkar Sandhu stated that 144 lights are missing from his own ward too. Sandhu has ordered civic body officials to take along a representative of every councillor in the city and complete the survey in 10 days, following which a meeting of MC General House will be held to take final decision regarding whether the it should terminate the contract with the company or not.The company has been getting the energy saving charges (85%) under the shared saving model from the MC for the reduced electricity bills after replacing the old streetlights with LED lights. The MC had earlier got into a contract with the company for replacing the old streetlights with the LED ones at 1.5 lakh points and their maintenance for seven years in the city under the Smart City Mission at the cost of around ₹57.78 crore. During the meeting, the councillors rued that the difference between the record and actual lights installed at the site is up to 500 points in different wards of the city and the company has been getting the share of energy saving charges for those lights too. The councillors said that the company is getting around ₹2 crore as a share of energy saving charges every month. Nirmal Singh, father-in-law of Prabhjot Kaur, councillor from ward number 29, represented her in the meeting and said, “After comparing the official record with the lights installed in the ward, it was found that around 500 additional lights have been shown in the area than the actual number of lights installed. The MC should take action against the company and the required number of lights should be installed in the area.”Similarly, councillor of ward number 2, Gurmail Jajji said that 188 lights are missing from his ward, 300 from the ward of Pal Singh Grewal (ward number 24), and 60 from the ward of Gurdeep Neetu (ward number 52).Grewal said that the company has been getting the energy saving charges for these points too without doing any investment at all. Questions were also raised on how the completion certificates were given to the company by MC officials, if the number of lights installed is less than what is shown in the record.Stating that lights have not been installed at 200 points in his ward out of total 1,055 points shown in the record, leader of opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang said action should also be taken against the officials who gave completion certificates to the company. Mayor Sandhu and councillors also verified the maintenance staff of the company during the meeting after the councillors complained that the company has not deputed the required number of staffers for repairing the lights. Sandhu and Congress councillor Manpreet Grewal also had a heated argument when the latter demanded that the mayor should also disclose the names of councillors, in whose wards additional lights have been installed. The mayor said that a survey is being conducted and everything will come to the fore. Sandhu said that the councillors were not satisfied with the working of Tata company due to which a meeting was scheduled. As per the councillors, a large number of lights might be missing. A House meeting will be organised after the completion of the survey to finalise the next action plan against the company, he added. Social distancing goes for a tossAt a time when the administration is appealing the residents to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and not to drop their guard, most of the councillors and officials, including mayor Balkar Sandhu, were not wearing masks during the meeting. Also, social distancing went for a toss as the councillors were sitting close to each in a congested area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-led-lights-ludhiana-mayor-orders-survey-as-councillors-complain-101627760005310.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Five held for burglary in Ludhiana godown||Three days after a burglary was reported at a godown in Salem Tabri, the police arrested five men on Saturday and recovered the stolen material, which included 78 buckets of paint, 225 boxes of paint and five boxes of stainer colour.A pick-up truck used to transport the stolen material was also seized, the police said.The accused were identified as Akash Kumar of Kailash Nagar, Bhagwan Das of Jassian road, Suraj Kumar of Dhandari Kalan, Sandeep Goel of Urban Estate Jamalpur and Vishnu Puri of Makkar Colony in Dhandari Kalan.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Dharampal said that the accused had stolen the goods on the intervening night of July 27/28 after breaking the locks of the godown shutter.He said that during investigation, the police arrested three accused including Akash, Bhagwan and Suraj, who led the police to arrest Sandeep Goel and Vishnupuri.The ACP said that Akash, Bhagwan and Suraj used to sell the stolen material to Sandeep Goel through Vishnu Puri. During investigation, the accused told the police that they had stolen some material from the same godown on July 16, too.A case was registered under Sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-held-for-burglary-in-ludhiana-godown-101627760004217.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress announces new Chandigarh team||The Congress party on Saturday evening announced a new team for the city and appointed eight vice-presidents among other members.The move comes ahead of the municipal corporation (MC) elections, slated to be held later this year.Those appointed vice-presidents include Pawan Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Badheri, Davinder Singh Babla, Hafiz Anwar Ul Haq, Harphool Kalyan, Jatinder Bhatia, Jagjit Singh Kang and Jagir Singh. The party also appointed a treasurer, nine general secretaries, 24 secretaries, 23 organisational secretaries, 17 permanent invitees, 15 special invitees and 36 executive committee members, a statement from the All India Congress Committee said.The party insiders termed the new team a “balanced one” in which new faces had been given an opportunity and old guard too had been accommodated. The immediate challenge for the new team will be the MC elections which the party had lost to BJP in 2016. The party had also lost the Lok Sabha polls to BJP in 2014 and 2019 with former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal as its face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-announces-new-chandigarh-team-101627760003081.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Villagers rescue boy, nab his abductor||Hundreds of villagers on Saturday came together and rescued an abducted six-year-old son of a farmer of Rod village within 36 hours of crime. The accused had held the boy hostage under dense vegetation in Dholanwal village on the banks of Sutlej after tying him with a piece of rope. The accused jumped into the river in an attempt to escape, but villagers chased him and nabbed him. After thrashing the accused, the villagers handed him over to the police.The victim, Amanpreet Singh, was bitten by insects and had swelling around his eyes. After medical examination, the custody of the boy was given to his parents.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that the real name of the accused is Akash Kumar. “He had intentionally concealed his identity. He had introduced himself as Vijay Kumar to Paramjit Singh, father of the boy. The police are scanning the role of Meva Lal, father of the accused, as Akash had asked the father of the boy to deposit ransom money in his bank account. A team of police has already nabbed Meva Lal in Sikarpur of Uttar Pradesh and is questioning him,” he added. The police chief added that after receiving information, cops swung into action and formed special teams to arrest the accused on Friday. “To avoid being traced, the accused had switched off his mobile phone. Meanwhile, the police had recovered the scooter used by him in kidnapping of the boy from the forest area of Garhi Sheru village, which gave an idea that the accused must be hiding there,” he added. “Several teams were formed for his arrest. The cops had also roped in villagers to look for the boy. On Saturday morning, the kidnapped boy was rescued,” said the commissioner of police. “The accused is already facing trial in several criminal cases. He has confessed to his involvement in petty burglaries. He had worked at the house of a doctor in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr), from where he had stolen a mobile phone and a car. The police are investigating to ascertain his past criminal record,” he added.He further said that the family had not done police verification of the accused before employing him for taking care of their cattle. The family had expressed gratitude to the police for quick action and villagers for initiating a comb operation to trace the boy.The accused had kidnapped the boy on Friday evening and demanded ₹4 lakh as ransom to release the boy. A case was registered against him at the Meharban police station. Villagers set up exampleVillagers from 10 villages surrounding Rod have set up an example of brotherhood. According to the villagers, as they came to know that a six-year-old boy has gone missing, almost all of them initiated a search operation.Pardeep Singh Khalsa of Dholanwal village said that on Friday, the police urged them to initiate a combing operation in surrounding areas as they suspected that the accused was hiding in nearby villages. They formed separate teams of villagers and kept on searching for the boy and the accused. None of them had slept on Friday night.They also demanded stern action against the accused.We had lost all hopes, says fatherParamjit Singh, father of the boy, said that on Thursday, the helper had left the house on scooter stating that he was going to buy a mobile phone charger. “He had taken away my son too. When they did not return till night, I started searching for them. I assumed that they might have lost their way,” he added. “I was shocked when I received the ransom message from the helper. Till Friday night, we had lost all hopes to see our son again. After the helper had switched off his phone, fear had gripped us that he had killed our son,” said the father.“Amanpreet Singh is our only son,” said Paramjit, who also has two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-villagers-rescue-boy-nab-his-abductor-101627759999285.html
01-08-2021||Other||{Udham Singh’s martyrdom} In a break from convention, Sidhu, Capt hold separate functions||Fatehgarh Sahib Unlike the convention that the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPC) president joins all state-level functions of the government, Navjot Singh Sidhu paid homage, separately, to martyr Udham Singh, on Saturday. Sidhu paid his tributes at Roza Sharif, while chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh paid his respects at Sunam, the freedom fighter’s birthplace. The CM also inaugurated a memorial to Udham Singh. Political observers opine that the holding of parallel functions signals that differences continue to persist between the two leaders. This is even after the CM, Amarinder, after initial refusal, had attended the function of coronation of Sidhu. The holding of two events also stand out starkly as former PCC president Sunil Jakhar joined government functions. In Sidhu’s defence, however, it can be said that he has been busy meeting workers across the state after taking over. On Saturday, Sidhu, along with local MLA and acting PCC president Kuljit Singh Nagra, visited Roza Sharif. This is the place where mortal remains of Shaheed Udham Singh were brought back from England in 1974, 27 years after his martyrdom. He, however, was identified as Ram Mohammad Singh Azad wand the then chief minister Giani Zail Singh constructed a memorial for him.Sidhu paid homage the martyr in his own style. “Udham Singh’s revenge for the massacre of Jallianwala Bagh remains an unmatched heroic act. The message is that one should never bow down to oppression. His name change conveyed the message of universal communion,” he told the gathering. When queried on the separate functions, Sidhu was evasive. “The party and the government will work together for the welfare of the state. Both I and the government are only paying our homage,” he said, before going to pay his obeisance at the religious places in the district. He also met local leaders with MLAs Kaka Randeep Singh and Gurpreet Singh accompanying him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/udham-singh-s-martyrdom-in-a-break-from-convention-sidhu-capt-hold-separate-functions-101627759997895.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC fines Kapurthala resident ₹50,000 for concealing facts||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court has fined a Kapurthala resident ₹50,000 for concealing facts before the court. The petitioner, Amanbir Singh Jaspal, was fined in first hearing of his plea and was told to deposit the amount within three months with the “Poor Patients Welfare Fund” of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, personally or through its website “www.pgimer.edu.in” and produce the receipt before the registrar general of high court. Jaspal had approached high court seeking directions to local authorities to demolish the alleged dilapidated and unsafe portion of a building opposite bus stand, Kapurthala, owned by him. The Kapurthala municipal corporation had already directed him to demolish the building in a notice on July 28, 2020, he had claimed before court adding that 75% of the building has been demolished. The remaining 25% of the building is in possession of six persons out of which one has already vacated. During the hearing, when the court sought more details, his counsel disclosed that these five persons are tenants in the building. “..it is apparent that the petitioner has tried to misuse the process of the court. The tenants have not been impleaded as respondents. The tenants in occupation of the premises have certain rights,” the court said referring to provisions of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949, now been substituted by the Punjab Rent Act, 1995, according to which they are protected. Instead of seeking their eviction from the court of rent controller, the petitioner has devised a tactful route of filing a writ petition, justice Anil Kshetarpal observed, dismissing the plea and ordering him to pay a cost of ₹50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-fines-kapurthala-resident-rs-50-000-for-concealing-facts-101627759938230.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||NGT imposes ₹1 lakh on PPCB for delay in compliance of order||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed a cost of ₹1 lakh on the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) for a long, unexplained delay in compliance of its order with regard to an industry in Barnala.A bench headed by NGT chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said no explanation has been furnished by the officer representing PPCB except for orally stating that the board has been issuing directions to the industry.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Beant Singh Bajwa, president, National Anti-Corruption Council, against violation of environmental norms by Trident Factory, Dhaula, Mansa Road, Barnala.The tribunal noted that no direction has been produced nor there is any explanation as to why adverse measures were not taken against the erring factory.The NGT said it is surprising that the PPCB has failed in securing compliance, as directed, by taking necessary preventive and remedial measures in exercise of its statutory powers under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.“In view of long unexplained delay on the part of the PPCB in complying with the orders of this tribunal, we impose a cost of ₹1 lakh which may be deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board within one month, which will be personal responsibility of the member secretary, PPCB. The pollution control board is free to recover the same from the erring officers. We further direct the PPCB to now ensure compliance and file compliance report,” the bench said.The industry may achieve suggested water consumption/minimisation steps, reduction in generation of effluents, following proper ferti-irrigation plan, to be duly monitored and compliant with emission standards, the tribunal said.It also asked the state pollution control board to clarify on dual mode of disposal system consented - on land and in Dhanaula drain and mechanism for monitoring standards with two different systems of disposal.The matter is listed for further consideration on November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-imposes-rs-1-lakh-on-ppcb-for-delay-in-compliance-of-order-101627759762423.html
01-08-2021||Other||Wildbuzz: Action in the rains||Amid a downpour on Wednesday morning, there was much to learn about Nature’s ways. Out for street photography to capture ‘action in rain’ shots, Anuj Jain chanced upon Paddy egrets hunting frogs in the growing puddles beside the road that branches off to the ISBT, Sector 17, from behind the showrooms. A curious House crow was in attendance, studiously observing the hunt.Jain, who retails apparel from a Sector 17 showroom and nurtures a passion for photography, noticed that the egrets would dunk a frog into the water four to five times before gulping the prey down in one piece. The egret sought to remove the mud off the frog and make it smoother for ingestion, a habit that ibises are also known to indulge in.Some egrets could not swallow a frog in the first attempt and would regurgitate it before managing to do so in subsequent bids. The egret would take a sip of water after successfully swallowing a frog. Ingestion down the bird’s narrow gullet is no mean feat as the prey is big with limbs jutting out at awkward angles and flailing wildly. The highlight of the rainy morning was the clever crow. Having learnt how to catch frogs from egrets, the crow also made a smart kill and flew off to a tree. However, unlike the egrets, the crow tore apart the frog before eating it in pieces. The noble tiger* Unknowing people prefer to believe a tiger is a “blood-thirsty” creature and will pounce upon a human at first sight. However, those who have roamed the jungles vouch for the large-hearted and gentlemanly character of this awesome beast. A tiger is likely to leave a human alone when chanced upon unless it is a man-eater or is stressed by villager-tiger conflicts increasingly prevalent in the peripheral zones.Thursday was International Tiger Day and I retrieved a charming nugget from the fertile pen of Brig. Ranjit Talwar (retd.). A shikari-turned conservationist, the retired Armoured Corps officer held the post of coordinator at WWF-India’s Tiger Conservation Programme for 13 years. The tiger’s character as portrayed by Brig. Talwar mirrors Jim Corbett’s experiences. The famed hunter had encountered tigers real close from his childhood days, including one that arose from behind a plum tree where young Jim was hunting game birds and another who crossed his evening walk, but was graced by the noble beasts to live and tell his tales.“During the winter of 1963 or ‘64, we were shooting Jungle fowl along Kosi River (Ramnagar forest division, adjacent to Corbett National Park). Suddenly, a few fowl took off and I dropped one that fell on top of an overgrown lantana bush. As I entered the bush to retrieve this bird that was still fluttering, what I saw drained all my blood. Facing me at about 6-8 feet was a tiger who appeared to have been rudely awoken from his slumber. I stood still more out of fear than as a deliberate ploy. With an irritated tiger staring at me, I stood frozen with the breech of my BRNO shotgun open as I was in the process of changing the spent cartridge…a process I abandoned on seeing the tiger. The initial expression of surprise on the tiger’s face quickly changed to that of disgust that clearly expressed: “Can’t an honest, hardworking tiger have some peaceful sleep without disturbance from pests like you?” As the tiger was quick to judge that I was only a ‘bumbling fool’ and not a threat, he turned around and ambled away without looking back once,” wrote Brig. Talwar.Brig. Talwar signed off his tale with a saucy twist: “As this was happening, the ‘gun’ (shikari) to my left, who had seen nothing of the tiger, shouted: “Come on, hurry up, we don’t have all day to retrieve your bird”. I held back my reply because the tiger hadn’t disappeared yet and I didn’t want him to give him a reason to change his mood. And once the tiger did, what I told this impatient ‘gun’ will remain unprintable.”vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wildbuzz-action-in-the-rains-101627759761330.html
01-08-2021||Other||Don’t politicise sacrilege issues: Kin of victims of Behbal Kalan||Chandigarh The families of victims of Behbal Kalan police firing incident of October 2015 have cautioned the Congress against politicising the sacrilege issue. “Whenever the race for the posts of a minister or party president starts in Punjab, Navjot Singh Sidhu tweets frequently on the issue; he remained silent on the issue for four-and-a-half years. Whenever you want to get power, you rake up the issue on Twitter and Facebook. Has anything happened on the ground because of these tweets,” said Sukhraj Singh, son of late Krishan Bhagwan, who was killed in Behbal Kalan. Accompanied by Sadhu Singh, father of the second victim Gurjit Singh, and other injured persons, they claimed that Sidhu has already admitted in an interview with HT that when he had met Capt Amarinder Singh during the first cabinet meeting of the government, the latter had told him that Bargari sacrilege issue will be addressed in last six months of this government. “Why was Sidhu quite for so long. Now, you again want to get power by using the same very issue,” the group claimed. Hitting out the previous PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar as well, the families alleged that Jakhar has clearly admitted that if the Congress has to retain power, the road to that goes via Behbal Kalan and Bargari. “Are we here for politics only? Why we are being used for political gains repeatedly. Shame on such leaders for indulging in cheap politics,” they said, adding, “We appeal to all political parties in Punjab not to politicise this issue. If this is not done, we will move from village to village to mobilise support. Some police officers have already been provided clean chits.”“Former DGP Sumedh Saini, IG Ummranangal and retired SSP Charanjit Sharma were provided tactical help by the state to keep them out of jails,” they alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-politicise-sacrilege-issues-kin-of-victims-of-behbal-kalan-101627759758143.html
01-08-2021||Other||32 new Covid cases in UP, no death||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported zero fresh fatalities among Covid positive patients on Saturday. Earlier, the state had reported no deaths on July 26. “There were 32 new cases and 48 patients recovered. The daily positivity rate is now 0.01% and overall positivity rate in the state is 2.6%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press conference. Of the total 712 active cases under treatment 452 are in home isolation and remaining in Covid facilities. “The recovery rate in the state is 98.6%,” he said. The state has tested over 6.55 crore samples till now, including over 2.51 lakh in the past 24 hours, and 131973 RT PCR samples were sent to labs for testing a day before, according to the health department. “Lucknow has reported a total of 23,8,575 Covid cases till now, of which 23,5,870 have recovered and the recovery rate is 98.86%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Fifty-five districts in the state reported zero fresh Covid cases and the remaining 20 districts reported cases in single digit where the highest number of 5 was reported from Prayagraj. Among the total active cases under treatment, Mainpuri has the highest 71, followed by Prayagraj (66) and Lucknow (54), according to the data from the state health department. Prasad said the Covid infection rate was at lowest levels but the threat was still there. People from other states were coming to Uttar Pradesh, hence caution was necessary. “It is important to ask people from other states to get themselves tested if they have symptoms. The state has already introduced measures to test people coming from states with high positivity rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32-new-covid-cases-in-up-no-death-101627759697299.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Money laundering: Punjab-origin man jailed for 15 months in US||An Indian truck driver in the US has been sentenced to 15 months in prison and fined USD 4,710 (around ₹3.5 lakh) for money laundering and firearm offences, according to the department of justice.Lovepreet Singh of Indiana pleaded guilty in March to one count of money laundering, it said.He admitted to receiving and transmitting money obtained by his co-defendants as a result of the fraud scheme, and one count of unlawful possession of a firearm, it said.Singh, who worked as a truck driver, was sentenced to 15 months in prison and filed USD 4,710 in restitution for money laundering and firearms offenses, the department of justice said on Friday.According to the indictment and testimony in court, beginning in 2015 and continuing through 2018, Singh conspired with nine other defendants, located across the US and India, to commit the federal offences of wire fraud, mail fraud and bank fraud in addition to offences of money laundering, aggravated identity theft and passing fictitious obligations.Conspirators would obtain the telephone numbers and email addresses of computers belonging to various individuals throughout the US, the department of justice said in a statement.The conspirators established and operated various business entities such as World Tech Assistance and US Support Inc., in Mississippi and elsewhere in the US.They engaged telephone calling centres in India, which would place calls to the US numbers and appear to be coming from US-based toll-free numbers.They would call victims in the US, advising them that malware and ransomware were infecting their computers and devices, and that the victims should contact the conspirators for assistance, federal prosecutors alleged.According to court documents, they misrepresented themselves as “Apple Support” or “Microsoft” or other legitimate and known technical support services, and offered their assistance to remove the software in return for payment.“Victims responded to the conspirators’ phone calls and pop-up messages to send money and payments by wire, cheque and other means. Victims also granted conspirators access to the victims’ bank accounts and to the victims’ computers, permitting the conspirators to further enrich themselves by fraudulent appropriation and taking of the money and property of the victims,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-punjab-origin-man-jailed-for-15-months-in-us-101627759637903.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Brows raised over one-year extension to Bathinda DSP||A deputy superintendent of police (DSP) has been granted a one-year extension in service by the state home department.A blue-eyed boy of the ruling Congress, Gurjit Singh Romana, deputed as a DSP-1 in Bathinda since July 2018, been granted re-employment even as the Punjab government’s policy scrapped service extension policy for its employees from March 31, 2020.Officially, Romana retired on Saturday. But Bathinda senior superintendent of police BS Virk said he will continue duty from Sunday.According to an official order issued by the state home department on July 26, Romana’s re-employment tenure will end on July 31, 2022, and he will not be entitled to promotion during the extension period.Additional chief secretary, home, Anurag Agarwal said Romana’s extension was not a violation of the policy. “The Punjab government can grant re-employment to anyone in exceptional cases,” he added.The decision of re-employment has not gone well with the government officials, who claim several employees were unable to apply for the extension due to new rules.A senior Punjab civil service (PCS) officer said the government decided to do away with the policy of granting extension in service to open opportunities to the unemployed.President of the Punjab Civil Service (PCS) Officers Association Manjeet Singh said according to the policy, no state government employee can enjoy re-employment.A media-savvy cop, Romana was in the thick of controversy in 2017 when he was indicted in two departmental inquiries for releasing an accused in a drug case. He was held guilty for his suspected role in the FIR lodged against Gobind Gupta for allegedly having an illegal stock of 1,500 habit-forming tablets.Gupta, who was arrested on April 10, 2017, was released within 10 days of lodging the FIR at Bathinda’s Nehianwala police station after a court granted him bail. In the cancellation report, Romana had reportedly cited a drug inspector’s statement claiming that the accused, Gupta, had the licence to sell and purchase such medicines.Official sources confirmed that no action was taken against Romana as the internal report later concluded that “Gupta’s release was a mistake on the part of Romana and not a deliberate attempt. The accused in drug case was re-arrested.”Romana said his official track record remained clean and he did not seek any political favour. “Extension in service by the government confirms my impeccable professional conduct,” Romana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/brows-raised-over-one-year-extension-to-bathinda-dsp-101627759519029.html
01-08-2021||Other||Roundabout| Country roads, take me home||“But, the world shall end, when I forget.” - Itylus, Algernon Charles Swinburne Come August, Punjabis on both sides of the barbed fence that cleaves the land of five rivers will look back at the once composite culture of the region with a sense of loss and longing. The madman in Saadat Hasan Manto’s Toba Tek Singh who is among the mental asylum inmates being shifted to either country on the basis of religion will resurrect himself in collective memory. The indefatigable Bishan Singh who has forgotten everything only remembers his village. “Where is Toba Tek Singh? In India or Pakistan?” he pitifully asks. Not receiving an answer, he chooses to collapse on the no-man land between the barbed wires. This longing for home has not whittled one bit, and the third generation of those subjected to one of the most brutal and largest forced migrations in history are always eager to look for the villages and towns that were lost in the exodus whenever an opportunity arises. “This is the poignant resistance that one finds in the literature penned on the Partition,” says Graciela Magnoni, who has brought out a poetic photo journey with the heart-wrenching title Watan (Homeland). Married to a second-generation Punjabi from a migrant family, the photographer dedicates the book to ‘Prem Lata and Nandy Singh, my dear Sass te Saura’ and adds: “They gave me unconditional pyaar and an adoptive Watan I love.” Designed as a coffee-table book, it encases the love, passion, resilience and remorse of Punjabis in pictures of life as it is today in the villages of the pre-Partition Punjab. “The rural landscape, life and spirit are so similar that I just put in the photographs without mentioning the country they were clicked in,” says the photographer. Pulled into the Punjab story Graciela, who was born to a French father and a Uruguayan mother moved from one country to another with her parents. Thus, migration was something familiar to her. “I have lived in many countries, including France, Spain, Columbia, Panama and Brazil. The deaths of my parents in 1983 and 1989 and their burial in Brazil, a foreign land, made me think about what it is to die in a foreign land. What is it that makes us yearn for our homeland at the end of our lives? A similar feeling arose when I went to immerse the ashes of my parents-in-law in Kiratpur.” Graciela has had an enduring interest in travelling and photography since she was 15. Her career began in the Brazilian Press in 1984. In 1990, she moved to New York and worked for Brazilian and Argentinian papers and magazines, covering the news. Moving to Singapore in 2003, she wielded her camera in cities of the region and the world. Graciela was to meet a young man of Punjabi descent, Mano Vikrant Singh, in New York and marry him in 1993. The couple has a son Sebastian, 24, and a daughter, Devika, 21. Known for her candid photographs, Graciela says: “Photographing Sikhs in Punjab was an opening into the culture of my husband and his family. I did not know that it would evolve into a journey to the Punjab across the borders. I got pulled into the Punjab story, the drastic separation of people who had lived together and loved each other, the idea of a homeland or Watan erased from the map. I started identifying with the emotional connections and moments left behind.” Train to Pakistan in 2019 The more she photographed Punjab villages in India, the more she yearned to cross into Pakistan from India by train to see the border and experience the crossing. Finally, it happened in February 2019. Looking back at the emotional journey, she says: “In Lahore, I visited my father-in-law’s home and his beloved Government College. Being a part of the Indian Hockey Team that had defeated the British in 1948, he was a hero for the family. This was like avenging what they did to India for 200 years and what they did to Punjab as they left.” Photographing the villages there, she found the same hospitality, warmth and magical moments as in the Indian Punjab. The striking similarities in the images from both sides made it impossible to tell which is which and the idea of a book took shape. The book was seven years in the making, of which five were spent photographing and the remaining in putting together the book. Graciela read Partition literature copiously during the period and uses excerpts of poetry by Bulleh Shah, Amrita Pritam, Faiz Ahmad Faiz, Ustad Daman and Gulzar. “When I started photographing, I knew very little about the Partition, but I read a lot of literature,” she says. A passage has also been added from Manto’s ‘Toba Tek Singh’ and spontaneous quotes by villagers help build the narrative.Activist Salima Hashmi, the elder daughter of Faiz, says: “In Graciela’s work one senses a deep attachment to the terrain and its many avatars. These images speak of gentle exertions, of understated labour, of travails overcome, and a persistence of calm and longevity. She has explored and captured the enduring landscape, the stoic and tenacious farmers, the resourceful helpmate women, the shy young girls, the boisterous boys, the ebullient children, the people of Punjab sharing what can never be divided—forever Punjabis! She is a witness to this fact.” nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/country-roads-take-me-home-101627759517962.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||BSF shoots down 2 Pak intruders in Tarn Taran||TARN TARANThe Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead two intruders who had entered Indian territory from Pakistan near Khalra village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in Tarn Taran district on Friday night.The BSF recovered ₹5,262 Pakistani currency, a leather purse containing ID cards and documents, a headphone and a comb from the intruders, identified as Muhammad Asif, 23, and Abdul Barar, 24.According to a BSF spokesperson, the personnel of 103 Battalion deployed at the border outpost Thehkalan observed suspicious movement on the Indian side. He said the BSF men challenged the intruders to stop, but they continued to move towards the border fence and the troops opened fire, killing them on the spot. A search operation was carried out in the area on Saturday morning under the supervision of the battalion commandant SN Goswami. “Our investigation is still on to ascertain if the killed Pakistanis were terrorists or drug smugglers,” said a senior BSF official. The bodies have been handed over to the police. Khalra station house officer (SHO) Tarsem Singh said: “The bodies have been sent to a mortuary after conducting a post-mortem. A meeting between the BSF and Pakistan Rangers was also held, but the latter denied claiming the bodies.”In August last year, the troops of the same battalion had gunned down five Pakistani intruders, who were armed to the teeth, near Dal village of Bhikhiwind sub-division. During the search operation, one AK-47 rifle with 2 magazines and 27 live rounds, 4 pistols of .9mm with 7 magazines and 109 live rounds, 9 kg of heroin, 2 mobile phones and ₹610 Pakistani currency were also recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-shoots-down-2-pak-intruders-in-tarn-taran-101627759339159.html
01-08-2021||Other||Tomar’s no farm death statement: Harsimrat leads delegation of MPs to meet President||Chandigarh Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday led a delegation of MPs to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to protest against Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement that there was no record of farmer deaths in the Kisan agitation. The delegation requested the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government to form a joint select committee to probe this statement.MPs from seven parties signed the memorandum which was submitted to the President. The restricted number of MPs who called on the President included Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Ritesh Pandey (BSP), Hasnain Masoodi (J&K National Conference) and Faizal Mohammad (NCP). Harsimrat added, “We have apprised the President that family members of farmers who had been martyred during the ongoing Kisan Andolan wanted to meet him and urged him to give them an audience.” She added Tomar’s statement was being seen as an attempt to belittle the Kisan Andolan and its martyrs. “The delegation also apprised the President that opposition parties, including the SAD, had moved repeated adjournment motions to demand a discussion on repeal of three agriculture laws but they were not allowed.” “We urged the President to advise the government to give time to the opposition to raise the demand for repeal of the farm laws on Monday itself. I appeal to all parties to unite as one on this issue,” the Bathinda MP added. State surveillance of citizens, including politicians, journalists and activists through the Pegasus software, were also brought to the notice of the President. She added. “The government’s defence does not wash. It should form a committee to look into this also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tomars-no-farm-death-statement-harsimrat-leads-delegation-of-mps-to-meet-president-101627759337929.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vij orders re-investigation into woman’s suicide during janata darbar at Ambala Cantt||A family from Panipat told Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday that their daughter, who had died of suicide, was murdered by her in-laws at a village in Faridabad and they have evidence to prove their allegation. Vij was chairing a “janata darbar” at PWD rest house in Ambala Cantonment after almost after two months. After listening to the family, Vij spoke directly to police commissioner OP Singh and asked him to constitute an SIT to re-investigate the case. During the darbar, Vij heard at least 500 complaints and marked them to officials concerned for redressal. Complainants appeared from various of the state like Palwal, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Faridabad, Kurukshetra and Karnal to air their grievances, mostly pertaining to the police department. Some health workers from various districts also complained about their contractors for late salaries or delay in promotion. On this, Vij said, “I’m against the contract system. I’ve already issued orders for every such case to be investigated all over the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-orders-re-investigation-into-woman-s-suicide-during-janata-darbar-at-ambala-cantt-101627759278152.html
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 83% dip in Covid deaths in a month||Punjab’s Covid deaths in July witnessed a dip of 83% as compared to June. According to official records, the state reported 241 Covid-related fatalities in July against 1,502 in June. Analysis of the health department record revealed that the state reported eight deaths on an average a day in July. Besides, the state reported zero deaths thrice in the past one week.The state also witnessed fewer infections in July. Against a total of 28,002 Covid cases in June, the state saw just 3,495 cases. The active cases that were 1,501 on June 30 have now come down to 534. 53 fresh cases reported The state on Saturday reported 53 fresh Covid cases, which took the total count to 5,99,104, while one coronavirus-related fatality pushed the toll to 16,293 in the state, according to a bulletin.The number of active cases is 534, it said. Kapurthala reported nine cases, followed by five each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, the bulletin said.With 60 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,82,277, it said.A total of 1,21,29,632 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-83-dip-in-covid-deaths-in-a-month-101627759217912.html
