03-08-2021||Lucknow||Use tech to solve people’s problems, says UP CM to new SDMs||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the newly recruited sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to use technology in solving public problems and thereby ensuring that no one is deprived of justice in Uttar Pradesh. “During Janata Darshan programmes, I have seen that most of the public problems are of tehsil and police station levels. Most of you are tech-savvy and with the use of technology, you can solve the problems of the public thereby saving their time too,” Yogi said while addressing the newly appointed SDMs at a programme organised at Lok Bhawan on Tuesday. Congratulating the officers on the occasion, the chief minister also handed over appointment letters to 51 new SDMs selected after clearing PCS- 2019 examination. On the recruitment process in the state, he said, “Before 2017, the process of government jobs in Uttar Pradesh was vitiated. Casteism and nepotism were prevalent everywhere due to which matters went to courts and the courts then ordered CBI investigations. The youth of Uttar Pradesh got frustrated by it.”“After coming to power, our government ended the predominating chaos and corruption in boards and commissions by expediting the process, conducting recruitments with transparency and clarity,” Yogi added. “Our government has given government jobs to more than 4.5 lakh youths in Uttar Pradesh and no recruitment is pending in the court,” the CM said.Speaking at the event, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma gave a message to the newly selected deputy collectors to be self-confident, reflective and to work above personal interests. UP minister for finance, medical education and parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna instructed the new officers to focus on their work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/use-tech-to-solve-people-s-problems-says-up-cm-to-new-sdms-101628015072892.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Dalit girl’s rape-murder: Board to conduct autopsy, protest continues||A board of three doctors will conduct an autopsy of the charred remains of a Dalit 9-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered on Sunday by four people at a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi, even as protest by family members and political activists over the incident continued for the third day on Tuesday.The accused, including 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, were booked under sections pertaining to rape, murder and threatening charges, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act. They were sent to jail. Though the accused have maintained that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from an electric cooler, the family have alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after frightening the family off from informing the police about her death.Demanding death penalty for the four men and speedy justice through a fast-track court, the parents of the girl and nearly 200 people, including local residents, politicians and social activists, are protesting on Pankha road, close to the crematorium.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tagged a Hindi news clip reporting the incident and tweeted, “Dalit ki beti bhi desh ki beti hai (A Dalit’s daughter is also the daughter of the country).”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he will meet the family members of the girl on Wednesday. “The murder of a 9-year-old innocent in Delhi after her rape is shameful. There is a need to improve law and order in Delhi. The culprits should be given capital punishment at the earliest. Going to meet the victim’s family tomorrow, will do everything possible to help the family in this fight for justice,” Kejriwal tweeted.At the protest, the girl’s mother alleged that the accused locked her inside the crematorium and cremated her daughter’s body without her consent. “They offered me money, asked me to return home and not tell anyone what happened,” she said.The girl’s father said they will continue to protest until the culprits were hanged. “The priest and the other three men raped and killed my daughter and cremated her body to hide their gruesome crime. We want them to be hanged till death for what they did to our daughter. Till then, we will continue our protest to demand justice for my daughter,” the father said, sitting on a makeshift stage that has been set up in the middle of the Pankha Road.The girl’s mother also alleged that her husband was locked in a room and assaulted by a man at the Delhi Cantonment police station, late on Sunday night. However, the police refuted the allegations. They said the girl’s parents were called to the police station for counselling and completing the legal formalities.Among the politicians who visited the protest site on Tuesday were Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad alias Ravan and Aam Aadmi Party’s Mangolpuri legislator Rakhi Birla, who is also the deputy speaker of Delhi assembly.The child, who lived with her parents in a rented house near the crematorium, went to fetch water from the water cooler installed at the crematorium around 5.30pm on Sunday. Half an hour later, the priest and the three men called the girl’s mother and showed her the child’s body, the police said.“They told her that the girl was electrocuted to death while having water from the cooler... asked her to not inform the police about the death. They told her that the police will register a case and the body will be sent for an autopsy, during which doctors will remove her vital organs and sell them. The four then cremated the body,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh.Police said the mother’s statement before a magistrate was recorded on Monday where she did not make the rape and murder allegations. In the evening, her statement before the SC/ST commission was recorded and she accused the four men of raping and killing her daughter and cremating her body.“Initially, the case was registered under culpable homicide not amounting to murder, wrongful confinement and destruction of evidence. After the girl’s mother statement before the SC/ST commission, we added rape, murder and threatening charges under revenant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in addition to the SC/ST Act. There was no delay in police action,” said joint commissioner of police (New Delhi) Jaspal Singh.The suspects have been identified as Radhey Shyam, the priest of the crematorium, and three employees Salim,55, Laxmi Narayan,49, and Kuldeep,63.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-board-to-conduct-autopsy-protest-continues-101628014114575.html
03-08-2021||Noida||Family alleges medical negligence after woman’s death||The family of a 27-year-old woman who died following a surgery at a private hospital in Rabupura on Tuesday morning has alleged medical negligence. Police identified the dead woman by a single name as Poonam, a resident of Aachhepur village in Greater Noida. “After multiple consultations with doctors, it was decided to remove her uterus (following several health issues). We admitted her to the hospital where she underwent the procedure,” read the police complaint lodged by the woman’s husband, Pradeep. He claimed that Poonam died during the operation.Police said that they rushed a team to the hospital at around 5am when they were informed of the family alleging negligence. “The body was taken into custody and sent for an autopsy. The family claims that the doctor who did the operation was a quack,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (Zone 3) Vishal Pandey. Based on the family’s complaint, a case was registered against the owner and the doctor under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder ) of the Indian Penal Code at the Rabupura police station. In the evening, family members of the victim and other people gathered outside the hospital demanding compensation for the woman’s death. “We have assured the family of due action against any responsible parties after a thorough investigation. The group dispersed after that,” said Pandey, adding that the autopsy report was awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/family-alleges-medical-negligence-after-woman-s-death-101628014712669.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Class 12 results out of the way, students, colleges now worry about undergrad admissions||Results of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) has calmed the nerves of students across Maharashtra, especially those who were worried that the state education board was assessing them based on their previous years’ performances instead of an exam. However, once the results were out, students had every reason to cheer.Li Shu Liang Shun Ma, 18, is celebrating his success of scoring 96.66% in the science stream and topping his college, Fr Agnel Multipurpose School and Junior college in Vashi. “If not for the pandemic, I could have met my teachers and classmates and celebrated my results with them on this day. I missed out on attending college but have taken double the efforts to cover the portion through online education,” said Shun Ma who plans to pursue computer engineering and is already preparing for his entrance exam.While students opting for professional courses including medicine, engineering, architecture or law, are fairly prepared for the upcoming entrance exams which will decide their admissions, those opting for undergraduate degree courses in colleges affiliated with state universities are a worried lot. Unlike the admissions authority of professional courses who have clarified the next step for students, those aiming for seats in city degree colleges are still confused.“Class 12 students across all school education boards have performed extremely well this year and this automatically means admissions to degree college will be challenging too. My fear, which I believe most students share at present, is that the first three-seat allotment lists across top degree colleges in Mumbai will end at 90-95%. What happens to those who scored below 90% this year?” asked Anubhuti Sharma, who scored 91% in her Class 12 boards.While the state government or the University of Mumbai is yet to announce the admissions process for undergraduate degree courses, principals of city colleges believe that the admission process is most likely to be conducted based on marks scored by students in their Class 12 exams. “We are still waiting for instructions from the university on how to start the admission process for professional courses. Based on the discussions we’ve had so far, merit lists will be drawn up as usual,” said Anushree Lokur, principal of Ramnarain Ruia Autonomous College, Matunga.Every year merit lists are drawn up based on the scores of candidates in their Class 12 exams. However, this year, in the absence of an actual exam and with the boards assigning moderated marks to students, some colleges had pushed for entrance exams. Principals had maintained that without entrance exams, preparing the merit list will be difficult and colleges will not be able to screen students well.“It’s going to be a tough task preparing the merit list this year, especially for colleges that receive a flurry of applications and are sought-after. However, the state government, as well as the University of Mumbai, will take the final call and we will abide,” said the principal of a popular college on the condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, state higher education minister Uday Samant has indicated that entrance exams were unlikely. Most colleges begin their admission process immediately after Class 12 results across all school education boards are released. However, in the absence of any guidelines, colleges have been forced to wait this time around.“Admissions to junior college based on an entrance exam is easier because one exam will be applicable to all students but for the degree college admissions, separate such entrance exams will have to be conducted for different streams and courses, which is impossible at present. Admissions based on Class 12 marks seems the most non-chaotic way forward,” said the principal of a suburban college on condition of anonymity.A senior official from the University of Mumbai confirmed that the university is awaiting clarification from the state government on whether to conduct entrance examinations or not. University pro-vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni said, “We are currently working on a detailed strategy for degree admissions and should be able to issue guidelines very soon.”(With inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-12-results-out-of-the-way-students-colleges-now-worry-about-undergrad-admissions-101628014712089.html
03-08-2021||Noida||Stamp dept proposes steep hikes in circle rates, homebuyers cry foul||The Gautam Budh Nagar stamp and registration department has proposed a steep hike in existing circle rates on the basis of which a property buyer pays stamp fee at the time of executing registration of a property. If accepted, buyers will have to cough up more money to buy property in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas.In Noida’s A-category sectors 14A, 15A and 44, the circle rate is proposed at ₹1,94,250 per square metre (sqm) against the existing ₹1,03,500 per sqm — an 87% hike. In B-category sectors such as sectors 11, 12, 22, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78, which are hubs of middle-income group housing complexes, the rate is proposed at ₹72,000 per sqm against the existing ₹52,500 per sqm — a 37% increase.Stakeholders — buyers, industrial unit owners or developers — have been given time till August 16 to file objections, if any, against the proposal. At present, a buyer has to pay around 6% of the property cost, which in turn is determined by the circle rate, in stamp fee to buy and transfer property in their name. Homebuyers say that a hike in the time of a pandemic, when they face a financial crisis, is unjustified and uncalled for.In the proposal, the department cited the hike in allotment rates by the authorities in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas in some areas. The department wants to match the circle rate with the allotment rate, which is the rate is at which the agencies sell their properties. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yedia) in June increased the land allotment rate by up to 5% citing inflation. The same month, the Greater Noida Authority hiked its rates by up to 4.5% for residential properties and the Noida Authority hiked its allotment rate by up to 20% in some areas.The department also tied the stamp fee to distance from infrastructure. The new proposal says that if a plot is located along a 30-metre wide road, a Metro corridor or Noida Expressway then an additional 2.5% to 5% of total property cost will have to be paid as stamp fee. “Proposing a hike in circle rates amid the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected the society financially and disrupted all businesses, including the real estate sector, is completely unwarranted. We are filing objections,” said ATS promoter Getambar Anand who is also the former chairman of confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI), a developers’ group.Around 50,000 homebuyers, who were unable to execute their registries five years ago due to the fault of the developers may now have to contend with the new proposal, said Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria Society in Sector 77 and member of the Progressive Community Foundation, a social group of citizens.“We have already objected to the proposal because it is illegal and against the middle-class people who have suffered a lot in the past due to the errors of the state government and developers. Most of us had already bought the stamp as per the previous circle rates but the registry was delayed due to the fault of developers and the state government. We may have to revise this now. Why are we made to suffer more?,” said Gupta.Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway residents said the authorities were yet to provide basic civic facilities in several areas and still want to hike circle rates.“The authorities want to keep putting burden on property buyers without providing them even basic services first. In Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, people are yet to get proper roads, clean parks, proper drainage network or the possession of plot or flat,” said Rishabh Nigam, secretary of Yamuna Expressway entrepreneurs association.“So far this is only a proposal. And we have invited objections from all quarters. If objections are valid, then we will consider it and amend the rates. Nothing is final so far,” said SS Pal assistant inspector general of stamp and registration department, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stamp-dept-proposes-steep-hikes-in-circle-rates-homebuyers-cry-foul-101628014651495.html
03-08-2021||Noida||Fearing Covid-19, organisers postpone Auto Expo 2022||In view of the Covid-19 situation, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) has decided to postpone the Auto Expo 2022 that was scheduled to take place in Greater Noida next February. The group said the new date will be finalised later this year. SIAM director general Rajesh Menon said, “The postponement of the biennial show (held at Expo Mart) is to ensure the safety of exhibitors, visitors and all stakeholders involved as their safety is the topmost priority for the SIAM. It is in this context that the Indian automobile industry and SIAM recognise the inherent risks in organising the Auto Expo due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the apprehensions of a possible third wave.”Menon said that the chances of Covid-19 spreading in a crowded show like the Auto Expo was extremely high. “There is uncertainty around how Covid-19 would develop in the coming months and at the same time organising Auto Expo would need a lead time of preferably a year. Besides, Auto Expo is like a festival for the Indian automobile industry and we look forward to receiving maximum people with no fear of spread of infection. The new dates will be finalised later,” he said. The Auto Expo provides a platform for manufacturers to showcase new products and technologies, and is closely followed by enthusiasts. Almost 600,000 people participated in its last edition before the pandemic broke in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fearing-covid-19-organisers-postpone-auto-expo-2022-101628014652039.html
03-08-2021||Noida||CBSE results: Over 98% students clear class 10 in Noida, Ghaziabad||Students in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts have performed well in the class 10 assessments of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the results of which were declared on Tuesday. While 98.35% students cleared class 10 in GB Nagar, the neighbouring Ghaziabad recorded a pass percentage of 98.7%, officials said, adding that girls once again outshone boys in both the districts.Overall, the Noida region recorded a pass percentage of 98.78% in the class 10 results, an improvement of over 11% since last year. According to the CBSE, the Noida region comprises 18 districts of Uttar Pradesh, including GB Nagar and Ghaziabad. Last year, Noida region’s pass percentage was 87.51%. This year, the students received their result without appearing for the board exams. The results have been declared on the basis of an alternative assessment method after the board exams were cancelled in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. Under the alternative assessment criteria, students have been evaluated on the basis of their performances in exams conducted at the school level, including unit tests, half-yearly exams, and pre-board exams.In GB Nagar district, a total of 21,820 students registered for class 10 board exams, of which 13,099 were boys and 8,721 were girls.“Out of 21,820 students, 21,462 have cleared the exams with a pass percentage of 98.35%. The pass percentage of girls in the district is 99.1% while that of boys is 98.5%. There are 183 secondary schools affiliated to CBSE in the district,” said Piyush Sharma, CBSE’s regional officer for Noida.On the other hand, in Ghaziabad, 24,464 students were eligible for class 10 board exams, of which 14,652 were boys and 9,812 girls.“While girls achieved a pass percentage of 99.06%, it stood at 98.7% for boys. A total of 95 secondary schools are affiliated to CBSE in the district. The overall average pass percentage of Ghaziabad is 98.7%,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, students are elated after receiving their results. Samrudhi Pravin Shirke of The Khaitan School in Noida’s Sector 40 has scored 100% in her class 10 board exams. “I was expecting above 99% score, but never thought that I would score a 100%,” said Shirke, who plans to take science stream and wants to pursue neuroscience. Shubhi Bhatia, a student of Amity International School in Noida’s Sector 44, has scored 99.8% with 99 (out of 100) in English and 100 each in French, Maths, Science, and Artificial Intelligence.“With 157 students having scored above 95%, the performance of the school in the exams is praiseworthy. The highest scorers are Shubhi Bhatia (99.8%), followed by Nitya Agarwal (99.6%) and Simone Nayyar (99.4%),” said Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, Noida.At DPS Noida, Tanvi Srivastava is the topper with 99% marks. “It is a great feeling to secure the first position in my school. It would not have been possible without the constant support of my teachers and parents, especially during the time of Covid-19 when we are getting used to online learning,” she said.At DPS Indirapuram, three students topped with 99.6% and four more students scored 99.4%. Sangeeta Hajela, principal of DPS Indirapuram, said, “This batch of students started online learning last year and even at such a tender age, they have been able to manage during the pandemic and perform well in class 10, which is a great achievement.”Shambhavi Sharma, a student of Gurukul-The School in Ghaziabad, scored 99.6%. “I got 98 in English and 100 each in other subjects. I am happy, but not satisfied as I feel that I could have scored a perfect 100 in English if board exams were held. I will take humanities and plan to appear for civil services exams,” she said.At Amity International School in Sector 1, Vasundhara, 39 out of 142 students scored over 95%. “We congratulate the students on their brilliant performance. Ultimately, their resilience, patience, adaptability and hard work paid off despite the adverse life-threatening circumstances posed by the pandemic. Parents, students and teachers are all very satisfied with this board results,” said Dr. Bhavana Kulshrestha, principal of the school.According to the CBSE, students who are not satisfied with their marks can appear for the in-person exams to be conducted by the board between August 16 and September 15 this year, dates of which will be announced soon.Aditi Basu Roy, president of All India Principals Association, GB Nagar, said that the students have a tough road ahead as the class 10 results have come easily to them. “The students now need to be prepared for the big jump from class 10 to 11, which is tougher than the shift from class 12 to graduation. Based on the class 10 results, which were done solely on internal assessments, students now have to decide their streams for class 11,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cbse-results-over-98-students-clear-class-10-in-noida-ghaziabad-101628014591532.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||HSC result: 1,300 colleges in Mumbai division get perfect score||Announcement of Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) results brought cheer not only to students but to colleges in the Mumbai division as well. Over 1,300 managed to get a 100% success rate in Class 12 results, a big boost compared to only 49 and 70 colleges in the same division who had managed the feat in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Mumbai division, which also includes Thane, Raigad and Palghar has around 1,570 junior colleges and almost every year, only a handful of colleges would manage a 100% pass rate. “Since the scores this year were depending on internals and students’ performance in previous years, it was not difficult for colleges to achieve such a feat. We are surprised some colleges still managed 98-99% pass percentage when they could have scored a full 100%,” said a senior official from the Mumbai divisional board office. He further added that colleges, where students have failed, have either been students who could not be reached for internal examinations due to network issues or those who dropped out of Class 12 altogether this year. “The 100% pass rate is a record that most colleges wish to achieve. However, this year, it has become possible for many. Until now, only those colleges with a small number of Class 12 students had managed to boast of this score, but this year, colleges with thousands of students have managed a 100% success rate,” said the vice-principal of a junior college in Thane. Scrapping of board exams this year meant colleges had to use a 30-30-40 formula to assess students where 30% weightage each will be given to Class 10 and 11 marks and 40% to Class 12 internals marks and students’ performance in the year.“A big chunk of the efforts in order to achieve 100% results goes to the teachers this year. Not only did they keep online classes interactive and fun for students throughout the year, but also made sure no student missed an internal test by sending regular reminders to all,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College in Bandra, which also managed 100% success rate across all three streams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hsc-result-1-300-colleges-in-mumbai-division-get-perfect-score-101628014472734.html
03-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad tops UP’s mega single-day vaccination drive||Ghaziabad on Tuesday topped Uttar Pradesh during the one-day vaccination drive against Covid-19 vaccinating a record 76,931 people, according to Co-WIN data till 8pm. The state vaccinated nearly 2.4 million people on the day, taking its total vaccinations till date to over 51 million.This was the most the district vaccinated till date, beating the previous daily figure of around 36,000 on July 6. It was also the most by any district in the state ever in a day. According to the figures from Co-WIN, Lucknow was on the second spot with 70588, followed by Prayagraj at 60,490, Agra at 58,899and Meerut at 54,840. Ghaziabad achieved the target with 185 Covid vaccination centres (CVC). “The drive has given us the experience to handle more vaccinations and showed that our staff has gotten attuned to the process. Now we will be able to demand more vaccines for the district,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. The district has administered 1,551,623 doses till date, which is third highest in state after Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar. This figure includes the first and second doses of the vaccines.Officials from the Ghaziabad health department said that they had requested 125,000 doses from the state, but were given about 75000. The extra doses came from vials leftover from previous days, they added. Officials involved in the planning process said that teams of Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha workers) and Anganwadi workers and teams of health care workers and even NGOs helped in sensitising residents two days before the drive. “We also roped in schools, community centres that had good ambience as vaccination centres in order to attract people. We tripled the number of CVCs. We achieved our target by 5pm but did not stop vaccinations. The experience that the staff gathered in the last seven months also paid off,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for vaccination in the district. Many CVCs on Tuesday catered to over three times the number of people they attended to on other days. “Generally, our centre administers almost 300 doses per day. On Tuesday we clocked almost 1,000. We vaccinated almost all who came to our centre,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Ghaziabad, applauded the district’s performance. “It is a major achievement. We suggest that such drives be organised at least twice a week or on alternate days, with a particular focus on high caseload areas, so that the entire population can be covered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-tops-up-s-mega-single-day-vaccination-drive-101628014411498.html
03-08-2021||Noida||Single-day mega vaccination drive gets good response in GB Nagar||Gautam Budh Nagar met the target of vaccinating 42,000 people in Tuesday’s mega vaccination drive against Covid-19, and officials said they expect the overall tally to increase as the data is updated on the Co-WIN portal.The tally of 42,316 vaccinations by 8.30pm was the highest ever by the district, beating the previous high of around 17,000 in June.The district was placed 19th in Uttar Pradesh in terms of vaccinations administered on the day. Officials said that this “rank” was subject to the vaccines supplied to the districts from the state government and could not be considered as a testament of the district’s effort.On Monday evening, The district got 54,000 doses of the vaccines from the state government for the drive, said officials. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the administration set up 162 walk-in vaccination booths, besides the 42 permanent vaccination booths for the drive. “We always set the target with respect to the availability of vaccines. That’s why, our internal target of 50,000 was more than the state’s target of 42,000 for us. In any case, we are upbeat with the coverage on the day. People from the lower income groups thronged the walk-in vaccination drive with much enthusiasm. Our figures for the day will go up further as some of these booths couldn’t upload their data on Co-WIN app as yet,” he said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the GB Nagar district immunization officer, said that on Tuesday, only second dose of vaccines were administered to the beneficiaries at the permanent booths. “We had set up these walk-in booths in schools, wedding halls, community centres and temples even in rural remote areas so that people who had internet connectivity issues and so could not book their slots, could turn up for vaccination,” he said. He said that the vaccination of pregnant women will begin in the district once the state government gives out guidelines on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/singleday-mega-vaccination-drive-gets-good-response-in-gb-nagar-101628014291505.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Hang the culprits at earliest: Delhi CM Kejriwal on 9-year-old’s rape and murder||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday demanded capital punishment for the accused persons in the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl near the Delhi Cantonment area.“The murder of a 9-year-old innocent in Delhi after the rape is very shameful. There is a need to improve law and order in Delhi. The culprits should be given capital punishment at the earliest,” he posted on Twitter in Hindi.In the same post, Kejriwal mentioned that he would meet the family of the victim on Wednesday and that he will do “everything possible to help the family in this fight for justice.”दिल्ली में 9 साल की मासूम के साथ हैवानियत के बाद हत्या बेहद शर्मनाक है। दिल्ली में कानून-व्यवस्था दुरुस्त किए जाने की ज़रुरत है। दोषियों को जल्द से जल्द फांसी की सज़ा मिलनी चाहिए। कल पीड़ित परिवार से मिलने जा रहा हूं, न्याय की इस लड़ाई में परिवार की हर संभव मदद करेंगे।The nine-year-old was allegedly raped and killed by a priest and three male staffers of a crematorium, who then cremated her body without the consent of her parents or informing the police. The four men were held after the victim’s family complained of foul play, and staged protests alongside nearly 200 villagers from Sunday night till Monday evening. They demanded the arrested persons be charged with rape and murder, Hindustan Times had reported.According to police, the girl lived with her parents at a rented house near the crematorium and had gone to fetch cold water from the water cooler installed at the premises around 5.30pm on Sunday. The priest and the three men summoned the girl’s mother to the crematorium after 30 minutes and told her that her daughter was electrocuted to death while having water from the cooler. They also showed the victim’s body to her mother.“They showed her the burn marks on her daughter’s wrist and elbow, and said her lips had turned blue. The four men asked the girl’s mother to not inform the police about the death. They told her that the police will register a case and the body will be sent for an autopsy, during which doctors will remove her vital organs and sell them. The four then cremated the body,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh Singh.DCP Singh added that the men allegedly made the mother agree to their terms and claimed that it was better to cremate the body.Delhi Police has lodged a case against the four men based on the mother’s statement, who claimed that her daughter was raped, murdered and cremated without their consent on Sunday.DCP Singh further said that all the four men – identified as Radhey Shyam (55), the priest; and the three staff Salim, Laxmi Narayan and Kuldeep, were acquainted with the victim’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hang-the-culprits-at-earliest-delhi-cm-kejriwal-on-9-year-old-s-rape-and-murder-101628013558544.html
03-08-2021||Lucknow||UP MLAs to undergo Covid tests for monsoon session, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said all necessary arrangements should be made to conduct Covid-19 tests on members and employees for the forthcoming monsoon session of state legislature commencing here on August 17. Yogi was reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high-level meeting here. Speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit had also said all preparations would be made to follow the Covid-19 protocol during the monsoon session. Asked whether vaccination would be made mandatory for the session, he said the members were well aware of the vaccination drive and all necessary steps, required to follow Covid-19 protocol, would be taken. Those aware of developments said the state assembly secretariat would take appropriate steps soon. Meanwhile, principal secretary, state assembly, Pradeep Dubey issued notification about commencement of monsoon session from August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upmlas-to-undergo-covid-tests-for-monsoon-session-says-yogi-101628013813281.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Fresh restrictions on goods vehicles to cut congestion in Delhi||The movement and idle parking of trucks and other goods vehicles at major congested stretches and city markets such as Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Karol Bagh, Green Park, Yusuf Sarai and Sadar Bazar will be prohibited during specified hours, starting this week.The Delhi government on Tuesday evening issued an order regulating the movement of goods vehicles in some of the highly congested areas of the city. A gazette notification of this order will be issued on Wednesday after which the restrictions will come into force immediately.The traffic police will act against the violators of the rules.The public works department (PWD) has been directed to install signages at these stretches at the earliest to inform the public about the regulated traffic movement.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the order was in the works for several months now as discussions on identifying the stretches were going on in consultation with the Delhi traffic police.“We hope this will decongest the busy stretches, and also help reduce pollution as Delhi, over the past few years has seen mushrooming growth of small to medium sized goods vehicles. There were no restrictions on their movement. This is the first time that movement of goods vehicles, including the small and medium sized ones, are being regulated in the city at this scale. Such vehicles will have no entry on the specified roads during the given timings,” Gahlot said.According to the order, between 12:30pm and 8pm, heavy, medium and light motorised goods vehicles will not be allowed in and around the markets mentioned above and those located at Kamla Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Vikas Marg, Mahipalpur, Rajouri Garden, Tilak Nagar, and Dwarka sector 10 main market. Same timings will apply to the markets listed above.On the Barapullah from Ring Road till INA to Sarai Kale Khan, a complete round-the-clock (24 hours) ban has been imposed on all categories of buses (excluding mini buses and RTVs), Gramin Sewa vehicles, heavy, medium and light goods vehicles, e-rickshaws and e-carts.To address the perennial traffic congestion issue in Najafgarh, the entire Phirni Road, Najafgarh (Delhi Gate– Chhawla Road crossing–Dhansa Road crossing) will be out of bounds for heavy to light goods vehicles from 7am to 11pm, read the order issued by KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport).Stretches such as Pataudi House Road, Daryaganj (from the T-Point at Kasturba Hospital Marg to T-Point Dakhni Rai Street) will be prohibited for goods vehicles from 12 noon to 3pm. There are at least eight stretches where the prohibition will be effective in two phases every day.For example, the Agra Canal Road from Kalindi Kunj to Faridabad Border will be shut for good vehicles from 7am to 11am and from 5pm to 11pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fresh-restrictions-on-goods-vehicles-to-cut-congestion-in-delhi-101628013556112.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to offer Ayush treatments at some city mohalla clinics||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said that the government will soon identify a few mohalla clinics in the city to also provide ayurveda, unani and homeopathy treatments, pointing out that the Indian system of medicines (ISM) can play a “crucial role” in ensuring recovery fro health issues that follow the Covid-19 infection. He also issued directions for waiver on fees paid for waste disposal by Ayush clinics.“Health Minister Satyendar Jain met the delegation of Ayush doctors, today... The most important issues raised were regarding the subsidy for electricity in their clinics, the introduction of Ayush in mohalla clinics, and relief from ₹890 fees levied on biomedical waste collection from Ayush clinics. The doctors submitted that the Ayush clinics were small and didn’t produce biomedical waste. Thus, the fee should be waived off or reduced. Jain immediately responded to this submission and gave directions to the designated departments to put this into effect,” said Jain’s office in a statement issued on Tuesday.Jain further said, “Mohalla clinics should be selected around Delhi to accommodate and introduce Ayush treatment which will serve the dual purpose of providing welfare to the Ayush doctors as well as people.”He soon issued direction to the health department to identify few mohalla clinics for Ayush treatments, the government said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-offer-ayush-treatments-at-some-city-mohalla-clinics-101628013251494.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After Class 10 results, CBSE students now worry about junior college admissions||Results of Class 10 students from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) may have brought cheer to students across the country, but for several students in Mumbai, the anxiety is far from over. While a large number of students have already confirmed their admissions to Class 11 in the same board, those interested in opting for junior colleges need to clear another hurdle — the common entrance test (CET) to be conducted by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on August 21.“More than the Class 10 results, most of us are more anxious about the CET because the state board plans to conduct exam based on the state board syllabus. There’s a vast difference in what we are taught in CBSE and what is taught by the state board, so it is unfair to force non-state board students to appear for a test based on a syllabus alien to us,” said Richa Chaturvedi, a CBSE Class 10 student who scored 93%.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined.According to a circular released by the state board last month, an optional CET will be based completely on the Maharashtra state board Class 10 syllabus. It will be a 100 marks multiple choice question format exam held over two hours. The exam will have questions from four subjects including English, Mathematics, Science and Social Sciences, each carrying 25% weightage in the test.In May, a Class 10 ICSE student approached the Bombay high court seeking help in this matter. The student’s petition points out the ‘bias’ against students of other boards and the added stress for students, therefore. After hearing the students petition, the court last month asked the Maharashtra state board to consider conducting the CET taking into to account the syllabus of ICSE and CBSE boards as well. The board recently sought opinions from experts on this matter and a final decision is pending still.“Most CBSE Class 10 students in our school have already opted to continue studying in the same school for Class 11 as well. While many are still keen to opt for junior colleges, it is unfair to expect them to prepare for a CET based on state board syllabus. The syllabus was made public very recently, giving students very little time to prepare for the same,” said the head mistress of a suburban school on condition of anonymity. She said that most students are still hoping for a positive response from the Bombay HC regarding the entrance exam. “There needs to be an end to the ambiguity and only the state board can bring clarity,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-after-class-10-results-cbse-students-now-worry-about-junior-college-admissions-101628013152074.html
03-08-2021||Other||Mega vax drive: Lucknow tops the chart in UP with 80,410 doses in a day||LUCKNOW The state capital administered 80,410 Covid vaccine doses on Tuesday – the highest among all the 75 districts of UP – during a mega vaccination drive organised across the state. On June 25, Lucknow had achieved a single-day vaccination count of 28,131. “None of the beneficiaries, who came for vaccination, were returned. Some of the centres conducted vaccination till late evening,” said Lucknow chief medical officer Dr Manoj Agrawal, who inspected the vaccination centres at the community health centre in Kakori and at Chhota Imambada. The health department had arranged over 88,000 vaccine doses against a target of 69,000 set by the state health department. There were 373 vaccination booths at 171 vaccination centres in Lucknow for the mega vaccination camp. “Maximum enthusiasm was seen among beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age. They not only came for vaccination, but also assisted the elderly and women to reach vaccination centres,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In Lucknow division, the target was to administer 2.91 lakh doses of the vaccine in six districts – Hardoi 51000 doses, Lakhimpur Kheri 48,000 doses, Lucknow 69,000 doses, Rae Bareli 36,000 doses, Sitapur 51,000 doses and Unnao 36,000 doses. The target was fixed at three times the average daily vaccination target (on normal days). By 6pm, 82.97% of the target was achieved, where Lucknow had met 96.40% of the target by 6pm and Hardoi 96.45% of the target. BOXDURING THE DAYTime ---- No. of doses 12 pm---- 6777 doses 1 pm ----21663 doses 3 pm ---- 29806 doses 4 pm ---- 38399 doses 7 pm ---- 70583 doses 8 pm ---- 80410 doses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mega-vax-drive-lucknow-tops-the-chart-in-up-with-80-410-doses-in-a-day-101628013092002.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 CBSE results: Number of students with 90% and above marks rise by 40%||The number of high scorers grew by almost 40% in the Class 10 results declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) at noon on Tuesday. More than 21.5 lakh students in Class 10 registered for their board exams this year, across the country, according to data shared by the CBSE. Over 2.58 lakh of them have scored above 90% aggregate marks, up from last year’s 1.84 lakh. Similarly, the number of students scoring 95% and above stands at 57,824 this year compared to 41,804 students who managed this feat last year. Much like the Class 12 results announced last week, almost all students, whose results were announced, have passed. The board recorded an overall pass percentage of 99.04, the best so far. It was no surprise that city schools, too, witnessed a hike in the overall performance of their Class 10 batch. At Delhi Public School in Nerul, 51% of the batch of 239 students scored above 95% this year and 77% scored above 90%. “We have to congratulate our students as well as our teachers for ensuring that despite the time we are in and having to continue school only in the virtual platform, everyone ensured they gave their hundred per cent and this shows in the final result,” said J Mohanty, principal of the school. At Bal Bharti Public School in Navi Mumbai, more than 50% of their batch has scored above 90% this year, an increase compared to last year. “Of the 308 students who were part of our Class 10 batch, 237 students have scored above 90% which includes 116 students scoring 95% and above. Our results have consistently been good over the years and this year too our students have done exceptionally well,” said Suman Samarth, headmistress of the secondary section at RN Podar High School, Santacruz. The Pune region, which consists of schools in Maharashtra, Goa, Daman-Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli ranked fourth among all regions by improving its success rate from 98.05% to 99.92%. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, students had been attending online classes and board examinations were cancelled in the interest of their safety. CBSE formulated a method to calculate and moderate the marks of students based on their performance in internal examinations conducted by the schools. Instead of the 80-mark theory exam, students were assigned marks out of 10 marks for their performance in periodic or unit tests, 30 marks for performance in half-yearly or mid-term exams, and 40 marks for pre-board exams. Any student, who was not satisfied by the marks assigned by the board, will be allowed to appear in an exam when the Covid-19 situation improves. “There was a detailed evaluation format that the CBSE had prepared; it was one of the best methods adopted. Overall students have scored well despite the challenging year that they had to face in their teenage years,” said Muriel Fernandes, principal, Ryan International School, Sanpada. “Initially it was difficult to cope with the sudden change in the pattern of studies. I found it quite challenging to manage online classes but support from my parents has helped me overcome and score well. Due to the lockdown, we could not go out much, hence I played my keyboards regularly and continued learning music to destress myself,” said Shaun D’souza (15), who topped Rajhans Vidyalaya with 98.2% and is aspiring to be a cardiologist. Principals and parents said that students were under unprecedented pressure amid rising Covid-19 cases. “It was a tremendous change for both students as well as teachers; they have worked hard and overcome it successfully. Those students who were consistent throughout the year would have scored well in the current evaluation pattern. Some of the playful ones who were not prepared for such an evaluation process would have been disappointed with the scores, however in the current scenario there is no other choice but to remain motivated,” said Kala Gangadharan, principal, Rajhans Vidyalaya, Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-cbse-results-number-of-students-with-90-and-above-marks-rise-by-40-101628012732033.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Twin students with cerebral palsy score identical marks in Class 12||Twin students from Bhavan’s College with cerebral palsy since birth, scored 90% in their respective fields in Class 12. Nathan Cordoso, who pursued science scored 90.8%, while Hayden, a commerce student, scored 90.1%. Both had faced initial hurdles in coping with online classes and had were tested positive for Covid in the beginning of the year. However, they picked up gradually and are currently rejoicing their scores. Nathan said, “It was not easy to adjust to online classes. I used to stay awake till 2am to complete my studies.” While Nathan mostly had recorded videos as part of online classes, it was easier for Hayden as he had to attend live lectures. “I could adjust better but physical classrooms would have made it easier for us. I plan to continue with Commerce in graduation and Nathan wants to pursue Computer Science,” said Hayden. Both had received a good score during their SSC as well, with Nathan scoring 86% and Hayden 73%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-twin-students-with-cerebral-palsy-score-identical-marks-in-class-12-101628012492114.html
03-08-2021||Lucknow||OP Rajbhar’s meeting with UP BJP chief triggers buzz||An hour-long meeting of former Uttar Pradesh minister and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) leader Om Prakash Rajbhar with UP Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Swatantra Dev on Tuesday set off speculations about the likelihood of former BJP ally joining hands with the ruling party ahead of 2022 UP polls. Both BJP and Rajbhar described the meeting as “personal” but it triggered angry reactions from the opposition parties like the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who claimed that the opposition leader who was busy cobbling together an anti-BJP front, was engaged in “double cross”. Irrespective of the actual outcome of the meeting, political experts said that Rajbhar’s meeting with BJP had taken the steam out of the build-up of smaller parties called the ‘Bhagidari sankalp morcha.” “In politics perception is stronger than reality. The meeting has given birth to mistrust among smaller parties that Rajbhar was trying to build together. For the BJP it’s a win-win situation,” said political expert Irshad Ilmi. When contacted Rajbhar, sounded desperate to make it appear that the meeting was “personal” and that he would continue to fight the BJP. “I have known Swatantra Dev ji for long. He is also a leader of the backward community. My meeting with him was completely personal. As for my politics, I would continue to fight the BJP tooth and nail,” he said. He couldn’t explain the “personal reason” that made him visit key BJP leader, and which triggered the buzz of Rajbhar returning back as BJP ally, as he had done ahead of the 2017 UP polls. Meanwhile, interacting with media persons in Varanasi, UP Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party vice president Shashi Pratap Singh said, Rajbhar’s meeting with UP BJP president was a courtesy call.“He is the chief of SBSP as well as an MLA. He may call on leader of any political party,” he said, adding that SBSP chief told the UP BJP chief that social justice committee report should be implemented and free education for all should be announced.Om Prakash is an OBC leader who belongs to the Rajbhar sub-caste which is strategically spread across several east UP constituencies. After Om Prakash Rajbhar, with whom the then UP BJP in-charge Amit Shah had inked a pact before 2017 UP polls, fell out with BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP propped up Anil Rajbhar as cabinet minister in a bid to groom its own homegrown Rajbhar leadership. Former IAS officer turned BJP MLC and party’s UP vice president AK Sharma too had met BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sakaldeep Rajbhar in Lucknow. However, party leaders admit that they haven’t been able to find a leader of Rajbhar community who could fit into “Om Prakash’s shoes.” This is exactly why the opposition leaders feel there is more to Om Prakash Rajbhar’s meeting with UP BJP chief than meet the eye. “It’s strange that OP Rajbhar says one thing on one day and does something different the next,” said AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh. Congress spokesman Surendra Rajput felt that Rajbhar’s meeting with BJP chief didn’t inspire confidence (about Rajbhar’s anti-BJP stance). Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, however, cautioned against reading too much into the meeting. “In politics, there are personal relations too. We are closer to leaders in opposition too,” he said.“It’s also true that OP Rajbhar has been an ally of ours,” Sharma added with a smile.In 2017 UP polls that the BJP had contested with SBSP and Apna Dal as allies, it had won the elections with 39.67 per cent votes against BSP’s 22.23 per cent, SP’s 21.82 per cent and Congress’s 6.25 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/op-rajbhar-s-meeting-with-up-bjp-chief-triggers-buzz-101628012072370.html
03-08-2021||Other||Gutsy Sangam city youths scooter to Leh||PRAYAGRAJ: In quest of adventure, two Sangam city youths, Reshandra Verma and Ashish Yadav, successfully completed an over 4360 km biking expedition on their scooter in 14 days . They drove over Khardung La, the highest motorable road in the world located in Leh district and also visited the Pangong lake on their 125cc scooter. The duo lives in Preetam Nagar colony and Mundera locality hhere respectively. Reshandra, 24, runs a fitness food supplement business while his 22-year-old friend Ashish is a sales executive. Although they had returned from their expedition on July 3, everyone in the city was oblivious of their rare feat and it was only after their video went viral on YouTube and other social media platforms that people started noticing them. Both these friends were honoured by the Vyapar Mandal of Prayagraj for the feat on Monday. “My younger brother, Nikhil, had undertaken a number of expeditions on his scooter and bike two years back. So I thought if he could visit Pokhra (Nepal) and Nathula pass (Sikkim) on his two-wheeler, we should also try visiting Leh on my scooter,” said Reshandra. So, the duo purchased items worth around ₹25,000 needed for their expedition and embarked on their journey on June 19. “We reached Agra via Lucknow on the same day and went to Karnal, Jammu, Srinagar, Drass valley, Leh, Khardung La and finally to Pangong lake. On our return journey we also visited Manali and reached Prayagraj on July 3,” shared Reshandra. Reshandra drove the scooter for the entire route which was meticulously planned by the two friends. While Reshandra would drive, his friends Ashish would keep record of the distance travelled, taking pics and shooting videos of surroundings and posting it on social media as their Vlogs. “The journey from Srinagar to Dras, Leh and Khardung La was very challenging as some patches of roads were very rough. We faced landslides, crossed many small rivers, roads full of boulders and even had to deal with punctured tyres but we kept moving forward with courage. Even the weather was chilly, and rain made it tougher,” said Ashish. Both friends feel that apart from the scenic beauty of Leh, the main market of the area and the products on sale would forever be etched in their memory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gutsy-sangam-city-youths-scooter-to-leh-101628012013803.html
03-08-2021||Gurugram||Tourism corporation surrenders six liquor shops||The Haryana Tourism Corporation Limited surrendered six liquor shops in Gurugram it was allocated through bidding last year. Officials said that the department did not renew the licences, following which the liquor vends were reallocated through tenders last month. The Gururgam excise department advertised in June for auction of liquor in 142 zones, following which tenders were floated and liquor vends were allotted, excise officials said, adding that there are two liquor vends in each zone. Last year, the decision to bid for the allocation of liquor vends in the district was taken by the state government after the tourism department suffered huge losses due to the closure of tourism complexes and guest houses during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. During the lockdown period, the revenue receipt of the corporation was almost nil, an official said. Rajesh Joon, additional divisional manager of Haryana Tourism Corporation, said that they had entered the liquor business following the Delhi model but could not make a profit. “This was a small exercise of government and a pilot project, but it did not take off well,” he said. There are close to 400 liquor shops operating at present in the district. The Haryana government last month auctioned 284 store licences in Gurugram district through e-tenders and earned ₹788.87 crore from the auction, a slight decrease from last year, officials of the excise department said. The bids were finalised in the presence of Gurugram deputy commissioner, additional deputy commissioner, four deputy excise and taxation commissioners (DETC), and officials of the sales tax and excise departments. The excise areas are divided into east and west Gurugram, with 69 and 73 zones, respectively, with two liquor vends allowed in each zone. Earlier, there were six liquor vends in each zone. In urban zones, unlike before, no sub-vends are allowed as per the excise policy announced in 2019. The state was also divided into three groups for the process of e-tendering this year and Gurugram city falls in Group A, officials said. In the east zone, the highest bid of ₹19.29 crore was for a vend at Mehrauli border, while the second-highest bid, of ₹19.05 crore, was for a store in Sector 31. The third highest bid was ₹18.61 crore, for a store on the Golf Course Road. In the west zone, the highest bid was ₹20.88 crore, for a vend at Shankar Chowk, while the second-highest bid was ₹18.59 crore for a vend at Sector 17/18 dividing road and the third-highest was ₹11.11 crore, for a vend in DLF Phase-3 (Nathupur). VK Beniwal, the deputy commissioner of excise and taxation, Gurugram (east), said they received bids for 38 of the 69 zones. “We were able to allot all 69 zones despite Covid restrictions and the department has not suffered major losses. There is a slight decrease compared to last year. The auction which used to take place in March was delayed to June. This time, there are many new players in the market,” he said. Dr Anirudh Sharma, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that they have managed to allot all 73 zones and it was a smooth and successful process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tourism-corporation-surrenders-six-liquor-shops-101628012012009.html
03-08-2021||Lucknow||Clerics, politicians, social workers all help make vaccination drive successful||A large number of religious leaders, politicians, corporators, social workers and bureaucrats actively participated in a massive vaccination drive on Tuesday.“Over 800 people were vaccinated on Tuesday at Aishbagh Eidgah,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, a prominent cleric.“Our volunteers created awareness in nearby areas resulting in large number of people coming up to get the jab,” he said.Dr Manju Chairasia, Dr Umang Khanna, Dr Abhishek remained present throughout the day to check the vaccination drive.Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia also visited the vaccination camp at Aishbagh Eidgah.At another mega vaccination camp at Gurudwara Naka Hindola more than 22,00 people were vaccinated.President of Lucknow Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee Rajendra Singh Bagga said, “I am happy that Gurudwara Naka Hindola is showing the way to others when it comes to vaccination. Our ‘vaccine with a langar campaign’ for the poorest of the poor, has been a great hit, but this would not have been possible without the contribution of our volunteers.”Another vaccination camp was organised at Gurudwara Lajpat Nagar where additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi, MLA Neeraj Bora, corporator Anurag Mishra, municipal commissioner Ajay Kumar Dwivedi were present.BJP leader Neeraj Singh visited the corona vaccination camp at Red Rose Inter College in Rajajipuram.He spent time with the health staff and motivated people to get vaccinated.He also visited the CMS vaccination centre where he interacted with the people. Local corporator Shivpal Sanwaria accompanied the BJP youth wing leader.Most of the corporators remained active throughout the day to bring people to the vaccination camp, said mayor Sanyukta Bhatia.She added, “Corporators cutting across party lines cooperated to make this mega vaccination drive a success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/clerics-politicians-social-workers-all-help-make-vaccination-drive-successful-101628011656440.html
03-08-2021||Bhopal||3 people stranded on tree for 24 hours rescued in Madhya Pradesh amid heavy rain||As many as 1,171 villages in the Gwalior-Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh have been affected owing to floods triggered by heavy rainfall in the state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Tuesday. The most adverse effects have been observed in Shivpuri and Sheopur districts where an “unprecedented 800mm rainfall resulted in flooding,” he added.Seven teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) conducted rescue operations in Shivpuri, whereas a team of five and two NDRF personnel have been deployed in Sheopur and Datia districts, respectively.According to a statement by the chief minister’s Office (CMO), one column of the army each has been mobilised for Datia, Sheopur, Shivpuri, and Gwalior districts.Earlier in the day, Chouhan said that the state government has sought for four columns of the army in order to facilitate rescue operations of people stranded due to floods.“The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is doing [a] good work. Two ministers are in Shivpuri and are monitoring the situation, and are in talks with me,” the chief minister said.Meanwhile, three people who were stranded on top of a tree for 24 hours, were rescued from Shivpuri district. Apart from them, an additional five people were rescued from the flood-affected Piproudha village in Shivpuri on Tuesday morning.Talking to reporters in the state capital, Bhopal, Chouhan said that these people were rescued by an SDRF team with the “help of a boat.”The chief minister further said that he will be conducting an aerial survey of the flood-hit regions in the state.As many as 1,600 people have so far been rescued by teams of the NDRF and SDRF, while 200 villages across the state remain under flood water. “I am in touch with collectors and other officials of the flood-affected districts and people were sent on high-places for safety where relief camps too were started,” Chouhan said.Also Read | Shivraj Chouhan reviews flood situation in MP, says 1,600 people rescuedOn Monday, around 60 people were rescued in Sheopur, after they got stranded in a flooded building near the Vijaypur bus stand following heavy rains. Officials said these people had gone to Vijaypur to attend a marriage ceremony on Sunday night, but got stuck when floodwaters entered the premises of the venue.Chouhan on Tuesday took to his Twitter account, and said that he has spoken with Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the flood situation in Madhya Pradesh and that he has assured the state of all possible help.(With inputs from PTI))||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3-people-stranded-on-tree-for-24-hours-rescued-in-madhya-pradesh-amid-heavy-rain-101628009040524.html
03-08-2021||Patna||Two tax officials held for bribery in Patna||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday arrested a superintendent and an inspector of Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) in Patna in an alleged bribery case, officials said.The agency also conducted searches at the residences of the arrested accused, identified as superintendent Umesh Prasad and inspector Akhilesh Kumar Singh. They were posted at the office of Directorate General of GST, Intelligence, Zonal Unit, Patna.A case was registered against the officials on the basis of a complaint alleging that they demanded ₹50,000 for favouring the complainant’s firm in the enquiry of bank transactions. On getting information, CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while accepting bribe of ₹10,000 from the complainant. Both the arrested accused will be produced before the competent court in Patna, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-tax-officials-held-for-bribery-in-patna-101628007991179.html
03-08-2021||Patna||CBSE Class 10 results: 99.66% students pass in Patna region||The long wait of lakhs of students who appeared for the Class 10 examination conducted by the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) came to an end with the board announcing its results on Tuesday afternoon.The overall pass percentage of students in the Patna region, comprising Bihar and Jharkhand, stood at 99.66%, which is 8.97% higher than the previous year’s 90.69%.Bihar recorded an overall pass percentage of 99.59%. Altogether 166,688 students appeared for the Class 10 exam out of which 166,012 students cleared the exam. Of the successful candidates, 107,378 are boys while 58,634 are girls.Girls in the state outshone boys with an overall pass percentage of 99.71%, while boys’ pass percentage stood at 99.53%.Institution-wise performance of students in Patna region was also good as 100% candidates of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and Kendriya Vidyalaya passed the examination while 99.64 independent candidates and 99.10% students of government schools cleared the exam this year.CBSE has not released merit lists this year because of exceptional circumstances triggered by the Covid-19 outbreak.CBSE’s Patna coordinator Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said, “Students of Class 10 have performed better than last year. Students adapting new normal online schooling and examination amid the pandemic is commendable. Those who are not satisfied with their marks can appear in the exam, which is likely to be conducted between August 16 and September 15.” Patna schools shine in Class 10 examStudents of city schools have clocked high scores while many schools, including Loyola High School, St Karen’s High School, Bishop Scott Group of Schools, Litera Valley School, DAV Public School, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Khagual and Baldwin Academy, registered 100% success rate in Class 10 exam. At St Michael’s High School, Ketan Kumar scored 99.4%, followed by Shashwat Kumar, who secured 99.2% and Amritanshu Roy 99%. As per school, 119 students out of 246 obtained above 90% in the Class 10 exam.Sharat Kumar Singh, principal of Litera Valley School, claimed, “A total of 17 students of our school have scored above 99.8% while 85 students scored above 90%.”Aayush Jha, Abhijeet Sinha and Yagya Parasar of Loyola High School jointly stood at the first position by scoring 98.20% each. Abhishek Suman bagged the second position with 97.40%, while Manvi Singh and Utkarsh Choudhary shared the third position with 96.60%.At St Karen’s Secondary School, Shreya Sinha bagged the first position in the school by obtaining 98.6%, followed by Plaksha Shrivastava and Ritweek Raj, who obtained 98.2% and 98%, respectively. All 481 students passed the exam. Pratyush Kumar Jha emerged as the school topper at St Karen’s High School by scoring 98.4%, while Ashwini Gaurav scored 97.4%.At Bishop Scott Boys School, Aditya Ranjan and Animesh Raj scored 98% each, followed by Vivek Raj, who fetched 96.8% in Class 10. Similarly, Samreen Naaz obtained 97%, followed by Rashmi Ranjan, Anjuman Sharma and Neha Bharti, who scored 96% each at Bishop Scott Senior Secondary Girls School. Priyanshu Prakhar of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Khagual emerged as the school topper with 98% marks. Chitra Singh of Baldwin Academy got the first rank with 95.60%, followed by Mohit Gupta and Shashank Kumar, who scored 94.80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cbse-class-10-results-99-66-students-pass-in-patna-region-101628007932051.html
03-08-2021||Patna||Bihar before Gandhi: State archives plans to make public lesser known struggles against British||Confidential records of various uprisings and resistances against the British rule from 1800 to 1914, including the First War of Independence in 1857 and role played by various freedom fighters from today’s Bihar and Jharkhand, will be made public on August 15 this year by the Bihar State Archives, a top official said.These include records of tribal movements and resistances like the Kol resistance in 1832 in United Bihar, the Chhotanagpur mutiny in 1857 and the tribal resistance led by Birsa Munda.The records, mainly of resistance against the British rule before the arrival of Mahatma Gandhi on the scene, will be made available on the state archives’ website. Bihar State Archives is celebrating “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” to mark of 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence, which falls on August 15, 2022, and the online display of confidential records and reports is a part of this celebration. Titled “Representing Colonial Resistance from Archival Texts: From 1800 to 1914”, the report also includes documents related to political agitations held at various colleges like BN College and Patna College and the public halls in Patna between 1900 and 1914. Over 100 confidential records and documents, from 1800 to 1914, will be made available on the archives’ website. “People have been reading about our freedom fighters like Veer Kunwar Singh or about Pir Ali and Birsa Munda in text books. But going through the original reports on their works and activities is an altogether different experience. These British government reports and letters may reveal many new things,” said Mahendrapal Singh, director, Bihar State Archives. “For decades, these reports remained confidential. Now is the time to make it public. People should know what exactly happened at that time and how did it happen,” he said. Dr Rashmi Kiran, who is handling the online display of confidential records, said this was important because many important aspects of the freedom struggle and sacrifices of people have remained least known and are rarely discussed. “We tend to ignore tribal resistances against Colonial rulers. Much before the better known struggle, tribals of United Bihar had started resisting the British rulers,” she said. Besides, there is also less information among people about the students’ meetings held in the state capital much before Mahatma Gandhi stepped into the country’s freedom movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-before-gandhi-state-archives-plans-to-make-public-lesser-known-struggles-against-british-101628007931218.html
03-08-2021||Patna||Flood threat looms over Patna as Ganga crosses danger mark; CM takes stock||Flood threat looms large over capital city Patna after River Ganga crossed the danger level (DL) at Gandhi Ghat on Tuesday, while the river maintains a rising trend across its stretch in the state. Meanwhile, chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar visited flood-hit areas of Vaishali, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur and Chapra districts to take stock of relief operations amid lurking fear of resurgence of Covid-19 pandemic.The river’s tributaries, Punpun and Dardha, are also in spate and reportedly causing damage in southern areas of Patna, inundating dozens of villages of Dhanarua and Masaurhi blocks. As per reports, zamindari embankments along Dardha river have been washed away at many places in Dhanarua block, leaving thousands marooned. The floodwaters are also posing threat to overtop the Patna-Gaya highway, which is barely two to three metres above the water at a diversion near Masaurhi. Officials in the water resources department (WRD) said the Ganga was flowing nearly 30cm above the DL at Gandhi Ghat and 26cm above the DL at Hathidah, and almost touched the red mark of 50.45m near Digha Ghat. The river’s water level is also approaching the DL at Kahalgaon and maintains a rising trend, officials said. Punpun has jumped the DL at Sripalpur by around two metres, engulfing low-lying areas of south Patna region, they said. River Kosi, that earlier breached its embankment near Dagmara in Supaul, has flooded five out of seven blocks of flood-prone Khagaria district. The floodwaters from Bagmati, which still flows above the danger marks at Sonakhan in Sitamarhi, Benibad in Muzaffarpur and Hayaghat in Darbhanga, has left thousands marooned. Kamala Balan and Khiroi rivers are also flowing above the DL in Madhubani and Darhbanga districts, respectively.Taking serious note, the CM during his visit instructed district authorities concerned to carry out relief operations on a war footing and ensure adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at relief camps. Additional chief secretary, roads, Amrit Lal Meena, water resources secretary Sanjeen Hans and other senior officers accompanied the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/flood-threat-looms-over-patna-as-ganga-crosses-danger-mark-cm-takes-stock-101628007872069.html
03-08-2021||Patna||Chirag Paswan real leader of LJP, should work with Tejashwi Yadav: Lalu Prasad||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad on Tuesday backed Chirag Paswan, who was recently upstaged in his Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) by his uncle and MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, and said he wanted him to work with his younger son Tejashwi Yadav, the RJD’s heir apparent.“Chirag has all-round support of his people and has emerged as real leader of his party,” Prasad told reporters in New Delhi after meeting his ailing colleague and former union minister Sharad Yadav at the latter’s residence.Asked whether Tejashwi and Chirag would join hands, the RJD chief said he wanted both the young leaders to work together.The 74-year-old RJD chief , who is himself convalescing after a long spell of illness at his daughter and MP Misa Bharti’s residence in the national capital, said, “Sharad ji is our senior and his illness and absence from Parliament has caused a vacuum. I, Mulayam Singh ji and Sharad bhai had struggled hard and raised issues related to Mandal commission and caste census in Parliament,” he said, adding that caste-based census should be done at all costs.Prasad met Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav on Monday.Sharad Yadav, who formed his own outfit after falling out with Nitish Kumar and quitting Janata Dal (United), had contested the 2019 parliamentary polls as RJD candidate from Madhepura but lost to Dinesh Chandra Yadav of the JD(U).All three leaders were once part of the old Janata Dal.“We are trying to unite all old Janata Dal forces. Talks are going on. Efforts to form a third front is also a welcome step as it would throw a viable alternative to people,” Prasad said.On Bihar, Prasad said RJD had come very close to power in the 2020 assembly elections but missed could not form government due to electoral manipulation. “I was in jail during the assembly polls, but Tejashwi fought alone and was close to forming the government. But some of our candidates lost by a margin of 10-15 votes due to electoral manipulation,” he said.Prasad had been incarcerated since December 2017 following his conviction in fodder scam cases and was released on bail in April this year.Asked if he still has a place in heart for his friend-turned-foe, chief minister Nitish Kumar, Prasad said, “People make a place in your heart and then relationships turn sour. Yes, Kumar was with us,” Prasad said, evading a direct reply. Asked about possibility of Kumar coming with the RJD again, Prasad did not comment.On JD(U)’s bid to project Kumar as “PM material”, the RJD chief said, “Let PM Narendra Modi take note of it. BJP has already said there is no vacancy for PM post.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-real-leader-of-ljp-should-work-with-tejashwi-lalu-101628007871323.html
03-08-2021||Other||UP’s vaccination count crosses 5-crore mark||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s Covid vaccination count crossed the 5-crore mark on Tuesday, after 27,36,333 vaccine doses were administered in a single day (till 9.30pm)– the highest in any state of India. Extending his greetings to the people of Uttar Pradesh, Chief minister Yogi Adityanath wrote in a tweet, “Dear residents of Uttar Pradesh, Covid vaccination has been a success in the state under the guidance of the honourable prime minister. @UPGovt has administered a record over 22 lakh doses. Congratulations to all. The vaccine is a safety shield, hence you should get the Jeet ka Teeka.” “UP has set a benchmark by administering the highest number of doses in a single day by any state in the country,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement.“UP has become the first state in the country to give over 26 lakh doses in 24 hours. With this achievement, UP also becomes the first in the country to cross the mark of 5 crore doses,” said the state government in a press statement. Across the state, 42873584 beneficiaries got their first dose, including 8035023 beneficiaries who got their second dose also. Lucknow too recorded its highest single-day Covid vaccination count by administering 80,410 doses at 147 vaccination centres by 7pm . UP’s previous highest was 10,06,078 doses administered on July 26 while Lucknow’s highest was on June 25 with 28,131 doses. Till 12pm, the state had vaccinated over 4 lakh people, and gradually by 1.30 pm, the figure reached 6 lakh. By 4pm, 11 lakh doses had been administered and the figure doubled by 6.30pm. By this time, UP’s total vaccination count since January 16 crossed the 5-crore mark.The mega vaccination drive was conducted at more than 12,000 vaccination sites in the state. Apart from online slot booking, workplace CVC (Covid vaccination centres) had also been made. The state had implemented the cluster model of vaccination in all the 75 districts. In UP, 28975850 male and 22309725 female beneficiaries had got their vaccine doses. Among total beneficiaries, 24461820 were between 18 and 45 years of age, 16318112 between 45 and 60 years and 10522253 above 60 years. TOP PERFORMING DISTRICTS Lucknow - 80410 doses Ghaziabad - 78,699 doses Meerut - 56872 doses Gorakhpur - 59158 doses Jaunpur - 57863 doses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-vaccination-count-crosses-5-crore-mark-101628007691861.html
03-08-2021||Other||Leopard, which killed two kids in four days, trapped||The leopard, which had created panic in the area by killing two children in last four days, was trapped in a cage set up by the forest department near Kalandarpur village under Motipur range of the Katarniyaghat Wildlife Sanctuary (KWS) on Tuesday.Divisional forest officer (DFO) Akash Deep Badhawan said two cages were installed in the area where the big cat attacked and killed two children.The goats were placed as bait in both the cages, said the DFO, adding that the tactic worked, and the big cat was trapped in a cage around 1 am on Tuesday.The leopard was taken to Motipur forest range where a team led by a veterinary doctor conducted the health check-up of the leopard. The trapped leopard, a female, was about two and half year old. It was found physically fit.Following directives of the higher authorities, the leopard was released in core area of Trans Gerua.World Wildlife Fund (WWF) project officer Dabeer Hasan said residents in the area had been spending sleepless nights since the leopard had killed two children, Abhinandan, 7, Radhika 6, in the last four days.While people in the area took a sigh of relief after the big cat was trapped, the forest department has cautioned them to stay vigilant.  SHARIQ RAIS SIDDIQUI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leopard-which-killed-two-kids-in-four-days-trapped-101628006912381.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra floods: State announces ₹11,500-crore relief package||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced a relief package of ₹11,500 crore for the massive floods that claimed 219 lives and caused losses to crops, housing structures, roads and electricity infrastructure. The floods and landslides, which ravaged 15 districts since July 22, injured over 50 and also saw a livestock toll of 4,500. The government has also decided to shift and rehabilitate the residents of the landslide-hit Taliye village in Raigad district.Of the package, ₹1,500 crore will be allocated towards ex-gratia for the flood-affected people, ₹3,000 crore for redevelopment and ₹7,000 crore for various long-term flood-mitigation schemes. The state cabinet in a meeting on Tuesday gave its nod to the proposal. The state cabinet also increased the compensation to the affected people by setting the set norms of the SDRF aside. The ex-gratia for the complete damage to houses has been increased to ₹1.5 lakh from ₹96,000, while the compensation for the partial damage to houses has been hiked and ranges between ₹15,000 and ₹50,000. The next to the kin of the deceased will be given ₹9 lakh as ex gratia. The traders and road-side venders will be given ex-gratia of ₹50,000 and ₹10,000 each as compensation for their losses.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the package may increase as the assessment of the flood-affected districts is yet to be completed. “The completion of the assessment is 80% to 90% and we expect them to be completed in the next few days. The relief package includes the compensation for the losses to the people, road and electricity infrastructure and public and private properties. A total of 200,000 families have been affected, while 16,000 traders of all sizes have sustained. We have disbursed ex-gratia of ₹10,000 as immediate help to about 800 families,” he said.Wadettiwar said that the next to the kin of the deceased in the flooding will get ₹9 lakh. Besides the ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh as per NDRF norms, an additional Rs1 lakh from the CM relief fund, ₹2 lakh from the PM relief fund and ₹2 lakh from the farmer insurance scheme to the families of the deceased. The road and bridges has sustained losses of ₹2,400 crore, while the losses to the electricity infrastructure is more than ₹1,200 crore. More than 30,000 hectares of the agricultural land has eroded.Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the state government is chalking out a policy for the rehabilitation of the villages vulnerable to the landslide and rain-related calamities. The villages and hamlets that the prone to the calamities like landslides will be rehabilitated as per the policy, which will be approved by the cabinet. The district authorities are identifying such vulnerable settlements. The Taliye village, which was devastated in the landslide two weeks ago, and four hamlets adjacent to it will be rehabilitated by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada). The place has been identified by the local authorities. The rehabilitation with the laying of the infrastructure will require ₹4.5 lakh per house, of which ₹1.5 lakh will be given by the state, while remaining cost will be borne by Mhada,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also directed the state authorities to constitute a committee of administrative officers and experts to recommend the plan for the rehabilitation of people living in blue line of the rivers and landslide-prone areas. “Also, undertake the widening and deepening of the rivers such as Gandhari, Savitri, Vashishti from Konkan, along with constructing flood-control wall on these rivers in next three years. The Real Time Data Acquisition system, too, should be set up on these rivers in the next three months,” he has directed the authorities.According to the officials from the chief minister office, the expert committee will recommend the steps to be taken for the flood management, conservation of the eco sensitive zones and rehabilitation of the people from the vulnerable areas.Heavy rainfall for more than a week from July 22 had lashed Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg in Konkan, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara in western Maharashtra and parts of Vidarbha and central Maharashtra. More than 11 landslides in Raigad, Satara and Ratnagiri claimed 219 lives, injuring 52 people. Six people are still missing.Thackeray had visited flood- hit western Maharashtra and Konkan over the past ten days and assured flood-affected people of a relief package. He also hinted at strict action against the encroachments and illegal structures in the floodplains and riverbanks. He had also said that the state government will study the reports submitted by the experts groups in the past and take corrective actions accordingly.In western Maharashtra, 132,635 families are affected in Pune, Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur. 8,034 domestic structures were damaged fully or partially, while 5,428 traders suffered losses in four districts. In eight districts of central Maharasthra, 115,663 hectares under crops in 1,003 villages has been damaged since June 1.“The package covers more than 15 districts across the state and the losses sustained from June 1,the beginning of the monsoon, has been taken into consideration, while announcing it,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-floods-state-announces-11-500-crore-relief-package-101628006192078.html
03-08-2021||Other||Yamuna, Chambal rising; admn on the alert||Agra Devotees are gathering at Itimad-ud-daula View Point on the banks of the Yamuna and offering daily ‘aarti’ to the river which is swollen these days. It is a rare view for those who have for long been demanding constant flow of water in the river, on the banks of which the historical city of Agra is located. Despite this welcome change, there is also concern as flood threat lurks. The river is flowing at 491.4 feet, a little below the danger mark of 495 feet. The Chambal river in the rural belt is also rising. So the district administration has started taking measures to counter flood threat. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh visited Pinahat area on Tuesday and assessed the situation on the banks of the Chambal. “The water level is on the rise in Chambal, although it is yet to touch the 128-metre mark. It had gone up to 136 metres in 2019 and that had marooned at least five villages. We are on the alert as the water is expected to rise further,” the DM said. River Chambal flows in the border areas of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Good rain in the region had caused its water level to rise, said a villager living in one of the villages on the bank of the Chambal. The danger level in Chambal is at 130 metres and presently the water level is yet to touch the 128-metre mark. The administration is taking measures to meet the situation if the water level rises further. “Our concern is to save precious human livese and minimize losses in case of flood,” said the DM. Meanwhile, water is being released in river Yamuna from various dams, including include Gokul Barrage in Mathura, Okhla Barrage in Delhi and Tajewala barrage of Hathini Kund in Haryana. The administration is keeping a watch on low-lying areas and planning future strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yamuna-chambal-rising-admn-on-the-alert-101628006012454.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai railway commuters lose valuables worth ₹5.25 crore in 6 months||Suburban railway commuters in Mumbai have lost cash and valuables amounting to ₹5.25 crore to robbers and fatka gang members in past six months.The government railway police (GRP) have registered 2,654 cases between January 1 and June 30 this year. Those include 2,543 or 95% cases of thefts and robberies. However, the police have been able to solve only 907 cases, recovering stolen valuables worth ₹1.58 crore.Experts said that in spite of CCTVs installed on railway premises, the crime rate has been increasing throughout the railway premises while the detection rate and recovery of the stolen property remain low. The GRP officers said that the soaring numbers of thefts and robberies and the low detection rate has left them concerned as the majority of such crimes are committed by youngsters between the ages of 16 years and 25 years or freshers who do not have any past record of committing any crime.Police officers said that a maximum number of these robbers are not residents of Mumbai. These robbers arrive in Mumbai, commit the crime and flee back to their village, “The booty robbed by them is sold within just two to three days of the crime which makes it difficult to trace them and recover the booty,” said a GRP officer.In the past two months, the GRP has registered 303 cases of bag lifting, which were earlier registered as missing cases and not investigated at all, amounted to a loss of property worth ₹1.12 crore. Out of these 74 cases have been solved by the police.GRP commissioner Quaiser Khalid has since instructed all GRP units across the city to register all bag missing cases as thefts (FIRs) and investigate them.Khalid said that the move was adopted on the lines of directives issued by previous GRP commissioner Nikhet Kaushik who had started registering mobile missing cases as thefts. The drive led to the recovery of several lost or stolen mobile phones, and arrests of thieves and robbers. The GRP statistics revealed that in 2016 number of mobile phones robbery cases registered were only 1,590 however after the move by Kaushik in 2017 the cases rose to 18,000.In 2018 the GRP recorded 32,476 mobile theft cases and in 2019, 24,010 cases were reported. Out of these theft cases in 2018 recovery was 2,517 mobiles and 2,130 robbers were arrested and in 2019 the recovery of mobile phones was at 2,319 and 3,000 robbers were arrested.Based on this move, Khalid had come up with instructions to register all bag missing cases as thefts. “Normally when we register a bag missing case, it is not investigated and chances of getting the belongings were low however now when an FIR is registered, the officers will be compelled to investigate the case and recover the stolen booty,” said Khalid.Khalid added that when a commuter forgets his bag or wallet or drops it by mistake in a train or railway premises, he would have to check the lost and found department of the terminal where the train concludes, “In case the commuter does not find his belongings there, he will have to approach the GRP police station and register a complaint of theft,” said Khalid.Generally, when the commuter forgets his bag on the train, it is kept in the lost and found department by the railway staff such as cleaning personal or security, “However if the bag or wallet does not reach the lost and found department, it is assumed to have got stolen,” added Khalid.The police officers will then check the CCTVs of railway stations where the commuter said he forgot the bag and track it till the last station or terminal where the train concludes its journey trying to locate the bag etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-railway-commuters-lose-valuables-worth-5-25-crore-in-6-months-101628005891752.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Infant thrown from 5th floor in Virar, woman detained||An hour old baby girl was allegedly thrown from the fifth-floor terrace of Tulip Star society, Yeshwant Nagar, Virar (West), on Tuesday morning. A woman said to be the infant’s mother has been detained by the Virar police.Locals wrapped the baby in a blanket and rushed her to a nearby hospital where it was declared dead before admission. “The incident occurred at around 11am. The infant was found on the ground with several head and shoulder injuries. She was probably thrown from the terrace of the building,” said inspector Praful Wagh. “We have detained a woman, believed to be her mother for questioning and we have registered a case of murder. No one has been arrested yet. We are awaiting the post-mortem report,” Wagh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/infant-thrown-from-5th-floor-in-virar-woman-detained-101628005531706.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Woman’s body with stab injuries found behind mall in Navi Mumbai||An unidentified body of a woman was found dumped in a sack under a bridge behind Inorbit Mall in Vashi. According to police, the body had multiple stab injuries on her neck and body.The incident came to light on Monday after which Vashi police registered a case of murder against an unidentified accused and were trying to identify the deceased woman. On Monday, some people informed the Vashi police about a stench coming from a sack lying under the bridge behind the mall near Vashi railway station. The police rushed to the spot to find the body.“The woman is suspected to have been in her early 30s and was wearing a sari with white, blue and green floral designs and a white blouse. She also had a queen’s crown tattooed on the right wrist. Her left wrist had a tattoo of a heart and a cross. Anyone with information about the woman is urged to contact Vashi police,” an officer from Vashi police station said.Vashi police have formed two teams comprising two police inspectors, two assistant police inspectors, four inspectors and 25 staff to investigate the case. The team has been assigned to look into various missing complaints from Thane, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Raigad. The team is also looking into CCTV footage for clues. The body is suspected to be around four days old and the post mortem report is awaited on Wednesday. This would confirm if there was any sexual assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/womans-body-with-stab-injuries-found-behind-mall-in-navi-mumbai-101628004931938.html
03-08-2021||Other||UP sees rise in fresh Covid cases, two deaths||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh saw a rise in the fresh case count with 65 people testing positive for Covid on Tuesday as compared to 25 on Monday and 36 on Sunday. After a gap of three days, the state also reported deaths due to Covid infection. Maharajganj and Chandauli saw one fatality each, as per the health department. So far, 22,765 deaths had been reported in the state. “As many as 34 patients recovered from the infection and 672 active cases were under treatment, including 449 in home isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Tuesday. In all, 48 districts of UP reported zero fresh Covid cases and 26 reported fresh cases in single digit. Lucknow was the only district to report fresh cases in double digit, according to the report from the health department. “With 11 fresh cases, Lucknow’s total Covid case count reached 2,38,595 and 2,35,896 among them have recovered. The recovery rate in Lucknow is 98.86%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In the past 24 hours, UP tested 2,28,211 samples for Covid and till now 66217851 samples had been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-sees-rise-in-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-101628002291870.html
03-08-2021||Other||UP boy scores 100% in CBSE Class 10, wants to join armed forces||LUCKNOW Kumar Vishwas Singh, 15, from Ghazipur district of UP scored 100% marks in five subjects to top the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 exams, the results of which were declared on Tuesday.A student of VidyaGyan (school) in Bulandshahr, the teenager got the perfect scores in English, Hindi, mathematics, social sciences and artificial intelligence. Kumar said this pandemic was an opportunity for him to establish that he was capable enough to score good marks. “I made the best use of technology and got my doubts cleared online by teachers. It was not easy, but I made it with all the support from my parents and loved ones,” he said.Kumar is inspired by Indian war heroes and wants to join the armed forces to the serve the country. He is preparing for the National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance. The teenager is also an ardent admirer of poet Kumar Vishwas. Talking about his school, he said, “VidyaGyan is an awesome feeling in itself. It provides high quality education free of cost and brings the best out of you. Teachers are very supportive and hard working. Their experience and knowledge are vital to our progress. I want to convey my heartiest thanks to all my teachers.”Lauding his ability to quickly grasp what he was taught, principal Bishwajeet Banerjee said, “According to his teachers, he remained focused on his studies. This helped him score 100 in five subjects.”On Tuesday, the CBSE announced results for this year on the basis of an alternative assessment policy, after the Board exams were cancelled in view of the second wave of Covid.Study Hall Priyansh Bakshi emerged topper at Study Hall school by scoring 98.16% with 100 marks each in three subjects – science, social science and computer applications. “I am thankful to my teachers who always encouraged me. Despite online classes, they taught us very well because of which we scored well,” he said. GD Goenka Public School, in a press release, stated that Tulip Karan was their topper with 98.8%. He scored 100 in mathematics. Others who brought laurels to the institution were Aditi Chauhan - 98.4%, Jyoti Kumari - 97.6%, Atharv Agarwal - 97%, Abhimanyu Srivastava - 96.2%. Principal Raveen Pande and chairman Sarvesh Goel congratulated the students for their results.At Rani Laxmibai Memorial Senior Secondary School, Siddhi Gupta scored 99.4%. APS, Nehru RoadStudents of Army Public School, Nehru Road, also emerged with flying colours.This year, 321 students appeared in the examination. Aparna Singh Rajawat topped the school with 98.6% marks while Utkarsh Jha secured the second position in the school with 98.4% marks. The third rank was notched by two students – Rithika R Raman and Shreya Dwivedi with 98.2% each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-boy-scores-100-in-cbse-class-10-wants-to-join-armed-forces-101628000491561.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai shopkeepers delighted at timing extension, hoteliers cry discrimination||Sunil Parmar, who owns a utensils shop at Parel, was relieved when he opened he his shop on Tuesday. Instead of having to shut down at 4pm, he can now operate till 10pm, according to the new guidelines issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) . “This 4pm timing was not feasible at all to run our businesses. In fact, there would be crowds at our outlets in the morning, which made it difficult to maintain social distancing. Now we will get some relief,” said Parmar. As part of the Maharashtra government’s decision to partially lift lockdown restrictions, the Mumbai civic body, on Monday, allowed shops to open everyday till 10pm. Earlier, shops could be opened only from Monday to Friday till 4pm. Restaurants in the city have been allowed to remain open till 4pm everyday. Earlier, restaurants could be opened till 4pm only from Monday to Friday. The new rules came into effect from Tuesday. Also Read | Shops to operate on all days till 10pm from today in MumbaiLike Parmar, thousands of shopkeepers in Mumbai heaved a sigh of relief as BMC relaxed the timings for shops till 10pm from Tuesday. However the decision has caused restaurant owners to cry foul, as they still have to close their establishments by 4pm. “There is positivity among the shopkeepers due to this decision. Now we can operate our shops during our normal working hours,” said Mitesh Mody, who owns an electronic outlet at Lamington Road. “However, our main challenge is getting the workers to work as they live far off and they are not allowed on the railways,” said Mody. Hotel owners, meanwhile, angry over this decision. “This is total discrimination. In fact, it is easy to adhere to Covid-appropriate norms in restaurants, but a picture is being created that we are spreading Covid-19, which is misleading,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR). All Hotel Associations will hold a meeting at Bandra on Wednesday to chalk out a plan of action among fears that this will sound the death knell for the sector. Most shops have been facing the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic from the last one year. Though they were allowed to reopen for a few months, they again had to face a shutdown due to the second wave. This has caused huge losses to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shopkeepers-delighted-at-timing-extension-hoteliers-cry-discrimination-101627998211486.html
03-08-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 2 bridges damaged in Datia, 10 gates of Madikheda Dam opened | Watch||Amid ongoing rescue operations in the flood-affected areas in Madhya Pradesh, 10 gates of the Atal Sagar (Madikheda) Dam in Shivpuri district have been opened due to the rise in the water level of the Sindh river. On Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued red and orange alerts for 25 districts in Madhya Pradesh, predicting heavy to extremely heavy rainfall till Tuesday.A video shared by news agency ANI showed a large volume of water gushing through the gates of the Atal Sagar Dam, built on the Sindh river. Another video showed two bridges on Datia-Gwalior road in Datia district damaged due to strong currents of the Sindh river, indicating the severity of the flood situation in Madhya Pradesh after heavy rainfall.#WATCH | Madhya Pradesh: 10 gates of the Atal Sagar (Madikheda) Dam in Shivpuri district have been opened due to rise in water level of Sindh River, in wake of heavy rainfall pic.twitter.com/vS9x0B7wz1The latest weather forecast by the IMD, however, suggests a significant reduction in the current spell of intense rainfall activity in western Madhya Pradesh is likely from Wednesday. According to the weather forecasting agency, Shivpuri, Guna, Vidisha, and Morena were among the top 21 heavy rainfall stations in India as reported Tuesday morning.#WATCH | Madhya Pradesh: Two bridges on Datia-Gwalior road in Datia district damaged due to strong currents of Sindh river pic.twitter.com/wv2xREzinmAfter a review meeting with officials, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said that the state has asked for four columns of the army to support the rescue people stranded due to floods, reported ANI. Chouhan applauded the work done by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), adding that two ministers are in Shivpuri to monitor the situation.“We have asked for 4 columns of the army so that they are able to rescue the people who are stranded due to the floods. SDRF team is doing good work. 2 ministers are in Shivpuri and are monitoring the situation and are in talks with me,” ANI quoted Shivraj Singh Chouhan as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-2-bridges-damaged-in-datia-10-gates-of-atal-sagar-dam-opened-watch-101627994075606.html
03-08-2021||Dehradun||Illegal crossing of Indo-Nepal border in Pithoragarh has forces worried||The recent drowning of a 33-year-old Nepalese national at Indo-Nepal border near Uttarakhand’s Dharchula town in Pithoragarh district has brought the focus back on Nepalese citizens illegally crossing the border to enter India. Jaya Singh Dhami’s drowning on Friday morning has led to an outrage in Nepal with locals alleging that India’s Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel, patrolling the border, cut off an iron wire stretching across river Mahakali that separates the two countries at that point, resulting in Dhami falling into the swollen river. They claim that at the time of the incident, Dhami was sliding on the wire, which was tied to a tree across the river on the Indian side for the purpose of illegal crossings.The SSB has, however, refuted the allegations and said that the man died after two other Nepalese citizens, who had already crossed into the Indian side, cut the wire after spotting that the SSB patrolling team was coming towards them. The SSB personnel deployed in the area also said that they often intercept such illegal border crossing mechanisms at the border in Dharchula and have often raised concerns before their Nepalese counterparts. “The Nepalese citizens often use such improvised river crossing mechanisms using iron wire, locally called- ‘tuin’, “ one SSB personnel said requesting not to be identified. “The Nepalese citizens tie one end of the iron wire to a tree or pole on their side, while the other end is tied to a tree on the Indian side across the river by their Indian aides here. They then attach a pulley to the wire and slide across the river while sitting inside an improvised metal drum, which is tied to the pulley with a rope. They cross into the Indian side for business and other purposes,” said the personnel. A SSB officer too corroborated the theory.”The illegal ‘Tuins’ (improvised border crossing mechanism) are installed at many places at the border, which has a very difficult terrain. However, we have been dismantling them during patrolling. These mechanisms are being installed with the help of some Indians, especially the local taxi drivers who ferry the Nepalese citizens to markets in Dharchula,” said the officer. He added that, “there were certain taxi drivers who were provoking the Nepalese citizens across the border to hold demonstrations against us and the Indian administration because we have been dismantling the Tuins, affecting their business.” He added that such illegal border crossing mechanisms “could also be used by terrorists”. “In that case, fingers would be pointed at the SSB that it let them cross the border,” said the officer. Mahendra Pratap, Commandant SSB Dharchula said, “We have asked Nepal’s Armed Police Force (SSB’s counterpart) to take action against their people who have been installing such illegal river crossing mechanisms. However, they too fail to take proper action because of the difficult terrain of the area. We have also asked the local administration of Dharchula to take action against some local taxi drivers who are helping the Nepalese citizens in crossing the border illegally,” said Pratap. Anil Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate Dharchula said, “We have been taking action against with the help of local police. We also warn people against such illegal activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/illegal-crossing-of-indo-nepal-border-in-pithoragarh-has-forces-worried-101627994131418.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||TikTok star booked for raping 17-year-old in Mumbai||JJ Marg police have booked a 16-year-old TikTok star and his two friends for allegedly sexually assaulting a girl. The police said the accused also threatened to make the private videos of the 17-year-old, who is also a TikTok star, viral. The three accused have booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The police said the girl met the accused to make videos for the app and became friends since 2020. They started having arguments frequently as she wanted to end the relationship. “He recorded several of her videos during their intimate moments, which she wasn’t aware of. He threatened to leak the videos if she refused to continue the relationship,” said an officer from JJ Marg police station. Last week, he called her at his home on the pretext of returning her gifts and then allegedly sexually assaulted her and hit her with a stick along with his two friends. The girl revealed the entire incident to her mother and the duo lodged a case with the police. Police officers said they were yet to make any arrests in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tiktok-star-booked-for-raping-17-year-old-in-mumbai-101627994011246.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Porn racket: Court refuses interim protection from arrest to Gehana Vasisth||The Mumbai sessions court on Tuesday refused to grant interim protection from arrest to actor Gehana Vasisth in connection with a pornography film racket case and has kept the matter on Friday for further hearing.Vasisth filed anticipatory bail application in sessions court requesting protection from arrest in the second FIR registered against her at Malwani police station. In the first FIR in which she was arrested, the crime branch later arrested businessman Raj Kundra.Also Read | Bodies of 2 sisters found hanging in Navi Mumbai flatVasisth informed the court through her counsel that she was arrested in a similar case and her laptop and phone have already been seized by the crime branch.Her lawyer added that her police custody was not required as she had already been arrested in a similar case.The court, however, posted the matter for further hearing on Friday, without granting the actress any interim protection from arrest.The crime branch, which is investigating the case, opposed the plea saying that she directed the purportedly pornographic films that Kundra purchased and that she used to threaten models to work for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/porn-racket-court-refuses-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-gehana-vasisth-101627993051115.html
03-08-2021||Other||51 cases filed in 2021-22 so far for misusing online study platforms: Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday warned of stringent action against anti-social activities and cybercrimes associated with attempts to misuse the online study platforms meant for children. Addressing the state assembly, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) leader said that although the cyber sector has multiple positive aspects, it is lately being misused by anti-social elements for committing offences and misleading children.“One such intervention was the hacking of online classes by creating fake IDs and uploading obscene conversations and videos to the (social media) groups in which children, teachers and parents are members,” Vijayan said, adding that ensuring “uncompromising security” is the need of the hour.The chief minister also said that police have received as many as 51 such complaints during the ongoing 2021-22 academic year, of which eight were lodged after verification of information and probe into them is underway.Vijayan’s statements came as a reply to a submission by CPM legislator Sachin Dev on the recent attempts by vested interests to hack into digital study platforms of children.He further told the assembly that the state government has taken all possible measures to curtail such incidents of misuse though it has only limited control over several online platforms as most of them are foreign-made.The chief minister said that only in-depth awareness can make children conscious of dangers of cybercrimes and misuse of study portals, and that “it requires our collective effort.”Notably, in June, Vijayan said that digital devices and internet connectivity would be provided to all students of the state regardless of their monetary and geographical hurdles in order to facilitate online classes during the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.He also stated that immediate steps would be adopted to ensure internet for free or at subsidised rate to needy children – as an aim to alleviate the ‘digital divide’ among students in the state. Vijayan said that the internet connectivity issue in tribal and remote regions of Kerala would also be addressed.“We have already called a meeting of internet service providers in this regard… Our aim is to avoid giving any kind of burden to students and ensure hassle-free environs for their online studies,” he told the state Assembly.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/51-cases-filed-in-2021-22-so-far-for-misusing-online-study-platforms-kerala-cm-101627991213945.html
03-08-2021||Kolkata||Central agency ready to probe Bengal post-poll violence: Govt to HC||A central agency like the CBI or NIA is ready to probe allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal, the Centre told the Calcutta high court on Tuesday. Additional solicitor general YJ Dastoor told the high court that the Centre was ready to assist the state goverment if the court directed a central agency to “take up investigation of some of the serious offences”.A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal is hearing PILs pertaining to allegations of post poll violence in the state. In June, the court directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to constitute a committee to examine all cases of alleged violence after the recent assembly elections. The report by the seven-member committee slammed the TMC-ruled state government while recommending a CBI probe. Also Read | 30 Covid hospitals put on notice over fire safety certificate, Gujarat to SC“The NIA or the CBI can be called upon to investigate if your Lordships preferred,” said Dastoor. The bench, however, questioned whether it would be an appropriate time to transfer the cases when all the FIRs are with the state police.Advocate general Kishore Dutta, appearing for the West Bengal government, said to the court, “The police acted contemporaneously. Whenever the police came to know of complaints, they had taken action. It is not that the police was completely inactive. Even without the NHRC’s reference of complaints, the police had registered FIRs,” Dutta said. The NHRC report had stated that the spate of violence in the state shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus while alleging that there was police inaction. Also appearing for the state government, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the NHRC report cannot be relied upon as it was prepared by an ad hoc body. He also told the court that there was gross exaggeration of the statements of the victims in Bengali and the translation made by the NHRC in English. The court reserved its order after hearing the arguments of both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/central-agency-ready-to-probe-bengal-post-poll-violence-govt-to-hc-101627988670981.html
03-08-2021||Pune||Four-fold increase in online liquor purchase fraud in Pune city; 1,595 cases registered in seven months||Amid the restrictions in place if you are planning to get liquor delivered to your doorstep make sure you take all precautionary measures. The cases of online liquor purchase-related fraud have increased four-fold since 2019 in Pune city, according to Pune city police’s cybercrime complaint records.From 440 cases in 2019, the city has recorded 1,595 cases from January 2021 to July.The lockdown restrictions that necessitated the online purchasing of commodities was seen as the cause of this exponential rise.“It is not just liquor. Necessities also needed to be purchased online. Malls are shut even now, where did all these vendors go? They had to do something. Even a small-time “pani-puri” vendor can take his business online now and so did the liquor vendors. So people started searching for liquor stores near them,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime and economic offence wing (EOW) of Pune city.The cases had increased in 2020 itself as the lockdown extensions started setting in. However, as the pandemic-related lockdown made staying indoors mandatory, the online orders went up.“I had called a store that is located in my area. The shop is genuine. But this man had tampered with the phone number registered with the wine shop on Google maps. I called the number and ordered wine and hr asked for payment before delivery. Because I knew about the shop, I agreed, and he sent me a QR code. I scanned and made the payment only to see that it had debited more than ₹16,000 from my account. I called him and he kept saying that the transaction never went through and that I must have received the text by mistake. I lost more than ₹1,16,000,” said a 30-year-old man who had ordered alcohol in Viman nagar in May 2021.“The number of these cases have shot up in May and April this year. And this year the cases are even higher than the previous year,” said police inspector Vidya Jadhav of unit 2 of the cybercrime cell of Pune police.The fraudster blocked the complainant’s number and was later found to have been active even after a police complaint and a subsequent first information report (FIR) was registered at the cyber police station.As a solution to such frauds, Navatake said, “The only solution is to not make the payment before you have physically seen the product. Always buy only from known platforms that have grievance redressal systems in place. The money is hard-earned and therefore should not be handed over to unknown platforms or people. Awareness is the only solution.”Year/Liquor-related online fraud cases2019: 4392020: 1,368Till July 30, 2021: 1,595(Source: Pune city police cybercrime )Take these precautions*Make payment when you physically see the product*Buy from known platforms that have grievance redressal systems*Be aware while buying online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fourfold-increase-in-online-liquor-purchase-fraud-in-pune-city-1-595-cases-registered-in-seven-months-101627988250802.html
03-08-2021||Pune||Pune’s Civic Sanskriti: Why your ‘handprint’ could help offset the growing ecological footprint||The Earth Overshoot Day for 2021 was on July 29. Calculated every year by the Global Footprint Network, the Earth Overshoot Date is the date by when humanity’s demand for ecological resources and services in a given year, its Ecological Footprint, exceeds what the Earth can regenerate in that year, its biocapacity.The Footprint is the demand for food from farms, fisheries, and pastures, for shelter, clothing, and infrastructure. It also includes the land area needed to absorb the carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels.The biocapacity of a state or country refers to the biologically productive lands and seas, such as forest areas, grazing areas, farms, and fishing areas. A significant component of the Ecological Footprint is the Carbon Footprint, which is the land area needed to sequester carbon dioxide emitted from fossil fuel burning and cement production.Since the 1970s, humanity’s Ecological Footprint has been exceeding the earth’s biocapacity. Worse, the yearly date by which we collectively consume all of the biocapacity has been steadily decreasing. It was in November in the 1970s, October in the 1980s, and September, by the turn of the century.Now, we need 1.7 Earths to meet our needs and wants. Trips to space will not solve our problem; we need to live lighter on our own planet!The Ecological Footprint may be calculated at different levels, such as for an individual, an organisation, a city or a country. The Footprint or impact of all countries is not the same. It is influenced by the climate of a place (necessitating heating or cooling of buildings), the nature of the economy, production and consumption systems, and people’s lifestyles.India’s Ecological Footprint does not exceed its biocapacity currently, but it may soon do so. However, there is a huge variation in the consumption levels and the well-being of different people. There is a large proportion of the population whose essential nutrition, healthcare, and decent housing needs are not met. Decent living standards have been achieved for a smaller number. However, many people, especially in urban areas, are now over-consuming – some by choice, others thoughtlessly, and yet others by compulsion because low-carbon options are not yet well-developed (e.g. in public transport or cycling).This presents a few different challenges.First, how should production, consumption, and especially economic and governance systems be organised to enhance people’s living standards and well-being? These may include, for example, strengthening public distribution systems for rations, housing up-gradation, access to education, public transport, etc. A second challenge is to promote the shift to renewable energy and move to a circular economy with sustainablematerials and recycling. Such changes can help to bring down consumption levels at a systemic level.Yet another is how individuals can think about and change their lifestyles, behaviour to tread a bit lighter on the planet. Individual and collective action is called for.I want to share the concept of the “Handprint”. The Handprint is the symbol of, measure for, and commitment to positive action towards sustainability. Handprint also stands for caring and working together towards a sustainable future.While the Footprint is a measure of human pressure on earth’s resources, the Handprint measures what we can do individually and together to restore the balance between consumption and the planet’s carrying capacity.The Handprint concept was evolved and adopted at a conference on Education for Sustainable Development at CEE in 2007. It was inspired by a 10-year old student Srija, who participated in an environmental project at her school in Hyderabad.There is much to be done in everyday activities such as avoiding food waste, promoting organics, waste recycling, composting, walking, cycling facilities, greening, plantation, water management, and solar water heating. While technologies and solutions are generally known in these familiar topics, getting them underway often needs creativity and perseverance.Examining one’s own life and lifestyle, engaging with the neighbourhood, a community, a school or college or a workplace, and working with the local government offer many opportunities for Handprint actions. All of us need to become Handprint Action Heroes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-civic-sanskriti-why-your-handprint-could-help-offset-the-growing-ecological-footprint-101627987651185.html
03-08-2021||Pune||Pune traders allege bias, demand relaxations in curfew, will violate deadline||Hundreds of traders in Pune held ‘Ghanta Nad’(Bell clanging) protest on Tuesday to draw the Maharashtra government’s attention to their demand for an extension in current operation hours for shop keepers in the city following similar relief given to 22 other districts in the state on the basis of their respective Covid-19 caseloads. The restriction to end operation by 4 pm between Monday and Friday was retained for all shops in Pune district, inviting protests from traders, industries and restaurants in the city.“Covid cases have gone down in Pune city and yet shop timings continue to be up to 4pm. To oppose this biased decision by the state government, all our association members and traders across the city protested today while planning to keep the shops open till 7 pm from tomorrow,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP).The business community wants Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and rural parts of districts to be assessed as separate administrative units to decide their grade of relaxation citing lower Covid positivity rates. Maharashtra government on Monday left out 11 districts including Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad, and Palghar from the ambit of relaxations citing their high Covid-19 caseloads. Maharashtra recorded 4,869 fresh cases on Monday, taking its tally to 6,315,063 including 75,303 active cases.The association says it has reasons to allege bias claiming the new relaxations allow all essential and non-essential shops to remain open till 10 pm in Mumbai and 8 pm in other districts where relaxations have been given. It said that while the state government allowed the civic bodies to take the final call on easing of restrictions in Mumbai city, suburban areas and Thane, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad were denied any relief.At around 11.45 am several traders gathered near Sonya Maruti Chowk on Laxmi Road in Pune city before marching towards Alka Talkies Chowk while beating kitchen utensils and Bells. Similarly, other shop owners, traders and their local unions across the city protested in front of their shops.Ranka accused Uddhav Thackeray government of “favouring” Mumbai since the Shiv Sena controls the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).“Shiv Sena government has given relaxations to Mumbai just because it is in power in the BMC. But in Pune, another political party is in power so they are not giving any relaxations to Pune. We have decided to keep our shops open from tomorrow up to 7 pm and [are] ready to face any action taken by the police or government authorities,” said Ranka, referring to the fact that the Bharatiya Janata Party runs the Pune corporation.Maharashtra’s minister for minority affairs and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik rejected the allegation and said the government relaxed curbs in Mumbai because the positivity rate there was less than 1%. “Tomorrow if Pune’s cases come down, government will immediately ease restrictions,” said Malik. Pune’s Covid positivity rate for the week ending August 1 was 3.3%, as per the health department’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-traders-allege-bias-demand-relaxations-in-curfew-will-violate-deadline-101627986091223.html
03-08-2021||Other||Odisha village penalises couple for marrying outside community; cops begin probe||A village in Odisha has ostracised a couple and imposed a penalty of ₹25 lakh on them for marrying outside their respective communities.Maheswar Baske, a tribal of Nialijharan village in Keonjhar district married a girl of another community six months ago. Following protests by villagers, the couple left their home but were forced to return owing to the Covid-induced lockdown. On their return, Baske was allegedly ostracised and a gram sabha meeting imposed a fine of ₹25.6 lakh on him.Also Read | 4 persons hacked to death in 2 incidents on suspicion of ‘witchcraft’ in OdishaBaske said the couple, along with his old mother, are now living at his uncle’s home outside the village. “We have been barred from sharing water with village folks and nobody from Nialijharan is allowed to help us till we pay the fine. We are forced to live outside the village and I cannot pay the fine,” he said.Ghasipura police station inspector Manoranjan Bisi said he is investigating the case after a court in Anandpur directed for probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-village-penalises-couple-for-marrying-outside-community-cops-begin-probe-101627985071021.html
03-08-2021||Noida||NGT pulls up UP, Delhi over discharge of polluted water in Yamuna||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Tuesday pulled up authorities in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi over continuous discharge of polluted water in the Yamuna River, remarking that officials should “protect public health and environment” and not just “enjoy position and perks.”Also Read: Yamuna water quality worsening, shows UPPCB data“Industries are discharging untreated sewage water in the river with impunity, as if the law of the land does not exist. In spite of categorical observations in the reports of the statutory regulators, not even a single person is shown to have been prosecuted,” a bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted. The tribunal called this a “clear failure” of constitutional obligations of the relevant authorities, who, it said, have continued to remain “mute spectators of serious crimes against humanity.”“Therefore, the said authorities have failed to realise that they are holding positions of high trust and not to just enjoy position and perks at the cost of miseries of innocent citizens,” the green body said further.The bench was referring to authorities such as Noida authority, district magistrates, Uttar Pradesh State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), UP Police and the Pollution Control Board. It further directed officials from both Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, including the two chief secretaries, to hold in-house meeting with concerned departments within 15 days to take stock of the situation and plan various corrective measures, including accountability of erring officers, preventing pollutants from being discharged into drains etc. The Delhi Jal Board (DJB), it said, needs to confirm that no sewage or any other effluent is being discharged into drains entering Noida, while the latter has to explain the sewage management status of sewage generated by residential socities“The tribunal expects meaningful improvement in the situation to prevent serious violations affecting the right to life, which have been going on for a long time without any meaningful action,” the bench said. It was hearing a plea filed by a Noida resident against sewer water being disposed in an irrigation canal near Sector 137 in the Gautam Buddh Nagar district.River Yamuna is a tributary of the Ganges and several cities across north India, including Delhi, are located on its banks.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ngt-pulls-up-up-delhi-over-discharge-of-polluted-water-in-yamuna-101627984397086.html
03-08-2021||Patna||CAG report notes irregularities in tax payments, vehicle registrations in Bihar||A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit of Bihar transport departments’ functioning in financial year 2018-19 has revealed several irregularities including absence of mechanism to realise timely payment of taxes and fees from automobile dealers and ensuring vehicles are delivered to customers only after mandatory registration at the dealer-point.“Delivery of vehicles without registration mark not only compromised the objective of dealer-point registration to ensure... registration mark and immediate realisation of road tax, but also posed a risk as such vehicles can be easily misused for unlawful activities,” the CAG report tabled in the Bihar legislative assembly on July 29, said.It pointed out that the dealer’s failure to adhere to these rules was due to absence of deterrence or cost attached by the transport department. “Absence of any return, binding obligation as well as deterrent measures for the dealers to ensure delivery of vehicles after assigning registration mark is indicative of the weak control mechanism in the transport department, which led to undue delay in payment of taxes and fees,” the report added.Central motor vehicle rules 1989 provide that vehicles cannot be delivered without either temporary or permanent registration.The report notes that while the dealer-point registration system was functional in all the 38 district transport offices in the state, there was still delay in payment of taxes by 488 authorised dealers for 423,897 vehicles for a period ranging from one day to 1997 days (nearly five and a half years).“Audit verified documents of 2,920 out of 423,897 vehicles as submitted by dealers and observed that all of them were delivered prior to issue of registration mark,” the report said,The report underlined the grave situation by pointing out specific cases of brazen non-compliance with the rules.“In Sheohar district, an authorised dealer was found to have delivered 24 vehicles in December 2018 and uploaded required documents for registration in March, 2019 without payment of due tax and without allotment of temporary registration. Allotment of temporary registration at the time of delivery would have also brought additional revenue of ₹3.16 crore to the state government,” the report said.In its reply, the transport department said that “temporary registration was not a matter of right, instead it was a choice of the vehicle purchaser and hence the department did not levy temporary registration fee”.The department also argued that after February 2018 vehicles were delivered following the required procedure.“After implementation of VAHAN-4 (between May 2017 and February 2018), vehicles were delivered only after realisation of due tax and fee and allotment of permanent registration mark. In case of DTO Shehohar, necessary instructions have been issued to remit the amount realised from the dealer,” the department said.Vahan 4.0 is a web-based software which enables the registration of vehicles online along with e-payment of taxes, fees.However, the audit did not find the department’s reply tenable, as it didn’t cover why the system was not put in place to ensure timely remittance of tax realised by dealers after its realisation from buyers of vehicles.The audit report also pointed out that “due to absence of guidelines/supporting documents for registration of tractor and tractor trailer, seven district transport offices (DTO) registered 8,969 tractors or tractor-trailer combinations under agriculture category in arbitrary manner leading to loss of ₹25.22 crore in revenue.”“In Bhagalpur, no tractor or tractor-trailer has been registered in the commercial category since May 2017, indicating that discretionary powers were misused by the DTOs. On the other hand, in DTOs, in eight of the 15 test checked districts, no tractor was registered in the agriculture category. The department partially accepted it when pointed out and stated that necessary instruction had been issued to all DTOs to obtain certificates from tractor owners at the time of registration about the intended purpose,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cag-report-notes-irregularities-in-tax-payments-vehicle-registrations-in-bihar-101627983330842.html
03-08-2021||Other||Bhagirathi zone panel seeks report on proposed ski chair lift in Uttarkashi||Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone (BESZ) monitoring committee has sought a detailed report on the proposed ski chair lift project in Dayara Bugyyal or Himalayan meadow in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand.The project has been proposed in the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone over an area of 4,179 sq kms in the Himalayas. The monitoring committee met on Monday evening under the chairmanship of chief secretary SS Sandhu. Uttarkashi district magistrate Mayur Dixit, a committee member, said, “The decision on the project will be taken after we have studied its details.” Also Read | Uttarakhand extends Covid curfew till August 10, vaccination drive to continueDixit said among the issues discussed in the meeting on Monday included conservation initiatives that need to be taken, disaster management practices that need to be adopted. The zonal master plan of BESZ was approved in July last year by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC). This would expedite the execution of the Char Dham road project. Meanwhile, Hemant Dhyani, a resident of BESZ and member of Supreme Court appointed High Powered committee (HPC) on Char Dham Project has written to the state chief secretary, alleging violation and non-compliance of BESZ notification. Dhyani said in his letter that in February this year, Uttarkashi DM permitted someone from outside the state to buy 0.659 hectare agriculture land in BESZ for construction of a resort, which is based on misleading information that distance of river Bhagirathi is about 100 m north of this land. “I have attached photos in the letter which show that the entire land is just adjacent to the active flood plain of river Bhagirathi,” he said. Dhyani alleged that the land use was also changed to facilitate the construction through a letter issued by the district administration in May this year. “It is not only in gross violation of BESZ notification but also violates the by-laws of the state itself which prohibit construction close to the river flood plain.” Dhyani has urged the monitoring committee to cancel land-use change permission given in February, carry out environmental impact assessment (EIA) as per the standard procedure set by MoEF&CC for the activities of land-use change in case of village road construction, solid waste management site or any other similar activities and disqualify all such commercial complexes in close proximity of water streams or rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhagirathi-zone-panel-seeks-report-on-proposed-ski-chair-lift-in-uttarkashi-101627982790811.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cabinet okays policy to promote medical O2 production||The Delhi government on Tuesday approved the Medical Oxygen Production Promotion policy 2021 which aims to make the national capital self-reliant in the production of medical oxygen for medical emergencies in the future by incentivising private enterprises that invest on production, transportation and storage of medical oxygen broadly through power subsidies and tax reimbursements.The policy was drafted after Delhi faced a severe crisis of medical oxygen during its fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic – also the worst so far – in April this year, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal led Delhi Cabinet approved the Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021, along with the provision for incentives for the production of medical oxygen. This policy is part of the Delhi government’s rigorous effort to make Delhi self-reliant in the production of medical oxygen to meet any medical emergency in the future,” said a statement issued by the CM’s office after Tuesday’s Cabinet meeting.Kejriwal said in the statement, “The Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021 provides several incentives to the Pvt. sector to set up oxygen production plants, storage facilities, and oxygen tankers… This policy will help improve oxygen availability in Delhi, which became a huge bottleneck in handling the last Covid-19 wave.”A senior government official said that the policy is likely to be notified later this month.The statement said the objectives of the policy are “to make Delhi self-reliant in terms of medical oxygen production and supply” which the government aims to achieve by encouraging the setting up new manufacturing enterprises and expanding the production capacity of existing ones for “uninterrupted oxygen supply” to hospitals and nursing homes and “to facilitate storage and transportation of medical oxygen in Delhi”.Also Read | Delhi CM Kejriwal launches initiative to make Delhi global city by 2047Last month, lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal reviewed the progress of 160 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants in the city which are supposed to be installed in both public sector and private sector hospitals this year and collectively have a capacity of producing more than 148 MT medical oxygen per day. While 66 PSA plants, including 17 under PM-CARES fund, are being set up in Delhi government-run hospitals, 10 are being installed in central Government, and 84 in private hospitals.“Of the 66 plants in Delhi government hospitals, 36 PSA plants have been commissioned, three are ready and the remaining are expected to be commissioned by August 31. In the Central government hospitals, six out of 10 plants have been commissioned, and the remaining are to be commissioned by August 15. In private hospitals, 37 out of 84 plants have been commissioned while work is in progress on the remaining 47,” said a senior government official, adding, “At least 34 PSA oxygen plants are likely to be commissioned in different hospitals in the city by October 31.”In April, Delhi witnessed an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases which left the healthcare infrastructure overwhelmed. At its peak, Delhi added a daily average of 25,294 new Covid-19 cases for the seven days ending April 23. A severe crisis of medical oxygen turned the situation worse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-okays-policy-to-promote-medical-o2-production-101627980570482.html
03-08-2021||Patna||Ganga River flowing above danger mark in Patna||The water level of the Ganga River has risen above the danger level in Patna due to heavy rainfall and several ghats have been submerged.As the low-lying areas along the river are flooded, residents of the area expressed concern over the situation that might get worse with more rainfall."There is fear that the rising level of Ganga and other rivers might pose a threat to Patna. It will be very difficult to control the situation," said a local.Earlier on Saturday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow alert predicting heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning in various parts of Bihar till August 4.According to the IMD, the movement of a low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal towards the Eastern parts of the country caused the heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ganga-river-flowing-above-danger-mark-in-patna-101627978322130.html
03-08-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: At least 1,200 prosecuted in one week for not wearing masks||More than 1,200 people were prosecuted in the last one week in Kolkata for not wearing masks, even as researchers suggest that India may see another rise in Covid-19 cases soon. Data shared by the Kolkata Police shows that while 1,278 persons were prosecuted for not wearing masks in the last one week, 65 people were prosecuted for spitting on the road. “The state government has made it mandatory for people to wear masks. Also, no outside activities are allowed between 9pm and 5am. Those violating the law are prosecuted and sometimes penalised also,” said a senior police officer. Even though the West Bengal government has extended the restrictions till August 15 with several relaxations, wearing of mask is still mandatory. “Wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distancing and health and hygiene protocol must be followed at all times,” said a government order issued on July 29, while extending the restrictions. The Kolkata Police recently arrested 37 people from the Park Hotel for partying amid Covid-19 restrictions. Even though the daily count of Covid-19 cases in the state shot up to more than 20,000 mid-May just after the assembly elections ended, it is down to less than 1,000 now. On Monday, the state registered 575 cases, down from 701 cases on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-at-least-1-200-prosecuted-in-one-week-for-not-wearing-masks-101627976130407.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid positivity rate rises to 1.3% in a week||The Covid-19 positivity rate rose by 0.5% in Himachal Pradesh over the past week as the hill state sees a spike in new coronavirus infections. The state recorded a positivity rate of 1.3% in the July 26 to August 1 week, according to the state health department. The positivity rate was 0.8% during the week before that. Also read: In pics: Visitors flout Covid-19 norms at Chandigarh’s Sukhna LakeA spokesperson for the Himachal Pradesh National Health Mission said that the state saw a 64% increase in fresh infections last week as compared to the July 19-25 week. Last week, 86,548 samples were tested for Covid-19 out of which 1,100 turned out positive as compared to 670 positive out of 85,068 samples in the penultimate week of July. Himachal Pradesh’s total case tally stands at 2,06,369. Mandi registers highest positivity rate of 4.2% Mandi district is emerging as a hotspot as it registered the highest positivity rate of 4.2% with a total of 276 positive cases out of a total of 6,543 tested samples. Kullu is second in the tally with a positivity rate of 2.4%. A total of 4,009 tests were done in the district of which 97 turned out positive. Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti were third with a positivity rate of 2.2%. A total of 10,151 samples were tested in Chamba of which 226 were found positive, second in terms of absolute numbers. Comparatively, the number of tests conducted in Lahaul-Spiti was significantly low. Of the 499 samples tested, 11 turned out positive in the tribal district, which has the lowest number of tests and fresh infections. It was followed by Chamba where 8,701 samples were sent for testing and 175 were found positive with a positivity rate of 2%. Shimla recorded a positivity rate of 1.6% and Kangra 1.1%. In the remaining five districts, the positivity rate is below 1%. Sirmaur logged the lowest positivity rate of 0.2% with 12 people found positive out of the 7,931 tested. Active cases also on the rise Seven people died of the contagion during the week and the case fatality ratio was 0.6%. In the preceding week also, seven people died and the case fatality ratio (CFR) was 1%. The increasing number of new infections has led to a rise in active cases. The active cases have gone up to 1,304 as on August 2. Mandi has the highest 294 active cases followed by 263 in Chamba, 205 in Kangra and 194 in Shimla. In the remaining eight districts, the active cases are below 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-covid-positivity-rate-rises-to-1-3-in-a-week-101627974630702.html
03-08-2021||Other||Olympic medallist Mirabai inaugurates sports medicine machine at RIMS Manipur||Saikhom Mirabai Chanu, who won India’s first silver medal in women’s 49kg weightlifting at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, inaugurated a new arthroscopy machine at Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), a premier medical institute in Imphal, Manipur, on Monday.“RIMS is one of first few institutes in the country with a Medical Council of India/ National Medical Commission-recognised MD course in sports medicine,” said director professor A Santa Singh of RIMS, “We are grateful to the ministry for supporting us.”Manipur introduced the MD course in sports medicine at RIMS during the last academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/olympic-medallist-mirabai-inaugurates-sports-medicine-machine-at-rims-manipur-101627973791936.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Bodies of 2 sisters found hanging in Navi Mumbai flat||The bodies of two sisters were found hanging in a decomposed condition in their flat in Navi Mumbai township of Maharashtra, a police official said.The incident came to light on Monday when neighbours of the deceased - Laxmi Panthari (33) and her sister Sneha Panthari (26) - complained of foul smell emanating from their flat in a housing society in Airoli's Sector 10 and contacted the police, he said. "The police broke open the flat's door lock and found the women hanging from a ceiling," the official from Rabale police station said. Prima facie, the police suspect that the sisters hanged themselves. A case of accidental death has been registered, he said. The official said the two women, who used to take private tuitions in their house, seldom mixed with neighbours. They lost their father some years back and their mother had committed suicide, he added. According to the police, the two women were last seen on Friday. Further investigation into the case is underway, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bodies-of-2-sisters-found-hanging-in-navi-mumbai-flat-101627967212779.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Congress MP gives notice in RS to discuss rape, murder of 9-year-old Delhi girl||Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil on Tuesday gave suspension of business notice in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the issue of the alleged rape and killing of a nine-year-old girl in Delhi. "Under Rule 267 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Rajya Sabha I hereby give notice of my intention to move a motion for suspension of business of the House today," Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil said in his notice.Shaktisinh Gohil said there is an atmosphere of apprehension and fear in the area near Delhi Cantonment in southwest Delhi and the matter should be discussed, according to news agency ANI. The government should talk about the steps it is taking to bring justice to the girl's family, Shaktisinh Gohil added.Also read | Nine-year-old girl raped, murdered by a priest and 3 others in DelhiPolice have arrested a priest and three male employees of a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment and booked them for murder, rape and criminal intimidation. They have also been booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the SC/ST Act.Police said the girl, who lived with her parents in a rented house in front of the crematorium, went to fetch water from the water cooler at the crematorium around 5.30pm on Sunday. The priest and the three men called the girl’s mother to the crematorium half an hour later and showed her the child’s body. They told her that the girl was electrocuted to death while drinking water from the cooler. The four men asked the girl’s mother to not inform the police about the death.The suspects, police said, allegedly told the girl’s mother that her daughter was electrocuted to death, They also told the family they should not inform the police about her death. They said the police would register a case, send her body for an autopsy and that doctors will take out her vital organs and sell them after the procedure, officials said.The police initially registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, wrongful confinement and destruction of evidence related to the offence along with common intention under the Indian Penal Code’s (IPC's) sections 304, 342, 201 and 34. After hundreds of villagers reached the crematorium on Sunday night and protested till Monday evening, the police converted the case into one of rape, murder and criminal intimidation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/congress-mp-gives-notice-in-rs-to-discuss-rape-murder-of-9-year-old-delhi-girl-101627964894934.html
03-08-2021||Jaipur||No digital access, no problem: Rajasthan teachers hold classes outdoors||For children with no digital access, classes are now conducted under trees and the open sky in Dekhla village in Jamwaramgarh tehsil of Jaipur, Rajasthan. Schools have been closed for over one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic, and most classes (be in government school or private school) are conducted online. However, there’s a large section of students that has no access to any digital medium or smartphone or is living in areas with poor network. Considering this, two teachers of Government Primary School, Dekhla, decided to start holding classes outdoors from June 30, and beautified the school by painting its walls during the lockdown. Students now maintain social distance as they sit around a tree and study from 8am to 10.30am twice a week. “We inform the students when the next class will be held. There are online modules for students but many don’t have digital access; besides the network is too poor here,” said Narendra Kumar, a teacher at the government school in Dekhla. There are around 70 students in the school who could not study for the last one-and-a-half years, but now are attending the outdoor classes. “The parents are happy and children are also taking an interest. Many of them had forgotten the basics as they were out of touch,” said Kumar. On asking what motivates them, he said, “We are paid for this, and its our duty to ensure that the children continue with their education.” Kumar, along with the school principal, even beautified the walls of the schools during the lockdown. “We were sitting idle during March-April so painted the wall,” he said. Speaking on the initiative, Class 4 student Ekta said, “My two brothers and I couldn’t go to school due to lockdown. We couldn’t afford online classes and now that classes are held near our home, we all are attending regularly,” she said. A senior state education department official said in the last academic session 2020-21, out of 8.3 million students, only 3.3 million attended online classes, which means 5 million were deprived of education. The department claimed that 3.7 million students were educated via TV and radio under the Aao Ghar Se Sikhe programme, but despite this, 1.3 million students could not attend classes. He said this academic year, the department is targeting educating 7 million students online. The department’s deputy director Arun Sharma said the department started the Smile programme wherein teachers would prepare education material for online classes. But when they realized that many students did not have digital access, the Aao Ghar se Sikhe programme was started. Under Aao Ghar se Sikhe, the teachers document the students’ homework, and take the weekly quizzes to their houses for them to solve, he said. Meanwhile, teachers of a government school in Barmer’s Bhimtal village have started travel on a camel gifted to them by villagers so they can hold classes right in their villages. The mobile network here is very poor as well. Initially, it began with classes at one village, around a kilometre away from the government senior secondary school, Bhimtal. But gradually, more parents wanted their children to be taught, so more villages were added to schedule. Students here are informed two days in advance of the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/no-digital-access-no-problem-rajasthan-teachers-hold-classes-outdoors-101627965272206.html
03-08-2021||Other||4 persons hacked to death in 2 incidents on suspicion of ‘witchcraft’ in Odisha||In two separate cases, four persons, including two women, were hacked to death in Odisha.Police said six persons, including two minors, were arrested on Monday in Kunajam on charges of battering a man, his wife and his nephew to death, because the accused suspected they practised witchcraft.Also Read | 6 killed, 17 injured as van falls into canal in West Bengal“So far two bodies have been recovered from Samakoi riverbed while the search is on for the last one,” Khamar police station inspector Gyanaranjan Samal said.In a separate incident, the body of a 55-year-old widow was found in her house under the jurisdiction of Raruan police station of Mayurbhanj district on Monday morning. Police said the woman was hacked to death with an axe in her home in Tilusahi village. Suspicion of witchcraft could be the reason behind her death, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-persons-hacked-to-death-in-2-incidents-on-suspicion-of-witchcraft-in-odisha-101627962929701.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Railway commuters in Mumbai lost valuables worth ₹5.25 crore in six months||Suburban railway commuters in Mumbai have lost cash and valuables amounting to ₹5.25 crore to robbers and fatka gang members in the past six months.The Government Railway Police (GRP) have registered 2,654 cases between January 1 and June 30 this year. Of these, 2,543 or 95℅ cases are of theft and robbery, and only 907 cases could be solved, with recovery of goods worth ₹1.58 crore.To crack down on robbers, the GRP has started registering all missing bag cases as those of theft. In the past two months, the GRP has registered 303 cases of bag lifting, which were earlier registered as missing cases and not investigated at all, amounting to a loss of property worth ₹1.12 crore. Out of these, police have solved 74 cases.All GRP units have been instructed to register all missing bag cases as thefts. GRP commissioner Quaiser Khalid said that the move was adopted along the lines of directives issued by then GRP commissioner Nikhet Kaushik in 2017 to register mobile missing cases as thefts. The drive led to recovery of several lost / stolen mobile phones and arrests of the thieves and robbers.Taking cue from that, Khalid issued directives to register missing bag cases as thefts. “When we register a missing bag case, it is not investigated and chances of getting the belongings are low. Now that an FIR is registered, the officers are compelled to investigate the case,” he said.Khalid said normally, when a commuter forgets his bag or wallet in a train or railway premises, he would have to check the lost and found department of the terminal where the train concludes. “In case the commuter does not find his belongings there, he will have to approach the GRP police station and register a complaint of theft,” said Khalid.The police officers will then check the CCTVs of railway stations where the commuter said he forgot the bag and track it till the last station or terminal where the train concludes its journey trying to locate the bag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thefts-on-rise-on-mumbai-suburban-trainsgrp-101627961789999.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Shops to operate on all days till 10pm from today in Mumbai||From Tuesday, all essential and non-essential shops can stay open till 10pm everyday in Mumbai on, while restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity till 4pm in the city, the civic body said.The state government on Monday issued orders allowing similar relaxations in other districts except 11, such as Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, among others, where there is a high number of fresh cases. The relaxation in curbs will come into effect from Tuesday. Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Monday reported 4,869 cases, taking its tally to 6,315,063. It reported 90 fatalities, pushing the toll to 133,038. Active cases stood at 75,303.Also Read | Non-Covid surgeries, OPDs slowly gain momentum at Mumbai hospitalsTill now, Mumbai shops were only operational till 4pm on weekdays. As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) order on Monday evening, medical shops will be allowed to remain open all day and night. Further, BMC, in its order, stated that restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 4pm on all days.The Mumbai civic body also allowed all indoor and outdoor sports activities, except for swimming and other sports where close physical contact is required. The BMC also allowed shooting for film and television serials during specified timings.As per the order issued by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, except for the above relaxations, all other activities will have to be followed as per the earlier order. Malls and theatres will continue to remain closed, local trains will only be open for workforce in essential services, and private offices will remain open till 4pm on weekdays, excluding essential services. Public grounds and gardens will remain open on all days between 5am and 9am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shops-to-operate-on-all-days-till-10pm-from-today-in-maharashtra-101627960409696.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky, light rain likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see cloudy sky with light rain on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 33 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Monday was 26.1 degree Celsius, a notch below normal, and the maximum temperature was 32.1 degrees Celsius, which is two degree below normal.Also Read | Monsoon to be ‘normal’ in August and September: IMDDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 76. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 95, which is in the satisfactory range.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Monday, the union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the Satisfactory category as forecasted. Scattered rainfall activity in Delhi. Satisfactory to Good AQI is forecasted for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-light-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101627959149576.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid in Maharashtra: Cong demands resuming local trains for vaccinated people||As the Maharashtra government on Monday announced ease in the ongoing Covid restrictions in 22 districts of the state, Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap demanded that the local train service should at least restart for those inoculated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine."Local trains are a lifeline for several commuters in Mumbai. Due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, many people are already struggling with earning their livelihood, and with the halt in the local train service, they are unable to travel to their workplace. Now as the number of positive cases is decreasing, the government must consider restarting local trains of those who have taken two doses of Covid vaccine," Jagtap said.Local trains being the primary and the most convenient mode of transport in Mumbai and its suburban area, several train commuters associations and the general public are demanding restarting of the service for all.During the second wave of Covid-19, the Maharashtra government had put restrictions on local train travel fearing the spread of the virus. Currently, the local trains are running only for staff related to essentials services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-in-maharashtra-cong-demands-resuming-local-trains-for-vaccinated-people-101627955147280.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai water supply to be disrupted today in these areas||Mumbai water supply will be affected in several areas, including the city's western and eastern suburbs, on Tuesday as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will carry out repair work in one of the reservoirs, according to officials. BMC has announced that several areas in the island city will have 15 per cent water cut and some, including Kurla, Andheri, Ghatkopar, Ram Mandir and Goregaon, will have complete water cut on Tuesday.According to a BMC statement, maintenance work will be carried out at the Veravali water reservoir in Jogeshwari (East) to ensure the force of water supply is increased in several areas of the city. During the process, the connection of two pipelines will have to be undertaken and so the water connection will be discontinued in several areas.दिनांक ३ ऑगस्ट रोजी शहर व पश्चिम उपनगरांमध्ये १५% पाणी कपात.कुर्ला, घाटकोपर, अंधेरी आणि गोरेगांवातील काही भागांमध्ये पाणीपुरवठा नाही.पाणी जपून व काळजीपूर्वक वापरण्याचे बृहन्मुंबई महानगरपालिकेचे आवाहन. pic.twitter.com/iZItzVnp3oBMC said at least 20 wards in Mumbai will be impacted due to this. There will be a 15 per cent water cut on Tuesday between 8.30am to 10.30pm in areas between Mumbai Central to Churchgate followed by Bandra, and those between Malad to Dahisar.Mumbai areas between Goregaon to Andheri including Kurla and Ghatkopar will not get any water supply and several parts of the city might also receive water in low force.The civic body has requested citizens in Mumbai to co-operate and store required water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-water-supply-to-be-disrupted-today-in-these-areas-101627947945054.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||MHA nod to raise salaries, Delhi lawmakers says hike ‘too low’||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has approved an increase of the salary and allowances of Delhi’s lawmakers to ₹90,000 a month, excluding reimbursements a 66.67% increase from the current ₹54,000 , although this is far lower than the raise sought by the Delhi government. Officials familiar with the matter said the matter will be discussed in a cabinet meeting chaired by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday.The quantum of the raise, the first since 2011, will mean that Delhi’s lawmakers remain among the lowest paid in the country. In Uttar Pradesh for instance, a legislator’s monthly salary and allowances add up to ₹95,000 a month; in Gujarat, ₹1,05,000; in Bihar, ₹1,30,000; in Rajasthan, ₹1,42,500; in Haryana, ₹1,55,000; and in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, ₹1,98,000 and ₹1,90,000 respectively.Telangana pays its lawmakers ₹2,50,000 a month.In addition to the current salary, Delhi’s lawmakers are also eligible for reimbursements worth at least ₹34,000.Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said salaries of all ministers -- seven, including the chief minister -- and the speaker, deputy speaker, chief whip and leader of opposition of the Delhi assembly have also been increased in the same proportion. At present, all of them are entitled to ₹1.20 lakh per month.“Whatever the Delhi government had asked for, the Centre accepted only about 40% of it... It could either accept or reject the Centre’s proposal. So, the city administration has no option but to accept it,” said Goel.The increase approved by MHA is likely to open up a new front in hostilities between the Union government and Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. The latter sought an increase in basic salary of lawmakers from ₹12,000 to ₹50,000, but MHA has increased it to ₹30,000.“The Delhi government is dissatisfied with what has been approved by the Centre,” Delhi government officials said on condition of anonymity.Including reimbursements, they pointed out, the Delhi government sought an increase from ₹88,000 a month to ₹2.1 lakh. Now that MHA has approved a lower raise, the discussion at the meeting tomorrow will be to decide the future course of action, one of the officials added. According to this person, the Delhi government will likely raise salaries in accordance with MHA’s approval immediately.Officials from the MHA did not respond to requests seeking comment.A senior Delhi government official, on condition of anonymity, said the Centre had sent this proposal to Delhi in March, 2020, but the Delhi government did not respond then due to the back-to-back Covid-19 waves that hit the national capital. “So, in July, the file was set in motion again and tomorrow (Tuesday) it will be discussed in the Cabinet,” the official said.Members of Parliament currently earn ₹230,000 a month in salary and allowances.Salaries and allowances of Delhi MLAs were last increased 10 years ago. The Delhi Assembly in 2015 approved a bill to increase the salary and allowances of MLAs by 400%, but the MHA did not approve this. The Delhi government in 2018 formed a six-member committee to take up the issue of salary hike of MLAs with the Centre. In March this year, the chairperson of this committee, AAP’s Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj, said it was recommending to the Union government that the salaries and allowances be raised by 138.6% at the least.Rituraj Govind, AAP MLA from Kirari, said the increase does not factor inflation. “I have been an MLA since 2015 in Delhi and I can easily say we have to pay a lot from our own pockets on two major things: fuel and social events. Fuel costs have increased so much that the revised amount of ₹10,000 will not suffice. Every month, I have to spend at least ₹20,000 on fuel because as MLA we have to keep going to every corner of our constituency,” he said. Govind added that he spends money out of his pocket on gifts when he is invited to social events.Sanjeev Jha, AAP MLA from Burari, said, “The salary is not enough so I arrange a lot of things through crowd sourcing. For example, someone offered his shop out of goodwill and I have set up an office there. There is no other way out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mha-nod-to-raise-salaries-delhi-lawmakers-says-hike-too-low-101627945652727.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Concrete, violations take toll on Delhi’s green giants||Two majestic Neem trees that stood tall for around 100 years, shadowing central Delhi’s APJ Abdul Kalam Road, fell in June this year. A survey report prepared by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) attributes their uprooting to shallow roots — a phenomenon that occurs when the root system does not get enough water or breathing space. Concretisation is a big reason for that. A dense pilkhan, also about 100 years old, on Dr Zakir Hussain Marg dried up and died this May. The survey cited gradual decay because of lack of nutrients and repeated injuries as the reasons for the tree’s death.These towering trees, estimated to have been planted between 1920 and 1935 when New Delhi was being built, are among the 1,391 old and full-grown trees that were uprooted or died between 2015 and July 20 this year. Of these, 199 fell or died between January 1 and July this year, shows the NDMC data consulted by HT.According to NDMC officials, more than 30% of these trees were ‘heritage’ trees (more than 70 years old) with most of the neem and pilkhan trees aged more than 100 years.Ageing apart, concretisation and digging of roads for various civic works are the other two top reasons for the uprooting of trees as these obstruct rainwater from seeping into the ground, which then lowers the water table and affects soil quality, say officials. This is despite the 2013 National Green Tribunal order that prohibits any kind of digging or construction activity within a 1m radius of a tree trunk. “Among the 20-odd native tree species in Lutyens’ Delhi, neem and pilkhan are the most predominant victims of concretisation. On an average, at least 10 heritage neem trees die or fall off every year. These trees have heavy canopies and a girth measuring more than 2m. The tree trunks weaken as the roots do not get enough water and moisture... Eventually, it falls off as its weakened trunk cannot bear the weight of the canopy,” said a senior NDMC official.During its survey, the municipal body found that more than 70% dead cells constituted the core region of the neem trees that died, indicating that the trunk almost had no strength to bear the weight of the canopy. Similarly, the root system became shallow in the pilkhans, which have the heaviest canopy.“Both these species have a tap root system that goes deep into the soil vertically and have a stronghold... Most of these trees are about 100 years old and are now falling off because of concretisation,” said the official.According to data accessed by HT, of the 1,391 trees, 783 were in the category of ‘dead and dry’; 559 were ‘fallen or uprooted’; and 47 were in the ‘dangerous’ category. Most of these are ‘avenue trees’ (planted on both sides of the road), which experts say were planted keeping in mind the aesthetics of each stretch.“It has also been observed that the number of trees in the ‘dead and dry’ category has been increasing. On an average, 110 heritage trees are dying every year. The absence of enough water and moisture reaching the roots facilitates their gradual decay. The wetness leads to infections, pest and termite attacks, eventually leading to the death of the trees,” said another official requesting anonymity.Officials associated with the survey also said that Ganoderma, a fungal infection in trees, was also responsible for the death and decay. “Over the past 5-7 years, this infection has been growing in the collar region of the trunk in many silver oak trees. The infection dries up the epidermal cells, crucial to growth,” said the second official.S Chellaiah, director (horticulture), NDMC, said even with the utmost care, many trees, including heritage ones, are dying due to development activities. “Heritage trees have their own ecological value. What we need to do is have a strong policy to preserve trees and not allow repeated digging or trenching that damages the root system,” said Chellaiah.He said all underground cabling should be done through a single duct that wouldn’t require digging every time a cable has to be laid. “So far, the duct system has been adopted only in Connaught Place,” Chellaiah said, adding that it would require heavy investment but will increase the life span of trees by at least 20-25 years.C R Babu, professor emeritus at DU’s Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, said avenue trees in Lutyens’ Delhi are dense and have immense ecological value as they help to keep pollution in check by trapping dust. “These trees need to be preserved by minimising construction activity and maintaining a gap of at least two metres lengthwise,” he said.He added when there is concretisation around trees, their root system does not get enough space to develop or take nutrients and water from the soil. “Besides, many trees in Delhi are dying of termite attacks. In most cases, these are concretised trees which are not able to draw enough moisture and oxygen from their roots and become susceptible to termites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/concrete-violations-take-toll-on-delhi-s-green-giants-101627941580668.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Kamal Kishor’s first delivery||He doesn’t know what water chestnuts are. Neither has he ever tasted any Thai dish, he says. But he has brought coriander dimsums with water chestnuts, and soggy Thai chicken fried rice for tonight’s dinner.It’s not his.This is Kamal Kishor’s first delivery, here in a south Delhi apartment. This evening he launches himself as a food delivery man, a career that has become more ubiquitous since the pandemic began last year, when eateries shut down for long periods. More and more people have been resorting to mobile phone apps to experience restaurant-grade cuisines at home.“I hope all the dishes are in good condition. It’s my first delivery so I don’t know exactly how it works,” he says nervously. In his 30s, Mr Kishor is a “full-time security guard” but decided to additionally work as a food delivery man in his off-duty hours “because my salary is low”. As he takes out the smartly packed meal boxes from his huge bag, he carefully studies the dish names scrawled on the top of each box, and reads them aloud. A seasoned delivery man simply hands over the food and exits. But Mr Kishor is behaving with the observant thoroughness of a first-time flyer intently paying attention to the air hostess as she mimics the safety instructions before the take-off.This job might help him to support his household, he hopes. “My wife died some years ago, and I‘m left alone to raise my two children.” Daughter Sunridhi, 10, and son Kunal, 8, are at home. It is 9pm. They must have had their dinner, Mr Kishor says. He cooked the meal (arhar dal [lentils], shimla mirch [capsicum], and rice) early in the evening. The kids were watching TV when he left for the assignment. They are under the watchful eyes of his younger brother at this very moment.Mr Kishor now looks at a scrap of paper and wonders if the food he is delivering is already paid for or not. With some embarrassment, he asks the customer to clarify.Later, as he leaves, he expresses delight in the thrill of starting a new chapter in his working life, though he isn’t sure just how much he will earn from this first delivery. “I want to make just enough money so that my kids can realise their dreams. I have to be both papa and mummy to them. I have to work hard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-kamal-kishor-s-first-delivery-101627940311112.html
03-08-2021||Other||100% vaccination in 42 villages of Charkhi Dadri||As many as 42 villages out of 172 in Charkhi Dadri district have achieved 100 vaccination target for all those above 18 years of age. Balkra public health centre (PHC) has emerged the first PHC in the state where 100% vaccination has been done for all above 18 in 10 villages falling under it.Dadri immunisation officer Dr Ashish Maan said they have set-up a target to administer doses to 3.30 lakh beneficiaries in the district, out of which 2.82 lakh people have got the first jab and 68,000 people received the second jab too.“As many 42 villages have achieved 100 vaccination and Balkra PHC has become the first rural centre in the state to inoculate all its population covering 10 villages. All this was possible due to the hard work of the employees of the district administration and health department,” he added.The local health department had focused on bringing more and more people to health centres for inoculation when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak.“We have used roadways buses, vehicles provided by Haryana Police and some private vehicles to ferry people from their homes to vaccination sites. We were the first in Haryana to launch a vaccination drive for physically challenged people and nearly 900 of them have been given the jab,” Maan added.Dr Deepika Dhanda, medical officer at Balkra PHC, said 100% vaccination in all 10 villages falling under her PHC, was achieved due to joint efforts of ANMs, GNMs, staff nurses, local village heads, youths and other social groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-vaccination-in-42-villages-of-charkhi-dadri-101627939228829.html
03-08-2021||Other||2 weeks on, protesting anganwadi workers in Kaithal say ‘no response’ from govt||Hundreds of members of Haryana anganwadi workers and helpers union continued their indefinite protest on Monday to press for their demands in Kaithal.Amid heavy sloganeering, protesters reached the Pehowa Chowk and began a sit-in, forcing the police to divert traffic. They accused the state government and Haryana minister of state for women and child welfare, Kamlesh Danda, of turning a blind eye towards them even as it has been two weeks since they started their protest. They alleged that on July 23, the Kaithal police also registered an FIR against union members, including Kamlesh Deohra, for blocking the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Kaithal.Sudesh Rani, an anganwadi helper from Jind, said the government was not taking their issues seriously and several conditions have been imposed on them and they do not get their salaries regularly. Their demands include hike in salary, promotion as supervisors, training to work on Poshan tracker app, scheduled disbursement of salary, and job regularisationPolice were deployed on the Pehowa Chowk but the protest remained peaceful and the sit-in was ended around 3pm following which the traffic movement was restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-weeks-on-protesting-anganwadi-workers-in-kaithal-say-no-response-from-govt-101627938868340.html
03-08-2021||Other||Haryana sports minister recommends suspension of 3 MC officials||Taking a strict note of negligence of duty, Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh on Monday made a surprise visit at the office of Pehowa municipal committee and recommended suspension of three officials.Following the complaints of people, the minister visited the MC office around 9am and three officials were found absent and notice was served to an accountant for coming late. The officials whose suspension was recommended, included junior engineer Om Prakash, sanitary inspector Meenakshi and Beldar Dalbir Singh. He said the action was taken for negligence in duty as it was found that they were not taking their duty seriously.Sunil Arya, accountant, who reached the office 10 minutes late has also been served notice, the minister saidThe minister said he will write to the Haryana urban local bodies minister Anil Vij for strict action against such officials to avoid inconvenience to the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-sports-minister-makes-recommends-suspension-of-3-mc-officials-for-negligence-101627938688702.html
03-08-2021||Lucknow||UP varsity dept head, assistants booked over student’s death||The head of the home science department at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) University in Gorakhpur and her assistants have been booked on charges of murder after the body of a third-year student was found hanging in the institute, police said on Monday.Gorakhpur’s senior superintendent of police, Dinesh Kumar P, said the student went to the university on Saturday to take an examination but her body was found hanging in a storeroom later in the day. A panel of doctors conducted a post-mortem on Saturday, which stated that the death was due to “asphyxia as a result of ante-mortem hanging”, there was no injury marks on the body, the SSP said.The student’s father, however, alleged murder and refused to cremate the body till an FIR was filed. On the basis of the father’s complaint, the head of the home science department and her assistants were booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, said Kumar.On Monday, the student’s body was cremated.DDU University vice chancellor Professor Rajesh Singh said the university would recommend a probe by a retired high court judge with three university employees as members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-varsity-dept-head-assistants-booked-over-student-s-death-101627937622095.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar launches ‘Har Hith store’ scheme, aims to wipe out unemployment by 2024||In a step aimed at encouraging youth towards self-employment, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched the ‘Har Hith store’ scheme, as part of which a chain of grocery shops will be opened in rural and urban areas to sell the best quality daily-needs products at reasonable prices.As per the policy, 1,500 stores will be opened in rural areas and 500 in urban areas in the first phase and 5,000 stores in the second phase. Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Limited (HAICL) will allot one franchise of 200 sq ft area for a village with a population of 3,000, at least one for each ward in the municipal corporation and at least one in a group of wards having a cumulative population of 10,000 in municipal committee/council. The HAICL has signed terms of trade (TOT) with 51 corporate houses which would provide their quality products to these stores, enabled with a complete IT support system for smooth operations. “With the opening of these stores, the state government’s model of making youths job givers instead of job seekers will also be accomplished,” said CM Khattar after inaugurating a store during a programme held at Panchkula. According to Khattar, these stores will provide a platform to youth franchisees as well as micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), government cooperative institutions, FPOs (farmer producer organisations) and self help groups (SHGs) to increase their business. Franchise policy launched The CM also launched the Franchise Policy under which, those interested can apply as per the terms and conditions. People in the age group of 18-35, women, persons with disabilities and those verified under Mukhyamantri Parivar Uthan Yojana will be given preference.Priority will also be given to young members of families having annual income less than ₹1.80 lakh and verified under Parivar Pehchan Patra scheme. Khattar said now people can apply for these stores and the target is to open 100 stores in two months. A monthly income of at least ₹15,000 will be ensured for those verified under the Mukhyamantri Parivar Uthan Yojana and operating these stores. “As per the sale provision made in the Har Hith store scheme, the franchisee partner who sells products worth ₹1,50,000 will earn a marginal profit of 10%, that is ₹15,000,” said Khattar. If any youth whose verified family annual income is less than ₹1.80 lakh and is unable to earn ₹15,000 in the first six months, then the state government will provide financial help. “If the youth is able to earn ₹12,000, the government will give him ₹3,000 as financial aid, if the income is above ₹13,000, the government will provide compensation of ₹2,000 and so on. The state government will ensure that his minimum income comes to ₹15,000,” the CM said. If the applicant of the franchise is financially weak, Khattar said, the state government will provide loan facility under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana without any guarantee. “Making Haryana ‘Berojgar Mukt, Rozgar Yukt’ by 2024 is our target and opening of these stores is a step in the direction of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-launches-har-hith-store-scheme-aims-to-wipe-out-unemployment-by-2024-101627937788428.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Virus still down in Haryana but may raise its head again soon, say experts||The Covid-19 trajectory in Haryana continued its downward trend for the 12th week in a row even as the state reported a meagre increase in the number of positive cases last week. Experts said that the infection rate which has been at the lowest ever for the past five weeks is expected to go up in the coming days. The transmission of infection is expected to pick up gradually because of the lifting of lockdown restrictions, including opening of educational institutions, offices, shops, malls, eateries and allowing more people to attend social events. After reopening schools, the state government is contemplating to start academic session in universities too. Health officials said they were keeping their fingers crossed. Last week (July 26-Aug 1), the state reported 203 infections as compared to 200 the week before. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said this was an insignificant increase considering the fact that 1.67 lakh persons were tested for the infection last week. “However, we need to be watchful and not lower our guard,” he said.The dwindling numbers are unprecedented during a spell of decrease in the transmission of infection, data shows.The positivity rate for the second wave of infection (from March 1 to August 1) has also declined significantly. It was 9.55% this Monday as compared to 9.86% last Monday.Also, the daily positivity rate which went as high as 27% during the second wave in April-May, has come down to as low as 0.07%. The devastating second wave of virus transmission saw 4.21 lakh infections and more than 4,200 fatalities in a period of six weeks during April-May. Across 22 districts there were only 703 active cases as on August 2 with Hisar being the sole district to have more than 100 active cases. Sixteen districts continued to have less than 50 active cases. Nineteen persons died last week due to the viral infection. Nine districts continued to be out of critical positivity rate category having a cumulative positivity rate of less than 6%. The remaining 13 are also experiencing a decline in the cumulative positivity rate with Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Sirsa districts closing in to exit the critical category if the downward trend continues for couple of more weeks, health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-still-down-in-haryana-but-may-raise-its-head-again-soon-say-experts-101627937308266.html
03-08-2021||Other||BKU leader arrested for making ‘derogatory remarks’, later granted bail||The Panipat police arrested Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) district president Sudhir Jakhar on Monday for allegedly passing derogatory remarks against public representatives.Jakhar was among 75 farmers, who were booked by the Panipat police for allegedly provoking and using derogatory language against public representatives on June 13.However, he got bail from a local court and was released. Members of BKU (Charuni) had threatened to hold protests if other union members are arrested.The FIR was registered under Sections 153, 294, 505 and 506 of the IPC and Section 66 of the IT (Amendment) Act against Jakhar, Pardeep Jaglan, Satyawan Narwal, Ram Singh, Harender Rana, Ajmer Singh and others.They were booked on complaint of ESI Satbir Singh, who alleged that on June 13, public representatives were to inaugurate a textile mill near Brahman Majra, Panipat and Jakhar released a video threatening the public representatives of dire consequences if they attend the programme.“Sudhir got bail from the court but we have decided to hold protests soon if the FIR is not withdrawn or police try to arrest other union members,” said BKU leader Karam Singh Mathana.However, Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said he was arrested in an earlier case for uploading a video on the social media in which he was seen using abusive language against elected representatives and threatened to disrupt law and order, which led to cancellation of an event to be attended by the local MP and MLA.On release of Jakhar, the SP said this is a judicial process but the others will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-leader-arrested-for-making-derogatory-remarks-later-granted-bail-101627937008249.html
03-08-2021||Other||SGPC will stand by farmers till agitation ends: Bibi Jagir Kaur||Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of the Sikh Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, on Monday said the Sikh representative body will stand by the agitating farmers demanding the repeal of three farm laws.“We are already providing langar sewa, mattresses, medicines, accommodation etc to them and will continue these services till they are protesting,” she told the reporters in Ambala.She was here to pay obeisance at the historical Pajokhara Sahib Gurudwara on the eve of the birth anniversary of the eighth Sikh Guru Harkrishan Singh.Kaur also hit out at the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, saying that the SGPC doesn’t consider the body an entity.“We were bound by the status quo order by the Supreme Court and couldn’t use force at a gurdwara in Cheeka. The property belongs to the SGPC but we respect the court order,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-will-stand-by-farmers-till-agitation-ends-bibi-jagir-kaur-101627936708193.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||‘10% citizens are fully vaccinated in Mumbai’||Over 1.7 million or more than 10% of the city’s population is fully vaccinated as of July 31, 2021, according to data of Mumbai civic body. The city’s population is 12.4 million, according to the census of 2011. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s data shows between January 16 and July 31, 7,223,853 vaccine doses have been administered and 1,771,396 citizens are fully vaccinated. Of the 1.7 million fully vaccinated citizens, 742,758 are in the 45-59 age group, 619,871 are senior citizens above 60 years of age and 101,733 are in the 18-45 age group. Further, 425,202 vaccine doses have also been administered to frontline and health care workers, of which 292,829 citizens are fully vaccinated. According to BMC officials, they have the capacity to vaccinate 100,000 citizens on a daily basis, provided that many vaccine doses are supplied. HT had on July 29 reported how the city has reported a 23% drop in the number of vaccinations conducted in the first 28 days of July (1,499,125) compared to June (1,949,878), according to data. The data reveals that vaccination at public centres has increased marginally in July compared to June, but the vaccination at private hospitals has seen a significant fall of around 50%. Experts, on the other hand, say the current speed of vaccination should be increased in order to have more relaxations. Dr Madhav Sathe, a microbiology professor at Nair Hospital’s college, said, “We need to increase the speed of vaccination. However, if you may ask our epidemiologist, they may say that over 5 million citizens are probably exposed to Covid-19. As we have around 0.7 million Covid cases, when we multiply their contacts, the number comes to 3.5 million.” Dr Sathe added, “This means at least 3.5 million citizens have directly or indirectly got infected to Covid-19. On top of this, you add 1.7 million fully vaccinated and considering that around 0.2 million are non-residents of Mumbai, we will be able to infer here that around 5 million citizens are directly or indirectly protected as they may have antibodies. To have major relaxations in lockdown, around 80% of the citizens have developed antibodies. Post this, we can allow citizens to travel in trains, watch movies in theatres, etc. Even now, fully vaccinated citizens should be allowed to use trains.” Meanwhile, on Monday, 77,511 citizens were vaccinated in the city, and 62 bedridden citizens were vaccinated as part of BMC’s door-to-door drive. Gangadharan Balachandran, 102, was among the bedridden citizens vaccinated. He is a resident of K-East ward, and was administered Covaxin. No adverse effects were reported.Due to shortage of vaccine doses, on Tuesday, all public vaccination centres will not remain functional. The BMC will issue a list on social media by Tuesday early morning. On Wednesday, it is expected that the centres will remain closed considering the fresh stock will arrive on Tuesday and distribution process will be carried out on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10-citizens-are-fully-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101627935868591.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vigilance books Punjab ex-top cop Saini in assets case, raids his Chandigarh residence||Punjab vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on Monday booked former state police chief Sumedh Singh Saini in a disproportionate assets case, minutes before conducting a raid to arrest him from his house in Sector 20 here. Saini, however, was not found at his residence. The operation was so secret that even the senior officials of the bureau were unaware about it, it is learnt. The case against Saini and seven others was registered under prevention of corruption Act in a case pertaining to sale of a property in a Mohali village. Vigilance SP Gagan Ajit Singh led the search party that comprised more 40 police officials. High drama prevailed outside Saini’s house as the raiding team was not allowed to enter the house by the ex-DGP’s security staff for nearly two hours. The staff kept on asking for warrants. According to officials, the raiding team was very sure about Saini’s presence in the house. The vigilance team even brought a private person to open the locks of the main entry door of the house but could not do as after strong protest by Ramandeep Singh Sandhu, a member of Saini’s legal team. The local SHO was called on insistence of Saini’s staff and after his arrival just four members of the raiding team were allowed to enter the house. The raid was on till filing of the report. Saini, who is said to be earlier staying in the house on rent, had later bought it from a private person. According to the bureau’s probe, one Jaspal bought the property but it was actually purchased by Saini, who was retired and was shown to have taken the house on rent after renovations in October 2018. The bureau claimed no money in the shape of rent was ever received. Instead, 6.4 crore were paid by Saini to Jaspal without any sale agreement. Jaspal and other accused have got bail from HC in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vigilance-books-punjab-ex-top-cop-saini-in-assets-case-raids-his-chandigarh-residence-101627935692644.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||2nd Covid-19 wave: Infections among citizens aged above 50 dip in Mumbai||The second wave of Covid-19 has seen fewer infections among Mumbaiites above the age of 50 years, when compared to the figures before March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data has revealed. The second wave started in March, and experts and authorities believe it is presently on its decline. According to figures from BMC, of the 321,581 cumulative Covid-19 cases till March, the age group of 50 years and above had a share of 44% or 141,076 cases. It dropped to 39% (278,687 cases) by the end of July. Of the cumulative Covid-19 cases so far, the age-wise data is available with BMC for 707,367 cases as on July 31. Moreover, until March 2, the 50-59 age group reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases (63,081) among all the age groups. However, by July 31, the age group of 30-30 years reported the highest cases (141,456), as per BMC data. Officials and experts have attributed the drop in infections among those aged above 50 to early vaccination of this high risk age-group, increased awareness – especially during the ‘My Family, My Responsibility campaign – and the restrictions imposed in city. A senior civic official said, “Vaccines are effective in reducing instances of infection, and even its severity. Vaccination drive for senior citizens and those above 45 years of age started in March, which shielded them to some extent.” A BMC survey revealed that of the 300,000 surveyed patients who were infected in the second wave, only 26 patients who had taken both doses of the vaccine were infected, while 10,500 patients had received their first shot. The official quoted above said, “The restrictions imposed across the state also helped our case, as only those with the real need to step out of the house could do so.” Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a part of the state Covid-19 task force, said, “Vaccinating against Covid-19 is effective. It is seen even in case studies around the world during the Covid-19 pandemic. In cases where people get infected despite taking a vaccine shot, the severity of the infection is lesser.” So far, 5,504,338 beneficiaries in Mumbai have received their first dose and 1,797,026 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated. The city has 624,772 fully vaccinated beneficiaries who are senior citizens, and 1,002,011 who have received their first dose. In the age group of 45-59 years, 756,502 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated so far, and 1,465,293 have got their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2nd-covid-19-wave-infections-among-citizens-aged-above-50-dip-in-mumbai-101627935688089.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Will approach Prez, PM to get nod for travel on Mumbai’s local trains’||Local train passengers on Monday stated that the citizens will suffer even more and it will soon become impossible to survive as the Maharashtra government has decided to continue denying permission to the general public to travel by local trains. Passengers associations’ have said that the Maharashtra government has left them with no choice but to approach the President and Prime Minister Narendra Modi (PM) to intervene in the issue so that local train services are resumed for all citizens. “I reside in Dombivli which is on the Central Railway network. My workplace is at Mahim on Western line. I am a senior citizen and the lockdown has crippled me. Can’t essential services staffers and government employees, who are allowed to commute by suburban trains anytime, transmit coronavirus? Is there any logic? Are only they free from pandemic or non-transmissions and are rest of the classes transmitters. The lockdown should be eased step-by-step, specifically to commute by local trains at stipulated timings, as was allowed earlier in order to have so that our lives are brought to motion and not left to die by starvation,” said Dombivli resident CK Balasubramanian. “We have been constantly requesting them [the state government] humbly to resume local train services for the general public. They have not paid any heed to this. In the coming days, this decision will be disastrous. We have no option left and will be approaching PM, asking him to help,” said Subhash Gupta, president of passengers’ body Rail Yatri Parishad. Associations also cited that as fully vaccinated passengers can travel by air, they should also be allowed to travel on local trains. “Airlines have started operating, and fully vaccinated passengers can travel without coronavirus-negative certificates. Then why can’t vaccinated citizens commute by local trains. Every day, the situation is getting grim with no respite from the state government. We will urge the President and PM to speak to the Maharashtra government,” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-approach-prez-pm-to-get-nod-for-travel-on-mumbai-s-local-trains-101627935268277.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Why not allow fully vaccinated citizens to travel by trains: HC to Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday asked the Maharashtra government to consider setting up dedicated counters at railways stations to provide identity cards and travel passes to all those persons who are fully vaccinated. The suggestion was prompted after the state informed the bench that it had decided to issue monthly, quarterly and six monthly railway passes to lawyers only after the bar associations concerned issued certificates confirming that the lawyer had been vaccinated and was fit to travel by suburban locals by observing Covid-19 protocols. The court, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by various lawyer groups, sought to know why access to public transport should be restricted to only lawyers while all persons who are fully vaccinated are denied the same. The court held that other persons also need to go out and earn a living but due to the restrictions on train travel have to opt for other modes of public transport which are already burdened and affected due to road and traffic conditions. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing PILs filed by the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa (BCMG) and other lawyer groups, was informed by senior counsel Milind Sathe that they were seeking limited directions to the state government to consider around 1,000 practicing advocates as essential service providers and allowing them to travel by local trains to attend court and for other professional purposes. While responding to the PIL, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state informed the bench that a meeting of representatives of BCMG, state and Central governments with railway officials had been held recently. A tentative formula wherein lawyers wanting to travel by local trains had to approach the bar associations concerned and show their vaccination certificates based on which the association would issue them a certificate which they could produce at railway booking offices to secure passes. Kumbhakoni, however, added that the railway authorities were requesting a letter from the state disaster management authority (SDMA) recommending this, but as the authority was headed by the chief minister who was slightly reluctant, only frontline health workers and certain government employees were permitted to take local trains at this stage. Kumbhakoni, however, assured the court that efforts were on to avail the letter from CM, who was visiting the flood-affected areas in the state. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to why people should stay home after being vaccinated. “They are supposed to work and earn their livelihoods. Courts have begun functioning physically, lawyers will go to courts. Railways are cooperating. Let us have a beginning not just for lawyers, but for people from other walks of lives too. Spread the net wide. We are concerned for lawyers and for others as well,” observed the court.The bench then asked why the population travelling by buses could not be allowed to travel by trains. “It takes three hours one way to Dahisar [from south Mumbai]. Why is the entire population travelling by road cannot travel by train?” questioned the bench. The bench further said that there was an urgent need to come out with a plan as it was affecting the lives and finances of people and hence the railways should consider having dedicated counters to verify whether aspiring commuters were fully vaccinated and issue them identity cards.The court asked the state to inform its decision for access to local trains to lawyers and vaccinated persons by Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-not-allow-fully-vaccinated-citizens-to-travel-by-trains-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-101627934908175.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 orphans 490 children in Maharashtra||The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed more than 130,000 lives in the state and has severely impacted the lives of the children. In Maharashtra, 15,793 have lost one parent to Covid-19, while nearly 490 have become orphans, revealed the data compiled by the department of women and child development (WCD).Neelam Navale, 10, contracted Covid-19 in April along with her elder brother, Sunil, 15, and both their parents— Ramakant and Ankita. On April 13, Ramakant’s oxygen saturation dropped to 89% and he was immediately admitted to the district hospital. But he succumbed to the infection within 24 hours. Even before the family could cope up with their loss, Ankita also had to be rushed to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) on April 15 due to breathlessness. She breathed her last on April 25. It was only in June that the relatives told the children about their parents’ deaths.“Neelam is too young to understand the loss but Sunil has been left completely traumatised,” said their aunt Renuka Ojha. At present, the children are staying with their uncle in Banaras, Uttar Pradesh. These are not isolated stories. Covid-19 has devastated families across the state, orphaning many children that include 267 males and 223 female children have lost their parents in the state. The highest number of deaths was recorded in the second wave which started from mid-February. The highest number of orphaned children have been recorded in Pune division (106), followed by Konkan division (104), Nashik division (94), Nagpur division (86), Aurangabad division (62) and Amravati (32). Pune and Nagpur districts have 21 orphan children each — the highest in the state, followed by Thane and Solapur districts with 15 children. These districts have recorded the highest cases of Covid-19, especially in the second wave. As more men have contracted the infection, the death rate is also higher among them. This has also been reflected in WCD’s data. A total of 13,540 fathers have lost died due to Covid-19, while 1,763 mothers have succumbed to the infection in the state. “The latest national sero survey report released by the Union health ministry showed that the sero prevalence was more in women. This indicates that the infection rate is higher among women but the death rate is more among men. In our hospital, we have witnessed a higher fatality rate among men, which can be attributed to various reasons,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central. Acting on the Supreme Court’s direction, the state constituted task forces in each district to identify such children and avert their trafficking and illegal adoptions. Women and child welfare officials have reached out to families that reported Covid-19 deaths and provided counselling, legal and financial aid to them. The process for enrolment of orphaned children, whose extended family members are not able to look after them, is ongoing. IA Kundan, secretary, WCD, said that district-level task forces have been appointed under the chairmanship of district collectors who are helping these children financially and psychologically through child welfare committees. “We had to identify those children, so we collected the data district-wise. We have got in touch with all the children and have provided counselling in tie-ups with professional psychiatrics,” she added. Earlier, WCD minister Yashomati Thakur had informed HT that the department has taken full responsibility of the further studies of such children for which technological support in the form of laptops and android phones are being provided to them as immediate steps. Thakur added, “We have already announced ₹5 lakh in fixed deposit accounts of these children till they turn 18. Until then, financial aid will be given to children under Balsangopan Yojana.” Children in custody of relatives are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under the Bal Sangopan scheme.In the past few months, there have been several messages circulating on social media for adoption of children who have been orphaned due to Covid-19. WCD has requested the public to refrain from circulating such messages as ‘unauthorised’ adoption can lead to child trafficking. “There are due processes that need to be followed for adoption. If anyone wants to adopt such an orphan child, they need to contact us,” said Kundan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-orphans-490-children-in-maharashtra-101627934608063.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||We have channels for movies, why not have one for education? asks Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) and the National Council for Education, Research and Training (NCERT) to consider having dedicated television and radio channels for education, especially to cater to the needs of differently-abled students who do not have access to education due to technological and mobile connectivity issues. The court said as many regions had connectivity issues and students do not necessarily have smart phones to attend classes through online meeting platforms, and as most households had television and radio sets, the need of the hour was to fall back on past technologies to ensure that the differently-abled students did not lose out on the academic year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the National Association for the Blind (NAB). During the course of hearing, advocate Uday Warunjikar –who represented the petitioner body – informed the bench that visually impaired students had been deprived of education during the pandemic and the state and Central governments should be directed to formulate policies to provide the same. Warunjikar submitted that students attending normal schools had been getting education through online learning mode. However, many regions in the state, especially rural areas, do not have proper connectivity, as a result of which online classes could not be conducted and there was an apprehension that there would be a loss of the entire academic year.This, he said, was more of a concern for specially-abled students as out of the 200 schools for the visually impaired in the state, very few had the wherewithal for online education. He added that though the state had started televised classes through the channel DD Sahyadri, it did not suffice for specially-abled students.On a query from the court on how the state was imparting education to specially-abled and other students in rural areas, assistant government pleader Reena Salunke responded that both students were being provided education through online meeting platforms such as Google Meet and Zoom. She added that areas which had network issues, teachers were making home visits. However, the court observed that connectivity issues in rural areas was a pertinent problem and suggested that there should be dedicated education channel on television and radio for all students. The bench then asked advocate Rui Rodrigues for NCERT to speak with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) to consider the court’s suggestion and asked the Centre and state to explore imparting education through Doordarshan and Akashwani. “We have dedicated TV channels that show live proceedings of Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and in the near future we may have live streaming of judicial proceedings too. Then why can’t there be devoted channels for education, not only for specially-abled students but even for those who have suffered. We have to go back to old technology now as the network issue will continue,” observed the court. “There are hundreds of channels for movies and entertainment, not one for education. We cannot have only colleges, schools and no academics. People in rural areas might not have funds to buy smartphones, but they need to get access to education,” added the bench. The bench has sought MIB’s feedback by the next hearing on Thursday and asked it to not wait for the court order to implement such a decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-have-channels-for-movies-why-not-have-one-for-education-asks-bombay-hc-101627934129049.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjabi varsity staffers among 7 booked in fake billing scam||Police on Monday registered a case against seven persons, including two Punjabi University employees, in the fake billing scam in the varsity. The accused also include those shown as beneficiaries withdrawing funds through fake bills. The seven who were booked are varsity employees Nishu Chaudhary, a senior assistant, and Jatinder Singh besides Akashdeep Singh, Sonu Kumar, Harpreet Singh, Vinay and Nisha Sharma. In May, the varsity authorities had suspended two of its employees for their alleged involvement in the scam and then lodged a police complaint against the seven a month later. Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg had directed DSP Sourav Jindal to investigate the matter. The case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 465 (for making forged documents), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 201 (tampering with evidence) and 381 (theft) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).DSP Jindal said, “The FIR was lodged on the basis of a preliminary inquiry. Now, detailed investigation will be carried into the matter. The accused will be arrested soon.” In May, the cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing had red-flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised also turned out to be bogus. A committee comprising registrar Varinder Kaushik, dean (research) Ashok Tiwari and finance officer Rakesh Khurana probed the bank accounts of the senior assistant and the others involved. The help of the university’s forensic department was taken to investigate the fake signatures and stamps. According to the committee report, the senior assistant, who handled the funds provided to the university under various heads and was posted in the same department for over a decade, used to create and submit bogus bills in the name of fake research scholars and assistants to siphon off money. The funds included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the Union ministry of education besides those received under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan. The embezzlement went unchecked for six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjabi-varsity-staffers-among-7-booked-in-fake-billing-scam-101627934128024.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Adani dry port closure: Employees blame SKM for rendering them jobless||The employees of Adani Logistics Services, a subsidiary of the Adani Group, who were served termination notices after the company shut its dry port at Kila Raipur in Ludhiana district, held the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) responsible for rendering them jobless. Famers have been protesting at the dry port entrance since January over the Centre’s agriculture laws. Rajiv Kumar, who was working as a transport manager in the inland container depot, said he was asked to proceed on leave without pay on July 25. Talking over phone, Rajiv said, “I cannot blame the company as they paid us salaries for nearly seven months. With no possibility of resuming of business, we were asked to leave. I have two children. I don’t know whether I will get another job due to the dwindling economic situation.”Basant Singh, a resident of Mandi Ahmedgarh who worked as a horticulturist with the firm said, “I was hired at a salary of ₹15,500 and was getting ₹12,000 in hand. Nearly 150 residents of Punjab were working in the depot. Will the Samyukt Kisan Morcha take the responsibility of safeguarding the future of our children.” An official said the depot had 400 employees on roll while 500-600 workers from surrounding villages were working as daily wagers. “The daily wagers were earning up to 15,000 a month,” he added. On Monday, the farmers continued their protest outside the dry port by placing tractor-trailers and tents at the entrance. Raghbir Singh Benipal, a member of the SKM, said the protest was only against the crony capitalists who were behind the implementation of three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/adani-dry-port-closure-employees-blame-skm-for-rendering-them-jobless-101627934076968.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers continue siege of toll plazas, Reliance fuel stations in Punjab||Farmers under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) continued the siege of toll plaza and Reliance filling stations in Punjab, particularly Sangrur and Barnala districts, to oppose the corporate houses over the three agriculture laws. The protests are being organised simultaneously when the farmer unions have been holding indefinite protests at the Delhi borders to oppose the farm laws. In Barnala, the protesters staged dharnas at the Badbar toll plaza on the Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway and Mehal Kalan village on the Barnala-Ludhiana road since October 1. In Sangrur, protests were held at the Kalajhar toll barrier on the Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway and th toll plaza at Ladda village on the Sangrur-Ludhiana road. The Badbar and Kalajhar toll plazas were being run by the same company which completed its contract and left the possession a couple of months back.Protests are being held outside Reliance fuel stations at Manna Pindi and Sanghera villages in Barnala. In Sangrur, the farmers organised dharnas in front of Reliance fuel stations at Kheri, Dhuri and Lehal Khurd villages.Reliance Group officials said 19 of their fuel stations are under siege and the company is facing huge losses in Punjab.Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Gobinder Singh said the farmers will continue protests outside the premises of the corporate houses till the central government repeals the three laws. “When people fight for a cause, one has to face some losses on other fronts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-continue-siege-of-toll-plazas-reliance-fuel-stations-in-punjab-101627934068960.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Suicide victim naming a person must be probed with all seriousness: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that a person levelling allegations of abetment against other persons before committing suicide ought to be probed with all seriousness.The court was hearing a petition of a Rewari woman who along with her husband was named by a person in his suicide note. They borrowed ₹11 lakh from the victim in 2018 but when he asked them to return the money, they threatened to get him killed or frame in a case after making excuses for a while, it was alleged in the suicide note. The man committed suicide on June 10, 2020. The woman named in the note admitted to having a dispute with the victim but argued that there was no scope of abetment on her part as she never harassed him. Dismissing her plea for anticipatory bail, the bench of Justice HS Madaan said, “Human beings are in awe of death. Even the older people want to live longer. It is only under certain compelling circumstances that a person ends his/her life. If a person committing suicide holds someone else responsible for forcing him/her to take the extreme step, such statement is needs to be taken up with all the seriousness.” “It is difficult to understand why a person leaving this mortal world by ending his life himself would blame an innocent person,” the bench added. The court observed that the petitioner was specifically named in the suicide note with incriminating acts attributed to her. “The suicide note was examined by the investigation agency and the handwriting was that of the deceased as per experts,” it said. The court further observed that the aspects such as denial of abetment by the woman and determining the guilt of the accused will be looked into by the trial court. “This court is to examine the prosecution version primarily. Pre-arrest bail is a discretionary relief and is to be granted in exceptional cases. It is meant to save the innocent persons from harassment and inconvenience and not to save the culprits from arrest and custodial interrogation. The woman’s custodial interrogation is necessary for complete and effective investigation so as to find out as to how and under what circumstances she abetted the suicide,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suicide-victim-naming-a-person-must-be-probed-with-all-seriousness-hc-101627934008107.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Highway Police send 3.1K licences of Mumbai motorists for suspension||The Maharashtra Highway Police has sent a proposal to the road transport department to suspend around 40,305 driving licences of motorists for three to six months. These include 3,149 driving licences from Mumbai, where 265,000 traffic offences have been registered. “The motorists in these cases face licence suspension for at least three months,” said a police officer. After the suspension orders are issued, the licence concerned will be seized by the police and released only after the suspension period is over. “We have sent a proposal to suspend driving licences of motorists who are found repeating traffic offences. Most of the offences are speaking on phone while driving, signal jumping, drunk driving and driving on the wrong side,” said Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of police, traffic. Upadhyay said the stern action of suspending driving licences is being taken as per suggestions by the Apex court’s road safety committee headed by justice KS Radhakrishnan. The police officer said around 1.47 million traffic offences have been registered this year in the state. On analysing the information, the traffic police department found that the accused included 40,305 repeat offenders, after which a decision was taken to send their licences for suspension. Of the 40,305 repeat offenders, 23,144 motorists have been repeatedly found speaking on phone while driving. Last year, 9,465 offenders were found speaking on phone while driving. There are 13,550 motorists whose licences have been sent for suspension for jumping signals. Last year, officials had sent around 4,888 driving licences for suspension, said an official. Around 1,887 drivers’ licences will be suspended this year for carrying passengers in goods vehicles. Officials said they have sent 1,776 licences for suspension for over speeding – 1,450 more than the number of licences referred for suspension last year. The officers said this year, drunk driving is the only category that saw a decrease in cases as only 448 licences have been sent for suspension. Last year the police had sent 1,995 driving licences for suspension for drunk driving. Mumbai traffic police have not send any licence for suspension for drunk driving this year as the campaign for drunk driving has been stopped owing to Covid-19 guidelines If the police suspect that a person is driving under the influence of alcohol, they take the driver for a medical test. “We have sent 2,167 and 982 licences for cancellation for jumping signals and talking on phone while driving, respectively,” said a Mumbai Police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-highway-police-send-3-1k-licences-of-mumbai-motorists-for-suspension-101627933768149.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Non-Covid surgeries, OPDs slowly gain momentum at Mumbai hospitals||With a steady decline in the Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, non-Covid medical procedures and visits at out-patient departments (OPDs) are slowly gaining momentum. Doctors said that the number of surgeries and OPD visits are yet to go back to the pre-Covid times, but there has been an uptick over the past month. “We have resumed about 80% of the non-Covid work,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, the dean of the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital that was converted into an exclusive Covid-19 facility last April. The hospital had commissioned all its 1,100 regular beds and 110 intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients. “As the cases kept declining, we gradually decommissioned the Covid-19 beds, first reducing them to 700, then to 500, and so on. We currently have only 100 Covid-19 beds and 40 ICU beds for Covid,” said Dr Bharmal. In the pre-Covid times, the hospital carried out anywhere between 100 and 150 major and minor procedures daily. It is now conducting about 50-75 procedures. The civic-run KEM Hospital in Parel carried out nearly 300 major and minor procedures every day in the pre-Covid period. It is now conducting about 200 to 215 procedures. “Our OPDs had a footfall of about 5,000-7,000 patients every day, Mondays seeing the highest numbers every week,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the hospital. “The OPD numbers are still down by 20%,” he said. While KEM Hospital caters to a large number of people from the city, it also receives patients from the peripheral areas. According to Dr Deshmukh, transportation is a major hurdle and even as people are allowed to take local trains for medical reasons, the footfall in the hospitals has been low. “There is still some amount of fear to step into hospitals. Those waiting for elective surgeries like hernias or joint replacements are rarely scheduling their procedures,” said Dr Deshmukh. KEM Hospital received some of the most serious Covid-19 patients when the first and second peaks of the pandemic hit the city. While serious patients are still referred to the hospitals, the civic body has kept the jumbo facilities operational to take the load of mild to moderate Covid-19 patients to let hospitals like Nair and KEM pick up the pace of non-Covid work. Private centres, too, are recording similar trends. For instance, Andheri’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital (KDAH) has resumed almost 75% of the non-Covid services. The number of daily procedures at the hospital now hovers around 40-45 from the average of 50-55 before Covid-19 outbreak. During the peaks of the pandemic, the hospital still managed to carry out 15 to 20 non-Covid procedures, including emergency surgeries. “Many of our patients come from out of Mumbai. With the travel restrictions and lack of clarity about rules, such patients have reduced,” said Dr Santosh Shetty, chief executive officer of KDAH. “Nearly 15% of our work has now shifted online,” he said. Hospitals are hopeful that the general services will resume as more people get vaccinated. “We are gradually seeing an increase in patients visiting the hospital for consultations and we expect these numbers to rise further with the increase in vaccinations,” said Dr Rajeev Boudhankar, chief executive officer of Bhatia Hospital. The hospital has segregated its Covid-19 and non-Covid areas, designated separate lifts for non-Covid patients and has also created a Covid-19 operation theatre for minor surgeries of coronavirus patients. Before the pandemic, Bhatia Hospital had a daily OPD footfall of 150 patients and it conducted around 15 procedures. Since April, the hospital has been carrying out about seven to 10 surgeries per day and has a footfall of about 65 patients in OPDs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/noncovid-surgeries-opds-slowly-gain-momentum-at-mumbai-hospitals-101627933468074.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Schools reopen in Punjab, turnout high in rural areas||Schools for all classes reopened in Punjab on Monday, with physical classes resuming after months for pre-primary levels.The attendance was reported more from rural areas while the turnout at many private schools was not that high.The state government on Saturday allowed reopening of schools for all classes from August 2 as it further relaxed Covid restrictions due to dip in cases.Earlier, schools had reopened for pre-primary levels and Classes 1 and 2 in February this year after a gap of nearly 10 months. Classes were suspended in March 2020 following Covid outbreak. Virtual classes will, however, continue for students who are unable to attend schools.At many places, including Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Rupnagar, Mohali and Patiala, children looked in a festive mood as they returned to their schools after a long break. Some parents, however, expressed apprehensions on classes resuming in physical mode amid the pandemic.In Patiala city, 50% attendance was reported in the schools while villages recorded a higher percentage.In Rupnagar and some other districts, thin attendance was seen in primary classes, while in Ferozepur, both students and parents had mixed reactions on government’s decision to reopen schools for all classes.Though most parents are still worried about Covid-19, they said they will monitor the progress of the reopening of schools for a week.Some parents claimed that their wards were unable to learn well through online classes due to the internet connectivity issue. Many parents expressed apprehensions about a possible spike in Covid-19 cases.Low turnout in MalwaMost of the private schools in Bathinda and adjoining districts remained closed whereas government schools across the region saw thin turnout on Day 1. Bathinda district education officer (senior secondary) Mewa Singh said the attendance may increase in the coming week. “All arrangements are in place in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.DEO (elementary) Shivpal Singh said since the state-level training programme to evaluate answer-sheets is underway till August 6, we expect more attendance from next week. 50% attendance in Doaba schools Government schools witnessed over 50% attendance in three Doaba districts of Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Kapurthala. SBS Nagar DEO (secondary) said the students were excited to attend classes in schools. “We are following Covid-19 protocols,” he said. In Jalandhar, over 1 lakh students of higher classes attended the school whereas the turnout was around 70,000 in primary schools. In Kapurthala, education officials said the attendance would improve in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schools-reopen-in-punjab-turnout-high-in-rural-areas-101627932808042.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||HC questions Centre, Maharashtra govt on incorrect details on vax certificates||The Bombay high court (HC) has questioned the Centre and state to explain how some beneficiaries of the vaccination ended up with certificates issued through the CoWin app having same dates and batch numbers for both jabs. The court also asked the authorities to inform how the error would be rectified to avoid “harassment” to the beneficiaries. The HC also directed the Centre and the state to enumerate the method of distribution of vaccines after it was informed that the vaccination drive in Maharashtra had seen a drop in the past month due to shortage of supply. The court asked the governments to file affidavits regarding the same. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a citizen Yogeeta Rajesh Vanzara, was informed by advocate Jamsheed Master that people faced several issues related to CoWin app and sought directions seeking ease of its operation, especially for the elderly. The bench had also ordered clubbing of another PIL filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Siddharth Chandrashekhar, wherein advocate Anita Shekhar-Castellino had pointed to the issues faced while booking slots on the CoWin portal and priority vaccination slots for the elderly. In the hearing on July 17, the bench had asked the Centre to file an affidavit on how vaccines were being allocated to different states and what was the procedure and time limit assigned to each manufacturer to supply them. On Monday, while perusing the affidavit filed by the Centre, the court observed that its queries had not been answered to a large extent. “We are concerned to observe that the deponent of such an affidavit was not serious,” the court noted and asked the Union Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) to file a better reply, indicating distribution of vaccines to Maharashtra.Additional government pleader Geeta Shastri for the state informed the bench that Maharashtra continued to face shortage of vaccines from the Centre and while it had nearly 90 million persons eligible for vaccination, 33 million had got one jab, while 11 million people had received both. The court was further informed that while nearly 2 million in the city were due to receive the second jab, only 500,000-700,000 jabs were being provided on a daily basis. Thereafter, Castellino pointed out that that some citizens, who got Covishield, were issued vaccination certificates with errors such as incorrect names, batch number of vaccine received and in some cases the date of both the doses was printed the same. She submitted that as there was no means to rectify such errors it could result in certificates of such persons being doubted, leading to harassment and hence the court should intervene. “We want the Centre and state to explain how such defective certificates could be generated and what could be the procedure for having them corrected. We issue general directions. In case such difficulties are seen in future, immediate steps should be taken to make corrections and actual date and names be mentioned in the certificate,” noted the bench. The court also asked the state to formulate a procedure to vaccinate people who were not registered on CoWin as it did not want anyone to be left out from being vaccinated. Seeking Centre’s response on state-wise distribution of vaccines and to making rectification in vaccine certificates by August 9 and state government’s reply to the plea by August 13, the court posted the further hearing to August 23. ‘Is 3rd dose needed?’HC asked the Maharashtra government if the third dose or a booster shot of Covid-19 vaccine was required to be taken by citizens who have already received two jabs. The division bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta referred to the disclosure of Dr Sanjay Oak, head of state Covid-19 task force, wherein he had informed HC’s administrative committee that people with two doses may require a third shot to protect themselves from several variants of the virus. While asking advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni regarding Dr Oak’s statement, the bench said, “Will a third dose be required to be taken 10 months from the second Covishield dose and six months from the second dose of Covaxin? Get a response from the Covid-19 task force as to how far the third dose is necessary. It should not happen that we are happy with the second dose, but there is an increase [in cases].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-questions-centre-maharashtra-govt-on-incorrect-details-on-vax-certificates-101627932747929.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||SC rejects former trial judge’s plea challenging compulsory retirement||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea of a former additional sessions judge seeking quashing of a decision of the full court of the Punjab and Haryana high court to recommend his “compulsory retirement”, saying there were “multiple transactions showing deposits and withdrawals of substantial amounts of money”. The apex court judgement came on a plea of Rajinder Goel, the then additional sessions judge in Haryana, seeking setting aside of the recommendation of December 14, 2020, of the full court of the Punjab and Haryana high court recommending his compulsory retirement. The former judge had also challenged the consequential order of January 5, 2021, of the Haryana governor accepting the recommendation alleging that the full court took the punitive action despite the fact that the two reports of the vigilance/disciplinary committee had exonerated him. “Considering the facts and circumstances on record and in view of the record indicating that there were multiple transactions showing deposits and withdrawals of substantial amounts of money, it cannot be said that the full court was not justified in taking the view that it did. We do not find any reason to take a different view in the matter,” said a bench of justices Uday Umesh Lalit and Ajay Rastogi in the judgement. The apex court, which had advised the former judge to approach the high court with his grievances first, later did not accede to the request saying now it has already reserved the judgement after hearing the parties. “It must be stated that the petition was heard and the order was reserved on July 27, 2021. Next day, an application was preferred submitting that the petitioner be allowed to withdraw the instant petition with further liberty to approach the high court invoking its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. Since the suggestion made by this Court as stated earlier was not accepted after due instructions from the petitioner, we reject the prayer,” said justice Lalit who, wrote the judgement for the bench. Goel, who had joined the Haryana Judicial Services in 1996, was promoted in 2008 to the Haryana Superior Judicial Services and later certain complaints, including the one by the Bar Association, were made against him.A preliminary report of April 21, 2011, had found that there was no documentary evidence regarding allegations of land purchases. However, it had observed that there were “heavy unexplained bank transactions”.Two reports of the vigilance/disciplinary committee found that the charges levelled against Goel were not proved and recommended that he be cleared of all the charges.The matter was placed before the full court, which in its meeting, deliberated upon reports and rejected them. “It is resolved that major penalty of compulsory retirement be imposed upon the delinquent Officer under Rule 4(1)(viii) of the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1987..., and a recommendation be made to the Government of Haryana that the Officer be compulsorily retired from service with immediate effect,” the full Court had opined. The top court also rejected the submission of Goel that the Full Court was bound by the findings of the vigilance or inquiry committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-rejects-former-trial-judge-s-plea-challenging-compulsory-retirement-101627932628001.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Affidavit stating no higher court approached must in bail matters||The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it mandatory that in each bail matter before trial courts, an accused will have to give an affidavit that for similar relief, higher courts have not been approached. If an application, which does not contain the said information, it would not be entertained and would be returned for resubmission with the necessary information, the high court has directed.The directions to trial courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh courts were issued by the bench of justice Manjari Nehru Kaul while dealing with a matter in which a bail plea was pending in high court but the accused by “concealing” the said fact approached trial court and secured bail.The court also said that public prosecutors / prosecuting agency would be duty bound to apprise the court concerned, after collecting the necessary information from the investigating officers with respect to the filing of any petition before any court seeking bail. In case of any lapse/default on the part of the investigating agency/prosecution, it would be construed to be a “fraud” played upon the court, which could invite departmental as well as penal action against the erring parties/officials, as the case may be, the court recorded asking registrar general to circulate this order to all concerned for information, and necessary and strict compliance in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/affidavit-stating-no-higher-court-approached-must-in-bail-matters-101627932508311.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Man who helped Mumbai cops solve break-in case held for ₹1.8 crore theft||A 21-old man who had helped police crack a house break-in case in south Mumbai has been alleged to have carried out a theft at his employer’s house in Bhulabhai Desai road near Breach Candy Hospital and fleeing with valuables worth ₹1.8 crore to Bihar. “He had helped us solve a break-in case that had taken place at a businessman’s house in our jurisdiction by tipping us about the accused. He worked with us for a long time during the investigation, which helped him understand our functioning,” said an officer from Gamdevi police station.After this, the accused had decided to carry out the break-in at his employer’s house. On July 5, a theft had taken place at the home of a bath fittings dealer when the family had gone to Lonavala for a function. The accused had fled with diamond and gold jewellery and cash, all collectively worth ₹1.8 crore.“The accused had not used his phone nor was he captured in any of the CCTV cameras. He had made sure that the cameras did not capture him,” said an officer from Gamdevi police station.However, in the routine inquiry, the police started questioning all the domestic helps of the house and found that one of them – Chandan Mukhia – who had been working with the family for the past three months, had went missing.“We started searching for him and minor details lead us to reach a small village under the Darbhanga Sonki police station’s jurisdiction in Bihar,” said the police officer.However, the cops did not find the accused at his village.“We stayed in Darbhanga for 24 days and finally traced Mukhia to his sister’s house in a nearby village. If we could have left the area, we would have not succeeded in arresting the accused,” said the officer.Mukhia denied his role in the house break-in and said had fled Mumbai because he feared that he would be blamed for the theft.However, the police kept questioning him and when he was promised that they would let him go if he returned the stolen booty, Mukhia accepted his crime.The cops recovered all the valuables from him and also arrested his uncle Phulo, sister Reena and cousin Bacchan. The police said Mukhia had buried the stolen booty near his house.The police said Mukhia had criminal record against him and had carried out similar thefts at his previous employers’ house after working there for some time.“His whole family has record of carrying out thefts after getting employed as house help. People should check the criminal record of workers before employing them as house helps,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-who-helped-mumbai-cops-solve-break-in-case-held-for-1-8-crore-theft-101627932448404.html
03-08-2021||Lucknow||Work in full swing, Bundelkhand villagers in Uttar Pradesh to get piped water in December||The residents of Budhpura village, 30 kilometres south of Jhansi in the drought-prone Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh, are eagerly waiting for the supply of piped drinking water to their households. The construction of a water treatment plant, overhead tank and intake well is in full swing in the village under the Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal (piped water for every household) scheme for the supply of piped drinking water. The residents of Budhpura, as well as 61 other villages, will get piped drinking water with the launch of the scheme in Budhpura village cluster in December, said BK Latoria, consultant engineer (drinking water project). The supply was earlier scheduled to begin in December 2022, he added. But the state government has directed the construction agency to expedite the construction work in Jhansi district to start supply to 648 villages in December this year, he said. The 10 village clusters to be covered by the scheme in Jhansi district include Gulara, Bacheli, Tilaitha, Budhpura, Imlouta, Barthari, Teharka, Kurechha, Purva and Barwar. They will receive water from Matateela, Parichha, Lahchura, Saprar and Pahadi dams, the Barwar lake and the Betwa river, he said. Kundan Ahirwar, a villager, said people living on the rocky terrain of the district were dependent on hand pumps for drinking water. With hand pumps running dry in summer, the villagers had to trudge to water tanks nearby or were dependent on water tankers sent by the district administration. “The supply of pure drinking water to households has remained a dream for us. The villagers are hopeful that with the launch of the Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal project, they will get the required drinking water with ease. It will protect us from toil and water-borne diseases. The villagers will save time which can be utilised on other works to increase income,” he said. Principal secretary (Namami Gange) Anurag Srivastava said the state government was going to start the supply of drinking water to thousands of homes in the Bundelkhand and Vindhyan regions from December. The state government has completed about 80% work of water treatment plants in various districts of Bundelkhand, including Jhansi and Mahoba. The Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal Yojana launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is aimed to be completed within six months, much before the earlier schedule announced by the state government, he said. “It will be a New Year’s gift to the villagers of Bundelkhand and Vindhyan region by the state government. The supply of pure water will bring relief to the people from diseases and the villages will be rid of the recurrent water crisis,” he said. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, 467 piped drinking water schemes are being constructed as part of 32 projects launched by the state government. While 43 schemes are surface water-based, 424 are ground water-based. With the launch of the scheme, water connections will be provided to 1,195,265 households having a population of 7,2 68,705 in 3,823 revenue villages. The project will benefit the people residing in 40 tehsils, 68 development blocks, and 2608 gram panchayats of seven districts — Jhansi, Mahoba, Lalitpur, Jalaun, Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur of the Bundelkhand region, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/work-in-full-swing-bundelkhand-villagers-in-uttar-pradesh-to-get-piped-water-in-december-101627932209247.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Party fights Sena Bhavan row with Marathi manoos card||The sparring between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena leaders in Maharashtra has given fuel to the Uddhav Thackeray-led party to activate its cadre and strike an emotional chord with its core constituents – the middle-class Marathi population of Mumbai – ahead of the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections. The Shiv Sena has picked up the Marathi ‘manoos’ card to counter the BJP after one of its legislators Prasad Lad said they will demolish Shiv Sena Bhavan, party headquarters in Central Mumbai, if the time comes. Speaking at a government event on Sunday, chief minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said, “Nobody should speak the language of slapping us. Because we will give back more than what we get. We have been doing that (hitting back) and will continue to do so. We will give such a tight slap that the other person will not get back on his feet.” Senior Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut rejected Lad’s clarification that he expressed regret over the statement and said that such mistakes cannot be forgotten by the people of Maharashtra. “No political party in Maharashtra or their leaders, who understand the importance of pride of Marathi people, will make such statements. Marathi people have not liked the language that was used against Shiv Sena Bhavan and no political party, of any ideology, has supported this... It is fine that [he has] expressed regret, but such mistakes cannot be forgiven. Maharashtra and its people will keep this in their minds,” Raut said. “They (BJP) are training the gun against us using these [outsiders], but the BJP will have to pay a hefty price because of such people.” Lad was in the NCP before he joined the BJP. He is now considered a close aide of opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis. Raut said that Shiv Sena Bhavan was not just any other building but it holds the same reverence like Hutatma Chowk. “We dare them to come and attack; they will come on their feet but go with the support of [other’s] shoulder,” he said. Political analyst pointed out that since Thackeray became the chief minister, there was some disconnect between the cadre and the top leadership. But such instances and aggressive statements from party boss have revived the “militant” nature of the party ahead of the civic polls. Surendra Jondhale, political analyst, said, “The Shiv Sena has tried to revive its aggressive posture for the forthcoming BMC elections. They are trying to show that the Sena militancy has not eroded. Uddhav’s statement during the BDD chawl programme about Marathi manoos was significant, which was backed by NCP chief Sharad Pawar in a way. Uddhav implicitly gave green signal to the cadre and leaders to talk about Marathi manoos. Uddhav’s attack on the BJP has sent message to common Shiv Sainik and they will get encouraged,” said Jondhale, former professor of political science at Mumbai University. As the battle for Mumbai’s civic body draws near, the friction between the former allies – BJP and Sena – is expected to grow more. The BMC is controlled by the Shiv Sena for three decades now. Following the bitter breakup between the Sena and the BJP in November 2019, the BJP now intends to wrest control of the richest civic body to give a jolt to the Sena. The BJP and Sena contested the previous BMC elections independently and the former convincingly demonstrated that they are a force to reckon with, as it secured 82 seats in the 227-member BMC – a jump from 31 seats in 2012. The Sena has used similar tactics ahead of the 2012 BMC elections when then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan had made a statement that the Congress will reduce the Sena to irrelevance in state politics. The Sena then had built a narrative of who would care about the welfare of Marathi people if the Congress comes to rule the civic body. Political analysts added that the upcoming civic election is a contest between the BJP and Shiv Sena. While BJP had won a chunk of seats in the wards from western suburbs, it can further consolidate to get more seats. The Sena is now moving towards its core ideology – Marathi manoos – to secure the voter base. This move will help the Sena counter the threat from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), analysts said. “The BJP is uncomfortable with this agenda, it will take refuge in Hindutva as their core constituency is Marwaris, Jains, Gujaratis and north Indians,” Jondhale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/party-fights-sena-bhavan-row-with-marathi-manoos-card-101627932208000.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reserves order on Raj Kundra’s plea against arrest in porn film case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday concluded the hearing of the petition filed by businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe wherein they alleged that the Mumbai Police had arrested them illegally. While Kundra claimed the police did not serve him notices as mandated under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), the counsel for Thorpe submitted that he was arrested despite cooperating with investigators. The counsel for the police, however, submitted that as both Kundra and Thorpe had been found deleting evidence, the police could not be mute spectators, and hence to prevent further destruction of evidence the duo were arrested. The court was also informed that though Kundra was a British citizen he had secured an Aadhaar card and was conducting his activities. The single judge bench of justice AS Gadkari, while hearing Kundra’s plea, was informed by senior advocate Aabad Ponda that though Kundra was not named in the first information report (FIR), the police searched his office and asked him to be present at the crime branch’s office at Byculla. However, when he went there, he was arrested without being served a notice which is in violation of laws safeguarding a person from arrest when the offence carries less than seven years of imprisonment.Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai submitted that the arrest was not illegal as the police found both Kundra and Thorpe deleting WhatsApp chats and other information that can serve as incriminating evidence against the duo. She said the police had recovered 68 pornographic movies along with material from personal laptops, cell phones apart from the 51 videos found on Storage Area Network (SAN). Pai added that a PowerPoint presentation with details of the working and marketing strategy of Hotshots app were also recovered during the search at Kundra’s office. She also refuted the claims of illegal arrest and said that both had been served notices, but only Thorpe had accepted it. While claiming that section 201 (punishment for causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was added by the police as an afterthought when the petition was filed, Ponda said, “There is no contemporaneous record to show deletion, rather there are contemporaneous records to say non-deletion of data by accused. This is thus an afterthought and has been made to meet the requirement to tackle this petition.”Ponda added that if the police had found Kundra deleting data, they should have mentioned it in the panchnama or first remand, but it was not the case. He said there was no material to show that Kundra deleted the data on the night of his arrest on July 19. He further said the police had acted with vendetta as Kundra had refused to acknowledge its notice under section 41A of CrPC. Advocate Abhinav Chandrachud, for Thorpe, concurred with Ponda’s arguments and said while his client had acknowledged the police notice, he was not given an opportunity to comply with the same, and therefore his arrest was illegal. He added there were doubts regarding the investigation as there were discrepancies as to the date of deletion of the videos in question as well. The court then concluded the hearing and reserved its orders, which will be pronounced in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reserves-order-on-raj-kundra-s-plea-against-arrest-in-porn-film-case-101627931967904.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||HIV+ blood transfusion: VB questions 2 suspects||The state Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Monday examined two sacked medical laboratory technicians (MLTs), suspects in the HIV+ blood transfusion case at a government hospital in Bathinda.HT had on Saturday reported that the VB had failed to question suspects even after seven months. The Bathinda range unit of the bureau questioned the suspects for the first time after the matter was handed over to it eight months ago.VB’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kuldeep Singh said Gurpreet Singh Godara and Gurpreet Singh Ghumman were directed to appear at the bureau office for questioning.“Details cannot be divulged at this juncture. We will also question accused Jagdeep Singh and Ajay Sharma. More people from the Bathinda district hospital and others may be asked to join the investigation,” he said.In December last year, the state health department had tasked the VB’s Bathinda unit to investigate possibilities of a nexus of the sacked hospital staff and others behind the repeated cases of wrong blood transfusion at the government-run blood bank at Bhai Shaheed Bhai Mani Civil Hospital.The step was taken after five persons, including four thalassaemia patients aged between 7 and 13, being treated at the district hospital were found HIV positive after blood transfusion.The role of at least six staffers then posted at the blood bank came under the scanner in breach of strict guidelines of blood transfusion.As the Bathinda district police are conducting a regular criminal investigation in which the main accused, Baldev Singh Romana, a medical laboratory technician was already arrested, the VB was asked to probe patterns where several were infused infected blood at the same place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hiv-blood-transfusion-vb-questions-2-suspects-101627931788206.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Western Maharashtra likely to get above normal rains in August, September||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) probabilistic rainfall forecast for the remaining monsoon period shows a high chance of above normal rains in western Maharashtra. IMD’s forecast, released on Monday, also indicates that chances of above normal rainfall are higher in September.The standalone forecast for August shows that above normal rainfall is most likely (35 to 45% probability) across a majority of the area along the coastline and Western Ghats. In addition, a combined forecast for August and September indicates a very high probability (greater than 75%) of witnessing above normal rainfall across these regions.DS Pai, head of climate and research services at IMD Pune, concurred and advised authorities concerned to pay close attention to IMD’s short-range weather forecasts. “The first week of August will be quite dry, but the intensity of rains will pick up after August 7 and lead to a wet spell toward month-end. Even though the intensity of rains tapers off after July, there is still above normal rainfall in only about two weeks. So, officials should be ready in case a large quantity of rain is deposited in a matter of days or hours,” Pai said.Forecasts issued by other meteorological centres, such as the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) and the USA’s National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) also suggest that the monsoon in western Maharashtra will be more active in the second fortnight of August than the first.Experts and officials warned that the ongoing subdued rainfall phase should be used to prepare for the possibility of heavy rainfall events in Konkan and surrounding regions for the remaining duration of monsoon, even though August showers are typically less intense than those seen last month. The broad action points raised include planning discharge of water from dams, ramping up relief and rehabilitation work and shifting people from landslide-prone areas. Adequate preparation will also involve ensuring that all automatic weather stations, rain gauges and doppler radars are working efficiently in addition to strengthening communications systems.“In light of this forecast, authorities concerned must carefully plan the discharge of water from various dams in Konkan and western Maharashtra. Furthermore, a mapping of landslide-prone areas is crucial along with relocation of people from such areas,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK. “My concern is that vulnerable mountains may have become more vulnerable. So you may not need that much rainfall now to trigger landslides. Such areas need to be immediately identified with the help of an expert committee of geologists. Furthermore, some rivers are still in spate, so the safety of people living near floodplains needs to be considered. Lastly, a strategic deployment of disaster response teams needs to be done now to improve disaster response time during the anticipated heavy rainfall events,” he added.Experts also emphasised that authorities should expedite relief measures which are yet to be provided to persons already affected by last month’s floods, so that a backlog is not created in the event of another flood situation. “Another focus needs to be on cleaning up drainage channels and creeks which may currently be filled with silt after the floods. This will become harder to do once the rains begin,” said Pai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/western-maharashtra-likely-to-get-above-normal-rains-in-august-september-101627931728227.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar village rejoices Gurjit Kaur’s winning goal against Oz||Celebrations broke out in Gurjit Kaur’s Myadi Kala village in Amritsar district after the Indian women’s hockey team stormed into the Tokyo Olympics semifinals, riding on the drag-flicker’s solitary strike against Australia.Gurjit, whose goal in the 22nd minute gave India the lead against the mighty Australians on Monday, hails from Amritsar and her family said they have been rejoicing continuously.“It is all God’s blessings, I am very proud of her. She has worked very hard,” said her father Satnam Singh.The Indian women’s hockey team entered the Olympic Games semifinals for the first time.The 25-year-old Gurjit’s father is a farmer and the family lives in a small old house.After the win over Australia in the quarterfinals stage, villagers thronged their residence and “ladoos” were distributed to celebrate the victory of the Indian team.Gurjit was keen on playing hockey since childhood. She and her sister went for boarding in Kairon village in Tarn Taran district where they both played hockey while pursuing studies in the government school.Both were good at the game. During their school days, they got scholarships, free education and boarding, the family said.Later Gurjit shifted to Jalandhar’s Lyallpur Khalsa College where she completed her graduation in humanities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-village-rejoices-gurjit-kaur-s-winning-goal-against-oz-101627931607967.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: SAD-BSP MPs give wheat stalks to parliamentarians||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MPs on Monday handed over wheat stalks to parliamentarians to highlight the plight of farmers protesting on the Delhi borders, and demanded justice for them. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was leading the protest, offered wheat stalks NDA government ministers and MPs and asked them to introspect about the treatment being meted to the farmers. Speaking to the media, Harsimrat said: “if we are partaking our daily bread, we have only farmers to thank. It is shocking that a community to which everyone is beholden is being persecuted by the Union government which refuses to repeal the three black agriculture laws. Today, we distributed wheat stalks to MPs to appeal to the conscience of our policy makers to be just to the hand that feeds them.” The MPs also raised slogans “Kala kanoon vapis lo and kisano ki mange poori karo,” (withdrawn lack laws, accept demands of the farmers). Harsimrat said the SAD-BSP parliamentarians had been demanding a discussion on the need for repeal three farm laws since the first day of the monsoon session. “We moved repeated adjournment motions. But all were disallowed,” she added. She condemned the attempts being made by the Centre to not only defame the farmers’ protest but also belittle the sacrifices made by them for this noble cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-sad-bsp-mps-give-wheat-stalks-to-parliamentarians-101627931489097.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Monsoon ailments on rise in Mumbai amid heavy downpour||Amid the heavy downpour, Mumbai is grappling with monsoon-related ailments, especially malaria. There has been almost 56% rise in cases of malaria in July compared to the previous month, as per data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body has warned citizens against self-medication as they may confuse Covid-19 with seasonal ailments due to similar symptoms. There were 357 malaria cases in June which increased to 557 the next month (till July 25). Similarly, 19 cases of dengue were reported in July in the same time period as opposed to 12 in June. Cases of swine flu have doubled as the number of cases rose from six in June to 18 in July. Civic officials claimed that due to the heavy rainfall last month, incidences of mosquito-borne ailments increased. They added that more people are approaching doctors timely as a result of rise in awareness. “Every monsoon, we witness a surge in cases like malaria and dengue. Last year, cases were less due to the lockdown. This year, the movement of people outside is more, so cases have increased. But we are also investigating the reason behind the rise in cases,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.Civic-run major hospitals are witnessing a sudden rise in the footfall of patients related to monsoon ailments. They are being referred to the fever clinics that started last year for diagnosis of Covid-19. Between July 25 and 31, BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central recorded 1,091 patients at their fever Outpatient Department (OPD) clinic. Of this, four were diagnosed with malaria, nine were admitted for dengue and five patients tested positive for leptospirosis. “Along with malaria and dengue, the incidence of leptospirosis has also increased. This can be attributed to the heavy rain recorded last week,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital.Considering that Covid-19 has symptoms similar to monsoon-related ailments, all hospitals are conducting RT-PCR tests among patients with symptoms such as fever, cough, respiratory tract infections to overrule the possibility of misdiagnosis.“We need to look at other specific symptoms to make a diagnosis. So if a patient has mostly upper respiratory symptoms like runny nose and sore throat, flu is more likely. Joint pains and swelling suggest chikungunya; loss of taste, smell or breathlessness suggest Covid. Blood tests help in making a diagnosis when clinical features do not help,” Dr Shalini Suralkar, consultant physician at LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monsoon-ailments-on-rise-in-mumbai-amid-heavy-downpour-101627931488037.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 relaxations: All shops in Mumbai can stay open till 10pm||All essential and non-essential shops can from today remain open till 10pm in Mumbai on all days, while restaurants will be allowed to remain open at 50% seating capacity till 4pm in the city, the civic body said.The state government on Monday issued orders, allowing similar relaxations in other districts except 11, where fresh cases are more. The relaxation in curbs will come into effect from Tuesday. Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Monday reported 4,869 cases, taking its tally to 6,315,063. It reported 90 fatalities, pushing the toll to 133,038. Active cases stood at 75,303. Till Monday, shops in Mumbai were only operational till 4pm on weekdays. As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) order on Monday evening, medical shops will be allowed to remain open all day and night. Further, BMC, in its order, stated that restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 4pm on all days. The Mumbai civic body also allowed all indoor and outdoor sports activities, except swimming and other sports where close physical contact is required. The BMC also allowed shooting for film and television serials during specified timings. As per the order issued by the municipal commissioner, except the above relaxations, all other activities will have to be followed as per the earlier order — malls and theatres will continue to remain closed, local trains will only be open for essential workforce, and private offices will remain open till 4pm on weekdays, excluding essential services. Public grounds and gardens will remain open on all days between 5am and 9am.The state government in its order has kept restrictions intact in 11 districts, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, among others, where the emergence of fresh Covid-19 cases in higher. The other districts include Solapur, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad and Palghar.According to the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, “Considering the higher number of cases [in the 11 districts], higher emergence of fresh cases in the districts of Sindudurg, Satara and Ahmednagar, the respective disaster management authorities to impose effective restrictions in the said districts. The decision regarding reducing the currently imposed restrictions in Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban and Thane districts to be taken by the Disaster Management Authorities of the said districts.”The state has allowed gymnasiums, yoga centres, hair cutting salons, beauty parlours, spas to remain open, but without use of air-conditioners and with 50% capacity till 8pm on weekdays and till 3pm on Saturdays. Public gardens and playgrounds can be kept open for the purpose of exercise, walking, jogging and cycling. However, cinema halls, multiplexes, drama theatres will remain closed till further orders. Places of worships also will remain shut in the state till further orders.A senior minister said that the decision to allow lifting of restrictions is partial as the threat of a third wave is still there. “The cases in Mumbai as well as other parts of Maharashtra have not come at the level it were in December. However, in the next few days you will see some restrictions being lifted in Mumbai and its surrounding areas. But the important thing here is that we will still have to be careful. The CM has lifted restrictions partially keeping in mind the economy while keeping the vulnerable population secure,” the minister said requesting anonymity.All government and private offices can be operational with full capacity in the districts where relaxations were announced on Monday. The state has asked to follow staggering work hours to avoid crowds while travelling. Agricultural activity, civil works, industrial activities, transport of goods can remain functional at full capacity, the order stated. While restrictions on political, social, cultural events, birthday parties, elections, election campaigning, rallies, protest marches, etc will continue to be imposed, the order added.The government allowed dine-in in restaurants albeit with a time restriction till 4 pm on weekdays. The State’s order has not specified of restaurants will remain shut on weekends. Despite attempts, Kunte or Dr Pradeep Vyas, Additional Chief Secretary (health), could not be reached for clarification on restaurants. The time restrictions have attracted criticism from the industry body, calling it a “shock” for the industry. Pradeep Shetty, sr. vice president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said that most of Maharashtra’s neighbouring states have lifted restrictions and allowed economic activities. He said that in the first wave, the industry was shut for 11 months and in the second wave of infections, it was shut for four months. “This evening’s communication from the government for the restaurant industry has come as a shock to us. There is no reason for imposing restrictions on restaurant timings and if it going to continue with the restrictions, then the least the government needs to do is waive the applicable statutory charges for restaurants. “Most of Maharashtra’s neighbouring states have eased the lockdowns. Gujarat allows commerce to remain open till 10 pm and has permitted social gatherings of up to 400 people and has also offered financial relief to businesses. Kerala, too, has announced industry-specific relief, is not collecting the statutory levies from its businesses apart from several relief measures to support its hospitality industry. Here, we neither have the permission to conduct business nor are we being compensated. We need a clear roadmap about what is to be expected from the government for us to accordingly make informed decisions for our businesses,” Shetty said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-relaxations-all-shops-in-mumbai-can-stay-open-till-10pm-101627931250812.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Landslide in Sahyadri: CM Uddhav Thackeray hints at curbs on construction activities||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the state government will constitute a committee to recommend steps to restrict development in eco-sensitive zones in Western Ghats in the wake of the recent landslides in Western Maharashtra and Konkan.Thackeray reiterated his stand against illegal structures and encroachments near rivers and in eco-sensitive zones and said that a comprehensive decision on the matter would be taken by appointing an expert committee. He said it was time to take a few stringent decisions to avoid natural calamities like the ones witnessed in Western Maharashtra and Konkan last week.The CM visited flood-hit Sangli and Kolhapur on Monday and took stock of damages. He said the state is studying all the reports submitted by expert groups on ecology, flooding as well as recommendations for correctional steps. He said that besides rehabilitation of villages that are vulnerable to flooding and events like landslides, there needs to be a change in policies related to development works. He added that illegal constructions and encroachments in floodplains and riverbanks need to be removed. He added that the government is also tapping the idea of diverting flood water to drought-affected areas.“It is true that the reports submitted by Vadnere and other committees have been gathering dust, but I have asked the administration to revisit them and come up with a comprehensive plan to take steps to avoid any such calamity in the future. If it is not done now, it will be too late. We are constituting a committee to recommend the steps to be taken to save eco-sensitive zones and also for flood management. It is high time to chalk out a policy for development works in eco-sensitive areas. After all, there is limit to the capacity of nature’s tolerance. Development is important, but at the same time protection of ecology is more important. If the need be, we will also change development plans designed for the districts as per the changed situation,” he said.Thackeray urged the people in the respective districts to cooperate with the authorities in implementing stricter policies in the wake of the floods that caused damages in Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg. As many as 219 people died in flooding and landslide and six are still missing, while 52 have been injured in rain-related incidents since July 22.The CM said, “The frequency of these natural calamities has shrunk, and they have become severe. Seasonal rainfall is recorded in just a few days, leading to the devastating effect”. He said the state has requested the Centre for change in the National Disaster Response Fund allotment to increase the financial aid for the people affected by natural calamity. Thackeray said he has written a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman requesting her to direct the bank and insurance companies to be lenient while settling claims against the losses and giving loans to the affected people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/landslide-in-sahyadri-cm-uddhav-thackeray-hints-at-curbs-on-construction-activities-101627931188945.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cong leader Jagroop Gill joins AAP||In a blow to the ruling Congress in Bathinda, party leader Jagroop Singh Gill on Monday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) along with his supporters. Gill was welcomed into the AAP by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and MLAs Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby at the party office in Chandigarh.He was the chairman of the district planning board and had quit the post to contest the municipal election. He won the municipal election for the seventh time and was a strong contender for the post of Bathinda mayor, but he was overlooked. Cheema said that his entry is a shot in the arm for the party in the Malwa region. “Gill has been the president of the District Bar Association as well as the president of municipal council,” he said at a press conference. Gill said instead of playing politics, he would work to strengthen the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-leader-jagroop-gill-joins-aap-101627931127807.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Work on Maratha outfits’ demands on, hostels ready in 14 districts: Maharashtra government||Amid the warning given by Maratha outfits to take a call on resumption of the agitation for reservation, the state government said that works on most of the demands raised by the outfits are on track. It further said that hostels for Maratha students are ready for operations in 14 districts and 199 of the 325 cases registered against the community members during their protests in 2018-19 have been withdrawn.Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who has been leading the protest for Maratha reservation, has said that he would take a call on resuming the stir on August 9. Community outfits under his leadership had put their agitation on hold on June 21 by giving one month’s time to the government to fulfil their demands. Apart from filing a review petition in the Apex court for the reservation, the outfits had demanded steps to complete the recruitment process of the community candidates, make financial provisions for SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute) and Annasaheb Patil Aarthik Vikas Mahamandal, and withdrawal of the cases against the protesters among others.The cabinet sub-committee on reservation, headed by public works department minister Ashok Chavan, met on Monday to take a stock of the progress on the demands. Chavan has asked the departments concerned to ensure the demands are met the earliest. “Maratha outfits have demanded hostels for students from the community in all districts. Hostels in 14 districts are ready to go operational and will be inaugurated by the respective guardian ministers at the earliest. Provisions for hostels in other districts are being done. Similarly, 199 cases registered against the protesters during the reservation agitations have been withdrawn, while 109 cases are under consideration of withdrawal in respective courts. Sixteen cases can be withdrawn only after the losses caused due to the protest are recovered. One of the cases cannot be withdrawn as it is very serious in nature,” said an official from general administrative department.The state has also assured jobs to legal heirs of the 43 protesters who lost their lives while agitating. Eight of them have been recruited by the State Transport Corporation while six have informed that they would join after completing their education. The process is underway for the remaining kin, Chavan said.The minister added that financial allocation of ₹150 crore for the operational expenditure of SARTHI has been done and construction of its headquarters in Pune will begin soon. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has attacked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for the delay in filing the posts on Maharashtra Public Service Commission. Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the process has been completed and the file is pending with Governor BS Koshyari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/work-on-maratha-outfits-demands-on-hostels-ready-in-14-districts-maharashtra-government-101627931009628.html
03-08-2021||Other||Lucknow woman booked for assaulting cab driver||LUCKNOW An FIR was registered against a woman in her twenties on Monday after a video purportedly showing her assaulting a cab driver at a traffic signal near Awadh crossing here went viral on social media.The action came a day after the Krishnanagar police issued a challan to the cab driver and two of his relatives for breach of peace, after an altercation with the woman.The incident occurred on Saturday when cab driver Sahadat Ali stopped his cab before the woman who was crossing the road near Awadh crossing. Apparently enraged over it, the woman started beating him after pulling him out of the cab before a traffic cop. Subsequently, the police penalised Sahadat and two of his relatives.However, when the CCTV footage of the incident went viral on Monday, several people took to social media to say that the driver was not at fault, yet he was assaulted by the woman in public. They also demanded immediate arrest of the woman. The cab driver filed a police complaint against the woman and wrote to the commissioner of police DK Thakur, alleging that he was also harassed by the police. Thakur sought a report from Krishnanagar police station on the matter.Additional deputy commissioner of police, central, Chiranjeev Nath Sinha said “We have lodged an FIR under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) 427(mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50) of the IPC against the woman, Priyadarshini Narayan, and have started investigation.” However, the officer declined to comment on the cab driver’s allegation that he was harassed by the police. “The complaint is being looked into and suitable action will be taken,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-woman-booked-for-assaulting-cab-driver-101627930767953.html
03-08-2021||Other||Lashkar module busted with arrest of four, hand grenade recovered||The J&K Police on Monday claimed to have busted a Lashkar module and arrested four persons with a hand grenade in south Kashmir’s Anantnag. The module was planning to make IEDs for attacks in Anantnag.Police said busting the terror module helped avert a major attack.In a statement, a police spokesperson said four accused persons were involved in developing an IED to carry out blasts in Anantnag town besides motivating gullible youth to join the terror folds by using social media and online platforms.“Incriminating materials, including hand grenade, have been recovered from their possession,” he said.The spokesperson further said that acting on a specific input, a terrorist associate identified as Aamir Reyaz Lone of Baramulla was arrested; incriminating materials including electronic devices were recovered from his possession. “During analysis, it was revealed that the arrested accused was in contact with an active terrorist of LeT Hilal Sheikh of Baramulla.”The spokesperson said during investigation, and on disclosure of accused Aamir Reyaz, it was revealed that another terrorist associate identified as Owais Ahmad Shaksaz of Seer Hamdan is in the process of making an IED with the help of information from internet platforms. Accordingly, the accused Owais Ahmad was arrested.“Further investigation revealed involvement of two more terrorist associates who were subsequently arrested. The arrested terrorist associate identified as Suhaib Muzaffar Qazi @Tamil, a resident of Rajpora Pulwama was in direct contact with active terrorist Aaqib Dar (LeT) of Pulwama who provided a hand grenade to Suhaib Qazi in order to attack on security forces which was recovered at his instance by police. Similarly, another terrorist associated identified as Tariq Dar was found in contact with an active terrorist, namely Aslam Dar of Kulgam, and was providing logistic support to the said terrorist.”Police said that preliminary investigation into the matter revealed that the busted module was working for active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit LeT and were in process of developing IEDs to carry out blasts in Anantnag Town.“Moreover, they were also involved in motivating gullible youth of the valley to join terrorist ranks of proscribed terror outfit LeT and HM,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lashkar-module-busted-with-arrest-of-four-hand-grenade-recovered-101627930708566.html
03-08-2021||Other||SGPC chief accuses Sidhu of repeated violation of maryada||Amritsar Taking strong exception to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu taking siropa (robe of honour) from a Patit (someone who has trimmed his beard) inside Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib last week, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said that it was a violation of the Sikh maryada (decorum). “Sidhu should take care of this, while paying obeisance and along with the violation of the maryada, the police also harassed the Sangat (devotees) by stopping them from entering the holy place during his visit. The Sangat is deeply hurt,” she said, accusing Sidhu of repeatedly violating the maryada. “Sidhu should arrive at the Gurdwara Sahib as a devotee and forbid his party workers from indulging in actions that are against Sikh principles,” she added. On the insult to the Kakars (articles of Sikh faith) in Kurukshetra, she alleged that the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) had orchestrated the conspiracy. “Such people create an atmosphere of conflict, while governments are silent. Such arbitrary acts can never be tolerated. Haryana government should take stern action against the miscreants for hurting Sikh sentiments,” she said. She also congratulated Indian athletes, who have performed well at the Tokyo Olympics. “Players from Punjab are doing well,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-chief-accuses-sidhu-of-repeated-violation-of-maryada-101627930647881.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena workers vandalise Adani Airport signboard in Mumbai||Members of Shiv Sena-affiliated workers union Bhartiya Kamgar Sena (BKS) vandalised a signboard of Adani Airport erected near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Monday. The move came as Sena workers were irked with the company’s move to erect signage a with only their branding whereas the airport is named Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), after the Maratha warrior king.Adani Airports Holding Limited (AAHL) said they have replaced the previous branding with Adani Airports which is in compliance with the norms and guidelines of the Airport Authority of India (AAI). “In light of the incidents around Adani Airport branding at the Mumbai International Airport, we firmly assure that AAHL has merely replaced the previous branding with Adani Airport branding and that no change has been made to CSMIA’s branding or positioning at the terminal. The branding at CSMIA is in compliance with the norms and guidelines of AAI. AAHL will continue to adhere to all the guidelines laid out by the government in the interest of the aviation community at large,” AAHL said in a statement issued on Monday.A group of BKS members led by BKS secretary Sanjay Kadam reached the Mumbai international airport vicinity and vandalised the neon signboard with branding of Adani, which recently took over the operations of Mumbai airport from GVK group.Kadam said the party had fought for the airport to be named after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. “We will not object if it reads Chhatrapati Shivaji Airport operated by Adani instead of Adani Airport. The change should be made at every location in the vicinity,” he said.Sena chief spokesperson and BKS president Arvind Sawant congratulated BKS members who vandalised the signboard and said this was a spontaneous reaction. “It was a spontaneous reaction, as putting board of Adani Airport is an insult to Shivaji Maharaj and Marathi manoos,” he said. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), too, said that any change in the name of the airport is not acceptable and the Adani Group must ensure that the sentiments of the people are not hurt. Party national spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik said, “Adani Group took over the airport and the property, but it does not mean they have the right to change its name. The state and the Central government jointly approved its name as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport. If it is being changed to Adani Airport then they are playing with the sentiments of the people, which is the reason that the incident took place. Adani Group should avoid taking any step which will hurt people’s sentiments.”“Violence in any form cannot be supported but such a situation arises if sentiments are hurt, be it Adani or someone else. We are hopeful that Adani Group will be cautious in this matter,” he added.This is the second controversy in the past two weeks since Adani took over CSMIA. Earlier on July 20, the ruling parties — Shiv Sena and Congress — criticised Adani Group’s rumoured decision to move Mumbai airport’s headquarters from the city to Ahmedabad in Gujarat. The move was also termed an attempt to reduce the importance of Mumbai. Later, Adani Group denied shifting the headquarters and called it a “rumour”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-workers-vandalise-adani-airport-signboard-in-mumbai-101627930587904.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Capt’s meeting with Badnore triggers speculation of cabinet rejig||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met Punjab governor-cum-UT administrator VP Singh Badnore at Raj Bhawan on Monday. The CM was accompanied by local government minister Brahm Mohindra, chief secretary Vini Mahajan and principal secretary to chief minister Tejveer Singh. Though the meeting triggered speculation in the Congress circles about a likely reshuffle in the state cabinet, official sources said it was a “courtesy visit”. Badnore is completing his five-year tenure on the gubernatorial post on August 22. The CM is also learnt to have made a request to him for the completion of Beant Singh Memorial in Chandigarh.The governor was also sounded out about a “world-class” university being set up by the founders of Ashoka University over 50 acres at IT City in Mohali, according to sources. The state government is planning to bring an ordinance for the establishment and incorporation of the private university. “A meeting of the state cabinet will be called soon to approve the ordinance,” they said. The chief minister had laid the foundation stone of the university in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capts-meeting-with-badnore-triggers-speculation-of-cabinet-rejig-101627930527831.html
03-08-2021||Other||In 2 years, only 26,661 got govt jobs in Himachal||Amid the grim situation of unemployment in Himachal, the state government has provided public sector jobs to just 26,661 youths in the last two years.This was revealed in an answer tabled in the House on the first day of the monsoon session. The question was asked by Congress MLA from Nadaun Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, Shimla legislator Vikramaditya Singh and leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri.As per the live register, the state has total 8,46,209 jobless youth as on January 31, 2020. Of the total, more than 76,000 were postgraduates, 1.36 lakh graduates, 4.04 lakh Class-12 passouts, and 1.95 lakh Class-10 passouts. More than 33,007 haven’t passed Class 10.Among those who got the jobs, 3,109 were employed on regular basis, 17,390 on contractual basis, 415 on daily wage, and 7,747 on part-time or outsource basis.In reply to another question raised by Sukhu, the state government said the state was given 500 ventilators by the Centre under the PM Cares Fund.Of these, 461 ventilators have been installed at health institutions across state while 39 are yet to be installed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-2-years-only-26-661-got-govt-jobs-in-himachal-101627930472041.html
03-08-2021||Other||Building trustworthy autonomous systems goes far beyond AI vision: Joseph Sifakis||: Renowned computer scientist and Turing Award laureate prof Joseph Sifakis on Monday said that building trustworthy autonomous systems goes far beyond the current Artificial Intelligence vision. He said that to reach this vision, we need a new scientific foundation enriching and extending traditional systems of engineering with data-based techniques.Prof Sifakis was delivering the inaugural talk at the week-long ATAL online Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on “Cybersecurity of critical infrastructure” organized by Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad (IIIT-A).Speaking on “Autonomous systems and self-driving cars”, prof Joseph clarified that why self-driving was so hard and why despite the enthusiastic involvement of big technological companies and the massive investment of many billions of dollars, all the optimistic predictions about self-driving cars being around the corner went utterly wrong.“These are critical systems intended to replace human operators in complex organizations, very different from other intelligent systems such as game-playing robots or intelligent personal assistants. I discuss complexity limitations inherent to autonomic behavior but also to integration in complex cyber-physical and human environments,” added Prof Joseph in his virtual address.The AICTE approved FDP was formally inaugurated by Prof P Nagabhushan, director of IIIT-A, who addressed the participants while highlighting the significance of cyber security in today’s world. Prof Nagabhushan also encouraged the participants for high quality research in the related areas of cyber security.Prof Vijayshri Tewari, registrar and prof Pawan Chakraborty, head of the IT department also addressed the participants. Program coordinator prof OP Vyas gave an outline of the workshop. The week-long FDP will have experts talk on cyber security of electrical systems, blockchain for smart metering and automotive security by the experts from Germany, Norway, and also from IIT Kanpur India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/building-trustworthy-autonomous-systems-goes-far-beyond-ai-vision-joseph-sifakis-101627930407257.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Civic bodies have money to pay councillors, not salaries: AAP||Alleging rampant corruption in the BJP-ruled MCDs, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said that the civic bodies have money to give to its councillors but not enough to pay the salaries of its employees, including doctors, teachers and sanitation workers.The party also said the Delhi government doesn’t owe any money to the corporations, countering repeated claims by the three civic bodies that the state government owes ₹1300 crore to them.“Delhi government doesn’t owe even a single penny to the municipal corporations. Instead they owe ₹6,500 crore to the government, which they took in the form of a loan,” said AAP MLA and the party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj during a press conference on Monday.Bhardwaj alleged that on one hand, the cash-strapped civic bodies say that they don’t have enough money to pay salaries to their employees but, on the other hand, they have money to pay their councillors. “The north corporation alone owes ₹2,407 crore to the Delhi government; yet it has decided to give ₹50 lakh to its councillors... The municipal corporations do not pay salaries... so that the employees go on strikes and they (civic body) can extort money from the Delhi government,” he said.Repeated calls and messages to the mayor of north corporation seeking comment went unanswered.Refuting the allegations, mayor of east Delhi municipal corporation Shyam Sundar Agrawal said the Delhi government was lying, adding that it owes the three civic bodies a total of ₹1,300 crore under the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission.“The AAP leaders should sit across the table and debate with us over how much money they owe to the civic bodies, which have been struggling to pay their employees as well as carry out development works. They owe us funds that need to be released under the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission. Even the Delhi high court has asked the Delhi government to release funds due to the corporations,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-civic-bodies-lock-horns-over-payment-of-dues-101627930287254.html
03-08-2021||Other||HP Vidhan Sabha begins on sombre note, legislators pay tributes to Virbhadra||The monsoon session of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha began on Monday on a sombre note. Cutting across party lines, legislators paid emotional tributes to Congress stalwart Virbhadra Singh and four other legislators who had passed away.Virbhadra, who used to represent the Arki assembly segment, passed away on July 8 at IGMC.While Narendra Bragta died on June 5 at PGIMER, Chandigarh due to post-Covid complications. He used to represent Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment.Apart from this, former members Amar Singh Chaudhary, from Bhoranj; Ram Singh, from Jogindernagar; and Mohan Lal had also passed away in recent months.Moving a condolence motion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who is also the leader of the House, said Virbhadra was an astute politician and able administrator. He said Virbhadra had served as the CM of Himachal for six-terms.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said Virbhadra was a nine-term MLA, five-term MP and six-term CM of Himachal. “He may have been born in a royal family but he ruled the hearts of people for six decades,” said Agnihotri.He said Virbhadra brought people like us into politics. He said anyone could meet him at the Holy Lodge without any appointment. He tackled forest felling and even enacted the anti-conversion law.Agnihotri said Virbhadra set up a second complex of the assembly in Dharamshala and played a pivotal role in making Himachal the power state.He demanded the state government to install a statue of Virbhadra at the Ridge ground. He also paid homage to Bragta and the other deceased ex-members.Parliamentary minister Suresh Bhardwaj said Virbhadra was the first CM to bring anti-conversion law in India.“There’s no village where Virbhadra has not gone on foot, was always ready to help the poor, and opened many schools on demand of people,” he said.Congress legislator Asha Kumari said Virbhadra, who was her cousin, became an MP from Mahasu at the age of 28. “He was a man of the era. A stalwart. He brought in a law to take over temples in Himachal,” said Kumari.The House observed two-minute silence as a mark of respect to the deceased leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-vidhan-sabha-begins-on-sombre-note-legislators-pay-tributes-to-virbhadra-101627930231631.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||New rules for spas, massage centres as Delhi govt aims to crack down on abuse||The Delhi government on Monday laid out strict guidelines to regulate the operations of spas and massage centres in the city, including mandatorily obtaining a police clearance for all employees and limiting operational hours from 9am to 9pm, to ensure security of clients and the employees, and also to prevent sexual abuse, trafficking, and cross-gender massage.The guidelines were drafted after Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal informed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal that a few such spas exploited women employees, sexually and otherwise.The new guidelines include specific provisions such as centres will have to install only self-closing doors in rooms — no latches or bolts will be allowed; and all external doors have to remain open during working hours. The centres will also need to have separate massage rooms, toilets, changing rooms and bathrooms for men and women.The guidelines explicitly prohibit cross-gender massage. The centres will only be able to employ people above the age of 18 years, who possess a degree/diploma/certificate in physiotherapy, acupressure or occupational therapy. They will also need to obtain police clearance certificates for all employees and undertake police verification of the premises, a government spokesperson said.“Display boards, in both English and Hindi, shall be displayed at appropriate places at the reception containing the following information: i. Site plan of the premises; ii. Number of beds category-wise for males and females; iii. Details of the employees containing their designation and qualification; iv. Helpline numbers for customers i.e. 112 & 181; v. Declaration stating that ‘The spa massage centre is for spa & massage purpose only. If any customer employee/ employer is found involved in sexual activity, then legal action as per the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and/or any other law will be taken against them. The same can be reported by calling at 112 & 181’,” the new guidelines said.The centres will also have to mandatorily install CCTV cameras with recording facilities at the entrance, reception and common areas and the camera recording retained for at least three months.“An internal complaints committee under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Work Place Act shall be established in the centre where more than 10 employees are working. The existence of such a committee should be displayed at a prominent location. Reports as per law should be sent to the authorities concerned… In case of any violation of the guidelines, penal action shall be taken as per the applicable laws of the local body concerned… Engaging in any form of sexual activity on the premises of the spa centre is totally prohibited,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-sets-guidelines-for-spas-and-massage-centres-to-prevent-sexual-abuse-and-trafficking-101627930167307.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Elderly couple run over by speeding car, three others injured in northwest Delhi||A 60-year-old man and his 56-year-old wife were killed and at least three others, including a woman, were injured after an allegedly speeding Swift Dzire car hit two scooters and a bike near Kanhaiya Nagar metro station in northwest Delhi before speeding away on Saturday night, police said.The couple were declared brought dead at two different hospitals, and one of the injured persons is currently undergoing treatment.The police have identified the car and are on the lookout for its driver who has been booked in a case of rash and negligent driving, registered at the Keshavpuram police station, senior police officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that the mishap took place around 9pm at Prerna Chowk near the Kanhaiya Nagar metro station.The first information report (FIR) was registered on the complaint of an eyewitness, Ranjeet Singh, who works as a delivery agent for an online food delivery company, police said.In his complaint, Ranjeet said that he was riding a bike towards Deep Market from Inderlok, when a “rashly driven car” zoomed past him under the Kanhaiya Nagar metro station.“The car first hit a scooter that was waiting at the Kanhaiya Nagar traffic signal. The car then hit another scooter in which a couple was coming from Ashok Vihar as the traffic signal on their side was green. The two fell off the scooter and sustained serious injuries,” said a police officer, quoting the complaint of the food delivery agent.Police said that the car also hit another scooter and injured two persons, including a woman, who was riding it.Passersby and locals gathered at the accident spot and rushed the five to nearby hospitals.The 56-year-old woman, later identified as Sukhbir Kaur, was admitted to a private hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Her husband, Surender Singh, and another injured man, Ravinder Singh, were referred to Sushruta Trauma Centre. Surender was declared brought dead, police said, adding that Ravinder’s condition is serious.The other two injured persons — identified as Prabmit and a woman named Pushpendra, both from Rani Bagh — were admitted to a hospital in Punjabi Bagh from where they were discharged after treatment.“The complainant gave the offending car’s registration number that helped us establish its ownership. Raids are on to nab the person who was driving it at the time of the accident,” said a police officer associated with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-couple-killed-three-others-injured-in-hitandrun-101627930109781.html
03-08-2021||Other||HP schools reopen for physical classes after 4 months||For the first time in four months, school campuses in Himachal were abuzz with activity as these opened up for physical classes on Monday.With the fear of the third wave of Covid-19 still looming large, the schools witnessed a thin attendance even as schools assured strict compliance with standard operating procedures.While for Classes 10 to 12, regular classes have resumed, students of Classes 5 and 8 have been allowed to come for doubt clearance. A micro-plan has been prepared at the school-level to ensure compliance with Covid-19 norms. Students were allowed to enter only after thermal scanning and hand sanitisation.Entry and exit from classes have been staggered to prevent crowding and only one student will be seated on each desk.Classes having a large strength have been divided into groups and teaching will be held in separate rooms.Wearing mask is mandatory for students, teachers and non-teaching staff.Anish Banyal, principal of Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Dharamshala, said there was enthusiasm among students as schools have opened after long.He said the school management has arranged thermal scanners and hand sanitisers for the entry points.The classes are being held in compliance with laid down SOPs, he said.Banyal said as per the micro-plan they have prepared, students of different streams will stay in their respective wings even during the recess period.He said attendance will not be enforced and online teaching will also continue.Schools in Himachal were closed in April after Covid-19 cases started to rise.The second wave also led to cancellation of annual exams and students were promoted to the next class.Schools in Chamba will open on Tuesday due to holiday on account of Minjar fair while in Lahaul-Spiti, it will reopen on August 10.Coaching centres, tuitions and training institutes had opened in the state on July 26 while the academic session in colleges would start on August 16.Meanwhile, the sudden spike in daily Covid cases and rising number of active cases has again set alarm bells ringing. The daily cases have doubled from 50-60 cases to 150 in the last week while active cases rose to 1,229 from 600.Himachal education minister Govind Singh Thakur paid a surprise visit to Senior Secondary Government School, Lal Pani, Shimla, on Monday to inspect the Covid-19 protocol. After visiting the schools, he said that students and teachers are enthusiastic to return to the campus.He said many students were deprived of online classes due to various issues but as schools have been opened, they will receive the required guidance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-schools-reopen-for-physical-classes-after-4-months-101627930109235.html
03-08-2021||Other||PWD finds waterlogging fix for 7 seasonal trouble spots in Delhi||Barely two weeks after a man drowned at the waterlogged Pul Prahladpur underpass, Public Works Department (PWD) officials said they are looking for permanent solutions to ensure no such incident is repeated. Since the man drowned while allegedly trying to take a selfie, the department has also decided to station a boat, a diver and life jackets at such vulnerable spots in the city.These are some of the solutions that the department is going to implement short and long-term measures at seven of the city’s perennial waterlogging spots. PWD, which manages most of the arterial roads in the city, has identified seven most vulnerable points where waterlogging has been a chronic problem. They are Minto Bridge, Pul Prahladpur underpass, under Zakhira flyover, Loni Road roundabout, Jahangirpuri Metro station, Karala-Kanjhawala road and IP Estate (Ring Road, opposite WHO building).The PWD officials said waterlogging has been a problem particularly this year because the city has been witnessing record rains, coming in short but heavy bursts. “Delhi witnessed unprecedented showers this year with the cumulative 506mm rainfall in July,” said a senior official.Elaborating on how the measures were being implemented, the officials cited the example of Minto Bridge. Every year, a DTC bus submerged under a waterlogged Minto Bridge. However, the situation has so far been avoided this year.To address the problem, an independent drain along Minto Road towards JLN Marg was laid in April this year as a trial measure to prevent the waterlogging at Minto Bridge. Now, after the success of the measure, the department has decided to widen the drain after monsoon. Officials said that the drain was implemented initially as a short-term measure. CCTVs have also been installed at the bridge, officials said.They said in the long run provisions for an alternate drainage system for the area will be made, and the work is expected to be completed by 2022.“We have made a lot of interventions to ensure no waterlogging takes place at Minto Bridge and we have been successful in doing that. This monsoon is perhaps the first time in past several decades, when no waterlogging has been reported from there. Considering how successful this model has been,, we will try and implement the same at other vulnerable points,” said Dilraj Kaur, PWD secretary.After Minto Bridge, the Pul Prahladpur underpass is the second most dangerous spot, where the discharge of big catchment area flows into a bowl-shaped underpass and leads to flooding. Seven CCTV cameras have been installed there.A third official said as an interim solution, the pumping capacity has been enhanced from 450 horsepower (HP) to 500 HP and seven temporary pumps, with a combined capacity of more than 400 HP, have been installed. As a permanent solution, an additional underground sump with enhanced pumping capacity will be provided.With rainwater flowing down from a nearby railway track, the area under Zakhira flyover and Anand Parbat industrial area also witness waterlogging. The floating material from slum clusters adjacent to the railway track also add to the problem. The permanent solution for this has been suggested as removal of the local shanties by the northern railway, said officials.There is a proposal for laying a pipeline direct up to the existing drain’s end to enhance the capacity of electric pumps at the Loni Road underpass.At the Karala-Kanjhawala road, officials have proposed the construction and remodelling of drain with sump well and pumping system. At I.P. Estate, Ring Road opposite the WHO Building, the permanent solution will be constructing a sump having a capacity of approximately 1.5 lac litres with pumps of suitable discharge, before monsoon sets in next year, said officials.Officials said that they have addressed at least 20 and as many as 37 complaints in barely 30 minutes. They said they have advised all their staffers to be ready as soon as they receive calls to ensure the situation at any particular spot in the city is under brought under control at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pwd-finds-waterlogging-fix-for-7-seasonal-trouble-spots-in-delhi-101627930050700.html
03-08-2021||Other||Moga civic body seals five-storey illegal building of Cong councillor||Moga The municipal corporation has sealed an unauthorised five-storey commercial building of Congress councillor from ward number 22, Praveen Kumar Makkar. This is the second time that the building has been sealed over the past three months, as Makkar had applied under the residential category for the Matta Wala Vehra on the Akalsar road.According to the building byelaws, more than two floors cannot be constructed in this area. Besides, the construction of projection and 100% covered area of the basement is against the Punjab Municipal Council Act, 1976. He, however, went to make a commercial complex in violation of several rules and regulations. No other action has been taken against him. A notice was also issued to the councillor five months ago. HT has a copy of this notice. “You had submitted the residential plan of a building constructed at Matta Wala Vehra, but the plan was not approved as you have constructed a commercial building at the site. A notice has also been issued...for starting construction in opposition to the proposed plan. The basement, ground floor, first floor, second floor and third floor of a commercial building were constructed at the site and all floors were covered 100%. This is a violation of the byelaws.”An official of the department, pleading anonymity, said, “Such blatant violation cannot be condoned or regularised in any manner or under any policy.”Right to Information activist Suresh Sood said, “Under the PMC Act, the corporation has to demolish the building for such grave violations and the councillor must be removed from the civic body.” Makkar said, “The corporation has done its work by sealing the building. If the violations cannot be condoned then it is up to the corporation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-civic-body-seals-five-storey-illegal-building-of-cong-councillor-101627930049557.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court stays green tribunal order’s ban on functions in Delhi parks||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday stayed an order passed by the National Green Tribunal that imposed a blanket ban on use of parks and open grounds in the Capital for holding public functions, weddings, political rallies and social and political events.A bench of justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian passed the order while dealing with a clutch of petitions filed by the various municipal bodies in the capital that stopped taking bookings for events following the ban imposed by NGT in February this year.Appearing for the North and South Delhi Municipal Corporations, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that the NGT order had to be stayed as it was in violation of a 2009 order passed by the Supreme Court in MC Mehta case which permits use of parks and open spaces in Delhi for not more than 10 days in a month.In its judgment, the apex court expressed concern over large number of parks in the city being used for construction of marriage pandals and hosting other functions. The court observed that the permitted use of the parks being recreation under the Master Plan, it cannot be permitted for any other use. At the same time, keeping in view the need of the society, the 2009 decision held, “The use of parks by the MCD, the NDMC and the DDA for the purposes mentioned above shall not be permitted more than 10 days in a month. In other words when any of the designated parks is used for such purpose 10 days in a month, no function thereafter shall be permitted during the remaining 20/21 days.”Taking note of this judgment, the SC bench headed by justice Indira Banerjee allowed the appeals of the civic bodies and said that the order passed by the top court in MC Mehta case will hold the field.The order of NGT had come on a plea filed by several resident welfare associations who complained that civic authorities were flouting environmental norms by permitting commercial functions and events in parks and open spaces.Following the NGT order, the civic bodies were left cash starved. Even the Ramlila Ground, which has witnessed several social and political events in the past, was covered under the NGT order. There are close to 130 grounds and parks across South, East and North Delhi Municipal Corporations where events are allowed to take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-stays-green-tribunal-order-s-ban-on-functions-in-delhi-parks-101627930048400.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Nine-year-old girl raped, murdered by a priest and 3 others in Delhi||A nine-year-old girl was raped and killed allegedly by a priest and three male employees of a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi, who then cremated her body allegedly without her parents’ consent or the police being informed. Police said the four men were arrested after the child’s family alleged foul play and staged a protest along with fellow villagers on Sunday night.Police said the family expressed suspicions that the girl may have been sexually assaulted and murdered, given how her body was cremated in a hurry.According to the police, the suspects allegedly told the girl’s mother that the child was electrocuted to death, and also frightened the family off from informing the police by telling them that the police would register a case and send the body for an autopsy, where doctors will take out her vital organs and sell them, the police said.The four men were booked for murder, rape and criminal intimidation, a case regarding which was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 302, 376 and 506, in addition to relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act.They four men were identified as Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, and three employees Salim, Laxmi Narayan and Kuldeep, who are all known to the girl’s mother, said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh.Police said the girl, who lived with her parents in a rented house in front of the crematorium, went to fetch cold water from the water cooler installed at the crematorium around 5.30pm on Sunday. Half an hour later, the priest and the three men called the girl’s mother to the crematorium and showed her the child’s body.“They told her that the girl was electrocuted to death while having water from the cooler. They showed her the burn marks on her daughter’s wrist and elbow, and said her lips had turned blue. The four men asked the girl’s mother to not inform the police about the death. They told her that the police will register a case and the body will be sent for an autopsy, during which doctors will remove her vital organs and sell them. The four then cremated the body,” said DCP Singh.Police said nearly 200 villagers reached the crematorium on Sunday night and carried out a protest till Monday evening, demanding that the arrested persons be booked on rape and murder charges.“We want the strictest punishment for the priest and the three men. If it was a case of electrocution, why did they (the suspects) not inform the police or send the girl’s body to any hospital for autopsy? What was the urgency to cremate the body and that too late in the evening, when no cremation is allowed at the crematorium after 6pm. Why did they do it without the consent of the girl’s parents? We suspect that this is a case of murder after rape,” said a 45-year-old woman neighbour of the girl’s family.According to the neighbour, the residents came to know about the matter when the girl’s parents raised the alarm and told them that their daughter’s body was cremated without their consent.“Some people in our neighbourhood broke open the crematorium gate and confronted the priest... Police should scan the CCTV cameras installed on the premises to ascertain what exactly happened to the girl,” she said.Initially, the police registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, wrongful confinement, and destruction of evidence related to the offence along with common intention under Indian Penal Code’s sections 304, 342, 201 and 34. However, following the protest and the circumstantial evidence, the case was converted into one of rape, murder and criminal intimidation, said a senior police officer, who asked not to be named.Police said the crime scene investigation team and forensic experts have collected evidence from the crematorium for further investigation.Delhi social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam visited the protest site and assured to “provide the necessary support to the victim’s family”. In a tweet, the Aam Aadmi Party said, “Police should conduct fair investigation. If not then Delhi government will carry out a magisterial enquiry.”Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar also condemned the incident and said his party will not allow Delhi “to turn into another Hathras”, referring to the cremation by police of a Dalit woman who was allegedly gang raped and murdered in UP’s Hathras. “This is yet another instance of rising lawlessness in the national capital following the Arvind Kejriwal government’s liberalised excise policy, making easy availability of liquor in every ward,” he said.Anti-rape activist Yogita Bhayana also said on Twitter that she met the girl’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priest-and-three-helpers-of-crematorium-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-9-year-old-girl-101627930047250.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Film critic Rashid Irani passes away at 74||Film critic Rashid Irani, 74, who reviewed new English releases for the Hindustan Times for several years, died following a suspected fall, most likely on July 30. The beloved member of the film fraternity lived alone but visited the Mumbai Press Club almost every day. He had spoken in a recent interview about the difficulty he was facing, managing the isolation and monotony of life in the pandemic. He had moved his computer to the Club, colleagues said on Monday, so that he would be compelled to leave the house more often. When he didn’t turn up there for the third day in a row, friends from the Club informed the police and accompanied them to his Dhobi Talao home on Monday afternoon, where he was found. A former accountant and co-owner of the iconic-but-now-shut Brabourne Irani café at Dhobi Talao, Irani had been a film critic for more than four decades. “Rashid would attend every single English film’s press screening. When you saw him, you knew that everything was right with the world,” said film critic Anupama Chopra. His love affair with cinema began in his teens, when he became captivated by the films of Marilyn Monroe and James Dean, said his close friend, photographer Rafeeq Ellias. “He then started watching Iranian films and Japanese films and Korean films. He watched and loved all kinds of cinema.” Irani had contracted Covid-19 last year and recovered. The Mumbai Press Club was always there for him; after all, he’d been a member for 30 years, said chairman Gurbir Singh. “He was very independent-minded and immensely free spirited. I loved that about him,” Singh added. “As soon as he tested negative, for instance, he headed straight home, ignoring all pleas to stay in hospital longer and recuperate.” Chopra remembered how Irani always seemed to know even the most obscure films. “Because he had seen so much. His only focus was cinema,” she added. “He wasn’t distracted by anything else. I don’t think any of us critics will be able to fill his shoes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-film-critic-rashid-irani-passes-away-at-74-101627929992043.html
03-08-2021||Other||Announce J&K statehood before holding polls: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on Monday evening urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to expeditiously complete delimitation of assembly constituencies and announce statehood to Jammu and Kashmir before holding elections.At the all-party meeting on June 24, Modi had assured early delimitation followed by assembly elections and statehood at an ‘appropriate time’.“Our request is that the assurance given by the PM and Amit Shah at the all-party meeting should be implemented soon as it will benefit people. From the last four years, there is no elected representative in Jammu and Kashmir. As a result, the UT is lagging behind in development, education, health and other key sectors,” he said before leaving for Delhi on Monday evening.He said L-G Manoj Sinha’s administration cannot be an option to the elected representatives.“There is no MLA or assembly today... the ideal situation in any democracy is to have elected representatives. Bureaucracy is not meant to deal with people directly. Their job is indoor. Outdoor is for elected representatives, which is not the case in J&K for the past three-and-a-half-years,” he added.Azad said in the absence of elected government in J&K, the hardships of people has increased manifold.He reiterated five demands of Congress—expeditiously completing the process of delimitation of assembly constituencies followed by statehood, which he said “can be done in a single day” and then immediately conducting assembly elections.“The two other demands are of safeguarding land and jobs besides dignified return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits,” he said.He said, “The way forward for all of us is to give statehood before holding elections as it will ensure optimum participation of people. And it will be good for all: Centre, the state and the democracy.”Amid frequent disruptions by the Opposition in Parliament over Pegasus snoopgate, Azad said he wasn’t bothered by it.“I’m not affected by it as this has been going on for seven years now. I raised this (snooping issue) in the Parliament on more than one occasion but the government never said anything on it,” he said.He denied that Congress is a divided house in its backyard. “Every political party has weakness and deficiencies. Who knows what will happen in 2024 but we will strengthen the party. In Punjab, we will form government,” he said.On what changed after the PM’s all-party meeting, he said, “Delimitation panel came into action. It didn’t move out in the last one-and-a-half-year but it did immediately after the meeting. The panel expedited its work, visited J&K and met delegations. We hope statehood will be announced before holding elections,” he added.On the assembly seats between Kashmir and Jammu, Azad refused to draw any inference. He, however, said two things are mandatory while conducting the delimitation exercise — population and topography.“They are two important aspects in such an exercise. I hope the election commission should consider them while conducting the exercise,” he said.“If there is no Darbar Move, Jammu will be ruined. Kashmir will not be impacted but Jammu’s economy will be ruined as many Kashmiris come and take rented accommodations in Jammu,” he said.He referred to Ladakh where he said parties in Kargil and Leh, except the BJP, want statehood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/announce-j-k-statehood-before-holding-polls-ghulam-nabi-azad-101627929990999.html
03-08-2021||Other||Over 43% of targeted 35L beneficiaries in Lucknow have got their first dose||LUCKNOW Over 43% (15,12,029) eligible beneficiaries of the targeted 35 lakh in Lucknow have now received the first dose of Covid vaccination while over 13% (4,64,422) have been vaccinated completely, according to data released by the health department on Monday. “During the day, 13,910 more doses were administered. There were 7,530 male and 6,380 female beneficiaries,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge of vaccination in Lucknow. The day’s total vaccination count took the total doses administered to beneficiaries in Lucknow to 19,76,451. On Tuesday, the number of total doses is expected to cross the 20-lakh mark as the health department has organised a one-day mega vaccination drive at 147 vaccination centres. Experts said the pace of vaccination in Lucknow has to improve further keeping in view the probable third wave. “Vaccination is a safety shield against the Covid infection. All eligible need to ensure they get the jab,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “More private hospitals need to come forward and start Covid vaccination to increase vaccination coverage,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-43-of-targeted-35l-beneficiaries-in-lucknow-have-got-their-first-dose-101627929989236.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Over 8,000 register within an hour of DU opening its admissions portal||Over 8,000 students registered themselves for admissions on Monday evening, within an hour of the Delhi University (DU) launching its online portal inviting applications for around 70,000 seats in various undergraduate courses across its different colleges. The portal was launched around 8pm Monday, and, according to the data shared by the university, 8,087 candidates registered within an hour of its launch; the portal also saw a traffic of around 74,000 during that hour, an indication of just how highly sought after seats in Delhi University are. The last date to submit forms is August 31 and the first cutoff is expected in the second week of September. Last year, the first cutoff came out on October 10. Several aspirants were disappointed with the late launching of the portal. Divya Mondal, 18, who plans to apply for a degree in psychology, said, “We knew that the admission process would start today (Monday), but we didn’t know when. My friends and I have been trying since morning, but the link wasn’t working. When we visited college portals, they were asking us for a DU registration link which wasn’t made available till late evening.”Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the admission process is completely digital this year as well. Last year, since the admission portal was open for around three months, the university received over 353,000 applications for the 70,000 undergraduate seats— the highest the varsity has received till date.Except for 15 undergraduate courses to which students are admitted based on entrance test results, admissions to all other undergraduate courses in over 63 DU colleges are conducted through a merit-based process— on the basis of cutoff marks. Colleges are supposed to give admission to all applicants who meet the announced cut-off criteria. With around 80% of DU applicants graduating from CBSE-affiliated schools, the cutoffs this year are likely to remain on the higher side. Around 220,000 students scored 90% and above marks in CBSE Class 12 this year, with around 70,000 of them scoring around 95% or more.Last year, DU saw 100% cutoffs in certain courses after a gap of five years. Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College announced 100% marks in best of four subjects for admissions to three courses – political science, psychology, and economicsTo make things easier for applicants, the university has decided to retain last year’s eligibility criteria for various courses. The fee for merit-based and entrance-based admissions, registration, and cancellation will also remain the same. The university has also set up virtual help desks and installed interactive chatbots on the website to assist students and address their queries in real-time.DU will not conduct sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) trials this year due to the prevailing pandemic situation. Admissions to the 5% of supernumerary seats reserved under sports and ECA categories collectively in each course will be conducted on the basis of certificates, as it was done last year as well. However, the university has introduced a small relaxation this time.“Only for this year, the applicants will be allowed to upload certificates of the preceding four years — from May 1, 2017 to April 30, 2021. Students have to choose the best three years’ certificates and upload them,” said Rajeev Gupta, chairperson, admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-8-000-register-within-an-hour-of-du-opening-its-admissions-portal-101627929930011.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||‘Many in favour of reopening schools in Delhi', says Manish Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the government has been reviewing the suggestions received from the public on reopening of schools in the national capital and that several people were in favour of educational institutions reopening for in-person sessions, with riders.Sisodia, on July 29, invited suggestions from stakeholders, including parents and teachers, over the reopening of educational institutions, which have remained mostly shut since March 2020 on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.Classes briefly resumed in a staggered manner between January and February before being suspended again due to the fourth wave of the pandemic in the Capital. All classroom sessions are currently being held online in Delhi. According to officials, the government has so far received over 32,000 responses from stakeholders.“We are reviewing the suggestions from the public, some demanded the reopening (of schools), others didn’t. A decision is to be taken soon based on all factors (vaccines for children, daily case count, etc) and the feedback. Largely, it seems that many people want it (schools’ reopening),” he said while speaking to the media on Monday.Several states, including Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat, have either partially reopened schools or are in the process of doing so this month.The Uttar Pradesh government has announced plans to reopen schools for classes 11 and 12 from August 16.A senior government official, requesting anonymity, said, “The government will review all suggestions. An analysis of the suggestions will be placed before the DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) in the next meeting. Any decision will be taken after properly analysing the Covid-19 situation.”Meanwhile, the Directorate of Education (DoE) on Monday asked all heads of government schools to ensure that teachers and staff members have received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine.“It must be appreciated that the very idea of reopening schools for children will remain unviable as long as all our teachers do not get vaccinated, at least, once,” the DoE said in a circular. The school principals have been asked to submit a report on the vaccination status of their staff by August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-people-in-favour-of-schools-reopening-in-delhi-says-sisodia-101627929929524.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 35 fresh Covid cases, no death||Punjab on Monday reported 35 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the infection tally to 5,99,162.The state reported zero fatalities and the death toll stood at 16,294, according to a media bulletin.There are 473 active cases in the state, it said. Among the new cases, Kapurthala reported seven, Ludhiana five and Hoshiarpur four, it stated.With 63 more patients being discharged from hospitals, the count of recoveries reached 5,82,395, the bulletin said.Meanwhile chief secretary Vini Mahajan released revised Covid management guidelines for clinical guidance, management and treatment of the patients in the state. Chairing the virtual event attended by more than 220 participants, Mahajan urged all eligible persons aged 18 and above to get themselves vaccinated against Covid at the earliest, to follow Covid appropriate behaviour, maintain social distance to win the battle against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-35-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-101627929928447.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||'Sushil planned and executed murder as his ego couldn’t tolerate diminishing clout at stadium’: Charge sheet filed||Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar killed a fellow wrestler because his ego was bruised by rumours of his diminishing clout and he wanted to re-establish his authority among younger athletes, alleged the police in a charge sheet submitted to a Delhi court on Monday.Kumar, who won medals at the Beijing and London Olympics, is facing charges of murdering 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad inside Chhatrasal stadium, the arena that Kumar elevated to an iconic sporting destination and inspired a generation — before his dramatic fall from grace.“Kumar is the kingpin of the murder who hatched a conspiracy to kill Dhankad with the help of the co-accused... Since Kumar was the all-in-all of Chhatrasal stadium, therefore, he chose this place to execute his conspiracy,” said the charge sheet, seen by HT.The 1,495-page document, which named Kumar as the main accused and 12 others as accomplices, was filed before chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Satvir Singh Lamba. The charge sheet also said that police psychologists found him unremorseful.The 38-year-old wrestler, who won bronze at Beijing 2008 and silver at London 2012, is currently lodged in solitary confinement inside Tihar’s jail number two on charges of murder, abduction, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide and trespass.Kumar has also been booked for robbery, dacoity and dishonestly receiving stolen property. Five suspects are yet to be arrested in the case.FEELING HUMILIATEDThe charge sheet said Kumar and Dhankad had a dispute over a flat in Model Town. Dhankad was living as a tenant since December 2019, and was allegedly not vacating it despite Kumar’s repeated intimations.Though Dhankad vacated the house in March-April this year, Kumar felt humiliated by the tenants. Relations soured further, the document said, after rumours surfaced in Chhatrasal that Kumar, despite being called ‘guru’ by the younger athletes, was scared of them.The charge sheet said Kumar suspected some of his trainees and students were passing information about him to Dhankad — and this enraged him.“He started planning to strike them hard to teach them a lesson and re-establishing his supremacy,” said the document.“When he realised that some of his own students/trainees were passing information about him to Sonu and Dhankad, he felt betrayed and developed deep grudge against Sonu and Sagar for loss of respect in the eyes of his students and further betrayal by them by passing his information,” the charge sheet added.A notorious criminal, Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi ,who was arrested by the police on Saturday, also told the police that Kumar’s ego was hurt when Dhankad and Sonu refused to vacate his flat.Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Dhankad and two of his friends, Amit Kumar and Sonu Mahal, on the night of May 4 . Dhankad succumbed to the injuries later.The wrestler was arrested on May 23 after a 19-day run from the law that took him to Haridwar, Rishikesh and Punjab. At the time, the police had also announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for any information on him.“He called his associates with firearms etc. from different parts of Delhi as well as from Haryana and abducted victim/injured from different parts of Delhi i.e., from Shalimar Bagh, Delhi and Model Town-III, Delhi and taken them to Chhatrasal Stadium to execute his plan of conspiracy,” the charge sheet said.Kumar’s legal team rubbished the charge sheet.“We have come to know that the charge sheet has been filed in the court. However, we have not been supplied the copy of the same. It was through media that we came to know that Sushil Kumar has been chargesheeted by the investigating agency. We will chalk out the defence strategy only after going through the chargesheet along with statements of the witnesses. We are confident that the said chargesheet will not hold ground in the court of law as Sushil Kumar is not involved in the offence as alleged by the investigating agency,” advocate Pradeep Rana, counsel for Kumar, said.‘NO SIGN OF REMORSE’In the charge sheet, police told the court that Kumar was counselled by senior forensic assistants (psychology) who observed that he would lock his jaw and shoulders indicating he was withholding information about the brawl .The analysis also said that he showed no signs of remorse and behaved in an extremely egocentric manner. He thought that he was above the law and was extremely conceited about his name and reputation, the chargesheet said.The police said Kumar and his associate, Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, hatched a conspiracy to kill Dhankad and Sonu. They called another accused, identified as Kala or Joginder, and asked him to bring more men with arms to Chhatrasal stadium on May 4.Following this, a gang reached the stadium with Amit Kumar, who they had abducted on the way.According to the charge sheet, the victims were beaten for around 30-40 minutes with hockey sticks and baseball bats.“Some of the accused persons were carrying firearms with them and they threatened victims for dire consequences. Meanwhile, the gate of the stadium was also bolted/locked from inside and guards were directed to run away from the spot,” the charge sheet said.The police said Kumar and his associate, Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, hatched a conspiracy to kill Dhankad and Sonu. They called another accused, identified as Kala or Joginder, and asked him to bring more men with arms to Chhatrasal stadium on May 4.Following this, a gang reached the stadium with Amit Kumar, who they had abducted on the way.According to the charge sheet, the victims were beaten for around 30-40 minutes with hockey sticks and baseball bats.“Some of the accused persons were carrying firearms with them and they threatened victims for dire consequences. Meanwhile, the gate of the stadium was also bolted/locked from inside and guards were directed to run away from the spot,” the charge sheet said.According to the police, the call detail records and the video obtained from the CCTV cameras of the stadium, pointed out that all the accused were actively involved in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushil-planned-and-executed-murder-as-his-ego-couldn-t-tolerate-diminishing-clout-at-stadium-charge-sheet-filed-101627929927241.html
03-08-2021||Mumbai||Limited use of simulator irks Spicejet pilots||SpiceJet airline’s simulators are being used in a limited manner for the past four months, which has resulted in many pilots not being able to perform their proficiency checks and hence are not able to fly, said sources. Around 150 pilots are likely to be affected due to the non-availability of simulators. Pilot proficiency check (PPC) is conducted every six months, using a flight simulator to continue flying. Sources say that SpiceJet has grounded a good number of its aircraft on account of non-payment of lease rentals in addition to those planes which have been pulled out of operations due to low travel demand amid the pandemic. Due to this, a good number of its pilots are not getting to fly. The airline in an email to the pilots on Monday has assured them to address the issue soon. A SpiceJet spokesperson, in a statement to the paper, too confirmed the delay in the proficiency checks of some of its Boeing fleet pilots. “As most of you will be aware that our simulator availability has been somewhat limited for the past four months. This has resulted in several of you having lost your PPC currency,” SpiceJet said in an email sent to its pilots Monday morning. “We want to assure you that this situation is temporary and could persist for some more time. In the process we are also fully aware and sensitive to the matter that those pilots with PPC expired are not being paid any compensation under the prevailing salary payment scheme,” the letter stated. The spokesperson said, “The proficiency checks of some Boeing 737 Pilots have been delayed. All Boeing 737 Pilots will undergo their ‘recurrent training and proficiency checks’ as required by regulations as the quantum of flying increases over the coming weeks.” Senior airline sources alleged that SpiceJet has slowed down on proficiency checks for some of its pilots as a large number of its Boeing fleet is also grounded on account of non-payment of lease rentals apart from the general grounding due to low travel demand. Since pilots are not current and are not flying, the airline is not paying them as per their contract, they alleged However, SpiceJet spokesperson said that all pilots including those whose licence is not current (Proficiency Test not done) are also being paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/limited-use-of-simulator-irks-spicejet-pilots-101627929867880.html
03-08-2021||Other||Dissent surfaces in SGPC over of razing historic serai||Amritsar With Sikh bodies mobilising devotees against the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) plan to raze the Guru Ram Das Niwas, the oldest serai in the Golden Temple complex, dissent has surfaced within the apex gurdwara management body as well. In place of the existing building, SGPC plans to develop an 800-room inn, while keeping the outer appearance intact as per the present structure. A section of Sikh bodies and scholars are opposing this. They claim that the historic inn is a valuable piece of heritage. “The Guru Ram Das Serai requires renovation. It should be used as it is after its renovation. Devotees need history and solace and not a hotel-like feeling in a Serai. The feel of history is priceless,” said Kiranjot Singh, member and former general secretary, SGPC.In a social media post, she added, “The Guru Ram Das Serai can be transformed into a unique piece of heritage. The issue, however, is being unnecessarily politicised.” Another SGPC member and senior said, “History and heritage are the assets of a community and a guide for the future generations. I am sorry to say this, but Sikhs created history but have failed to preserve their heritage. The SGPC should dump the plan to demolish the inn. Reconstruction and restoration of the heritage buildings should not be done without the consent of the sangat.”“We should respect our historic buildings. The SGPC should expand accommodation capacity for the sangat visiting the Golden Temple, but not at the cost of historic buildings. Destruction of historic buildings is not legitimate at any cost. Many modern techniques are available with us to preserve heritage buildings,” he said, adding, “I will meet SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on this.”“Some people are trying to stop the reconstruction of the inn by saying that it has a connection with the 1984 holocaust. This happening, however, has connection with the entire surroundings of the Sri Harmandar Sahib,” the SGPC president had told a press conference a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dissent-surfaces-in-sgpc-over-of-razing-historic-serai-101627929688016.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Traders welcome GST Amendment Bill, offer suggestions to Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also handles the finance portfolio, on Monday met with representatives of market unions who thanked the government for passing the Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Delhi assembly on Friday. The bill, according to the government, is aimed at smoothening the taxpaying process, strengthening accountability and minimising room for tax evasions.“The Delhi government keeps taking suggestions from traders of Delhi from time to time and makes its policies based on that. The doors of the government are always open to traders and they can provide their suggestions any time,” Sisodia told traders.One of the key features of the GST amendment bill is the removal of the requirement of compulsory filing of audited annual accounts and reconciliation statements of the registered taxpayers, which had earlier made traders dependent on chartered and cost accountants.Further, in case of detention, seizure of goods, etc.,the goods can now be released on the payment of a penalty, as against the earlier practice of having to pay a tax as well as the penalty.GST expert and chartered accountant Rakesh Gupta, who attended the meeting with the deputy chief minister, said, “Lakhs of traders will benefit greatly from the bill, a positive consensus can be noticed among traders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traders-welcome-gst-amendment-bill-sisodia-says-delhi-govt-open-to-suggestions-101627929567803.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Only 35% children show up as govt schools reopen||With all the government schools in Mohali reopening for all classes on Monday, only 35% students showed up from across the district.On July 26, the schools were reopened only for Classes 10 to 12.There are a total 547 government schools including 438 primary, 46 secondary and 63 high schools in Mohali district and all were reopened on Monday. The institutions were closed in March this year after the second Covid wave surfaced and spread.Mohali’s district education officer (primary) Baljinder Singh said, “Though the attendance was thin on Monday, around 30% to 35%, the attendance will increase in the coming days.”A lot of parents were at the schools on Monday to check the elaborate arrangements made for social distancing in the classes besides making sanitizers available.A notice issued by the Punjab home affairs and justice department on July 31 said: “All schools are allowed to open for all classes from August 2. District authorities shall also continue to ensure strict implementation of all extant directives of the Union ministry of home affairs/state government on Covid appropriate behaviour including social distancing, wearing of face masks, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-only-35-children-show-up-as-govt-schools-reopen-101627929327750.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||Deadline to pay deposit for DDA flats extended||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has extended the deadline for people to pay the deposits of flats allotted under two housing schemes -- floated this year and in 2019 -- till the end of August and September respectively.DDA officials said that this has been done due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequents lockdowns that were effected to curb the outbreak.“We have been getting several requests from allottees to extend the deadline as they couldn’t get their loan processed due to the lockdown or had family members suffering from Covid-19. The deadlines have been extended on humanitarian grounds,” said a senior DDA official aware of the development.Close to 1,354 flats were put on sale in the DDA housing scheme 2021, which was launched in January, and 10,000 flats were put up for sale in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deadline-to-pay-deposit-for-dda-flats-extended-101627929087221.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||HC asks Delhi govt to consider opening all weekly markets||The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea by the Saptahik Patri Bazar Association, a body of weekly markets, which has challenged the decision of the government to open malls and markets, but not weekly markets.Justice Rekha Palli, while issuing notice to the city government, said street vendors should also take proactive steps to get themselves vaccinated in order to keep the much feared third wave of Covid-19 at bay.The high court asked the Delhi government to consider allowing more weekly markets, while observing that a strata of society makes purchases only from such markets since they could not afford the regular shops, malls and markets.“It is expected that DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) will consider this aspect in its right perspective. It is also expected that street vendors will also take proactive steps to get vaccinated so that we can avoid the third wave and the NCT of Delhi is not left facing a surge as was faced recently,” the court said in its oral order.Presently, with an eye on preventing an escalation in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has allowed weekly markets to open only with 50% vendors and only one market is allowed in each municipal zone.The court went on to clarify that “it was not asking the Delhi government to allow all weekly markets to operate”, while also adding that the authorities should consider the issue and take a decision and ensure that all conditions are in place to check crowding. Delhi government counsel Satyakam told the court that there has been a “sudden” uptick in Covid-19 cases, with Delhi currently reporting about 45-49 cases daily — the city recorded 85 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, according to the state health bulletin. He sought time to seek instructions and inform the court.Advocate Rajat Wadhwa, representing the weekly market association, said restrictions on other activities were relaxed on June 13 and vendors of weekly markets, who belong to the poorest of poor class, are left to suffer.When the court remarked that the opening of these markets will lead to crowding, Wadhwa said if only one weekly market is allowed to be open in a municipal zone, then there will be more crowding because people would rush to that single market to make all their purchases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-consider-opening-all-weekly-markets-101627929027196.html
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 15,355 Class-11 seats on offer in govt schools||After releasing the prospectus for Class 11 admissions, the UT education department has announced that there will be 15,355 seats up for grabs in Chandigarh’s government schools for the 2021-2022 academic session.Last year, 12,815 seats were available for admission in Class 11. The number was increased by 2,540 from last year after the government schools witnessed increased applications; many students from private schools also shifted to government institutions after Class 10.After facing the two Covid waves, it is anticipated that parents with financial troubles will also send their kids to government schools now.This year, there are 3,080 seats available in the sciences streams, 3,900 in commerce, 6,600 in humanities and 1,775 seats of vocational courses are available.Last year, there were 6,420 seats available in the humanities stream, 3,080 for sciences (both medical and non-medical), 1,755 for vocational courses and 1,560 for the commerce stream.While the number of seats for the humanities stream has increased slightly, the number of seats in the commerce stream has more than doubled.Speaking about this, UT director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We have converted three new schools into senior secondary schools in anticipation of increased admissions. To increase the number of seats in sciences, labs and other facilities have to be built which haven’t started yet. But for adjusting more commerce students, facilities will be adequate.”Admissions to open after Class 10 resultsThe admission process will open up two-three days after the Class 10 results are declared, which is likely in the next few days. Brar assured that adequate time will be given to students to apply before the admission process is concluded.Last year, 14,723 students had applied for seats in Class 11 in the first round of counselling and the number is expected to be higher this year. As much as 15% seats are reserved for scheduled castes, 2% for those with sports quota, 3% for physically challenged, 5% for the children of defence personnel and paramilitary, and 2% for the children/grandchildren of freedom fighters.One seat per class is additionally reserved for Kashmiri migrants; the department has cretaed 10 additional seats in skill courses for Muslim girls at the government senior secondary schools in Sector 45 and Manimajra.Currently, government schools have reopened for physical classes from Class 9 onwards, but attendance isn’t mandatory. Only one child is allowed to sit per bench to maintain social distance. All students have to wear a mask and bring a permission slip signed by their parents to enter the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class-11-15-355-seats-of-offer-in-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-101627928790271.html
03-08-2021||Lucknow||Monsoon session of Uttar Pradesh legislature to begin on August 17, Covid-19 protocol to be followed, says speaker||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Monday decided to convene the monsoon session of state legislature on August 17 to carry out legislative business and meet the constitutional requirement of not having a gap of six months between the last sitting and the date appointed for the next session.The state legislature’s budget session had ended on March 4 and the state government is constitutionally bound to hold the next session before September 3.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the meeting of state cabinet that approved the proposal to convene the monsoon session on August 17. As the monsoon session has been convened amid the fight against Covid-19, both houses of the state legislature will have to make special arrangements to follow the Covid-19 protocol during the session.“Yes, we are ready for the monsoon session. We will follow the Covid-19 protocol and a meeting of leaders of major opposition parties will be convened soon to seek their cooperation,” said Uttar Pradesh assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit.Besides carrying out other legislative business, including tabling of bills, the state government is likely to present the first supplementary demand for grants in the monsoon session as chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced important schemes in recent months. The schemes announced in recent months include the ones approved for the upbringing of children who lost their parents to Covid-19 and also the maintenance of women who lost their husbands during the pandemic and have no other means to sustain them. More announcements may be made in the coming weeks as the elections to the state assembly are due early next year.The state government may also have some important ordinances and bills to be tabled and passed by the state legislature during the monsoon session.The state cabinet recently approved draft bills to set up two separate pilgrimage development boards titled Uttar Pradesh Shri Chitrakoot Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad and Uttar Pradesh Vindhya Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad for conservation of cultural heritage and development of Chitrakoot and the Vindhyavasini region of Mirzapur as pilgrimage centres of international importance.The cabinet also approved the draft of the Uttar Pradesh Repeal Ordinance 2021 and, once promulgated, the state government may move a bill to replace the ordinance.The monsoon session may turn out to be the second last session of the present state assembly, the term of which ends early next year. The state government may also convene the winter session in the coming months to carry out its business before going for the polls.Special arrangements had to be made for the previous sessions of the two houses of state legislature. These include the budget session that concluded on March 4. Special arrangements were made for mandatory Covid-19 tests for all the members and the staff. The members who are over 65 years of age were allowed to attend the session online. The members may, however, be required to get vaccinated this time before they take part in the proceedings of two houses of the state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/monsoon-session-of-uttar-pradesh-legislature-to-begin-on-august-17-101627928787881.html
03-08-2021||Pune||Zika case detected in Pune dist: 49 samples sent to NIV for testing||In an ongoing survey in and around the village of Belasar, ground zero for the Zika virus in the state, the district administration has continued with its survey to monitor and test those most vulnerable to the Zika virus, and also those with symptoms. On Sunday, the administration sent 20 samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for testing, which doubled on Monday to 49 more samples.Since the first Zika virus case was reported from Belasar village of Purandar taluka on Sunday, the health officials and administration have been working on a war footing to detect and test everyone in the village and also everyone from the neighbouring villages that fall within a five-km radius of Belasar. On Monday, over 49 blood smear samples were collected for testing and sent to the NIV. Of these 49, two include those with fever, eight pregnant women, 13 high-risk contacts and 25 migrant workers. A total of 15 teams surveyed 3,430 people in six villages that fall within the 5-km radius. Amar Mande, Block Development Officer of Purandar taluka said, “As of now we have restricted the movement of outsiders into the villages, however, being the sowing season villagers do go to nearby fields for agriculture. The surveillance work which was going on will continue on Tuesday and Wednesday as well.”A central team consisting of three experts has been sent to the village which includes a public health expert from the office of Regional Director, Pune, a gynaecologist from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi and an entomologist from National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi. This team will work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union Health Ministry’s action plan for Zika management is being implemented. The team may also recommend public health interventions for the management of Zika virus cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/zika-ground-zero-49-samples-sent-to-niv-for-testing-on-monday-101627922906878.html
03-08-2021||Delhi||JD(U) delegation meets Amit Shah over caste census||As calls for a caste-based census grow, a delegation of Janata Dal (United) MPs, led by party president Lalan Singh, met Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday. The demand comes ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in five states, including in Uttar Pradesh where caste composition is perceived to play a key role in determining electoral outcome.On Saturday, the JD(U) passed a resolution in support of the caste-based counting of population, a move with potentially wide political ramifications, during its national executive meeting. The Bihar assembly has passed unanimous resolutions, in 2019 and 2020, favouring a census on the caste lines.“Bihar assembly has passed a resolution favouring caste-based census twice, which was supported by the BJP as well. All the party MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha signed the memorandum and explained all the benefits of caste-based census pointwise to the home minister,” Singh told reporters after the meeting, stressing that it is now up to the central government to take the final decision.According to a person aware of the details, Shah is learnt to have told the delegation that the Centre will discuss the issue.On Sunday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that he will seek an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue.Another ally of the BJP, the Republican Party of India, has also demanded a caste-based census.The last caste-based census was conducted in 1931. In 1941, however, the data was collected but not made public.At present, apart from the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes, the other backward castes are grouped under the OBC category.The Centre has said, as a matter of policy, there will be no enumeration as per caste other than that for SCs and STs for the census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/caste-census-jd-u-team-meets-shah-nitish-says-will-call-on-pm-101627920749464.html
03-08-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death: SIT submits report, two sent to judicial custody||The Dhanbad police on Monday sent the two accused in the additional district judge Uttam Anand death case into judicial custody after questioning, and the special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the incident submitted its report with the Jharkhand high court, which is likely to hear the case on Tuesday, officials said.The high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident on Thursday and directed the police to submit an investigation report by August 3. Later, on Friday, the Supreme Court also took cognisance of the incident and sought a report from the state, even after clarifying it was interested in the high court hearing related to the matter.Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Sanjiv Kumar confirmed the police have submitted the report to the high court but refused to share the details.Additional director general (operations) Sanjay Anand Lathkar told reporters that all possible angles to understand the reason behind the road accident that killed Anand is being investigated.The CCTV footage of the incident casts doubts over the nature of the accident as the auto-rickshaw that killed Anand is seen swerving to the extreme left of the road from the centre before hitting the judge down and fleeing from the spot.The two persons -- Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma -- riding the allegedly stolen three-wheeler, were arrested a day later, and the vehicle recovered. However, the police are yet to officially disclose the motive of the two persons behind the accident. “Different teams are looking into the incident. They have been given specific leads to work on. We are leaving no possible angle to crack the case,” Lathkar told reporters after a marathon meeting in Dhanbad on Monday.Meanwhile, since the SIT took over the case, around 250 persons were picked up for questioning in connection with the case. The Hemant Soren government on Saturday has recommended a CBI probe in the incident. However, the central investigation agency is yet to begin a probe in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-2-accused-sent-to-jail-police-submit-probe-report-101627920687311.html
03-08-2021||Other||Chak de in Tokyo: Proud of our daughters, say kin of women hockey players from Haryana||As the Indian women’s hockey team stormed into the semi-finals on Monday, beating World No 2 Australia by 1-0, their families back home revelled in joy.Nine players in the 16-member squad are from Haryana-- three of them from Kurukshetra’s Shahbad, three from Sonepat, two from Hisar and one from Sirsa.A ‘ziddi’ daughter to team India’s captain Led by skipper Rani Rampal, this is the first-ever Indian women’s hockey team to reach the semi-finals. “Our daughter has made us proud,” said an elated Rampal, the father of skipper Rani Rampal at his residence in Shahbad, almost 200 km from the national capital. Youngest of the three siblings, she started playing hockey in Class 5 after seeing girls her age going to play in a ground near her school. Her mother Ram Murti, 53, added it was her daughter’s ‘zidd’ (obstinacy) that brought her this far.“Our family saw tough times; we couldn’t even afford a hockey stick for our daughter. But she was determined and under the guidance of her coach, Baldev, she earned this honour,” said the 27-year-old skipper’s father who drove a horse-cart almost all his life to provide for the family.The proud parents added, “We were clueless about the sport. At a time when girls were not even allowed to step outside their homes, we encouraged her to pursue her dreams. We would urge all parents to treat their daughters the way they would treat their sons.” Another local girl, defender Navjot Kaur, 25, was also inspired by other girls going to a hockey ground near their house and started playing at the age of 10, her father Satnam Singh, a shocker mechanic said. Goalie Savita Punia’s saves did the trick While Gurjit Kaur scored the first and only goal of the match in the second quarter, Sirsa girl Savita Punia remained a solid wall as she saved nine goals in the match. Talking over the phone, 31-year-old Punia’s father, Mahender Singh Punia, who works as a pharmacist at a public health centre in Sirsa, said, “Savita has fulfilled the dream of her late grandfather who got her enrolled in hockey at the age of 14.”“In her early days, Savita used to travel 30 kms from Jodhkan to Sirsa to sharpen her hockey skills. Later, she got a hostel facility and she used to visit home on weekends,” he added.Her mother, Leelavati Punia, said,” My daughter had to carry an extra bag for the goalkeeping kit during her travel on private buses. Many times, the conductors refused to let her travel seeing her two big bags. She complained several times that the conductors used to kick her bag aside,” she added.The others in the team from the state include Navjot Kaur, Neha Goyal, Monika Malik, Navneet Kaur, Nisha, Sharmila Devi and Udita. Nisha’s father Sohrab Mohammad, said they had shifted to Sonepat from Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad 50 years ago. “I have three daughters and a son. My other two daughters are married. I was a tailor but due to paralysis, I have been unable to work since 2016. My wife Mahrun had started working at a factory but eventually, Nisha got a job in the Indian Railways through sports quota and became the sole breadwinner of the family. For the last many years, she has been waking up at 5 in the morning for practice sessions. I am hoping that the Indian girls will make us proud,” Sohrab added. Haryana sports minister and ex-captain of the Indian men’s hockey team, Sandeep Singh, also congratulated the team for the victory. “Hopefully this time, the Olympic medal will be ours,” he wrote on Twitter. Home minister Anil Vij also spoke to Rani Rampal over the phone to congratulate the team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chak-de-moment-for-families-of-women-hockey-players-from-haryana-101627907486921.html
