04-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC reserves verdict on Punjab govt’s plea on Suresh Kumar’s appointment||The high court on Wednesday reserved its verdict on a plea from the Punjab government against a single-judge order that had set aside the appointment of retired IAS officer Suresh Kumar as the chief principal secretary to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Since July 29, the case was being taken up on daily basis on Punjab’s request. Kumar’s appointment was quashed by a high court single-judge bench in January 2018. The bench had held that Kumar was holding the public office without authority and overriding powers were given to him without any accountability. Following the order, Kumar had resigned but rejoined after the order was stayed by the division bench on February 14, 2018, acting on a plea from the state. The case could not be taken up for hearing between March 2020 and July 2021 due to Covid pandemic. A 1983-batch IAS officer, Kumar was appointed immediately after the Congress government took charge in Punjab in March 2017. The post created for the first time in the state was stated to be equivalent to a cabinet secretary of the central government. Kumar was being paid ₹2.5 lakh per month. His appointment was challenged by one Ramandeep Singh, claiming that Kumar had become a “de facto CM” and was empowered by the government to take decisions on behalf of the CM, which is illegal. Former finance minister and Supreme Court lawyer P Chidambaram appeared for Punjab. After hearing arguments from all parties, the matter was reserved for final verdict on Wednesday by the bench of justice AG Masih and justice AK Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-reserves-verdict-on-punjab-govt-s-plea-on-suresh-kumar-s-appointment-101628101727514.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||St Stephen’s College admission process begins today, no entrance test this year as well||The admissions process to various undergraduate courses at Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College will begin on Thursday. This year, too, the prestigious college will not be holding entrance tests, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and all interviews will be conducted in the virtual mode, college officials informed on Wednesday.St Stephen’s College, being a religious minority institute (it is administered by the Church of North India), has its own admission process, independent of the cutoff lists announced by DU, and reserves 50% seats for Christian students. After releasing cutoffs for its undergraduate courses, the college conducts tests and interviews, which together have a weightage of 15 marks. The remaining 85 marks are decided on the performance of candidates in their Class 12 assessment.However, in view of the pandemic, the college last year decided to do away with the test and conduct interviews online and give the entire 15 marks on the basis of the interview alone, a process which will be repeated this year as well. “The college has asked all departments to prepare question papers for entrance tests as a backup, but keeping in mind the pandemic situation it has been decided the college will not be conducting entrance tests this year as well and the interviews will be conducted in online mode. The prospectus and forms will be available on the St Stephen’s website from 10am Thursday,” said college principal John Varghese. The last date of submitting applications is August 31. St Stephen’s offers around 450 seats in 11 undergraduate courses, including BA (Hons) in English, History, Economics, Philosophy, Sanskrit, BSc (Hons) in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry, among others. All applicants have to register with the Delhi University website before filling the St Stephen’s forms.Meanwhile, the college has started the registration process for admissions to its hostel for the academic session 2021-22. The last date of registration for availing of the hostel facility is Friday (August 6). In the application form the college has sought details about the vaccination status of candidates and asked them to upload the certificates, if vaccinated.“The idea is to collect data on the number of students who are vaccinated and who are not before the beginning of the academic session. The college can later facilitate vaccination of students who are yet to take the jab,” said a senior official at the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/st-stephen-s-college-admission-process-begins-today-no-entrance-test-this-year-as-well-101628101726491.html
04-08-2021||Other||Power thefts: Prayagraj south under power dept scanner||To check power theft menace in Prayagraj south, power department is planning to launch an intensive drive. The department believes that as many as 80 per cent people connected with its feeders in the area were either indulging in power theft or deliberately not paying the power dues. Superintending engineer Ashutosh Srivastava said that an exercise of investigating these feeders had been undertaken by the department and the connections were being checked. Power theft was recently detected in 18 homes of Dariyabad and Khalifa Mandi localities by the power department teams. He said Kalyani Devi and Chakia were the worst affected areas with as many as 89.43% locals connected to the local feeders were not paying their electricity bills. Likewise, residents of those getting power through Khusrobagh sub station’s Daiarashah Ajmal feeder were second on the list with 85.93% of the residents either stealing power or not paying the bills closely followed by residents connected to the department’s Arya Kanya college feeder (85.77%) at third spot, officials said citing departmental records. The power department has identified 40 such feeders of Kalyani Devi, Karelabagh, Naini and Rambagh areas where substantial power was being consumed but the department was failing to get the due revenue. Superintending engineer Ashutosh Srivastava said that an exercise of investigating these feeders had been undertaken by the department and the connections were being checked. Power theft was recently detected in 18 homes of Dariyabad and Khalifa Mandi localities by the power department teams. Officials said that now an extensive metre reading exercise was being undertaken in these areas with police protection as in most of these places, the power department teams had to face opposition and even threats from locals. Officials also said that recently when the power department team reached Khalifa mandi to read the metres, they were refused entry inside the homes by the locals, which finally forced the sub-divisional officer of Khusrobagh to seek police help and undertake the task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-thefts-prayagraj-south-under-power-dept-scanner-101628101666801.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 62 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported 62 new Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 5,99,266, according to a medical bulletin.No new Covid-related death was reported on Wednesday and the toll stands at 16,299, it said.There are 473 active cases in the state.Jalandhar reported 13 new infections, followed by eight in Patiala and seven in Ludhiana.With 52 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,494, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-registers-62-fresh-covid-cases-101628101610620.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Rush for DU: Over 98,000 register for 70,000 seats within two days of portal launch||Two days after registrations opened for undergraduate courses in over 63 colleges of Delhi University, more than 98,000 students have registered till 8pm Wednesday for the 70,000 available seats, said varsity officials. According to data collated by the university till 5pm Wednesday, 88,994 students registered for undergraduate courses, while 81,610 registered for postgraduate courses, and 11,665 for MPhil and PhD programmes. Sanjeev Singh, joint director at the university’s computer centre, said the number of undergraduate registrations jumped to 98,994 by 8pm – exactly 48 hours after the portal was launched on Monday. While interested candidates can apply till August 31, university officials did not rule out the possibility of extending the deadline. Last year, the registration window was open for around three months with the result that the university received 353,000 applications, its highest tally till date.A senior university official, requesting anonymity, said, “Since CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) is holding compartment exams between August and September, we will be waiting for a statutory decision from higher authorities on whether the registration deadline would be extended till then or not. DU entrance tests are also scheduled for September; so it is likely that the registration process might get extended.”Admissions to all undergraduate courses, barring 15, are conducted on the basis of merit and scores of the previous qualifying examination. Admissions to postgraduate, MPhil and PhD programmes, and the 15 undergraduate courses such as journalism, finance, and music, among others, are done through DU entrance tests (DUET), conducted by the National Testing Agency. This year, the entrance exams will be conducted in the last week of September.Since the admission process is completely online this year as well, the university has formed virtual help desks to address queries, including an interactive chatbot that has been introduced this year. “Most students want to ask about hostels, cutoffs, and whether they would get admission on the basis of their scores or not. We have also given the seat matrix of different colleges on the portal itself along with the annual fee for different courses. We have been holding virtual open houses as well to address queries of DU aspirants,” said Singh.Since DU does not follow a “first come, first-served” basis for undergraduate admissions, colleges are supposed to give admissions to all applicants who meet the announced cutoff criteria. With around 80% of DU applicants graduating from CBSE-affiliated schools, the cutoffs this year are likely to remain high. Around 220,000 students scored 90% and above marks in CBSE Class 12 this year, with around 70,000 of them scoring around 95% or more marks.Meanwhile, the varsity is also holding discussions on whether to conduct in-person classes for final-year students. “Discussions have been going on about conducting offline classes for students who need them. The final-year students, particularly those in science groups or requiring practical work, will be given priority followed by second- and third-year students,” said Rajeev Gupta, chairperson, admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rush-for-du-over-98-000-register-for-70-000-seats-within-two-days-of-portal-launch-101628101366438.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Police report in Jaipur Golden hospital deaths a cover-up, say families of the deceased||New Delhi: A day after the Delhi Police told a court that the deaths of 21 Covid-19 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital were not caused due to oxygen shortage, families of the people who lost their lives termed it a “whitewash” by the authorities and demanded a fair probe into the deaths.Erick Massey, whose mother Delphin Massey died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage, said the hospital director clearly mentioned that they did not receive oxygen.“The Centre had recently said that there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen that were specifically reported by states and union territories during the second wave of coronavirus. They are fooling us. The death summaries mention respiratory failure or cardiac arrest. It’s written in a technical language. We are demanding a proper investigation,” he said.The hospital clearly said they were operating on reserves, Massey said, adding that it meant oxygen pressure was low and people on ventilators would not have survived on low oxygen pressure, he said.Massey also said that the hospital itself told the police that the average mortality rate per day before and after the incident was only two and three, respectively, which increased to 21 within a span of seven to eight hours.“I don’t think 21 patients have died in any hospital across India due to natural causes during the entire pandemic. It seems like a cover-up,” he said.Jagjyot Singh’s mother Sarabjeet Kaur was one of the 21 casualties on the fateful night of April 24 when the Jaipur Golden Hospital waited for its oxygen stock to be replenished.“It looks like a drama. They are fooling us. How the deaths happened should be investigated. We are not able to sleep at night. My mother has been murdered by the hospital. They are trying to blame everything on protocols,” he said.Navya Awasthi, whose mother Seema Awasthi, also died at the hospital, said that the report showed how the government was “more concerned about whitewashing” the matter than about the plight of people.“The hospital is saying that they had to resort to reserves, yet there is no death due to oxygen shortage. Aren’t these two statements contradictory? It is very easy to pass the buck. Whenever any committee looks at the reports, they will just show the records that say cardiac arrest or respiratory failure was the cause of the death. But what led to the cardiac arrest or respiratory failure of 21 patients,” she asked.In its status report in before a magistrate on Tuesday, the Delhi Police said the deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital were not caused by oxygen shortage. “On scrutiny of death summaries of all deceased persons, it revealed that no death of patient was caused due to shortage of oxygen,” DCP Pranav Tayal told the court. In the same status, the hospital has stated that there was a link between inadequate oxygen supply and deaths of the patients as no oxygen was supplied to them for 30 hours despite several alerts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-report-in-jaipur-golden-hospital-deaths-a-cover-up-say-families-of-the-deceased-101628101006350.html
04-08-2021||Pune||Delhi woman, 30, dies after falling into gorge at Jivdhan fort||PUNE: A 30-year-old woman died after she fell from Jivdhan fort in Junnar tehsil, Pune district on Wednesday, police officials said.According to the police, Ruchika Seth hailed from Delhi and had recently completed her doctoral research from the Inter-University Centre of Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) in Pune.“Recently, she came to Mumbai from Delhi along with her brother. While brother stayed in Mumbai with his friends, she, her friend along with a couple, came to Nane ghat area on two motorcycles where they stayed at a hotel. On Wednesday early morning, all four trekked to the Jivdhan Fort and while coming down, Seth slipped on a slippery patch and fell into a gorge,” said Vikas Jadhav, police inspector, Junnar Police Station.He added that her friends then raised an alarm and with the help of locals, she was lifted out. But she had succumbed to her injuries.“The family has been informed and they are on their way to Pune. Once they come, the process of performing the autopsy will start,” Jadhav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-dies-after-falling-into-gorge-at-jivdhan-fort-101628099085111.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai opens admission to traditional courses||Granting relief to degree college aspirants in the city, state higher education minister Uday Samant on Wednesday clarified that no entrance exam will be conducted for admissions to non-professional courses. Soon after, the University of Mumbai (MU) issued a circular outlining the admission schedule. Sale of forms by colleges will commence on Thursday until August 14. Registration for pre-admission enrolment will be online on Thursday and will remain open till August 14. Aspirants can submit their pre-enrolment and admission forms starting Friday till August 14.With results for the higher secondary certificate exam announced on Tuesday, students and colleges had been awaiting clarity on how admissions to traditional courses such as Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Commerce (BCom), etc were to happen. Following a meeting with vice-chancellors of non-agricultural universities, Samant on Wednesday evening tweeted that admissions to traditional courses would be based on aggregate marks scored by students in Class 12.A senior official from MU said, “Admissions will go on as usual. There will be no entrance exam. Merit lists will be prepared based on students’ marks in Class 12.”The first merit list will be issued on August 17, followed by the second list on August 25, and the third and final merit list on August 30. Every year, merit lists are drawn up based on scores of candidates in their Class 12 exams. However this year, in the absence of an actual exam and with the boards assigning moderated marks to students, some colleges had pushed for entrance exams. Principals had said that without entrance exams, preparing the merit list would be difficult and colleges would not be able to screen students well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-opens-admission-to-traditional-courses-101628098550671.html
04-08-2021||Gurugram||New policy allows industrial clusters in agri zones||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has announced a new policy to facilitate the setting up of industrial clusters and factories in agriculture zones across the state, officials said on Wednesday.Developers and owners of such units will need to pay change of land-use (CLU) fee and external development charges, calculated on the basis of the zone, a notification issued by Makrand Pandurang, the director of the town and country planning department, on July 30 stated.The prime reason for framing this policy is that many prefer to set up industrial units in agriculture zones or outside the controlled areas due to high plot costs in industrial estates developed by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), the notification stated.An order issued by Pandurang stated, “All cases related to grant of CLU permissions for setting up industrial unit/clusters in agriculture zones of hyper, high, medium and low category zones, towns be examined with aforesaid amendment.”A senior DTCP official said that this policy would ease the way business is done in the state as industry owners can simply plug and play their unit in a plot developed in a cluster, which can be done by a developer or a large company developing warehousing or infrastructure. “If an MSME [micro, small and medium enterprises] owner does not want to get into CLU permissions and other such issues, he/she can simply buy a plot in such a cluster and start work. The rate of plots in such zones would also be lower,” the official said, wishing not to be named.In Haryana, the urban areas in and around Manesar and Gurugram are classified as hyper zones, while the Faridabad-Ballabgarh complex, Panchkula, Kalka, Pinjore Gual Pahari-Balola Bandhwari complex in Gurugram district, Sonepat-Kundli urban complex and Panipat are classified as high-potential zones.According to the new norms, the minimum and maximum area for setting up an industrial cluster or warehouse range between two acres and 25 acres, depending upon the category of town. The minimum size of an industrial unit has been fixed at 0.5 acres and the cluster also must have an approach road of 18 metres. For individual units, the minimum area ranges from 0.2 acres to five acres. The industrial clusters or units must also be located at a distance of at least one kilometre from the urban areas of Gurugram.DTCP officials said that a sinking fund for the creation of infrastructure would also be created and owners or developers will have to pay external development charges to the department. A rebate would be given to the property owners depending upon the zone in which they set up the industry.Manmohan Gaind, the vice-president of Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said that this policy would be of immense help to industries provided the government also provides requisite infrastructure. “The rate of plots in urban areas is high and industry needs land at a reasonable cost. The catch is that electricity, roads and other facilities must be assured,” he said.Industry owners also said that getting CLU permissions should also be made easier.JN Mangla, the president of Gurgaon Industrial Association, said that financial incentives to industries, tax rebates and benefits on a par with the industries in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand should be given. “If the right amount of fiscal incentives are given, the industry will move to backward and rural areas and help generate revenue and employment,” said Mangla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/new-policy-allows-industrial-clusters-in-agri-zones-101628098549276.html
04-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Inoculation of health workers to be done by August 15||The health department is aiming to complete the vaccination process of healthcare workers by August 15 and expedite the process among front-line workers, officials said on Wednesday. With this, the vaccination coverage in the district is expected to reach almost 90%.“Some of the healthcare workers might have moved to other cities or taken their second shot in other centres or clinics or they might be outsourced employees. There could be multiple reasons for their pending vaccination status on Co-WIN. They will be contacted to enquire about their second dose inoculation and based on that, the vaccine beneficiaries list will be updated by government and private facilities. Once the list is revised, the vaccination coverage can go above 90%,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram said during a task force meeting held with private hospitals on Wednesday.According to data available on the Co-WIN platform, there are 50,185 healthcare workers, of whom 43,539 have taken the first dose and 39,657 their second dose. Of 54,437 front-line workers, 45,369 have taken the first dose and 33,644, their second dose.The Covid-19 vaccination drive started with the inoculation of healthcare workers on January 16, followed by the vaccination of frontline workers from February.To accelerate the vaccination among front-line workers, an action plan has been prepared by the health department. “A team of vaccinators and data entry operators will be constituted to visit different government departments to cross-check vaccination status and trace employees who are to be inoculated with the second dose. In a day, at least two departments will be covered in vaccination camps that will be held in the morning and evening. Departments can inform their workers a day in advance to take their vaccine shot,” said Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer.For the general population, private hospitals were directed to hold vaccination camps in localities where they conducted first-dose camps. “Hospitals need to ensure all those inoculated in these camps with the first dose should get their second jab in a timebound manner,” said Yadav.Hospitals were directed to submit an action plan in this regard to the health department.In the district, 1,889,344 doses have been administered since January 16, of which 1,447,495 were first doses and 441,849 were second doses, according to the data available on the Co-WIN dashboard.Based on the 2011 census, about 78% of the 1,741,000 population of the city has taken its first dose.On Wednesday, 7,632 vaccine shots were administered at government health centres and 9,689 at private hospitals. Currently, 30 of the 86 private hospitals empanelled with the state government are administering vaccines in the district.For the vaccination drive on Thursday, the health department has reserved 4,400 vaccine doses to be administered as the first dose and 5,250 as the second dose at government health centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19inoculation-of-health-workers-to-be-done-by-august-15-101628098548145.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||At least allow fully jabbed on Mumbai local trains, passengers association demands||While the Uddhav Thackeray-led government has chosen not to reopen local trains for general public amid worries over safety, commuters are getting desperate in the absence of a transport network that can cater to such a huge number of travellers daily. The Mumbai suburban train network is shut due to Covid-19 pandemic for over 15 months. Before the local trains were closed for general public in April 2020, about 8 million people used to travel by the suburban network. The suburban network is a mass transit system spread across 456km and connects the city to the expanding Mumbai Metropolitan Region through 140 stations. With an annual ridership of nearly 2.9 billion, Mumbai’s local trains are one of the world’s busiest mass transit systems – 3,141 train services were operated on the Central and Western Railway before the pandemic. The network is suspended for the general public for the second time in over three months. Train services were suspended on April 15 after an increase in cases in the city. Earlier, the local train network was suspended for 10 months in March 2020 owing to the spread of coronavirus and resumed only in February 2021. However, even as the state partially lifted the lockdown restrictions from August 3, it chose not to reopen local train travel for general public. The decision of not allowing the general public to commute by local trains has irked passenger associations who had asked the Maharashtra government to permit fully vaccinated passengers to travel by local trains. The associations have stated that commuters approach them desperately daily. “Local trains are the only way through which the general public can commute. Not only do the trains save time, but it is also the most affordable public transport. The government is allowing shops to stay open till 10pm. People working in shops in the city come from areas like Thane, Mulund, Karjat and Kasara. They do not have the money to travel everyday by buses for hours to reach their workplace. This is why we have demanded that vaccinated passengers be allowed to travel by local trains,” said Subash Gupta, ex-member of National Railway Users Consultative Council (NRUCC) and president of Rail Yatri Parishad. Another passengers’ association has called for a protest at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) on August 15. “We will register our protest outside CSMT on August 15 by wearing black ribbons,” said Abhijeet Dhurat, president, Maharashtra Railway Passengers’ Federation. Physicians have however stated that despite being fully vaccinated, there is still a 30% chance of the infection. “The second wave has taught us that spots that saw gatherings in large numbers witnessed a spurt in the number of cases. At least 75% of Mumbai’s citizens need to be vaccinated with both the doses to achieve herd immunity. Mumbai is more densely populated than other cities across the world, which is why if the general public are allowed to commute, stringent checks of vaccinated passengers and increase in vaccinations have to be undertaken,” said general physician Dr Shahid Barmare. “The decision on allowing general public should be taken by doctors. The doctors and the government agencies will be able to analyse the risks and the benefits. Government agencies will also have to work to control crowds inside train compartments,” said urban planner Sulakshana Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-least-allow-fully-jabbed-on-mumbai-local-trains-passengers-association-demands-101628098546983.html
04-08-2021||Gurugram||Civic agencies to survey all trees, monitor growth||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will survey all trees in the city after the monsoon to track their growth, officials said on Wednesday.Subhash Yadav, the nodal officer for the environment and sustainability wing of MCG and GMDA, said that this will help the departments concerned track their growth better and help them locate dry or dead trees and also those that need attention. For the exercise, a mobile application developed by the GMDA to count and monitor the growth of trees will be used.“Every tree in the GMDA and MCG areas will be numbered and details, such as the size of the tree, the girth of tree, species, age and location, will be noted on the mobile application to detail the condition of each tree. After this process, if any tree falls naturally or is cut for some reason, the details will also be mentioned on the application,” said Yadav.Officials said that tenders for the exercise will be issued in October and after studying the database, interventions to improve the green belts in the city will be done on a bi-yearly basis. The data will also be shared with the forest department so that trees that are 70-100 years old can be given the necessary attention.Officials said that saplings planted this season will also be included and the work will start after monsoon to give them time to grow a bit.Vijay Dhasmana, an eco-restoration practitioner, said, “A tree census is good as it helps in understanding what is needed to improve the biodiversity of an area, especially in cities like Gurugram. But we also need to understand why trees die. I have noticed many trees dying on the Ghata road. These trees were brought from high moisture areas and planted here, due to which the weather, water or soil conditions do not match. Authorities should plant the right species for our ecosystem so that they survive.”In a related development, the forest department has allowed the GMDA to auction over 90 dead and dry trees from the Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29, Biodiversity Park in Sector 52 and Tau Devilal Park in Sector 22.Officials said that the dry trees are mostly used as fuelwood. “These trees are auctioned periodically as they can fall during stormy weather and lead to an accident. No green trees will be cut in the process,” a senior official of the GMDA said.Experts said that dead or dry trees can pose a threat to daily life, especially on busy traffic roads and residential colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/civic-agencies-to-survey-all-trees-monitor-growth-101628098545837.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Pink Line to be longest corridor after Trilokpuri zone opens||Delhi Metro's Pink Line is all set to become its longest operational corridor from Friday onwards, which would also save time and money for commuters as after much-delay the Trilokpuri gap on the line has been plugged.The Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor or the Pink Line spans 38 stations. However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had proved a bottleneck for the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) authorities for a long time, due to which the line had remained disjointed for some distance there.The opening of the Trilokpuri section, about 289 metre, between the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, on August 6 will fully link the entire 59 km-long Pink Line for the first time.And, it will also connect important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said.The much-delayed completion of Pink Line will also immensely benefit residents of east Delhi or people travelling to that region, as the gap at Trilokpuri was causing the corridor to be operated in two separate segments.The gap in the line was expected to be plugged by September 2020, but it had got delayed due to repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic, sources had said early October.Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018. And, all stations on the line have been opened.The bottleneck near Triloklouri station had arisen due to multiple issues, including land acquisition, resulting in a portion of metro segment, then about a few kilometres remaining incomplete, rendering the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake station, a terminus.After its operationalisation on August 6, this section will connect the two ends of the Pink Line and provide seamless connectivity to a long range of localities in the National Capital Region. DMRC authorities on Wednesday said with this seamless connectivity, commuters will also save time and money.There will be reduction in travel time of about 20 minutes, from HUDA City Centre (Gurgaon) to Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake or vice versa, as after opening of this section, there will be only one interchange station i.e. Delhi Haat-INA instead of two interchange stations as of now, officials said.Travelling from Raja Nahar Singh-Ballabhgarh (Faridabad) to Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake or vice versa, will take 25 minutes less as after opening of this section, there will be only one interchange station i.e. Lajpat Nagar instead of two interchange stations presently.And, commuters travelling from NOIDA City Center or Botanical Garden to Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake or vice versa, will save 20 minutes as after opening of this section, there will be only one interchange station i.e. Mayur Vihar Poket-1 instead of two interchange stations as on date.Also, their will be travel time reduction of about 20 mins both ways, on Delhi Haat-INA to Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake or Lajpat Nagar to Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake routes.The full connectivity of Pink Line will also save money for riders, as there will be reduction in fare by ₹30 for Trilokpuri to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 section and vice versa, officials said."Reduction in fare by ₹20 will be in 38 sections (to and fro) and important key locations like Lajpat Nagar, Noida City Centre, Botanical Garden, Mohan Estate to Trilokpuri or vice versa; reduction in fare by ₹10 will be in in 524 sections (to and fro)," the DMRC said.Presently, 43 trains, including standby trains, operate on these two separate sections of Pink Line -- Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 section has 30 trains including standby ones; Trilokpuri to Maujpur/Shiv Vihar has 13 trains, including standby ones, the officials said.After the integration of missing link, same set of trains will be utilised. However, detailed operational plan is yet being chalked out, a senior official said.The Pink Line is now going to be connected end-to-end, establishing it as the longest operational line of the network, he said.This corridor will further be extended from Majlis Park to Maujpur in Phase-IV, making it the longest single metro corridor in India at approximately 70 km. After completion of the Phase-IV, the Pink Line will also become the only Ring Corridor of Metro in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-pink-line-to-be-longest-corridor-after-trilokpuri-zone-opens-101628097070823.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Will be forced to protest if curbs are not relaxed, hoteliers warn Maharashtra govt||Hoteliers have warned the state that they will be forced to resort to an agitation, if the government does not relax the Covid lockdown norms to allow them to operate till 10pm. They are angry as the state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have allowed relaxations in timings for all other establishments, except them. In Mumbai, the BMC has allowed extension in timings till 10pm for all shops, while hotels have been asked to stick to the 4pm deadline. Office-bearers of various hotel associations like Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR) and National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) met in Bandra and expressed strong reservations against what they called “discrimination”. Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR, said, “We want to meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray or tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and want them to intervene. We are on a par with shopkeepers and should be allowed to run till 10pm till the situation stabilises.” Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson, HRAWI, said, “The government should understand that it concerns the livelihood of both the owners as well as workers. There is no way we can continue like this.” He said the hotels are ready to follow all Covid-19 protocols. Protests have already started, as around 600 hoteliers from Boisar, Vasai, Virar, Palghar and Dahanu areas affiliated to HRAWI organised a silent protest. They submitted a memorandum to the Palghar collector demanding relaxation of timings. They pointed that last year, a hotelier from Virar committed suicide at his workplace due to the financial crisis during the lockdown.“We are facing a lot of pressure from our lenders,” said Pravin Shetty, a hotelier who took part in the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-will-be-forced-to-protest-if-curbs-are-not-relaxed-hoteliers-warn-maharashtra-govt-101628098187651.html
04-08-2021||Lucknow||SHO shunted out after cab driver alleges harassment||LUCKNOW: Station house officer (SHO) of Krishnanagar police station, Mahesh Chandra Dubey, was shunted out on Wednesday in wake of the controversy over the harassment of a cab driver who was thrashed publicly by a woman at Awadh crossing here on Saturday. The driver had alleged harassment by cops and claimed that he was made to pay ₹10,000 to release his cab from the police station. The allegations were being looked into, said officials.Dubey was replaced by Alok Kumar Rai. The action came two days after an FIR was registered against the woman for assaulting the cab driver at the traffic signal near Awadh crossing.The Krishnanagar police had issued a challan to the cab driver and two of his relatives for breach of peace, after an altercation with the woman. The incident occurred when cab driver Sahadat Ali stopped his cab before the woman who was crossing the road near Awadh crossing.Apparently enraged over it, the woman started beating him after pulling him out of the cab before a traffic cop. Subsequently, the police penalised Sahadat and two of his relatives.However, when the CCTV footage of the incident went viral on Monday, several people took to social media saying that the driver was not at fault, yet he was assaulted by the woman in public. They also demanded immediate arrest of the woman.The cab driver filed a police complaint against the woman and wrote to the commissioner of police DK Thakur, alleging that he was also harassed by the police. Thakur sought a report from the Krishnanagar police station on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-shunted-after-cab-driver-alleges-harassment-101628098186452.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s BYL Nair Hospital to turn 100 next month||“I have seen the college grow with time from a sapling to a fragrant tree. Hundred years ago, it was just a one-storey building with 20 beds which has now turned into a major civic-run hospital. Now, when I look at the towering building of the hospital, it gives me goose bumps,” said Dr Rustom Phiroze Soonawala, a 93-year-old alumnus (1948 batch) of Topiwala National Medical College and its associated BYL Nair Charitable Hospital, Mumbai Central.On September 4, the hospital will turn a century old, holding testimonies of untold stories starting from the freedom movement, advancements in the field of medicine, and more recently the Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, BYL Nair Hospital kick-started its month-long centenary celebrations with the inauguration of the genome sequencing machine by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The hospital stands on Dr AL Nair Road, which is just a five-minute walk from Mumbai Central railway station. Every day, the hospital records more than 2,000 patient footfalls at their outpatient department (OPD). But very few know that this is the first hospital in the state that started with a nationalistic fervour, with the motto “For the Indians, By the Indians”, during the freedom movement against Britishers in the 1920s. Back in that time, the island city had only one medical college —Grant Medical College (GMC) with its attached Sir JJ Hospital. As India was still under British rule, Indian medical students and doctors faced discrimination at the hands of foreign faculty members at GMC.“Only a handful of Indian students were allowed to study medicine in GMC. But no Indian doctors were appointed at JJ hospital, irrespective of their academic excellence and dedication. It was at this time, that India was swept by nationalism under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi. Local nationalist leaders raised the need for a hospital free from discriminations,” said Dr Henal Shah, head of psychiatry department at Nair hospital.Through donations from Tilak Swaraj Funds, the National Medical College was established in a rented building of a pharmaceutical company in Byculla on September 4, 1921. As all medical colleges need to have a hospital to practice, People’s Free Hospital was set up at Chinchpokli with 20 beds. This laid the foundation of the first Indian medical college and hospital in the state.“Four years later, in 1925, Dr AL Nair, proprietor of Powell and Company which dealt in medical supplies and equipment, donated two acres of land, on which the hospital stands today. He also helped the hospital with equipment,” said Dr Rajan Nerurkar, head of pharmacology department of the hospital. It is this person after whom the road Dr AL Nair Road was named. Soon, the hospital faced a severe financial crunch and was struggling to function. “It was during this time that MN Desai, popularly known as Topiwala Desai, made a generous contribution of ₹5 lakh to the college. This initiated the expansion plan of the medical college along with its hospital,” said Dr Shah. “To honour him, the college was named Topiwala National Medical College.”But as the University of Bombay was under the control of the British, the National Medical College was affiliated with the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Bombay. Students were admitted for Licentiate Medical Practitioner (LMP) course, which was just a diploma course in medicine. It was in 1946, when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) took over charge of the hospital, University of Bombay affiliated the college and MBBS course was initiated the next year. “Since then, we have come a long way. Now, we have 16 buildings on the campus with a 1,400-bed hospital,” said Dr Rerurkar.Nair hospital is also the first civic-run hospital that performed open cardiac surgery in Mumbai, procured the first CT scan machine and started India’s first audiology and speech therapy. The hospital’s contribution during the Covid-19 pandemic is also phenomenal. It was the first hospital that was converted into a dedicated Covid hospital in Mumbai in April 2020. The microbiology team of the hospital runs the molecular diagnostic reference laboratory in Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, Chinchpokli — one of the high-tech laboratories in the state. On March 11 last year, the laboratory detected the first confirmed Covid-19 case in the city.“Since the outbreak of the virus last year in March, we have treated over 18,000 Covid-19 patients. We were the model Covid-19 hospital where around 600 resident doctors along with specialists worked round the clock for Covid patients,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. “We also made records by delivering over 1,000 babies of Covid-infected mothers,” he added.“We have recently procured genome sequencing machines which will help us identify unknown variants of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. We are the first laboratory in the city to do genome sequencing,” said Dr Jayanti Shastri, in-charge of the lab and head of the microbiology department of Nair hospital.A month before it turns 100, Dr Ajit Desai, a senior cardiologist and an alumnus of 1971 batch said, “Nair is not just a medical college, it is an emotion to us. We are what we are because of the faculty. Even after so many years, the alumni of the college are closely associated, like a family. I am proud of my college.”“In our college days, we didn’t stress about grades”Dr Rustom Phiroze Soonawala was 20-years old when he sought admission at Topiwala National Medical College, which was then named National Medical College, in 1948. He did not at the time that after 43 years, he would be awarded Padma Shri for his work in the field of family planning. His father, Phiroze Framji Soonawala, was the head of medicine at the college. When he was younger, he would often accompany his father to the hospital, which developed his inclination towards medicine. The college started MBBS degree course in 1947 and his elder brother Jamshed Phiroze Soonawala took admission in the first batch. Next year, he enrolled for the degree as well.Talking to HT, the 93-year-old gynaecologist said, “During our time, there wasn’t so much pressure of grades. We were motivated by our passion. I had only scored 51% but got through the medical college. Those were the best days of our lives.”Along with their medical studies, the students were equally involved in extra-curricular activities, especially sports. Each year, the students competed with the other two medical colleges— Grant Medical College and Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College. “Students from Nair college always outshined in sports. We had medical students who had even performed at state-level in tennis and football,” he said.During his batch, there were around 50 students who were pursuing MBBS with him. “We enjoyed our life along with studies. There was no unhealthy competition. The group was small, so we stayed like a family. The focus was more on practical than grades, which helped mould us into better doctors,” he said. He said he gets nostalgic when he visits his college and passes by places where he used to hang out with his friends. “With every passing year, we have grown together. Now, the college has so many buildings, beaming with young students who remind me of my old days,” he said. In 1991, he won Padma Shri for introducing an Intrauterine contraceptive device that allowed women to plan their pregnancy. He has also been well associated with the Hindi-film industry for years. He delivered celebrity children including Ranbir, Kareena and Karishma Kapoor.“Nair is an emotion to us” To well-known cardiologist Dr Ajit Desai, Topiwala National Medical College is not just an educational institute but an emotion. He recalls how he along with his friends would hang out on a small porch at the expanding college campus. He was nominated for Padma Shri in 2018.Desai joined the college in 1971 along with 70 other students. “That group had become a family. We had a tremendous bond. There was a certain admission quota for students from Africa, so we really enjoyed the amalgamation of cultures,” he said. Along with studies, the college has several co-curriculum activities including drama. Every year, for four days, students used to organise dramas at Rabindranatya Mandir. “As the campus was still limited, we had one porch where, during off-duty hours, we used to sit with friends. So many love stories between the students started from there who are happily married together,” he said. In 2005, the TM Nair Medical College Global Alumni Association was established. “Even after years of graduating, the alumni who live in different parts of the globe are closely associated with each other,” said Dr Desai, who is the president of the association. Until 1994, students with 15 years of residency in the city were qualified for admission. “Now, students from all across the country come to study at the premier medical college which has a remarkable teaching faculty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-byl-nair-hospital-to-turn-100-next-month-101628098005583.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Elghar Parishad: HC reserves orders on Sudha Bharadwaj’s default bail plea||The Bombay high court (HC) has concluded hearing the petition of Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj and reserved its order. Bharadwaj had sought default bail in light of the fact that the November 2018 order authorising the charge sheet and extension was illegal, as the judge who signed the orders was not competent and only a special judge under the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act could have heard the same as she was booked under a scheduled offence under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The state and NIA, however, refuted the claims and stated that though the offences were under the UAPA till the investigation was taken over by NIA pre-trial procedures could be heard and decided by the sessions court. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the bail application of Sudha Bharadwaj and the appeals by eight other Elgar Parishad accused, was informed by advocate Dr Yug Choudhry that the default bail application was in light of the fact that the charge sheet authorisation and extension in November 2018 were granted by sessions judge KD Vadane who was merely an additional sessions judge, but claimed and signed as a special judge. Choudhry had submitted that the information had been received through multiple queries under the Right to Information Act from the HC registry which showed that at the time of passing the orders Vadane was not a special judge. Choudhry had submitted that apart from the orders of Bharadwaj, orders for eight other Elgar Parishad accused were also signed similarly, hence there was illegality in the orders and Bharadwaj was eligible for default bail. He submitted that as per the NIA Act only a special judge could preside and decide on proceedings for offences under the UAPA. After the bench verified the submissions, the state had argued that while there was an irregularity in Vadane passing the orders, there was no illegality as claimed by Bharadwaj and submitted that as per rules the application filed by Pune police for authorising the charge sheet and extension could be heard by a sessions judge or even a magistrate though the offences may be under UAPA. The NIA through additional solicitor general Anil Singh had argued that the question of a special judge presiding over hearings would be applicable only after the NIA took over the investigation or the trial had commenced. He supported the state argument and said that there was no illegality in Vadane signing the orders. He also submitted that the application for default bail was not valid till 90 days for applying, as the same had not expired since Bharadwaj was arrested as she had been kept under house arrest for a few days. Those days could not be taken into consideration while calculating the days of arrest. The arguments concluded on Wednesday and the bench reserved its orders, which will be passed in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elghar-parishad-hc-reserves-orders-on-sudha-bharadwaj-s-default-bail-plea-101628097345299.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Why is double masking important now more than ever?||Wearing two masks at a time is an effective technique to improve the fitting and protection provided to the face. Yet, as Covid-19 cases decline in Mumbai, many of us who had started using double masks, have now returned to single masks. Double face coverings, however, are important now, more than ever, as the highly infectious Delta variant continues to spread at the same time when the city is unlocking, and only 10% of the city’s population is fully vaccinated. As we breathe, talk, cough or sneeze, we expel tiny droplets into the air. Masks mainly help in trapping these droplets into the fibrous layers. The wearer of the masks is not only protected from coming in contact with such droplets suspended in the air or from a direct splash while interacting with someone, but they also prevent letting their own droplets out into the air. But all of this depends on the type and fitting of the masks. An Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bhubaneshwar study published in the journal Physics of Fluids last month stated that combining two masks provides an additional layer of protection and better fitting to minimise the leakage of droplets expelled during coughing, sneezing, talking, and breathing. Such leakages may cause the airborne transmission of the Covid-19 virus. The researchers used mannequins along with breathing simulators for the study. They used a combination of water and glycerin to create a fog in order to visualise the droplets. After thoroughly analysing the various combinations of masks, the IIT researchers concluded that a combination of N95 and a cotton mask was the best for safety as well as breathing comfort. While other combinations like surgical mask and N95 or surgical mask and cotton mask minimised leakage, the wearer required more effort to breathe. According to an IIT Bombay study published in October 2020, a cough of a Covid-19 infected person can contaminate a large volume of surrounding air with the virus. The size of cough clouds is nearly seven times smaller when one wears a surgical mask and nearly 23 times smaller with an N95 mask, the study stated. “With an additional mask, one can further reduce the contamination,” said Rajneesh Bhardwaj, associate professor, department of mechanical engineering at IIT Bombay and co-author of the study. As offices open up, mandatory double masking in closed environments can help in reducing the risk of infections. Medical experts are rooting for double masking for many reasons- to be in control of the anticipated third wave, to reduce the possibility of going under full-fledged lockdowns in the future and let the city gradually get back to the pre-Covid-19 levels. “One mask does not seal the area around the nose and mouth properly,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, an intensive care specialist and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “It is the second mask that helps seal the mask underneath. Also, when the mask inside becomes moist due to sweat, the outer mask continues to offer some protection,” he said. Graphic: Basics of masking -Make sure your mask fits snugly against your face. -Gaps can let air with respiratory droplets leak in and out around the edges of the mask -Pick a mask with layers to keep your respiratory droplets in and others’ out -A mask with layers will stop more respiratory droplets from getting inside your mask or escaping from your mask if you are sick Wearing two masks -Use a cloth mask that has multiple layers of fabric -Wear a disposable mask underneath a cloth mask -The cloth mask should push the edges of the disposable mask against your face- Make sure you can see and breathe easily Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-why-is-double-masking-important-now-more-than-ever-101628097046058.html
04-08-2021||Other||Ex-MP Savitri Bai Phule lends support to kin of slain Dalit village head in UP’s Bahraich||Upset over alleged police apathy in connection with the recent murder of newly elected Dalit gram pradhan, former MP and national president of Kanshiram Bahujan Mool Nivasi Party Savitri Bai Phule sat on a dharna in this Uttar Pradesh district on Wednesday.Phule said police have not taken any action so far and were harassing the victims’ family. She said the dharna would continue till superintendent of police (SP) Sujata Singh will not assure her personally as well as the family members of Rao of an unbiased inquiry.Phule said Dwarka Prasad Rao was elected village head from Karnai village under Jarwal Road police station area in the recently held panchayat polls and was attacked by some unidentified miscreants on June 17, 2021. Rao had succumbed to his injuries during treatment. Phule said Rao had won the election on an unreserved seat though he belonged to Dalit community.She said victim’s family have been sitting on a protest since July 29 but nothing has been done by the police so far.BSP chief Mayawati too had raised the issue of Rao’s murder on her twitter handle on August 3 and demanded the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmp-savitri-bai-phule-lends-support-to-kin-of-slain-dalit-village-head-in-up-s-bahraich-101628096569873.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination to resume on Thursday; Mumbai civic body gets 57,000 Covishield, 48,000 Covaxin doses||Mumbai received 57,000 Covishield vaccine doses, and 48,000 Covaxin vaccine doses on Tuesday night, which were distributed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to vaccine centres on Wednesday. The vaccination drive will resume across the city on Thursday. The drive was paused at the over 300 public vaccine centres across Mumbai on Wednesday owing to a shortage of vaccines. The drive continued as usual at private vaccine centres where the stock of vaccine doses was available in storage. Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of the civic body’s public health department said, “There may be a total of around 15,000-20,000 vaccine doses available at private vaccine centres on Tuesday. The fresh stock we have received will be distributed to vaccine centres on Wednesday. Vaccination will resume on Thursday.” BMC chose not to restart vaccination in the second half of Wednesday, unlike earlier, where vaccination would resume for the day post 2pm after the stock had been distributed in the first half. Gomare said, “We don’t want to conduct the afternoon session, due to problems of overcrowding at some centres. A full session will be held on Thursday.” On Tuesday, 22,758 beneficiaries received this first dose, and 12,049 beneficiaries received their second dose, across 428 vaccine centres. Of these 294 are operated by BMC, 20 by the state or Central government, and 114 are private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-to-resume-on-thursday-mumbai-civic-body-gets-57-000-covishield-48-000-covaxin-doses-101628096568468.html
04-08-2021||Dehradun||3 tourists from Mumbai, including 2 women, washed away in Ganga at Rishikesh||Three tourists including two women from Mumbai were washed away in the swift currents of swollen Ganga in Rishikesh on Wednesday, said police. Kamal Mohan Singh Bhandari, in charge of Muni-ki-Reti police station in Rishikesh said that a group of five people including three women had come from Mumbai on August 1 and were staying at a hotel near the river in the town. “Three of them, Malroy Dante, Apoorva Kelkar, and Madhushi Khursange, all aged 21, entered the river for a swim in the afternoon around 2.30 pm. They got washed away in the river’s swift currents that have become stronger due to heavy rainfall upstream since the last few days. Karan Mishra and Nisha Goswami, who were accompanying the victims, informed us about the incident and gave us contact details of the families of their washed away friends. We have informed their families,” he said Bhandari said a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), local police and Jal police started a search operation in the river downstream from the site of the suspected drowning. “As the water level is high with strong currents, the search team found no trace of them downstream. The search operation will be resumed on Thursday morning”, he said. Meanwhile, SDRF fished out the body of an unknown man from a river in Devprayag and handed it over to local police for ascertaining his identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/3-tourists-from-mumbai-including-2-women-washed-away-in-ganga-at-rishikesh-101628096565143.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 6,126 new Covid-19 cases, 195 deaths||Even as the state government rolled out relaxations from the lockdown curbs from Tuesday by allowing shops to operate for a longer period, restaurants to operate even on weekends, the state administration is wary of the rise in the daily caseload. The district and municipal corporations have been directed to not lower their guards and ensure that the lockdown and Covid-19 protocols are followed properly.Keeping its trend of daily caseload, Maharashtra reported 6,126 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 6,327,194 and the death toll to 133,410 with 195 fresh deaths. The state has 72,810 active patients, of which Pune tops with 15,216 patients, followed by Thane with 5,984 and Mumbai with 5,034 patients. Around 447,681 people are under home quarantine, while 2,928 are in institutional quarantine.The daily test positivity rate on Wednesday was 2.89% as 6,126 of 211,678 tests were declared positive.As part of its Mission Begin Again, the state government has started rolling out relaxations from the curbs imposed for the last four months. Barring 11 districts with the high positivity and growth rate, the relaxations have come into effect from Tuesday. According to the presentation made by the health department on Tuesday, the positivity rate in 10 districts is above the state rate of 3.53%. Satara (7.56%), Sindhudurg (6.73), Sangli (6.37%), Pune (6.31%), Kolhapur and Ahmednagar (6.01%) are among the highest weekly positivity rate. Most of these districts have a high growth rate of over 0.30% against the state rate of 0.10%. As of August 1, the number of active patients in Maharashtra was 78,962, while 32,380 patients are admitted to various hospitals. Around 11,931 patients are serious, with 4,418 of them being treated in the intensive care unit (ICU). Of the total serious patients, 1,692 are on ventilators, while 2,726 are on oxygen support.Amid the relaxations, the state government is apprehensive about the possibility of the rise in daily caseload due to crowding at the public places. “It has been witnessed that whenever we open up the activities, the number of cases start increasing in a week. After opening up the local trains for all in MMR (Mumbai Metropolitan Region) on February 1, the daily caseload in MMR started surging from mid-February. Though the crowding at the public places is witnessed rampantly by violating the curbs, the relaxations rolled out will result in more crowding, leading to the rise in infection. The enforcement authorities need to be more vigilant while implementing the relaxations,” said an official from the health department.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the local authorities of the districts with high positivity and growth rate of infection have been directed to follow the set protocol and increase the rate of vaccination to avoid the severity of the infection.“The positivity rate in districts like Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Pune is too high comparing the state average and in some districts, it is around 9%. We have directed them to follow the protocol related to the tracing, testing of the high and low-risk contacts to keep the spread in check. The recent flooding in these districts had affected the isolation, but the situation is now coming to normal. We have also directed these administrations to increase the rate of vaccination so that herd immunity is achieved soon. It has been witnessed across the globe that the high rate of vaccination helps in reducing the infection rate and also keeps the severity in check,” Tope said.Tope said that the district administrations have been directed to ensure that the Covid-appropriate behaviour should be maintained after rolling out the relaxations from the lockdown curbs. “Local administration is expected to ensure that the curbs are followed appropriately while implementing the relaxations. It is sometimes difficult to follow the norms properly. But we are apprehensive about the rise in the cases as the festive season is approaching. The threat of the third wave is looming large though nobody knows when it will hit us. Against this backdrop, it is important to follow the set protocol for all of us,” he said.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 359 new cases and nine deaths taking the tally to 736,016 and the toll to 15,920. Pune (1014), Sangli (783), Kolhapur (412), Ratnagiri (212) were among the districts to report more cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-6-126-new-covid-19-cases-195-deaths-101628096265236.html
04-08-2021||Other||17 fresh Covid cases in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Covid cases in Lucknow have started rising after a constant decline for a month. Wednesday saw 17 fresh cases as compared to 11 the previous day while eight people recovered from the infection. At present, there are 57 active cases in the state capital. “This is the time when people must be more serious about following Covid protocol. They know how lethal Covid could be. Any laxity in following protocol could result in the spread of the virus, which is under control now,” said Dr Manoj Agarwal, CMO.He said, “We are testing samples of around 20,000 people in the state capital. Our teams are taking samples of passengers coming to the bus stand, railway stations and airport. We are also taking samples of people travelling on highways.”The teams are also keeping a watch on people coming from affected states like Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra, he added.SGPGI director RK Dhiman said, “The coming two weeks are very important. People must remain careful and they should go for test, if they feel fever or cold/cough. We have the responsibility of not only saving ourselves, but others too.”KGMU contacts LU’s yoga dept The respiratory medicine department of KGMU has contacted the department of yoga at Lucknow University for the treatment of post-Covid patients facing breathing problems. Yoga specialists at LU will also give their opinion to the post-Covid patients from next week. HoD, respiratory medicine, Prof Suryakant said, “The KGMU is running post-Covid OPD for patients. For better recovery, we have decided to take help of yoga experts of LU. The department has agreed to send its experts to the KGMU.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17-fresh-covid-cases-in-lucknow-101628095904915.html
04-08-2021||Other||Smuggled liquor reaches dry Bihar via UP||LUCKNOW Smugglers have evolved a system to sneak in illicit liquor sourced from Haryana and Punjab into the dry state – Bihar via Uttar Pradesh. A bottle of smuggled liquor costing just ₹350 in Haryana is sold for anything between ₹2,500-3,000 while a bottle of country-made liquor costing ₹80 in UP is sold for ₹500-700 in Bihar, according to police and excise officials.These gangs procure liquor illegally from distilleries in other states and store it at different places in UP before sending it to Bihar. In doing so, they earn huge profits that fuels the network, they said. As per an estimate, these profits run into billions, luring new smugglers into the crime every day, said a senior UP Special Task Force (STF) official.“The smuggled liquor is transported mainly by road in Uttar Pradesh and stored at different warehouses located in the cities along major national highways before being transported into Bihar,” said DK Singh, DySP, STF. He said the STF busted one such warehouse in Kanpur earlier this year. The STF, along with the police, often intercepts these consignments and recovers huge cache of liquor but a lot more remains to be done. PRODUCT & SOURCE Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) is the most sought-after product for smuggling because of its high demand, easy availability and huge profit margins. Smugglers usually prefer liquor from Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh for its cheaper price.“The gangs have ties with corrupt officials in the managements at distilleries in districts of Haryana like Panipat, Sonipat and Palwal. This liquor is either smuggled directly into UP or is mixed with country-made liquor by gangs for better profits,” said S Anand, SP (Shahjahanpur) who has busted over a dozen liquor smuggling rackets passing through his district this year.Smaller vehicles are used to smuggle liquor in batches into UP. “After entering Uttar Pradesh, they load the liquor on to bigger vehicles to transport it to warehouses in cities like Kanpur, Lucknow, Varanasi and Prayagraj,” said the officer.THE TRANSIT The gangs hire transporters or even use their own vehicles to transport the liquor across UP.“For transporting large quantities, the gang members try to conceal the liquor under other items in trucks. The bigger trucks travel with permit, claiming to be transporting fruits or other perishable items to pass through the check posts,” informed S Anand.He said the duration of transit in UP before being sold in Bihar can range from a few days to months, depending on the conditions and availability of resources.“The gangs try to keep the transit within the state and avoid crossing the border in one journey. After being brought to UP, the liquor is first taken to a large warehouse, then to a smaller warehouse in districts bordering Bihar before crossing into that state,” informed the officer.ENTERING BIHAR The gangs take advantage of the porous UP-Bihar border to smuggle liquor into the dry state. Then they employ small-time smugglers to transport liquor into the state in small batches.Neeraj Kumar, SP, Buxar (Bihar) said: “The liquor is smuggled into Bihar by smugglers on foot, motorcycles, carts, tempos, boats and pick-up vans. In most cases large quantities are avoided. The liquor is sold locally within a few hours.”In districts like Buxar, Saran, Siwan and Gopalganj, 150 FIRs under prohibition act are lodged every month on an average and a majority of these pertain to smuggling of liquor.“In most cases, we found that local smugglers in Bihar travel to nearby districts in UP and bring back smuggled liquor with the help of others. We have also arrested natives of UP and Rajasthan for smuggling liquor. An anti liquor task force (ALTF) has been formed to act against these smugglers,” said Amrit Raj, IG of Bihar (prohibition). The Bihar police are also coordinating with UP and Haryana police to nab the masterminds of the gang. “Deputy SP level talks are held regularly between UP and Bihar police in bordering districts. Acting against liquor smugglers and sharing intelligence on them is a major part of these meetings. We are also closing in on people who operate the nexus while sitting in another state or abroad,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smuggled-liquor-reaches-dry-bihar-via-up-101628095424966.html
04-08-2021||Other||Now, cops to get lessons in soft skills||PRAYAGRAJ: To present a better image of the men in khaki among the public and bridge the gap between them, the new Uttar Pradesh director general of police is taking steps to polish police behaviour. In this context, the DGP has issued instructions to give them special training. Now, 200 policemen will be imparted behavioural skills online by experts. Rude and violent behaviour by cops often causes problems and brings embarrassment to their superiors. Moreover, it displays the image of cops as being bad-tempered and unfriendly. In a recent incident, an argument took place between a trader and a sub inspector in Chowk area and the SI slapped the trader, causing outrage among other traders. The Vyapar Mandal leaders reached Kotwali and demanded action against the SI. A high court official and his family were stopped near Azad Park while they were going in their car. The inspector posted at Colonelganj police station told them to use alternate route but did not give any reason. The inspector also allegedly misbehaved with the official. Police officials were summoned over the issue following which the inspector was suspended. Similar incidents are frequently reported from different parts of the district. Complaints of misbehaviour are common during vehicle checking drives and raids. Taking serious note of such complaints, DGP Mukul Goel has asked senior police officials of the state to provide behavioural training to policemen to make them people friendly.. SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said soon policemen would be given training to improve their soft skills and attitude towards citizens. As it was not possible for a large number of cops to assemble due to Covid threat, they would be given online training in batches of 200. During Kumbh 2019, month-long special training sessions were conducted for policemen to train them how to behave with devotees from across the globe. The training included personality development and soft skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-cops-to-get-lessons-in-soft-skills-101628094585847.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar allows schools, cinema halls to reopen||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that schools for classes 9 and 10 will reopen on August 7 and classes 1 to 8 will reopen on August 16. Bihar minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary said that the classes will be held adhering to strict Covid-19 preventative measures.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar also gave the go-ahead to coaching institutions to operate with 50% attendance as well. Kumar announced several new relaxations on Wednesday allowing public vehicles to run at full capacity and shops to reopen with one weekly holiday between August 7 and August 25.कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी को देखते हुए दिनांक 07 अगस्त से 25 अगस्त तक सभी दुकानों को साप्ताहिक बंदी के साथ खोलने का निर्णय लिया गया है। नौवी से दसवीं कक्षा 7 अगस्त से एवं पहली से आठवीं कक्षा 16 अगस्त से खुलेगी। (1/3)“In view of the reducing number of Covid-19 infections, it has been decided to open all the shops with one weekly holiday from August 7 to August 25. Classes 9 to 10 will open from August 7 and classes from 1 to 8 from August 16,” Kumar said.(2/3) कोचिंग संस्थान छात्रों की 50 प्रतिशत उपस्थिति (एक दिन छोड़कर) के साथ कार्य कर सकेंगे। सार्वजनिक वाहनों को पूर्ण क्षमता के साथ चलने की अनुमति होगी। प्रतिबंधों के साथ सिनेमा हाॅल एवं शाॅंपिग माॅल भी खुलेंगे।“Coaching institutes will be able to function with 50% attendance (except for one). Public vehicles will be allowed to run at full capacity. Cinema halls and shopping malls will also open with restrictions. Children in schools will be given information about Covid-19 preventative measures. People should still take precautions against Covid-19,” he added.(3/3) विद्यालयों में बच्चों को कोविड अनुकूल व्यवहार की जानकारी दी जाएगी। लोगों को अभी-भी कोविड संबंधी सावधानी बरतनी चाहिए।The Bihar government last month allowed schools, colleges and other institutions to partially resume physical classes. Schools were allowed to reopen for classes 11 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-allows-schools-cinema-halls-to-reopen-101628094259944.html
04-08-2021||Other||Tiger population up at 40 in VTR, says top official||The number of tigers in Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district has increased to 40 from 32 in the 2018 census, a top wildlife official said. The number excludes six to eight cubs, HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director of VTR, said.In 2006, the number of big cats in the VTR has dropped to just 10. “Preliminary estimates put the population of big cats at 40. Around six to eight cubs have also been spotted in the forest area,” Rai said, adding that measures were being undertaken to make official the tiger population by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) next year. VTR officials are planning to track tigers from October with the help of 500 CCTV cameras for 45 days in one of the two divisions.Spread over an area of 900 square kilometres, VTR is broadly divided into two divisions and has a 150-km-long perimeter with 120 villages on its fringes and 350 villages in the sensitive zone. “Hence, apart from protection, the development of habitat is one of the core activities the department has undertaken in a bid to raise the number of tigers. In addition to 54 anti-poaching camps, there are tiger trackers and around 100 forest guards to keep a tab on activities in the forest,” said an official, wishing anonymity.The forest area, which is divided into eight ranges, has 22 water holes and 8% grassland. “While the total number of bears ranges between 400 and 450, the leopard population has gone up to 98. Again, the forest has witnessed the rise in number of Indian bison (between 250 and 300),” said Rai.On February 19, 2021, a tigress, that was captured from VTR after it killed three villagers in West Champaran, died at a zoo in Patna. On January 30, 2021, a tiger’s carcass was recovered near Sirisiya forest area under Gobardhana forest range of VTR. Earlier, a tigress was found dead in Raghiya forest range of VTR on January 1, 2020.Meanwhile, the government has reduced the budget annual plan of VTR’s operation to ₹10.60 crore (2021-22) as against ₹14.60 crore in 2020-2021.InfographicsTigers’ count: 32 (as per 2018 Census) Cubs: Around nineDeaths after last census: 1 tiger, 2 tigressesCurrent estimateBig cats: Over 40 Cubs: 6 to 8Population of other animalsBears: 400 - 450Indian Bison: 250 - 300Leopards: 98The VTR is spread in an area over 900 square kilometres. It has eight forest ranges||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-population-up-at-40-in-vtr-says-top-official-101628093864106.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Tardy pace of strategic Indo-Nepal border road due to poor planning: CAG||A recent audit report of Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India for the year ending March 31, 2019 has highlighted tardy progress of the Indo-Nepal border road project, which entails 552.9km-long construction in Bihar to provide mobility to Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) forces deployed there.The overall responsibility of the project is with the Road Construction Department (RCD), while the Bihar state road construction corporation is responsible for preparation of the detailed project reports (DPRs) for different stretches.“Due to poor planning, resource management and for want of preparatory work such as land acquisition, DPR finalisation, statutory clearances etc., only 4% of the total Indo-Nepal border road could be completed by October 2020. Besides, even after 10 years, 64% of the border outposts remain unconnected to the main alignment, which was altered by the RCD in 2011 to make it five to 40km away from the international border in four districts. Due to further change in alignment in a few stretches in 2016, at least 15 bridges costing ₹146.06 crore were delinked from the main alignment and remains unutilized. The Cabinet Committee (CC) on security, Government of India, in 2010 approved the project for construction of 1377-km road, which included the 552.9km stretch in Bihar. It was to run parallel to the international border,” says the report, tabled in the Bihar Legislative Assembly on July 29.The report also negated the department’s claim to have acquired 2497.64 acres of the total required 2759.25 acres land, as it allegedly awarded the contract for construction of road for the entire stretch of 552.29km without ensuring availability of land.“Acquisition of land was actually not complete, as ownership was legally not transferred to the government due to non-completion of mutation process. In East Champaran, the land acquisition process lapsed completely and delayed application of emergency provision for land acquisition escalated the cost by ₹1,375.33 crore and delayed the project by at least five years,” the report says, adding that instances of excess payment of ₹104.33 crore due to misclassification of land, excess payment of ₹45.36 crore to land owners without ensuring verification of genuine claims were also noticed.The audit report also pointed out that third party quality check, as required as per CCs instruction, was not carried out. The CAG did not accept the department’s reply that the flying squad of the department was being considered as the third party. “Flying squad was internal to the department and hence not the third party,” the audit noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tardy-pace-of-strategic-indo-nepal-border-road-due-to-poor-planning-cag-101628093803952.html
04-08-2021||Patna||US to help women entrepreneurs from Bihar, J’khand||The US Consulate General, Kolkata, in partnership with Startup India, Aroh Foundation and Nexus Start-up Hub at the American Center, New Delhi, has offered to help women entrepreneurs through the women’s global development prosperity (W-GDP) initiative “Academy for Women Entrepreneurs” (AWE) in Bihar and Jharkhand. AWE will support a selected cohort of 90 prospective women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners from the two states by providing US-style online education with guided facilitation from US state department alumni, local business women and other partners. The selected participants will join an AWE network that will support participants’ access to peer-to-peer mentorship, business partners, and scaling opportunities with businesses in the region and in the United States. Aspiring women entrepreneurs can apply to https://lnkd.in/eakH-4Y for the same. “I invite women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners to apply for this unique US Department of State opportunity,” said a communique quoting acting Consul General Monica Shie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/us-to-help-women-entrepreneurs-from-bihar-jkhand-101628093744628.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Bihar’s smaller pvt health firms may be left out of vaccine supply chain||Manufactures of Covid-19 vaccines may overlook the interest of smaller private health care centres in Bihar, as the minimum benchmark they have set for entertaining supply orders is way above the requirement of private facilities. Manufacturer of Covishield, the Serum Institute of India, has reportedly set a minimum limit of 6,000 doses for entertaining any supply order. Similarly, Bharat Biotech, manufacturer of Covaxin, and Dr Reddy’s, manufacturer of Sputnik in India, have set a minimum supply limit of 1,000 doses each for private firms identified by the government for administering the Covid-19 vaccines, claimed Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, managing director of the Ruban Memorial Hospital, on Wednesday. According to an official in the state health department, logistics-related issues involved in supply of vaccines might be the reason behind the manufacturers’ minimum limit on purchase orders.Dr Singh’s hospital is in touch with all the three manufacturers for supply of Covid-19 vaccines. When contacted for confirmation on the minimum supply limit, all the three manufacturers were silent on HT’s queries. According to Dr Singh, the minimum purchase limit set by the vaccine manufacturers would suit only corporate hospitals. “It is difficult for smaller hospitals like ours to get the vaccines by paying a hefty amount in advance,” he said. For private centres, the government has capped the maximum per dose price at ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin and ₹1,145 for Sputnik V.“We took a bank loan of ₹30 lakh to make advance payment for the vaccines last week after the Serum Institute told us that we have to place a minimum supply order for 6,000 doses, equivalent to 600 vials,” said Dr Singh. In June, the hospital placed an order for 1,250 doses, of which Covishield accounted for 1,000 and Covaxin for 250 doses. However, the hospital never got the vaccines. The hospital then paid ₹ 9.45 lakh for the vaccines through the government’s National Health Authority portal. The money was later refunded in July. Another health institution board, the Mahavir temple trust, which runs the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, the Mahavir Vatsalya Aspatal and the Mahavir Arogya Sansthan, has adopted a “wait and watch” policy. “Initially, we applied for 3,000 vaccine doses, but government authorities asked us to prune our order. We then placed orders for 100 doses, but never got any vaccine and the money was refunded,” said Dr LB Singh, medical superintendent of the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan. “We can place a bulk order and distribute the vaccines among our three hospitals. But, we want to be sure this time. We will wait for a government advisory,” added Dr LB Singh. Meanwhile, the Paras hospital, which has a chain of at least five hospitals across India, is getting the vaccine supply from its corporate office in Gurgaon. “We got 10,000 doses of Covishield in June from our corporate office that we distributed among our units in Darbhanga and Ranchi. We expect another second round of vaccines soon,” said Dr Syed Asif Rahman, medical superintendent of Paras-HMRI hospital in Patna. In June this year, the state government empanelled 76 private hospitals in Bihar for vaccination, but barring three corporate hospitals, none received any vaccine either through the government channel or directly from the manufacturers. Ten private hospitals in June showed interest in procuring the vaccines. However, their supply order was as less as 10 doses to a maximum of 1,250 doses. They did not get the vaccines and their money was subsequently refunded. “Private firms in Bihar are reluctant as they are unsure of vaccine consumption, given the fact that the jabs are given free to beneficiaries at government centres. Bihar is not Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru or Hyderabad, where people belonging to the high income group don’t mind paying for the vaccine and getting the jab at private centres. Here, people are price conscious,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity. The Centre buys 75% of the vaccine produced to give free jabs to people, while 25% is allocated for the private sector. Earlier on Tuesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in the Rajya Sabha that it was not necessary to reduce the vaccine quota of private hospitals as the unused quota of private hospitals was taken by the government. He was responding to BJP member Sushil Kumar Modi’s query on the government’s plan to reduce the vaccine quota of private hospitals. “In a month, we saw seven to nine per cent unused vaccines by private hospitals. So, we decided to take those unutilised doses in the government quota. Therefore, it is not necessary to reduce the quota for the private sector. The vaccination is taking place smoothly,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-smaller-pvt-health-firms-may-be-left-out-of-vaccine-supply-chain-101628093744063.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Bihar: 33 firms raided over suspected tax evasion||In a major crackdown against tax evasion, the state commercial taxes department on Wednesday hit upon a non-existent firm with a business turn over worth ₹900 crore in the past three years. The firm used credit facility for tax payment, but was found non-existent on the address mentioned in the documents, officials said.Commercial taxes commissioner cum secretary Pratima said that the firm was engaged in sending recharge vouchers worth crores to other states. “Appropriate action will be taken against the proprietors of the dubious firm along with other business installations, that indulged in tax evasion,” she said.The commercial taxes department officials on Wednesday carried out inspections at 33 business installations across the state to act against instances of tax evasion, based on comprehensive study of suspicious operations. Of the total, 13 are located in Patna district, 10 in Saran, one in Bhagalpur, three in Darbhanga, four in Magadh and two in Purnea. These firms were mainly related to iron and steel, coal, laptops, batteries, aluminium and copper scraps, bitumen etc.In the course of inspection, 24 firms were found non-existent at their principal place of business as mentioned in their registrations. Transactions of about ₹379.48 crore were shown by these firms, officials said. In such cases, not only the evasion of tax by availment of fake ITC of about ₹54.90 crore is involved, but also provisions of GST were violated. Some of these bogus firms have also taken registration on the basis of fake documents, officials said.During inspection, three firms were found existent at their declared principal place of business, but they were involved in bill trading. These three firms deal in coal and computers, said a senior officer.A computer firm in Darbhanga showed purchase and sale of laptops worth crores by showing fake transportation, with the benefit of ITC given to businessmen of other states. Goods’ transportation worth lakhs has been shown to be done by cars and bikes. Officials seized goods worth ₹30 lakh in this case. Out of these three firms, one firm registered in Aurangabad was found working in Dehri instead. Tax evasion of about ₹16 crore came to the fore in these three firms, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar33-firms-raided-over-suspect-tax-evasion-101628093685572.html
04-08-2021||Other||SGPGI nurse, kin test positive; samples sent for genome sequencing||LUCKNOW The SGPGI administration is on high alert after a nurse and her family staying on the institute’s campus tested positive for Covid on their return from Kerala, which has seen a surge in cases recently.After contact tracing, samples of more than 122 of her contacts on the campus were sent for test, said officials.“Samples of the nurse’s family members have been sent to the KGMU lab for genome sequencing (test of Delta variant). The PGI is thankful to the contact tracing team, CMO and other officials of district administration who were quick in reaching the PGI for tracing of contacts,” said Gaurav Agarwal, chief medical superintendent at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Agarwal said, “SGPGI is taking utmost care of its staff members. Ninety per cent of its staff has received both the shots. Because the Delta variant is lethal, the PGI administration didn’t want to take any risk and that’s why aggressive contact tracing was done and samples were collected by the district administration team.”The PGI nurse and her family had returned from Kerala by flight on July 30. She had a three-day-old Covid negative report with her. However, the nurse went for a Covid test after she, her husband and two kids developed fever, cold and cough. Their RTPCR report came positive, said officials.Deputy CMO Milind Wardhan said, “The contact tracing was performed immediately and samples of more than 122 contacts were taken and sent to the lab. The RTPCR report of all the contacts came negative. But second samples of these contacts would be sent for a test after a few days to ensure that no person is affected. Ideally, a second sample is taken after five days.”As many doctors and nurses of SGPGIMS go for vacations during summer vacations, the PGI administration has requested the returnees, especially from Delta affected states, to get themselves tested for Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpgi-nurse-kin-test-positive-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101628093684991.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Northeast Bihar to receive heavy rains today: MeT||The northeast part of the state is likely to receive heavy rain on Thursday owing to conducive weather system formed near neighbouring states, officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Wednesday. The MeT centre has also predicted widespread to fairly widespread rain accompanied with lightning and thunderstorm activities till August 8.During the last 24 hours too, the state recorded heavy rain followed by light to moderate rain at other places.“Northwest and south-east parts of the state are expected to receive high intensity rain while rest places may receive rain at isolated places in next 24 hours,” weatherman Abhishek Prakash said.Deliberating meteorological mechanisms, Prakash said, “As per current numerical model and radar observation, a monsoon trough in lying over Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas which is passing via Varanasi and Patna. Apart from this, another cyclonic circulation is lying over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. These mechanisms are likely to trigger enhanced rain activities in the state for next three to four days.”The Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued a yellow-colour warning for lightning and thunderstorm activities in West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran, Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Khagaria and Jamui.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/northeast-bihar-to-receive-heavy-rains-today-met-101628093624771.html
04-08-2021||Other||Man shot dead in land dispute: 7 arrested; group head alleges partial action by police||A special investigation team of Rohtas police arrested seven persons from different locations for allegedly killing a man at Karanj village under Dinara police station limits on August 1, police said on Wednesday.Bhola Ram, 35, was shot dead in a firing incident that occurred over the possession of 8.52 acres of cultivable land. The land belonged to the Vaishnavayat Ramanuja Section’s Bara Khatla Ashram in Vrindavan. A Shaivayat Section’s priest and his supporters allegedly attacked the manager and owner’s staff members, who were ploughing the land with a tractor on August 1.Two managers of the Vaishnavayat math were critically injured in the attack. Police registered a case for murder, arms act and SC/ST Act (as the victim belonged to the Scheduled Caste) against 12 named persons of Vaishnavayat Math and superintendent of police Ashish Bharti formed an SIT under Bikramganj SDPO for their arrest.The arrested persons have been identified as Raja Ram Singh and Shivji Singh of Karanj village, Sudhir Tiwary, Ravindra Tiwary and Surendra Tiwary of Paura, managers Daya Shankar Tiwary of Takanpura and Raja Ram Singh of Chhotki Agarer, all in Rohtas district.While five arrested persons were sent to jail, the remaining two critically injured managers were admitted to a government hospital at Dinara, police said.Meanwhile, Bara Khatla Vrindavan Peethadhishwar Swami Rameshwaracharya alleged that “the police were partial as they arrested innocent people, including critically injured managers, without investigating their involvement or location.”Rameshwaracharya said that the Patna high court passed a judgement in favour of math in 1969, but the dispute continued even after the judgement. In 2020, officials measured and demarcated the land on the order of the local circle officer.“Managers and the staff had gone to cultivate the land on the orders of the sub-divisional magistrate and the sub-divisional police officer given in Janta Durbar organised at a local police station on July 21,” he added.“They were attacked by Anoop Giri and his supporters who also torched the tractor. But police did not take any action against Giri and his men,” Rameshwaracharya alleged.However, Rohtas SP Ashish Bharti said that a case has also been registered against Annop Giri and his 11 men for the murderous attack, torching the tractor and theft. “Police will not spare any person involved in the incident,” Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-dead-in-land-dispute-7-arrested-group-head-alleges-partial-action-by-police-101628093624064.html
04-08-2021||Other||No case of Delta Plus variant traced in Agra region||Agra Out of the 14 samples sent from here for genome sequencing, the Delta variant of Covid-19 virus was found in seven cases and Kappa variant in one. Delta variant was also found in two cases from Hathras and one each from Mathura and Mainpuri, but there was no case with Delta Plus variant. “In all, 14 samples were sent by the Viral Diagnostic and Research Lab (VDRL), Microbiology Department of SN Medical College, Agra to KGMU Lucknow for genome sequencing on July 5. Out of these, Delta variant was found in 11 samples and Kappa variant was confirmed in one case,” informed Dr Prashant Gupta, the principal of SN Medical College. “Out of these 12 cases with Delta or Kappa variant, eight were from Agra, two from Hathras and one each from Mathura and Mainpuri,” said Dr Gupta who informed that Kappa variant was not so dangerous and both vaccines presently given in India were effective against it. “It is good that no case of Delta Plus variant has been traced in Agra or nearby region. Delta Plus is highly infectious and spreads faster and causes high rate of deaths,” he said. “There should be no laxity. One should wear a mask and follow physical distancing. More and more people should get vaccinated and social gatherings should be avoided,” said Dr Gupta. Earlier, on July 9, reports of 40 samples were sent from Agra for genome sequencing Out of these, Delta variant was traced in 16 samples. Out of these 16 samples, 10 were of those residing in Agra and 2 from Hathras, 2 from Firozabad, 1 from Mainpuri and 1 from Saharanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-case-of-delta-plus-variant-traced-in-agra-region-101628093565889.html
04-08-2021||Other||Samples of mosquitoes collected to detect Zika virus; genome sequencing underway to identify lineage||PUNE To keep a tab on the spread of the Zika virus, mainly spread by the Aedes mosquito, the district administration has collected samples of mosquitoes along with blood smear samples to identify if the infection could be spread via mosquitoes in the region. The administration has also collected samples for genome sequencing to identify the lineage of the virus and to find how dangerous it could be for pregnant women. The central team, which met with concerned officials on Wednesday, will conduct a site inspection at Belasar village, Purandar taluka, on Thursday. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer who was part of the central team’s meeting with the district officials said, “We have sent samples of mosquitoes to identify if there are any infected mosquitoes. We will also be doing genome sequencing to identify the lineage. There are primarily two lineages, Asian and African, to find if pregnant women are more susceptible. As of now we are collecting samples of pregnant women in the village and from nearby villages for testing. The probable causes of the spread of the virus could be the underground tanks which could be breeding ground for the Aedes mosquito, which is the primary vector of the virus and also other viruses.”He also added that the probable source of infection could be traders who come to the villages with agriculture fields mainly producing tomatoes and pomegranates. Awate said, “Traders from across the country including Kerala have been visiting the villages for trading purposes and it could be that one of the infected persons could have carried the infection to the village. About 80% of those infected with Zika virus remain asymptomatic and so it would be difficult to know if an infected person had indeed travelled. However, this is just a possibility. We do not know for sure what is the source of infection in this case.” Kerala has been reporting a high number of Zika virus cases and as of July 21, the state reported 41 confirmed cases. The NIV team which visited the Belaras village, and of the five initial samples sent, three tested positive for chikungunya. Once the outbreak was reported on July 14, a NIV team under leadership of Dr Yogesh Gurav, team leader of Arbovirus division, visited the village On July 27. The NIV team visited Belsar, Shivri, Malshiras and Supe (Khurd) villages. The team visited the residential and non-residential areas and checked vector breeding in the water holding containers. NIV Team collected 51 blood samples of suspected Chikungunya cases during their visit, of which one sample tested positive for Zika. The Zika positive sample was also positive for Chikungunya Real time PCR and Chikungunya IgM ELISA. The first positive case of Zika virus was reported in the village, which was a 50-year old lady. She tested positive for both Zika and Chikungunya. She has symptoms like fever, joint pain, headache, eye pain and petechial haemorrhages. She has no travel history. Her daughter, a 25-year old, tested positive for Chikungunya. In its report to the central team the district administration pointed out that one of the probable reasons is increased Aedes larval density. The report states Belsar village has water supply through a water supply scheme, but as the water supply scheme is too old due to some technical glitch villagers get tap water supply once in three days. This forces villagers to store water for domestic purposes. These water containers are coverless. Many households have underground tanks for water storage. These tanks are also devoid of any cover.As of August 4, of the 152 samples sent to NIV, five tested positive for dengue, 63 for chikungunya, 15 for dengue and Chikungunya and one for Zika and Chikungunya, while 41 have tested negative for any of the infections and 27 reports are yet to be declared. Some of the ongoing measures in Belasar and the neighbouring villages are house-to-house surveillance, which includes identification of cases within a five-km radius of the ground zero village, Belsar. In addition, a village cleanliness drive, capacity building of village volunteers for proactive entomological surveillance, normalisation of village water supply and health education about Zika and the necessity to use appropriate contraceptives for eligible couples is underway. Also entomological surveillance is underway, in which a house-to-house team does a daily assessment of the Aedes larval density through different indices.In view of the high risk that the virus poses to the pregnant women, samples of all pregnant women are being sent to the NIV for testing, along with the high risk relatives of these pregnant women. Bed nets and creams have been provided to all the pregnant women for protection. Pune city has over 33 thousand pregnant women, PMC cautions them to get tested in case of any symptoms In the past four months, April to July, PMC has recorded 33,000thousand pregnant women who are in different trimesters, said a PMC official. As the first Zika virus cases are reported in Pune district, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has cautioned those with any symptoms, especially those who have travelled to any infected places to get tested. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at PMC said, “The ongoing action like surveillance and fogging and destruction of Aedes mosquitoes larvae will be continued. However, if anyone who has symptoms of Zika virus which are mainly fever, rash, headache, joint pain, conjunctivitis (red eyes) and muscle pain, then they must get themselves tested at any private lab or even a PMC hospital”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/samples-of-mosquitoes-collected-to-detect-zika-virus-genome-sequencing-underway-to-identify-lineage-101628093563948.html
04-08-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav to lead SP’s cycle yatra in Lucknow on Thursday||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav will lead his party’s ‘cycle yatra’ from SP headquarters to Janeshwar Mishra Park in the state capital on Thursday. The ‘cycle yatra’ is being organised on the occasion of birth anniversary of party leader late Janeshwar Mishra and will mark the Samajwadi Party’s protests against the anti-people policies of the BJP government. Former Samajwadi Party MP from Kannauj Dimple Yadav will flag off the yatra that will cover nearly 6.5 km distance via Loreto Convent crossing, Jiamau, 1090 crossing, Jai Prakash Narain International Centre, CMS crossing and Dayal crossing etc to culminate at Janeshwar Mishra Park. SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said Akhilesh Yadav would garland the statue of Mishra at the park. “About 2000 partymen would accompany the SP chief on their cycles. The SP chief has called upon the partymen across the state to make the yatra a success,” he said. Chaudhary said though the BJP government was about to complete five years in office but has not been able to bring about any development in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-to-lead-sp-s-cycle-yatra-in-lucknow-on-thursday-101628093508835.html
04-08-2021||Other||LNMU cancels admission of 24 engg grads in PG Maithili course||The administration of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, has cancelled the admission of as many as 24 post graduate (PG) students in Maithili department apparently because all of them had obtained B Tech degree at graduation level, which didn’t meet the eligibility criteria laid down for admission into the PG course for the language, according to a university official.The matter came to light when these students, who had got admission in academic session 2020-22, filled applications for the semester examination. Earlier, these students had got admission through online process amid the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the university administration failed to detect that none of them had studied Maithili subject at the graduation level, either as main or subsidiary paper.LNMU’s admission committee has also served a show cause notice to head of department (HoD) Maithili.However, incumbent HoD Prof Ramesh Jha, when contacted, said he had assumed charge of the department only recently, much after admissions were done. He, however, confirmed receipt of a show cause letter in this regard.According to dean students welfare (DSW) Vijay Kumar Yadav, the university administration has constituted a committee to probe into the episode and fixed responsibility for the lapses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lnmu-cancels-admission-of-24-engg-grads-in-pg-maithili-course-101628093504093.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Six of family shot dead over land dispute in Nalanda||At least six members of a family were shot dead and three others injured over a dispute relating to ancestral land at a village in Nalanda district on Wednesday, police said. Following the incident in Lodipur village under Chhabilapur police station limits, a large police contingent has been deployed in the area to prevent any escalation. No arrested has been made yet in the case.According to police, there was a dispute over 25 bighas (a local land measurement unit) of land in the village between two related families, which are already in court for title suit settlement. In April this year, the two sides has even signed a pledge at the police station to maintain peace.According to police, the incident occurred when members of one family on Wednesday went to plough the land. “Heated arguments between the two families led to a fight. The situation took an ugly turn when gunshots were fired,” said Sanjay Singh, inspector general of police (central range). In the ensuing violence, four people were shot dead on the spot while two others succumbed to their injuries on way to the hospital, the IG said. Nalanda superintendent of police (SP) Hari Prasath, citing preliminary investigation, said the group that reached the field first opened fire and the other party did not retaliate. He said separate teams had been formed to apprehend the accused. Residents of the village refused to allow police the take away the bodies for autopsy till the accused are arrested. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Tejashvi Yadav said the Nitish Kumar government had surrendered before the land mafia and demanded a compensation of ₹20 lakh for the kin of the deceased. The chief minister’s office said Kumar has directed the state police chief to personally monitor the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/six-of-family-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-nalanda-101628093445221.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Bihar govt clears four new NHAI road projects||The state government Wednesday gave its nod to the alignment of four new four-lane road projects proposed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to strengthen the road communication network in Bihar, officials said.The road projects proposed by the NHAI include a four-lane road between Mokama and Munger, Barauni and Muzaffarpur, Buxar and Haidaria, and Buxar and Varanasi. The final nod was given by chief minister Nitish Kumar during a presentation by road construction department.Additional chief secretary (roads) Amrit Lal Meena said that Mokama to Munger road is a greenfield project, which will pass through Manoharpur and Lakhisarai. The project also includes 20-km four-lane between Manoharpur and Sarmera, which would ensure a seamless journey for travellers from Buxar to Mirjachowki (Bhagalpur) via Patna, Mokama and Munger.The state government also gave its approval for the widening of the existing two-lane road between Barauni and Muzaffarpur via Bachhwara, Dalsingh Sarai and Musri Gharari. The NHAI proposal to build a 17-km four-lane road between Buxar and Haidaria has also been approved by the chief minister. Once complete, Buxar would be connected with Purvanchal Expressway, being built by the NHAI from Lucknow and Haidaria in Uttar Pradesh.The long-awaited demand of the state government to connect Buxar with Varanasi through a four-lane road on its way for realisation after the NHAI proposed a fresh alignment of the 71-km road. Of the total alignment, 29-km stretch falls under Bihar’s territory with the rest in Uttar Pradesh.Officials said that all four projects might cost more than ₹10,000 crore to the NHAI. The state government would acquire land on behalf of the NHAI, and hence it would not require spending anything on the project.The RCD has urged the Central government to include 552-km long Indo-Nepal border road under the Bharat Mala project-II and strengthen it into four-lane roads. Currently, the road, which is of strategic importance, has two lanes. Other roads, which the state government recommended for their integration with Bharat Mala project-II, are Patna-Kolkata Expressway, Buxar-Bihar Sharif state highway via Piro, Arwal and Jehanabad, Sultanganj- Deoghar and Dalsingh Sarai-Simri Bakhtiarpur road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-clears-four-new-nhai-road-projects-101628093444030.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks non-SSC boards to respond to state proposal for FYJC’s common entrance test||The state government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the planned common entrance test (CET) for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions will have seven papers of 25 marks each and students will have to opt for four papers. The questions will be based on a mixed syllabus — from the SSC board as well as other boards — and the questions will be provided by the respective boards. The HC has now asked other boards to respond to the proposal by Friday.The state government also informed HC that around 1 million SSC students and 5,000 students from other boards have registered for the CET. The government also informed the bench that as per the directions of the HC, a meeting with officials of CBSE, ISCE and other boards was held through video conferencing, wherein the CET format was discussed. The state submitted that the CBSE board said it had no problem with the format of CET, provided other boards agreed as well. The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice RI Chagla was hearing the petition filed by ICSE student Ananya Patki, seeking setting aside of the May 28 notification issued by the state government regarding the conduction of CET exam for admission to class 11. Advocate Yogesh Patki had argued that as the CET would be based on the SSC syllabus and would be held through the physical mode it would prejudice students from other boards and his daughter as well as she could not appear for the test physically. The state through government pleader Poornima Kantharia had informed the court that the test was only for those students who wanted admission in top junior colleges and priority would be given to students who took the CET. She had submitted that registration for the August 21 test was started on July 21 and had been extended by three days on July 26. The court had asked the state whether it could have separate papers for students based on the syllabus of their respective boards else withdraw the priority in admission status to students who took the CET. The court had then asked the state to discuss the issue with other boards and inform it on August 4. On Wednesday, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that a meeting of different board officials was held and all of them had agreed that they could not interfere in the decisions of the state. Kumbhakoni submitted that the boards were asked to provide a bank of 200 questions to the state, which would be included with the state board syllabus questions after modification to avoid leakage of questions. Kumbhakoni submitted that the papers would be based on Social Science, Mathematics, English and Science syllabus and other three groups would be decided after the other boards submitted their question banks. He said that students would have the option to choose any four groups to attempt from the group of seven. Kumbhakoni urged the court not to stay the August 21 test as any delay would have a cascading effect on admissions and eventually on the commencement of the academic year. While Patki submitted that he wanted to argue on merits of the test, the court directed the other boards with the exception of CBSE board, which were not present, to submit their say by Thursday evening and be present for the hearing on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-non-ssc-boards-to-respond-to-state-proposal-for-fyjc-s-common-entrance-test-101628093205428.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi records zero deaths due to Covid; 67 new cases, 73 recoveries added||The national capital on Wednesday saw no deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 67 more cases were recorded, taking the caseload to 1,436,518, according to the health department’s bulletin. The total recoveries have climbed to 1,410,947 after 73 patients were discharged on Wednesday and the active cases have come down to 513.This is the fifth time since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that no deaths were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Previously, Delhi saw zero Covid-19 deaths on July 18, July 24, July 29 and August 2. The toll due to the viral disease currently stands at 25,058, after four deaths were recorded on Tuesday.Authorities conducted nearly 73,000 tests (72,965 to be exact) for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours of which 49,214 were RT-PCR tests and the remaining 23,751 were rapid antigen tests (RAT). In a major move, the Delhi government reduced the prices of both RT-PCR and RAT tests in order to “help the common man”, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Wednesday.Also Read| Delhi govt slashes RT-PCR, RAT costs for Covid-19. Check revised ratesThe containment zones in Delhi have climbed to 284 but the number of patients under home isolation has declined to 157, compared to 174 on Tuesday, the health department’s bulletin also showed.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 4th August 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/W3hTB7AFcmMeanwhile, a total of 10,295,402 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease till now of which 7,533,336 have received the first dose and the remaining 2,762,066 are fully inoculated. As many as 95,076 beneficiaries were administered doses in the last 24 hours.According to the vaccine bulletin of the government, the stock of doses as on Wednesday morning would only last for another four days. Of 726,040 doses available, 375,110 doses are from the Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Covishield and 350,930 are from Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Delhi’s vaccination capacity at present stands at 175,539 doses per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-zero-deaths-due-to-covid-67-new-cases-73-recoveries-added-101628092571841.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav: Delay in detecting Delta variant led to second Covid-19 wave||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the state government was late in detecting the Delta variant, which led to the devastating second Covid-19 wave. To avoid any such situation in future, a laboratory for genome sequencing has been set up in Mumbai in a very short time, he said. He was speaking at the virtual inauguration of the laboratory set up at Nair Hospital. The hospital is expected to begin conducting tests to identify variants of Sars-Cov-2 from next week, making it the first civic hospital to conduct genome sequencing in Mumbai. The high-speed machine can run tests on 380 samples per round.The civic body will incur a cost of ₹10,000 for testing one sample.“When the first wave of Covid-19 was about to end, a slight rise in daily cases was reported in Amravati. Health experts were of the view that it would come under control, which did not happen. Soon the entire country and the world was again found infected with the virus and later we came to know about the new variant called — Delta. We also came to know about its virulence and transmissibility and body parts it affects the most, a little late. We would have been cautious if we had come to know all this at an early stage,” Thackeray said. Maharashtra is one of the most affected states in second wave of Covid-19 epidemic. “To fight a battle, one is expected to know everything about its enemy such as its strength, among others. Similarly, identifying the type of variant or mutation and their treatment has become absolutely necessary. There was a view that something has to be done as we don’t want to face such a situation again and this genome-sequencing laboratory was set up and that too in a very less time, without putting financial burden on the state government and BMC,” he added.In April, the state government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) to sequence 100 Covid-19 positive samples each from 36 districts per month. The CSIR-IGIB report in the third week of June found Delta Plus variants in the state.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. Currently, it takes over two-three months to get test results of genome sequencing which delays the epidemiological study of the mutated virus in infected patients. With the starting of the laboratory, the results of 380 samples will be available within three-four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-delay-in-detecting-delta-variant-led-to-second-covid-19-wave-101628092787327.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CR fines 90,000 commuters for travelling without tickets||More than 90,000 commuters were fined by the Central Railway (CR) for travelling ticketless and without proper documentation and ₹3.8 crore was recovered as a fine from the commuters in July.An increase in the number of ticketless commuters from June was witnessed. In June, 62,000 passengers were fined, and ₹2.6 crore was recovered from them.“We urge only the passengers who are permitted by the state government to travel by local trains. We have noticed an increase in passengers that have been travelling with fake identity cards, transfer of tickets and altered tickets. We appeal to the passengers to travel with proper and valid railway tickets to avoid inconvenience,” said a senior Central Railway official.Local train services are currently operational for employees working in essential care and people who are travelling for medical purposes. “Passengers as identified by state government are only permitted to travel in suburban local trains currently. A decision on allowing passengers and checking for vaccinated passengers will be done alongside the Maharashtra government,” said a senior railway official who did not wish to be named.Urban planner Sulakshana Mahajan, said, “The doctors and the government agencies will be able to analyse the risks and the benefits and then decide on allowing general public in local trains. The government agencies will also have to work to control the crowd inside train compartments.” Between April and July, this year, 304,000 passengers travelling without tickets were fined by the Central Railway and ₹15.9 crore was recovered as a fine. The local train services were suspended for the general public for the second time on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cr-fines-90-000-commuters-for-travelling-without-tickets-101628092544258.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Why indoor dining carries a high risk of Covid-19 spread?||As Mumbai unlocks further, citizens were hopeful for more relaxation in the timings of restaurants. But the city’s administration has refrained from extending the dine-in hours. Reason: Indoor dining, mainly in air-conditioned, closed spaces is considered high risk for the transmission of Covid-19. “Restaurants are the only places where unmasking is involved. This is perhaps why the restrictions on restaurants continue in the city,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. Currently, restaurants are allowed to remain open for dine-in services only up to 4pm on weekdays. After the first lockdown, restaurants implemented many innovative ways for a limited-contact experience for their customers. Digital food menus, staggered seating, reduced occupancy were some of the measures that were introduced. But a crucial aspect could not be changed — the air conditioners. “In an air-conditioned space, the same air keeps circulating in the enclosed space,” said Rajneesh Bhardwaj, associate professor, department of mechanical engineering at Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). “The concentration of particles in this air is higher, which makes it risky, he said. According to Bhardwaj, closed, air-conditioned eating spaces carry a high risk of infection spread. “The risk may go down slightly in non-air-conditioned, well-ventilated spaces and it further reduces in open air space. We should not forget that there will always be a heightened risk when one does not wear a mask and the virus continues to be in circulation,” he said. A 2020 research paper published in the Journal of Korean Medical Science that studied a restaurant setting said that droplet transmission can occur at a distance greater than 2 metres (6 feet) if there is direct airflow from an infected person in an indoor setting. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has stated that being outdoors and in spaces with good ventilation reduces the risk of exposure to the virus. It also suggests increasing the circulation of outdoor air as much as possible, for example, by opening windows and doors and prioritising outdoor seating. Medical experts say the best time to introduce relaxations for restaurants is when the city achieves nearly 70% full vaccination coverage. As more people get vaccinated, it will create safer environments for eateries and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-why-indoor-dining-carries-a-high-risk-of-covid-19-spread-101628092244568.html
04-08-2021||Other||Three aides of Mukhtar Ansari held in ambulance case||LUCKNOW Three aides of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari were arrested by the Barabanki police on Tuesday in connection with the fake registration of a luxury ambulance used by Ansari for reaching court and other places while being lodged in a Punjab jail, said police on Wednesday.Those arrested were Feroz Qureshi, Shahid alias Qurban and Surendra Sharma. The trio was wanted in the case and carried a reward of ₹25,000 each on their head, Barabanki cops stated in their tweet. Ansari is currently lodged in Banda jail since April 9, after being brought back to UP jail on Supreme Court’s order.The three accused were private security guards and driver of the ambulance. They always remained present in the ambulance whenever Ansari travelled in it, stated an official. He said they confessed their involvement in the crime and stated that they left the ambulance abandoned at a roadside eatery in Ropad when the media highlighted the issue on April 1. So far, the Barabanki police had arrested 10 people in this connection while two more accused, Zafar alias Chanda and Afroz Khan alias Chunnu, were still at large. Those arrested earlier included Dr Alka Rai, her brother Sheshnath Rai, Rajnath Yadav, Anand Yadav, Mohammed Shoaib Mujahid, Saleem and Ali Mohammed Jafari alias Shahid.The ambulance was registered with a fake address of Barabanki in the name of Dr Alka Rai’s hospital in Mau since December 2013 and was being used by Ansari for his transportation from jails. The Barabanki police had registered an FIR against Dr Rai and others on April 1, after the registration of the ambulance was found fake.The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Barabanki assistant road transport officer (ARTO) Pankaj Singh. On April 3, the police constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-aides-of-mukhtar-ansari-held-in-ambulance-case-101628089844064.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges to reopen from August 11||With Covid-19 cases dipping sharply in the recent weeks, the Chandigarh higher education department has decided to reopen colleges for the ongoing batches from August 11.However, the hybrid mode (online and offline) of teaching can be adopted by the head of the institute, wherever required. “It has been decided to open the institutions of higher education for the ongoing classes on or after August 11, as per their academic calendar,” reads the order issued by the directorate of higher education, Chandigarh administration.However, only those students who have received at least one dose of vaccine, at least two weeks ago, will be allowed to attend physical classes. The decision regarding the exemption from vaccination (due to medical conditions only) has to be taken by the college head.The order, which includes the guidelines as well, was issued after the UT administration in July allowed colleges and universities to reopen from August, with the rider that students, teaching and non-teaching staff who turn up for physical classes must have received at least one vaccine dose. There are nine government colleges and seven grant-in-aid colleges under the purview of the department of higher education in Chandigarh.According to the instructions issued, the heads of the institutions have been asked to work out all modalities for the phasing of classes so that Covid-appropriate behaviour can be followed.For more than a year, since March last year when the pandemic first broke out, city colleges have remained largely shut. Some colleges reopened in November, but didn’t evoke much response from students. When the first wave subsided, the administration had decided to reopen all colleges in February this year. However, the second wave started soon after in March, thwarting the plan.The heads of colleges have also been asked to ensure that teaching and non-teaching staff have received at least one dose of vaccination. Every college has been directed to work out its plan for the opening of hostels and students seeking hostel accommodation will be required to submit a negative RT-PCR report.Moreover, the institutions have been asked to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed, as prescribed by the Government of India and Chandigarh administration. According to the academic calendar for 2021-22 issued by Panjab University (PU), the classes for ongoing batches at its affiliated colleges, including the ones in Chandigarh, will begin n August 11.PU yet to decide Despite the next academic session for the ongoing batches set to begin on August 11, Panjab University is yet to decide on reopening the campus.The varsity has not even announced the mode of teaching to be adopted, leaving students in a fix. The varsity has remained closed since March last year after the Covid-19 outbreak. The classes and exams for both semesters of the 2020-21 academic session were conducted online.While demanding resumption of physical classes, students of a few departments had boycotted online classes this March. According to sources, PU might decide to take classes online for some time as it is unprepared to reopen the campus for students as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-colleges-to-reopen-from-august-11-101628088404449.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Classes 7, 8 to return to schools from August 9||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday allowed classroom teaching to resume for Classes 7 and 8 at government schools from August 9. However attendance will not be mandatory and online classes will continue too. Students will have to carry consent slips signed by their parents to enter the schools.This is the first time that schools will be reopened for elementary classes ever since the pandemic broke out in March last year. Schools had earlier reopened for a brief period for Classes 9-12 after the first wave last year and most recently on July 19.According to the order issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, detailed instructions will be released later by the UT education secretary. “Classes 9-12 are seeing around 30% attendance in physical classes. We allow maximum 15 students per class and follow Covid-19 norms. We will ensure staggered timings for different classes to avoid crowding,” said district education officer (DEO) Prabhjot Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhclasses-7-8-to-return-to-schools-from-august-9-101628088403258.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt slashes RT-PCR, RAT costs for Covid-19. Check revised rates||The Delhi government on Wednesday issued revised rates of RT-PCR test and Rapid Antigen Detection Test (RAT) for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The conventional RT-PCR test for Covid-19 will now cost ₹300 in the national capital when the samples are collected by government teams, according to an order issued by Delhi’s health and family welfare department. The RAT will also cost ₹300.In case the samples are collected by the private lab teams and processed at their lab for the government, the RT-PCR test will cost ₹400. Individuals giving their samples at private hospitals, labs, and collection facilities have to pay ₹500 for the Covid-19 test at their own expense, which includes sample collection charges and testing costs.The RT-PCR test will cost ₹700 when samples are collected from home. It will include visiting charges, sample collection, and testing. The revised rates come into effect immediately, as per the order.The health department said that private sector labs have to mandatorily collect the samples from the testing sites as requisitioned by government teams. It also directed all labs and hospitals to display the revised rates at “prominent” places within 24 hours of the order issued.“Processing of samples, sharing the reports with the client (government of individual) and updation of all reports on ICMR portal will be ensured latest within 24 hours of collection of samples,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-slashes-rt-pcr-rat-costs-for-covid-19-check-revised-rates-101628084273868.html
04-08-2021||Other||Covid cases in J&K drop by 77% from June to July, testing up by 25%||Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir dropped by 77% in July, while deaths due to the disease decreased by 86%, despite a 25% increase in the number of tests, as compared to June. Experts say that the number of cases may continue to remain low for a few weeks, after which they will rise again as restrictions have been eased and people are not taking precautions.According to official data, the union territory recorded 5,800 infections and 55 deaths of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in July. In June, the union territory had recorded 25,197 cases and 416 deaths.There has been a consistent decrease in test positivity rate (TPR) in July – 0.46% for July 1-10, 0.28% for July 11-20 and 0.23% for July 21-31. The number of daily cases had reduced to under 100 after July 20 to 63 on July 23 during the second wave.Also Read | ‘Covid recovered people with Covishield jabs safer against Delta variant’: StudyTPR is the percentage of tests that turn out to be positive, out of the total tests conducted during the period. It helps indicate the extent of infection in the community.The overall TPR in the month of July dropped to 0.32%, while it had been 1.80% in June.However, the past 10 days have witnessed a slight increase in cases. The TPR from July 25 to August 3 has slightly increased to 0.24%. The daily cases for the past 10 days are fluctuating between 100 and 160.Experts are saying that the situation may remain like this for two to three weeks after which the cases are expected to rise again as the restrictions have been eased.“We are at the same position we were in February when the first wave had ebbed. The daily cases will hover around 100, sometimes 20 up and sometimes 20 down, and this will change after two-three weeks when the cases will again rise,” said Dr Owais H Dar, general secretary of Doctors’ Association of Kashmir.“As restrictions have been eased and everything is open, people are hardly wearing masks. The virus variants are also evolving. These things will obviously add up and the third wave will emerge,” he said.In May, when the second Covid-19 wave peaked, the TPR was 8.77% with the union territory recording 114,000 cases and 1,625 deaths.There has been a consistent increase in the average monthly number of tests in the past three months. The union territory conducted 1.758 million tests in July – over 25% more than June, when 1.393 million tests were conducted. On an average, 56,700 people were tested daily in July and 46,400 in June.Dr Owais said that he is hopeful that the third wave won’t be as severe as the second.“We have a positive thing this time which is vaccination. A lot of people have taken the vaccine. So we expect that the peak this time won’t be that high. But it will also depend on the mutations of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cases-in-j-k-drop-by-77-from-june-to-july-testing-up-by-25-101628084442858.html
04-08-2021||Lucknow||CISH develops mango varieties rich in medicinal properties||The Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, (CISH) Lucknow has developed healthier varieties of mangoes with bio-active compounds, senior scientists with CISH said.They said these varieties of mangoes would be high in medicinal benefits and would have anti-cancerous properties.“Indeed, it’s a big discovery which will be a major value addition to the most-favourite fruit. Of the many hybrid varieties of mango, the researchers found CISH-developed “Arunika” rich in the bio-active compounds including mangiferin and lupeol content,” said Shailendra Rajan, director CISH.“The red-blushed Arunika is of great medicinal properties. The bio-active compounds present in this variety lower blood glucose levels by preventing glucose absorption in the intestine, whereas the Mangiferin helps to protect against breast and colon cancer,” the CISH director said.Another variety of medicinal mango, developed by CISH is “Saheb Pasand”, which the director said was the sweetest variety of mango that was high in lupeol content (The compound that is known for a wide range of pharmacological activities against a variety of disease conditions). Inflammation, arthritis, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, renal disease, hepatic toxicity, microbial infections and cancer are some of such disease conditions.He said the institute was ready with the variety however the test of the pulp was still on in order to compare these hybrid mangoes with other available varieties of mango in terms of medicinal content. He said in near future, cultivation of these special varieties of mango would yield better income to the farmers and also health benefits to the consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cish-develops-mango-varieties-rich-in-medicinal-properties-101628084024044.html
04-08-2021||Dehradun||BJP, AAP spar in Uttarakhand; Congress says both will lose in assembly elections||Tension is mounting between BJP and Aam Aadmi Party workers in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, after the former allegedly vandalized a temporary camp set up by the latter to carry out a signature campaign recently. The promotional camp was set up at Lal Mandir area where BJP workers allegedly created ruckus and also warned AAP workers against entering the colony. A complaint has been filed by AAP state vice-president women wing Hema Bhandari against a dozen-odd BJP activists at Jwalapur police station. AAP workers tried to gherao BJP state president Madan Kaushik. They had heated arguments with police when stopped at the entrance of Khanna Nagar Colony. AAP worked staged a sit-in after which some BJP workers also arrived at the spot but police defused the situation.Also Read | Known for Chipko, Raini village now unfit to live in“BJP has stooped to low-grade politics. In fact, it’s their fear of rise of AAP as an alternative in state politics. After our party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s visit last month to Dehradun, BJP has realised the place AAP has made in the hearts of people of the state who want change in regime in the next year election,” said AAP’s Hema Bhandari. Refuting allegations of violence by his party workers, BJP district president Jaypal Singh Chauhan said AAP creates such instances and blows them out of proportion to gain media mileage. “As far as AAP claiming to be a major force in state politics is concerned, they are daydreaming. BJP will win 60 plus seats and our party is going to make a clean sweep in 2022 assembly elections,” he said. The Congress, while condemning the incident, said both the parties are hand in glove. “Congress resorts to silent, non-violent protests only. As voters are looking towards Congress, both BJP and AAP will be facing a drubbing in the elections,” said Congress senior women wing leader Anji Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bjp-aap-spar-in-uttarakhand-congress-says-both-will-lose-in-assembly-elections-101628084022912.html
04-08-2021||Other||Dr Subbiah murder case: Court gives death penalty to 7, life imprisonment to 2||A sessions court in Chennai on Wednesday imposed the death penalty on seven of the 10 accused in the murder of neurologist Dr S D Subbiah. These include two lawyers. City trial court judge I S Alli also sentenced two others to life imprisonment and one accused who turned approver was released without punishment. On September 14, 2013, the 58-year-old doctor was killed in full public view while he was walking out of Chennai’s Billroth Hospital towards his parked car after work in the evening. A land dispute with his family over a 2.4-acre plot in the doctor’s native Anjugramam village in Tamil Nadu’s Kanyakumari district led to the crime. Three people wielding machetes attacked the doctor on his head, neck and he suffered more than 20 cuts across his body. Many people witnessed the attack and CCTV from a nearby apartment also captured it. Dr Subbiah succumbed to his injuries nine days later. Also Read | Chennai civic body to set up park dedicated to Covid victimsThe sessions judge sentenced Ponnusamy, Basil, Boris, B William, James Satish Kumar, Murugan and Selva Prakash to double capital punishment for offences under Sections 302 (murder) and 120B (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death) of IPC. The other two accused, Mary Pushpam and Yesurajan, have been sentenced to double life terms. One of the convicts, William, is an advocate whose bail petition was rejected by the Supreme Court in May 2018. Prosecutor Vijayaraj had at that time submitted a petition in court to declare Williams as proclaimed offender as he had been absconding with his family members. Williams surrendered in August that year and was remanded to judicial custody. Another accused, P Iyyapan, who turned approver in 2018 and became a prosecution witness during the trial, was allowed to walk free without any punishment. Iyyapan had confessed that he, along with Murugan and Selvaprakash, had killed the doctor. After the sentencing, the murdered doctor’s wife, Shanthi Subbiah, flanked by her daughters said, “This is an emotional and private moment for us...In those nine days, he was semi-conscious, I’m sure he would have only thought about me and his two daughters. We are not going to get him back, but today’s verdict is some consolation. My husband believed in the judiciary and so did we. Today’s verdict shows that our trust in the judiciary hasn’t gone in vain. It’s a little late but never too late to get justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-subbiah-murder-case-court-gives-death-penalty-to-7-life-imprisonment-to-2-101628083302569.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid effect: Passengers turn to paid services for safer air travel||While domestic air travel has witnessed an uptick with declining Covid-19 cases in many parts of the country, passengers are choosing to travel with utmost care, assistance and zero touch facility. At the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), from April to July 2021, more than 15,000 passengers availed Pranaam service- paid services with an aim to be guided, managed and made to feel secure and travel stress-free. According to internal data sourced, 33% of these passengers are first timers and involve a high number of senior citizens. “Over 500 senior citizens have opted for the service. 25-50 years of age group has availed the service the most. Besides, around 33% of first-time passengers have availed of the service during the same period,” said CSMIA spokesperson.Also Read | Thane hoteliers to hold silent protest demanding extension in operation hoursAmitava Majumdar, a corporate lawyer residing in Worli said, “The service allows one to be sure of contactless travel which is crucial during a pandemic. Last week, I went to Kolkata with my family but my younger son left two days after us. I booked Pranaam service for him so that he has access to the lounge and would be assisted at each step.”Services for international departure for elite category costs a passenger ₹6,850, for platinum category, it costs ₹5,000. The services included porter services, lounge access, facilitation through immigrations and VIP security lanes, buggy and assistance from entry up til boarding gate. The same services for domestic passengers are ₹3,500 (for elite) and ₹2,500 (for platinum). While the same services are also given to arriving passengers, airport sources said passengers have been given the option for porter services too. The service costs a domestic passenger ₹500, it costs an international departure person ₹750, and ₹1,500 to an international arrival passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-effect-15k-passengers-in-90-days-resort-to-paid-services-for-safer-air-travel-101628082282067.html
04-08-2021||Lucknow||NCM seeks clarification on UP DGP’s Moharram guidelines||LUCKNOW: The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) on Wednesday sought clarifications from Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari on a leaked letter from police headquarters outlining the Moharram guidelines to be observed in the state.The police communication has been severely criticised by Shia clerics and the All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board (AISMPLB) which called the guidelines “anti-Shia” and “provocative”. Some others from the community have called the internal communication, a “charge sheet” against them.“The National Commission for Minorities has issued a notice to the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh and called for a clarification on the controversial aspects of the guidelines issued by the DGP of Uttar Pradesh regarding the month of Muharram,” NCM vice president Atif Rashid said, according to news agency PTI.The NCM letter asked the state government to clarify where and on how many incidents of intra-community violence were reported. Besides, the letter also sought an explanation on “how a confidential letter came out in the public domain.”The controversial guidelines on the arrangements to be made during Moharram, starting on August 10, was issued on July 31.Maulana Yasoob Abbas, senior Shia cleric and general secretary of AISMPLB, said they were grateful to the NCM for taking suo motu cognisance “of the guidelines that are politically driven and aimed at creating differences between the two sects”.“In the guidelines, the DGP office blamed Shia Muslims for carrying out certain religious practices which hurts the religious sentiments of the people belonging to the other sect. Besides, they referred to Moharram as a festival, which is absolutely wrong since it’s a time to mourn and not to celebrate. Also, the guidelines ban the tazia processions that are carried out during Moharram to mark the martyrdom of Imam Husain, Prophet Mohammad’s grandson and his 72 companions in Karbala (in present-day Iraq) in 680 AD,” the senior cleric said.He also requested the state government to allow them to take out tazia processions while following the Covid-19 protocol.After the controversy, the UP Police said the circular was meant only for its officials, not for the general public. The order on the dos and don’ts issued on July 31 was meant for the officers in the field and not for the public, additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ncm-seeks-clarification-on-up-dgp-s-moharram-guidelines-101628082042667.html
04-08-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Sonbhadra ensures all kids have benches to sit on||Sonbhadra has become the first district in Uttar Pradesh to equip all its 2,257 primary and upper primary schools with desk benches. Now, around 260,000 children in these schools will not have to sit on the ground for classes. Sonbhadra also ranked first among 112 districts in the country in March for an overall good performance in key areas such as health, nutrition and school infrastructure, skill development and financial inclusion under the Aspirational District Programme (ADP) by NITI Aayog. Launched in 2018, the ADP focuses on overall infrastructure improvement, with special focus on school infrastructure, health, nutrition, and skill development. “Sonbhadra has been ranked first in the country for its overall performance in different sectors such as education and infrastructure development under the ADP,” said Amit Pal Sharma, chief development officer. A total of 31,823 dual desks and benches were provided to 2,257 schools. For the purpose, around ₹13.47 crore was released from the District Mineral Foundation Trust, Sonbhadra. An official associated with the implementation of the ADP said no government school in the district had dual desks and benches in 2018. But now, all 2,257 government schools are equipped with dual bench desks. Likewise, 1,646 schools had toilets for girls in 2018. But at present, all 2,257 schools in the district are equipped with toilets for girls. Sonbhadra district magistrate Abhishek Singh said, “A lot of work has been done in the district under the ADP. Dual bench desks have been provided to all government primary and upper primary schools. Walls have been painted. Potable water facility has been made and toilets for girls with tap water have been built in all schools. Around 300 schools have been equipped with smart classrooms.” Kukumlata Tripathi, a teacher at multi-storey primary school in Robertsganj, said, “The tablet/computer has syllabi of all subjects of Classes 6 to 8.” Head master Suman Tiwari said, “Children learn faster in a smart classroom. In fact, smart classroom helps generate interest among kids for learning.” Skill development training was imparted to 5,703 people in 2021 – up from 1,267 in 2018. Some of them are trained in home appliances repairing and solar panel installation and others are trained in sewing, embroidery, as linemen in power sector, and masons etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-sonbhadra-ensures-all-kids-have-benches-to-sit-on-101628081862875.html
04-08-2021||Other||C’garh villagers sit in protest over man’s death; forces say he was a Maoist||Hundreds of tribals of around a dozen villages of South Sukma, Chhattisgarh, have been protesting since Tuesday, alleging that the security forces picked up a man from his house and killed him on July 25. The forces have maintained that the deceased, Bheema Kunjam, was a Maoist platoon commander who died in an exchange of fire.The protest is on in the Maoist-affected Chintagufa village which is around 450 kilometres from Raipur. Sukma police said Kunjam was killed in a gunfight in Paddigua village, which comes under Chitagufa police station. They said personnel of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were involved in the operation following a tip-off. The exchange of fire went on for well over an hour and the remaining Maoists escaped while Kunjam’s body was recovered from the spot. However, the villagers say Kunjam was picked up from his village on July 24 before being killed the next morning. “He was not a Maoist, he was just a farmer living with his wife in his village...Police claimed that a country-made gun was recovered from the spot, but Kunjam had no gun. Anyone who carries a gun, lives in the jungle, not in the village with his wife... We want action against those who killed him,” said Ravi Sodhi, one of the protesters.Also Read | Cop, civilian injured in J&K terror attack: PoliceAnother villager, Ganesh , said they all were raising their voices as police are targeting villagers instead of Maoists and if they will not raise voice against this violence now, they all will suffer. Sukma superintendent of police Sunil Sharma maintained that Kunjam even had a reward of ₹1 lakh on his head and six cases were registered against him. “The villagers have been coerced by Maoists to protest against us. Mangadu, an area commander of CPI ( Maoist), threatened them to join the protest,” he said. “The allegations are baseless and part of the modus operandi of Maoists to defame the forces. In the recent past, Maoists have suffered major setbacks. In a desperate attempt to avoid their extinction from Bastar region, their leadership is resorting to such false propaganda,” said Inspector General of Police , (Bastar range ) Sunderaj P. Human right activists working in Bastar believe that instances of fake “encounter” have increased in the past six months and security forces are killing soft targets. “Typically, the DRG is involved and those killed are soft targets. Recent incidents across districts follow a similar pattern, making one conclude that what is happening is a part of policy,” said Bela Bhatia , a Bastar-based human rights activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cgarh-villagers-sit-in-protest-over-man-s-death-forces-say-he-was-a-maoist-101628080423125.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Of jaunty joints, hostel life with a dollop of nostalgia||Hostel life is synonymous with messy rooms, dirty laundry piled up in a corner, midnight pranks, complaints about mess food, sneaking in and out during curfew hours, sharing of desi ghee pinnis and ladoos, lifelong friendships and a lifetime of memories. One such shared memory among hostellers invariably includes visits to a nearby dhaba or an eating joint in the vicinity of the campus that doles out simple yet sumptuous dishes at any hour, particularly when the mess food is unpalatable. Being a day scholar throughout my school and college days, I have no such memories. However, on numerous occasions when I drove to pick or drop my daughter at National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, my observant eye never failed to notice the multi-coloured, jaunty joints and kiosks sprouting alongside the boundary wall of the campus, extending almost up to the college gate. A motley crowd, ranging from the shy and apprehensive freshers to final year abrasive seniors to philosophical research scholars, have been witnessed paying their obeisance at these epicurean shrines that satiate the gastronomic pangs arising at odd hours. A closer look at these food stalls offers you a glimpse of the menu being served which may be limited as compared to a high-end restaurant yet guarantees a quicker delivery and a richer taste. Most of these kiosks serve eggs in myriad forms. You can order a humble plain or cheese omelette in a bun or with a toast, a par boiled egg hard to resist or a wobbly soft boiled one, the all-time favourite anda bhurji or scrambled eggs with lots of onions and coriander or a highly irresistible and innovative variety, the anda parantha. Instant noodles with several derivatives of the same are also a hit among the hostellers. You can enhance these dishes either with squirts of ketchup or spoonful of homemade chutneys that are served at no extra cost. The palate-tingling, spicy dishes are often washed down with fizzy drinks in summer and hot scalding tea in winter. These dhabas, kiosks, stalls or joints, call them what you may, present a microcosm of the varied culture of a country as diverse as India. Social class, colour, creed, religion or political leanings play no role once you step inside, for everyone is served with equal gusto and reverence. Many years down the line, when old friends sit and reminisce of the college days or hostel life, the rejoinder of these joints unfailingly brings a smile upon their faces. My husband often recalls one such joint called Jhanku ka Dhaba from his hostel days with great fondness, that used to be a favourite place for paranthas during their late-night soirees. Unfortunately, with educational institutions facing temporary closure due to the pandemic and hostels lying vacant, these jaunty joints no longer bear a cheerful visage and are facing tough times. If this piece reminds you of your hostel days and rings a bell about one such joint that you used to frequent along with your friends, please spare a kind thought to that poor dhaba owner who used to satiate your hunger pangs at odd hours and within your means. sonrok15@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based college teacher||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/of-jaunty-joints-hostel-life-with-a-dollop-of-nostalgia-101628079642112.html
04-08-2021||Other||Padma Sachdev, the poet who took Dogri language to great heights||A sense of great loss was felt nationwide with the passing away of Padma Sachdev, the first modern poet of the Dogri languageThe sparkling small-town Jammu girl won accolades for her poetry and prose as she navigated with typical rustic trademark, beauty, talent and an irresistible lust for life as she navigated the literary circles of Mumbai and Delhi.She was to the Dogri language what Mahadevi Verma was to Hindi and Amrita Pritam to Punjabi. She started dabbling in poetry in the sweet dialect of the Jammu hills and went onto win the Sahitya Akademi in 1971 for her book of poetry ‘Meri Kavita, Mere Geet’. She went onto win many awards including the Padma Shri and the Saraswati Samman for her autobiography ‘Boond Bawari’ in 2015 and in 2019, she received the prestigious Sahitya Akademi Fellowship for lifetime achievement. Her autobiography was translated into English by Uma Vasudev as ‘A Drop in the Ocean’.Padma, along with other writers and activists, pressed hard for the recognition of the Dogri language. “When Atal Bihari Vajpayee became PM, I would nag him about it as I knew him as a fellow poet. So he would avoid me knowing what I was going to ask for!” she would recount. When official recognition came to Dogri in December 2003, Padma says it was the happiest day for her as the language had its own identity and was not just taken for a dialect.”Behind her tinkling laughter was a life of struggle and resilience as she fought many setbacks and persistent health problems. She found a caring partner in classical singer Surinder Singh and she is survived by him and their daughter Meeta Sachdev. Adieu to Padma who will live forever in her poems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/padma-sachdev-the-poet-who-took-dogri-language-to-great-heights-101628078562180.html
04-08-2021||Pune||Maha’s districts of concern including Pune report lower Covid vaccination rate even as cases surge||As districts of concern including Pune continue to be under stricter restrictions, these have also seen a smaller percentage of people getting the Covid-19 vaccine as compared to the major cities like Mumbai or the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) which has received a larger share of the vaccine and is currently under lenient restrictions compared to the rest of the state.These districts of concern include Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad and Palghar.The task force has recommended that at least 70 per cent of the total population has to be fully vaccinated and only then the restrictions can be eased.As per data from the CoWIN app, none of the 11 districts of concern has vaccinated more than 30 per cent of its population with the first dose and more than 16 per cent of its population with the second dose. However, Mumbai and the MMR region which includes Thane has vaccinated about 40 per cent of its population with the first dose and 13.06 per cent of its population with the second dose.Despite being a major city even Pune has been facing a shortage of vaccines. “There is no supply of Covidshield vaccine in Pune since last four days. We are facing problems due to the non-supply of doses. For the last four days, we are only giving Covaxin to beneficiaries,” said Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, on Tuesday.The Beed district, which is now emerging as a new district of concern since July has the lowest number of people being vaccinated among these 11 districts of concern, six per cent or 169,685 people are fully vaccinated.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the state government, said, “My recommendation to the government of India was not to consider the distribution of vaccines equally based on population, which is absurd epidemiologically. As an authority, they will have to give a slightly more weightage and supply more vaccine doses to the districts reporting more cases.”“Currently for districts like Solapur, Kolhapur and Sangli I would recommend more vaccines than the districts which have a lower positivity now. The current strategy of vaccine distribution is not a sound one and better strategies have helped despite the shortage of doses which will always be there,” he said.He further added, “We have to understand that the Covid-19 situation currently be it in Maharashtra or Kerala will be better than what it was before provided that the intensity of the vaccination drive is maintained stable or that it is increased and that the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed.”“As of now Vidarbha region is reporting single-digit cases and so the intensity of the surveillance has to be more aggressive there otherwise if they fail now there could be an outbreak and then it will be difficult for the administration and the health infrastructure to handle the surge later,” he said.Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the Covid-19 task force, said, “We had opened up almost everything following the first wave, somewhere in mid-January, the surge in the second wave was primarily because of the delta variant which is now thought to be as widely infectious as chickenpox. As a health expert, to maintain the balance between health and economy it is necessary to monitor and restrict as it helps the health infrastructure to prepare.”“As of now we have no lockdown as such, we have restrictions in place. We need to look to prevent micro containment zones and prevent surges, the virus circulation needs to be intervened through restrictions and the vaccination is also not at par,” he said.“The operational factors between first and second waves are different as the Delta variant was not involved in the first wave. In the first wave, the R nought was about 3.5 which in the second wave went up to 8-11 of the Delta variant which makes it as fast as chickenpox which is why the relaxations are slower. Plus with the monsoon coming up many Covid and non-Covid flu-like symptoms may get mixed and so we need to avoid a monsoon pandemic,” he said.Dr Joshi also added that the Delta plus variant has nothing to do with this spread. He said, “Although some of these districts did report cases with Delta plus variants, it has nothing to do with the surge.”As of August 2, except Sindhudurg, other districts have reported a fall in the number of active cases below the most active Covid-19 cases reported in the first wave. The highest number of active patients in the first wave was 1,346 which as of 2nd August is 1888 which is 40.27% more than the peak of the first wave in Sindhudurg district, said the state health report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahas-districts-of-concern-including-pune-report-lower-covid-vaccination-rate-even-as-cases-surge-101628074841539.html
04-08-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: The rustic divinity of Pune’s deities of the hills||The modern Pune of the 21st century still harbours a cosmic world of magical spirits, goblins and folk deities of primitive origins in its folds. Before we explore the blast of development which took place during the 18th century and track the process of Pune’s urbanisation, let us take stock of lesser-known folk cults residing in and around the prominent hills of Pune.Habitation and human connection with the hills of Pune has not been a new phenomenon, starting from micro-lithic tools of Mesolithic man to historical cave excavation activities in early medieval period. For lack of evidence, we cannot find a point in history when the folk deities come into existence. Establishment of a folk deity is, often, part of larger cultural processes of assimilation, mobilisation, elevation, demobilisation, replication, and adaption within social movements and religious discourses. It may, at times, be a manifestation of an un-manifested power perceived by a group or a community, or interpretation of a natural phenomenon. The cycles of evolution and regression repeat in cultural processes based on the local perception of the masses. Divine marriages, acquisition of a family or entourage, and successive incarnations are theological manifestations of social fusion. The continuity of certain cult-spots does not mean that descendants of the original prehistoric tribesmen continued to worship the same god at the same place with, at most, a change of name. Ceaseless nomadic movements, famines, migrations, feudal warfare and epidemics can confuse any regular sequence. Nevertheless, some continuity of tradition often remains and restoration of cults in modified forms can be observed. The relevance of the folk deity is upheld through divine interactions with the deity through means of rituals such as a “angat yene” (possession by the divine spirit), Shamanic functions via devrushi, offering of prasada, pledging and fulfilling the vows, kaul (demanding solution to problems through series of questions and answers), various demonstrations through performances and plays, and hosting a yatra (pilgrimage) or jatra (fairs). The tradition of bagad held at the Nava Kalbhairav Temple is one such example. The nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralists such as Dhangars have been frequenting Pune environs for centuries as they set off on annual migrations to western parts of Maharashtra and Konkan. The lush grass pastures on hills have served as annual pit stops on the way. The centuries of connection to the place along annual migration has resulted in veneration of spirits by enshrining of the spots. This is very well observed at the top of the Vetal hill complex, right in the centre of Pune city. The place marks the boundary of four villages, namely, Pashan, Kothrud, Erandwane and Bhamburda, all of which are firmly a part of the Pune metropolis, today. Till a few decades back, there existed a stone circle erected by the Dhangars painted in white which represents the king of goblins, Vetal, along with his hordes. The king of goblins was later assimilated in the Shaiva pantheon, but here it exists as an independent deity. The younger brother of elder Vetal is located at foothill near the Mendhi farm area. The malevolent spirit of Vetal is known to be fierce as seen through adjective such as “agya” (fiery) and is offered non- vegetarian prasada. The annual jatra takes place on Gudhi Padwa when locals of Ramoshi wadi carry out a procession in the middle of night to enact Vetalbaba’s midnight march consisting of pishacchas, bhutas and goblins. Wrestlers from all around Pune are known to offer their prayers and pledge vows asking for strength and virility before wrestling matches. The shrine is considered an embodiment of the hill environs itself. The deity and its pantheon, thus, prefer to stay in the open, sky clad. One witnesses vermilion- clad erect undressed stones all around the shrine representing blood-thirsty spirits attending Vetalbaba. Women are not preferred around the shrine. However, these restrictions have been relaxed now days. Though the nature of rites has grown less primitive and fierce today, the fear-filled respect for the deity of Vetal is still realised. Curiously, there existed a ward of Pune known as Vetal peth, named after Vetal baba who hailed from Saswad region. The other famous Goddess of a Pune hill is goddess Chaturshrungi at the Ganeshkhind end of the Vetal hill complex. The original hill of Vetal complex has four shringas (horns/peaks) thus forming the name for the once cave-dwelling Goddess. The “swayambhu” (self-emanating) mother Goddess of Chaturshrungi residing in a womb-like cave from “little tradition” was later revived and connected to “great tradition” via a mythical story. A distinguished money lender during the Peshwa period, Durlabhshet Mahajan was an ardent devotee of goddess Saptashrungi (one of the Shakti peetha) near Vani, Nasik. As he found it difficult to visit Saptashrungi due to old age, the goddess willingly offered to appear at a rock-cut cave near Pune. On exploration, Durlabhshet found a rounded stone as a manifestation of the goddess. The temple was built in 1786, the goddess was revived and subsequently brahminised, too. It is pertinent to note that presence of a folk mother goddess may have existed before this revival. It can be seen through presence of many aniconic stones covered in vermilion in precincts of temples dating to pre-Peshwa times. The yatra of goddess Chaturshrungi is held with great pomp and show during the Navratri and Dusserah festivals. Mhatoba (also Mhaskoba or mhasoba) is a buffalo- headed folk God venerated by animal herding pastoral communities of the Deccan peninsula. It was later adapted by agrarian communities and is commonly seen serving the function of a Kshetrapal (guardian deity) on the boundaries of human settlements. One can find a shrine of Mhasoba at the foot hills of Parvati hill and it also serves as a “gram daivat” of the Dattawadi settlement along river banks. But, a much older Mhatoba is located on western ends of the Vetal hill complex. It originally came from Mawal area in the west and serves as satellite site of Mhatoba of vilalges of Wakad and Hinjewadi. According to distinguished archaeologist Damodar D Kosambi, the Mhatoba of Pune hill was brought in by herdsman from Wakad where it existed before 1678 CE. Mhatoba at Pune hill exists in the form of red-daubed boulder along with his wife Jogubai or Jogeshwari. Mhatoba of the Mhatoba hill end is meant pay respect to goddess Tukai near the Sutaardara area of Vetal hill complex. Kosambi has reported various microliths near the original shrine which has regrettably been modernised beyond recognition. As the Vetal hill complex has been frequented by Punekars exercising, a modern Maruti (signifying power and bravery) is established as “Hanuman” and “Apla Maruti” is enshrined at the Law college end on a path towards the Vetal hill top. The scrubby thorny wilderness of dry deciduous nature on the hills was perceived as forests by the erstwhile Punekars, and wilderness was recognised in the form of folk Gods guarding these sacred spaces. This has manifested in the form of sacred grove-like protected wilderness of a natural place. Goddesses Taljai and Waghjai and even the local goddess Parvati of pre-Peshwa eras are best examples of such mother guardian spirits. These hill deities epitomise the living connections of Punekars even today, as they guard the urban greens, critical for a quality urban life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-the-rustic-divinity-of-pune-s-deities-of-the-hills-101628074302240.html
04-08-2021||Patna||IndiGo employee crushed to death on his birthday in a road accident in Patna||A 21 year old employee of IndiGo airlines, Prince Kumar was crushed to death by an electric bus on his birthday, early Wednesday morning in Patna, while he was heading to the airport to take part in 15th anniversary celebrations of the airlines. His aunt, Lawani, who was also injured in the accident, is out of danger, said police.Prince was riding a motorcycle to the airport with Lawani riding pillion, when an electric bus mowed them down near Veterinary College, a stone’s throw away from the Airport. Lawani is under treatment at a private hospital in the city, police said.“As they reached near Veterinary college, the speeding bus suddenly turned and hit the motorcycle. Both of them fell down and Prince died at the spot after coming under the wheels of the bus. Lawani’s leg was crushed too by the bus,” Lawani’s husband Sumit Kumar said.Sumit said Lawani called him at around 6.05 am to inform about the accident. “Lawani is getting treatment and is out of danger. It was Prince’s birthday today and IndiGo’s celebration for completing 15 years of operation was also planned for Wednesday but it was postponed after the incident,” he added.The station house officer (SHO) of Airport police station, Arun Kumar, said the bus driver managed to escape along with the bus.An unsigned Indigo statement condoled the death of the employee. “We are extremely saddened to confirm the demise of our Agile team member who met with an accident this morning. We offer our deepest condolences and our prayers and wishes are with his family and loved ones,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/indigo-employee-crushed-to-death-on-his-birthday-in-a-road-accident-in-patna-101628073821440.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in west Delhi's factory||A fire broke out on the roof of a factory in west Delhi's Kirti Nagar area on Wednesday, officials said.Information was received that a fire had broken out in an air conditioner on the roof of the factory. Some furniture was also kept there and caught fire, the fire brigade officials said.Seven to eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the blaze. The fire was brought under control by 1.45 pm, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-west-delhi-s-factory-101628071897297.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Six years after sacrilege incidents in Punjab, two eyewitnesses surface||Six years after the sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district, two eyewitnesses have come forward to say that they saw four followers of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda pasting derogatory posters near gurdwaras on the night of September 24, 2015. In its chargesheet, the Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) has said that the two eyewitnesses, Harnam Singh and Harnek Singh, saw the dera followers pasting the posters separately and identified them. Also read: No plans to tweak Citizenship Amendment Act, include other minorities: Parl toldHarnam and Harnek have not recorded their statements before any inquiry commission, including the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission, before this. This could be crucial evidence for the SIT-led by inspector general of police SPS Parmar. In May, the Parmar-led SIT had arrested Sukhjinder Singh, Ranjit Singh, Shakti Singh and Baljit Singh for pasting derogatory posters at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village. On July 20, the SIT filed a chargesheet against the accused, copies of which were handed over to them on Tuesday. On May 25, Harnam appeared before the SIT to join investigation. He identified Ranjit and Sukhjinder, claiming that he saw them at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on the night of the incident. He said he did not pay much attention at that time as he thought they might be pasting a religious poster. “In the morning, I found out about the derogatory posters, but I was not aware of the identity of both persons. The CBI recorded my statement but never called me for identification of any suspect. Today, I am identifying Ranjit Singh, he was the one who pasted the posters and Sukhjinder was accompanying him,” he said. CBI did not pay attention to leads The other witness, Harnek Singh, said that he saw Shakti and Baljit pasting posters at Bargari village on September 24, 2015. “I even went to the CBI officials to inform them, but they did not listen to me. I saw their pictures in a newspaper in May this year and identified them through pictures with SIT officials,” he said. An official said both eyewitnesses testified after the arrest of the accused in May. “They have not recorded any statement before this. Now, there are eyewitnesses, so the SIT is moving forward with strong evidence,” he said. The chargesheet reads that the case was traced by the SIT led by former IG RS Khattra during the probe of the 2011 Moga violence case. “But the CBI did not pay attention to the leads provided by the SIT in these cases and emphasised on proving Punjab Police wrong,” the SIT said. Bid to avenge insult to dera The SIT also added confessional statements of all accused in which they confessed to the crime. The accused said that they carried out the sacrilege on the directions of dera follower Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in Nabha jail, to avenge the insult of the dera by a Sikh preacher. Bittu got instructions from the dera. Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report’s finding regarding the three sacrilege cases is also part of the SIT report. The chargesheets filed by the SIT in Gurusar Bhagta (Bathinda) and Malke (Moga) sacrilege cases are also attached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-years-after-sacrilege-incidents-in-punjab-two-eyewitnesses-surface-101628071961191.html
04-08-2021||Other||Khori: Supreme Court gives Haryana 3 weeks to finalise rehabilitation scheme||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Haryana government three more weeks to finalise the rehabilitation policy for slum dwellers in Faridabad’s Khori village so that the policy is in place when the authorities complete the ongoing demolition of nearly 6,600 unauthorised houses built on 150 acres of Aravali forest land before August 23.The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), the agency carrying out the demolition, told the top court that nearly 80% of the targeted demolition was complete and the corporation will be able to stick to the August 23 deadline set by the judges at the previous hearing on July 23.The corporation, represented by senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, told the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that MCF finalised the draft rehabilitation scheme but later received some suggestions from people. “The corporation responded to these suggestions and forwarded it to the state government. The policy is yet to be finalised,” Bhardwaj said.Lawyer Ruchi Kohli, appearing for the Haryana government, said it would need three weeks to invite objections and finalise the draft housing plan for the slum dwellers.Also Read: Housing is critical for the environment | HT EditorialThe bench, which posted the case for hearing on August 25, asked MCF to submit its final status report on the demolition and directed the finalisation of the rehabilitation policy before the hearing.MCF started the demolition of structures in April this year following the Supreme Court orders to clear encroachments from Aravali forest land in February 2020.On June 3, the bench gave MCF six weeks to complete the demolition.The corporation wasn’t able to complete the exercise within this deadline and at a hearing on July 23, was given time till August 23 to complete the demolition.While granting this request, the Supreme Court bench also responded to complaints by some residents of the village that the administration was acting swiftly against the poor but has spared the rich who built farmhouses and commercial structures.Also Read: UN human rights experts call on India to halt evictions in Faridabad’s KhoriMCF was ordered to make sure all encroachments were removed. “Our direction to remove all structures on forest land applies to all structures without any exception,” the bench emphasised.On Tuesday, owners of some properties who rent out their premises for marriage functions also approached the court, saying MCF sent them notices for erecting boundary walls on forest land.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for these persons told the court that they were not on forest land and their business is protected by orders passed by the Supreme Court in a pending case filed in 2013.The bench said: “If the MCF is of the firm opinion that the structure pertains to forest land, they will be free to proceed in terms of our order and demolish it. If it is not on forest land, then do not carry out any action till Friday.” The bench allowed the applicants to approach the authorities concerned on Wednesday with proof that the land is not forest land and directed the application to be listed on Friday along with the 2013 case files by which the applicants were protected.At Tuesday’s hearing, the court also heard complaints from Khori village occupants that people evicted by the corporation were not being provided temporary shelter or food. Senior lawyer Sanjay Parikh, appearing for one set of occupants, said the villagers were told to go to the nearby Radhasoami Satsang ashram which has a capacity to accommodate 50 persons but has close to a lakh people.He was supported by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves appearing for another set of dwellers.The bench said only those who are eligible as per the new policy will be rehabilitated. “For temporary shelter, we have permitted you to approach the commissioner.” In response, the corporation said food, medical support, ambulances, trucks for transportation, and temporary shelter at the nearby premises of Radhaaoami Satsang was being provided.The court asked the corporation to depute a nodal officer at the Radhasoami premises so that the Khori dwellers do not have to travel all the way to meet the commissioner. In addition, the bench allowed grievances to be made through email and asked MCF to provide the necessary details.The status report to be filed by the Corporation on the next date shall mention details of representations received and the outcome achieved, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khori-supreme-court-gives-haryana-3-weeks-to-finalise-rehabilitation-scheme-101628071601267.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Man thrown from speeding bus over fare dispute in Bihar, dies||A 40-year-old daily-wage labourer was kicked off a speeding private bus by one of its employees, following a dispute over the fare on NH-22 near Dariyapur in Muzaffarpur district on Wednesday morning. The victim, identified as Maharaaj Das, a resident of Nanpur-Singhachouri village of Sitamarhi district, succumbed to head injuries.Police said that Das, along with six others, was working in a Varanasi-based private firm and the group was on its way to Sitamarhi from Varanasi via Patna.According to eyewitnesses, the bus was overcrowded and Das and his associates could not find a seat to travel to Sitamarhi. All of them were standing near the door of the bus. When the bus neared Dariyapur, Das gave the conductor ₹25 for a ticket.Also Read | Bihar student union collects bricks for symbolic foundation-laying of AIIMSThe conductor asked him where he would get off. “When he said Sitamarhi, the conductor demanded ₹50 more. Das protested, as he knew the fare was ₹25 without a seat, but the conductor started abusing him,” said a passenger.The conductor and cleaner misbehaved with Das and assaulted him when he refused to give the extra money. After a heated argument, the conductor threw Das out of the bus. Locals and passengers of the bus rushed Das to a nearby private hospital, where he died.The bus driver, conductor and cleaner went on the run before the police could reach the spot. SHO of Turki police station Ram Binay Kumar said that police seized the bus, and a separate team was dispatched to trace the absconding bus staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-thrown-from-speeding-bus-over-fare-dispute-in-bihar-dies-101628067340775.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Bihar student union collects bricks for symbolic foundation-laying of AIIMS||Peeved over the inordinate delay in construction of Bihar’s second AIIMS at Darbhanga, activists of Mithila Students Union (MSU) have launched a campaign to collect bricks from households for a symbolic foundation-laying ceremony on September 8.Subsequently, a social media campaign with ten different hashtags in support of AIIMS will also take place during the period.Founder (ex) president of MSU Anup Maithil said they have observed that though a “double-engine government”-- with the National Democratic Alliance both at the Centre and in the state-- was in power, not a single brick was added to the construction site. The Cabinet approval for AIIMS was granted in September last year. Also Read | Doctor in Kolkata alleges brokers grabbed his land in Bihar’s Purnia“In the next few days, MSU activists will conduct awareness campaigns in villages by taking out cycle rallies across different blocks to garner support in this regard,” Maithil said. Recently, the Bihar government granted financial approval of ₹13.23 crore for earth filling work --levelling of 75 acres of low-lying land in the first phase. A total of 200 acres land on DMCH campus was earmarked for AIIMS for which the union Cabinet had granted its approval. AIIMS was to be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹1264 crore in 48 months.According to Bihar information and public relations department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, “After providing 200 acres of land for the construction of AIIMS in Darbhanga, the Bihar government has also given administrative and expenditure approval to spend ₹13.23 crore for soil filling and levelling on it. Efforts are being made to complete the construction of AIIMS with quality within the stipulated period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-student-union-collects-bricks-for-symbolic-foundation-laying-of-aiims-101628065480628.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh moves Bombay HC, seeks orders to disband Chandiwal Commission||Former Mumbai police commissioner (CP) Param Bir Singh on Wednesday moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking orders to disband Justice (retired) Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal’s enquiry commission days after the one-person probe rejected Singh’s objection to its maintainability. The state government on March 30 appointed a single-member commission headed by the former judge to probe the allegations that Singh made in a letter to the chief minister regarding the then home minister Anil Deshmukh, whom he accused of running an extortion racket. The panel was given six months to examine whether Singh submitted proof to establish that Deshmukh or any staffer from his office committed any offence/ misconduct as alleged in the letter; whether specific allegations raised by Singh merited investigation by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau or any other agency; as well as to offer any recommendations that it deemed fit. Singh, currently posted as the Commandant General, Maharashtra Home Guards, moved the HC to challenge the commission’s July 30 rejection of his objection to its continuation. Also Read | Deshmukh skips ED summons again, claims probe neither fair nor impartialSingh contended that the issues referred to the commission were already adjudicated on by the Bombay HC and the Supreme Court and thus there was no need for the Chandiwal probe. Singh’s petition stated that the HC on April 5 ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into Singh’s allegations against Deshmukh. The Supreme Court upheld the HC’s conclusion that Singh’s letter prima facie disclosed cognisable offence and required probe by an independent agency. On July 22, HC dismissed separate petitions filed by Deshmukh and the state government for quashing of the FIR registered by the CBI against Deshmukh on April 21. In the petition filed through advocate Anukul Seth, Singh contended that in the backdrop of the court orders nothing remained for the Chandiwal Commission to enquire into. “Once the CBI has registered the FIR, the recommendation by the Enquiry Committee as to whether investigation by an independent agency is required or not is rendered meaningless,” said the petition. “There is no purpose to be achieved by such a recommendation.” “The only purpose of the enquiry committee is to aid the State of Maharashtra to decide whether the contents of letter dated 20.03.2021 disclose an offense or not and whether the same are required to be investigated by an investigation agency,” states Singh’s petition. “One a definitive judgment has been delivered by the High Court and the Supreme Court on this very issue, very purpose of the Enquiry Committee does not survive,” the petition adds. On March 20, three days after he was transferred out of the post of Mumbai CP, Singh shot off a letter to the CM and other officials, alleging that Deshmukh used to intermittently summon some Mumbai police officers, including the then deputy commissioner of police (enforcement) Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil (social service branch) and dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, to his official residence. Deshmukh gave the officers a target to collect ₹100 crore every month from dance bars, hookah parlours and bars and restaurants in Mumbai, Singh alleged in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-moves-bombay-hc-seeks-orders-to-disband-chandiwal-commission-101628065360240.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal orders magisterial probe into rape, murder of 9-yr-old||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ordered a magisterial enquiry on Wednesday into the alleged rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl at a crematorium near Delhi cantonment.He also announced ex-gratia financial assistance of ₹10 lakh for the girl’s family and assured them that the Delhi government would appoint the best lawyers in the case.“I met the family of the girl today [Wednesday] and shared their grief. We shall give ex-gratia financial help of ₹10 lakh to the family, there will be a magisterial probe, and we shall appoint renowned lawyers to ensure that the culprits are punished. The central government should take adequate steps to strengthen the law and order system in Delhi. We assure them of full cooperation,” said Kejriwal in a tweet on Wednesday.Also Read | Dalit girl’s alleged rape-murder: Medical board to conduct autopsy, Rahul and Kejriwal condemn incidentDelhi Police and public order in the Capital is under the domain of the union home ministry.A board of three doctors will conduct an autopsy of the charred remains of the girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered on Sunday by four people at a crematorium near Delhi cantonment. Her family members and political activists protested against the incident for the fourth day on Wednesday.The accused, including the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, were booked under sections pertaining to rape, murder and threatening charges, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act. They were sent to jail. Though the accused have maintained that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from an electric cooler, the family have alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after frightening the family off from informing the police about her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-orders-magisterial-probe-into-rape-murder-of-9yrold-101628064640315.html
04-08-2021||Bangalore||29 ministers to be sworn into Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet today||At least 29 legislators will be sworn in as ministers in chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet on Wednesday, ending speculation around the new leadership that was necessitated to contain the simmering political crisis in Karnataka. “Last night, final talks got over. List is ready now. I’ve sent it to Raj Bhavan. Twenty-nine ministers will take oath today [Wednesday],” Bommai said. He added that there will be no deputy chief minister this time, which, according to political experts, appears to be a way not to antagonise any leader and community after Bommai was chosen over several others for the top post. Bommai said that there are seven legislators from backward classes, three from scheduled castes, one from a scheduled tribe, seven Vokkaligas and eight Lingayats. Shashikala Jolle is the sole woman in the Cabinet. Political experts said the delay in the Cabinet formation indicates the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre has taken over most decision-making processes in Karnataka. Also Read | HC notice to BSY, son in corruption case“For the last two days, all seniors have discussed this (Cabinet) in detail, and there are just two issues left,” Bommai said on Wednesday. The issues that Bommai referred to likely include the number of deputy chief ministers and former chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s insistence on including his son, BY Vijayendra, in the Cabinet, people aware of the developments said. The Central leadership of BJP, people aware of the developments said, is yet to warm up to the idea, which also mens that Vijayendra might be given a chance to contest the bypolls from Hangal in Haveri district. Bommai said that Vijayendra is not in the existing list. Meanwhile, BJP legislators rushed to Bengaluru--some in the hope of getting a call from the chief minister over their inclusion in the Cabinet and others to protest if their names were missing from the list. “Sir, did you get a call?” was the most popular and frequently posed question by TV journalists camping at Vidhana Soudha since Wednesday morning. The Opposition has criticised the BJP and Bommai for not prioritising the floods that have ravaged over 13 districts in the state and the imminent third wave of Covid- 19 infections. Bommai, however, has been more fortunate than his mentor and predecessor, Yediyurappa, who was not given a Cabinet for over a month, leaving the then 76-year-old to handle one of the worst floods in the state in 2019 by himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/29-ministers-to-be-sworn-into-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-s-cabinet-today-101628060319967.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||US consulate in Mumbai receives hoax call at midnight||A hoax call was received by the United States (US) consulate in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) late Tuesday night. The consulate informed Mumbai police officials who, in turn, set the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) in action and got the area around the consulate thoroughly checked. Nothing suspicious was found.According to the police, the call was received around midnight. The caller, who used a mobile number to the consulate’s landline, threatened to blow up the building.Also Read | Mumbai shopkeepers relieved at extension of timings, hotel assn plans protest“Taking into consideration the gravity of the threat, the whole area was cordoned off and a thorough check was carried out in the presence of senior officials,” said a police officer. The check continued till early Wednesday morning.Mumbai Police officials said they found nothing in the search which was carried out in the presence of dog squad and BDDS. They will soon register a case with the local police station and start the process to trace the caller.The consulate shifted from Churchgate in South Mumbai to BKC in November 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/us-consulate-in-mumbai-receives-hoax-call-at-midnight-101628055699195.html
04-08-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh announces 6.19% hike in power tariff||Chhattisgarh State Electricity Regulatory Commission (CSERC) has announced an average hike in power tariff by 6.19% for all categories of consumers over the existing rate for the financial year 2021-22. A press release issued by the CSERC , on Tuesday, stated that the new tariffs have been made effective from August 1. The state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed the government over the decision and claimed that the government is putting extra burden on the people of the state. “In the domestic consumer category, for the consumption slab below 100 units per month, constituting 64%of total consumers, the tariff has been increased from existing ₹3.40 to ₹3.60 per unit,” the release stated. Also Read | Chhattisgarh makes negative RT-PCR test report must for flyers from August 8Besides, for consumption units of 101 to 200, the power tariff has been hiked from ₹3.60 to ₹3.80 per unit, it said. Similarly, hikes have been made in other slabs of power consumption in domestic categories and other categories. The commission has also increased the load limit for single phase connections from 3 kilowatts to 5 kilowatts. The fixed charge, which was earlier levied on consumption, will now be charged on the basis of contacted load and telescopic basis, the release said. In order to incentivise an environmentally friendly transport system, tariffs for electric vehicle charging units will continue to remain ₹5 per unit as earlier, it said. To expand telecommunication connectivity in naxal-affected areas, 50% rebate on power surcharge on mobile towers to be installed after April 1, 2019 in those areas, will be continued, it said. The discount in power surcharge to medical establishments in tribal and rural areas has been increased from 5% to 7%. Reacting to the price hike, leader of Opposition and senior BJP leader Dharamlal Kaushik, said “The state government has been betraying the people of the state. When the state is suffering from Covid, this increase will be devastating for the people. The state government should immediately take back their decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-announces-6-19-hike-in-power-tariff-101628054619062.html
04-08-2021||Kolkata||PM Narendra Modi speaks to CM Mamata Banerjee over flood situation in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to Mamata Banerjee and assured all possible support to mitigate the flood situation in West Bengal, in which 23 deaths have been reported so far, after the chief minister complained that the release of water by the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) had caused a “man-made” flood situation in the state.Banerjee, who was scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit regions of Howrah and Hooghly districts in south Bengal, had to cancel the plans due to bad weather. She, however, reached Howrah by road to take stock of the situation.“Unless DVC dredges its reservoirs, this would happen. The centre needs to be more careful and immediately carry out dredging,” Banerjee said in Howrah district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-mamata-banerjee-to-begin-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-areas-in-south-bengal-101628050658136.html
04-08-2021||Other||Farmer dies in front of govt office in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh; suicide suspected||A farmer allegedly died by suicide in front of a government office in Raigarh district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Tuesday. The man allegedly consumed poison, said the police.Police said a suicide case (Section 174 CrPc) has been registered and investigation started in the case. “No suicide note was found from the spot. We are taking statements from his son and other villagers,” said Abhishek Meena, Superintendent of Police, Raigarh. The incident took place in front of the tehsildar office in Baramkela town, around 200 km from the state capital Raipur on Monday evening. Also Read | MP govt orders FIR against online game firm after boy dies by suicideThe SP said the deceased finalised a deal of his ancestral land, which was not registered in his name, with another villager and took ₹5 lakh advance a month ago. “After the father of deceased died a year ago, the land, which was registered in his father’s name, was not divided between his sister and him. A month ago, he took ₹5 lakh advance and finalised a deal to sell the land. A few days ago, a meeting was called in the village, where the deceased promised to return the money within a month,” said the SP. On Monday, the man went to the tehsil office of Baremkela along with the man who had paid him the advance amount. “He went to the tehsil office to purchase stamp paper as he was supposed to give an assurance in writing . Later, he died by suicide by consuming poison,” said the SP. Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-dies-in-front-of-govt-office-in-chhattisgarh-s-raigarh-suicide-suspected-101628050118361.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Offence detrimental to health of society: Magistrate refusing bail to Raj Kundra||The metropolitan magistrate court said on Tuesday that the alleged offence is detrimental to the health of our society even as it refused bail to actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra and his IT support provider Ryan Thorpe, both of whom were arrested by property cell of the Mumbai crime branch in connection with a pornography film racket.The two were arrested on July 19 and the magistrate court had remanded both to judicial custody on July 28 after which Kundra’s lawyers moved a bail plea for the duo.Also Read | Mumbai shopkeepers relieved at extension of timings, hotel assn plans protestIn a detailed order, additional chief metropolitan magistrate S B Bhajipale said one of the consideration for refusing or granting the bail is the nature and gravity of offence.“The effect of alleged offence is having nexus with public at large,” said the magistrate court, adding that, “The alleged offence is also detrimental to the health of our society. In such circumstance, societal interest in the prosecution of a crime which has a wider social dimension cannot be overlooked.” The court also noted that the two deleted huge data which could have been used as incriminating material against them. “In such circumstances, there is every possibility of tampering with the evidence if the accused are released on bail,” it said.The property cell has claimed that Kundra set up a company, Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd., which developed a mobile phone application, “Hotshots”, and sold it to London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, owned by his brother-in-law. Police claimed that Kundra used the app to upload pornographic videos shot in and around Mumbai for paid viewership of the app.The property cell further claimed that Kundra was the one who controlled the operation of the app and earned over ₹1.17 crore between August and December last year by means of subscription fee collected from app users. Police claimed to have found 51 obscene videos at Kundra’s office in Andheri west -- 35 videos had “Hotspots” logo and 16 with logo of “BollyFame,” an app that the 45-year-old businessman got developed after Apple and Google removed “Hotshots” from their respective app stores and it was also removed from YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/offence-detrimental-to-health-of-society-magistrate-refusing-bail-to-raj-kundra-101628047237894.html
04-08-2021||Patna||Doctor in Kolkata alleges brokers grabbed his land in Bihar’s Purnia||A Kolkata-based doctor who is a native of Purnia town of Bihar has alleged that his paternal land in prime location at Line Bazar has been grabbed in his absence.Dr Rahul De,a neurosurgeon, has now sought the help of Purnia district Bar Association as his late father was a lawyer in Purnia civil court. He has also written to the district magistrate in this regard. Dr De’s father died five years ago and the family lives in Kolkata.In his petition, he said, “On the night of July 31, the henchmen of two land brokers –Avneesh Sah and Barishtha Singh, both residents of Prabhat Colony in Purnia town –forcibly captured my land and building.” He alleged that they also assaulted the caretaker who later informed him about the incident.Also Read | Chirag Paswan real leader of LJP, should work with Tejashwi Yadav: Lalu PrasadDe’s land measures 22 kattha (20,042 sq ft). Contradicting the claim of the land brokers that his father sold the land in 1993, Dr De said, “I have received the rent from the state food corporation (SFC) office which was run in the building till last month when the office was shifted.” Station house officer (SHO) of additional Khazanchi Hat police station Sanjay Kumar Singh said, “We have visited the disputed plot and summoned both the sides to the police station.” He added, “The person against whom land-grabbing charge has been levelled showed his documents whereas Dr De has not yet turned up.” Purnia district Bar Association chief Bibhakar Singh assured Dr De of full legal support. “This is also related to law and order problem,” Singh said.Dr De’s advocate Sudip Roy alleged the broker got the land deed in connivance with the staff of registry office and on the basis of that forged documents, mutation of the land was also done in the office of circle officer of Purnia East block.“The nexus between land brokers, police and officials forced hundreds of Bengali families to leave Purnia in the last two decades,” he said. He informed that a title suit over the grabbed land has been filed at the court. Bihar Bengali Association is yet to come forward in support of Dr De. There are about 5,000 Bengali families in Purnia division-consisting of four districts-Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj besides Purnia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/doctor-in-kolkata-alleges-brokers-grabbed-his-land-in-bihar-s-purnia-101628046698450.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai shopkeepers relieved at extension of timings, hotel assn plans protest||Sunil Parmar, who owns a utensils shop at Parel, was relieved while attending to his customers on Tuesday, as there was no pressure to close his shop late afternoon. Instead of having to shut down at 4pm, he can now operate till 10pm, according to the new guidelines that came into effect in Mumbai from Tuesday. “We had decent sales on the first day of extension of timings,” he added.As part of the Maharashtra government’s decision to partially lift lockdown restrictions, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowed shops to open till 10pm on all days, Earlier timings were till 4pm on weekdays. The BMC on Tuesday clarified that shopping malls will remain shut and restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 4pm on all days. Earlier, restaurants were allowed to remain functional only on weekdays. Restaurant owners have warned of an agitation at the “discrimination”, with the Vasai Taluka Hotel Association organising a 60km protest march on Wednesday.Also Read | Shops to operate on all days till 10pm from today in MumbaiMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 6,005 Covid-19 new cases with 177 deaths, while Mumbai reported 291 new cases with three deaths. Mumbai recorded 735,657 cases with 15,911 deaths till date.Despite demands by commuters’ associations and political parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), the state has decided not to allow general public to travel by Mumbai suburban trains, as it is wary of Covid transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shopkeepers-relieved-at-extension-of-timings-hotel-assn-plans-protest-101628046637976.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light showers expected today, says IMD||Parts of Delhi are expected to receive light showers and drizzle on Wednesday, with the temperatures remaining around 33-34 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Senior Met officials said that while rains are likely to continue during the week, the spells would be light and patchy. They are expected to intensify in the coming days.“After the next two days, we are hoping that the rains will pick up,” a senior IMD official said.Delhi has been witnessing an “above average” monsoon this season, with July recording 507.1mm rainfall as opposed to 210.6mm, which is the normal. After recoding a surplus rainfall, according to Met officials, August is also likely to see “good rains”. Also Read | Climate crisis triggered extreme events: DataDelhi this year had witnessed a delayed monsoon onset, with the first monsoon showers making a debut on July 13, 16 days after its normal arrival date. The usual monsoon onset date in Delhi is June 27. “As of now, it does seem like August will also record above average rains, which is likely to also increase the cumulative rainfall count of the season,” said the Met official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-showers-expected-today-says-imd-101628045437909.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur eases Covid-19 curbs, shops allowed to open till 8pm on weekdays||The shops and establishments, including malls, in Maharashtra's Nagpur will be allowed to open for longer duration as new guidelines of the municipal corporation come into effect from Wednesday. The decision has been taken due to a fall in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.These establishments can operate till 8pm on weekdays, from the earlier deadline of 4pm, and till 3pm on Saturday and Sunday.However, the order issued by civic bodchief Radhakrishnan B stated that places of worship, coaching classes, swimming pools, cinema theatres and multiplexes will remain closed.The civic authorities social, cultural and political gatherings. The number of guests at weddings has been limited to 50 per cent of the venue or 50 people, whichever is less, and that too only till 4pm.Funerals will have an attendance cap of 20, while saloons, beauty parlours and wellness centres can operate till 8pm on weekdays, and restaurants can open with 50 per cent capacity till 4pm on weekdays, the order further said.The Nagpur division recorded 20 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday.Maharashtra, meanwhile, reported 6,005 fresh Covid-19 cases and 177 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the tally of infections to 63,21,068 and the toll to 1,33,215. The state health department said in a medical bulletin that 6,799 patients recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-eases-covid-19-curbs-shops-allowed-to-open-till-8pm-on-weekdays-101628039950759.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Life-saving surgery on 2-year-old weighing 45kg||City doctors performed a life-saving bariatric surgery on a two-year-old baby whose 45kg weight left her incapable of walking or crawling and posed a serious health risk. A healthy weight for a child her age is between 12kg and 15kg.The doctors said that as per medical literature, the toddler, Khyati Varshney, is the youngest child to undergo weight loss surgery in the country.The doctors from Max Hospital in Patparganj, where the toddler Khyati has been undergoing treatment for over a year, were unable to pinpoint the reason why she was putting on excess weight that caused sleep apnoea, a condition where the breathing stops and restarts repeatedly during sleep.A sleep test conducted by her doctors, days before her surgery, showed that her oxygen saturation dropped to 75% in her sleep. Normally, people maintain oxygen saturation between 95% and 100%. Covid-19 patients with oxygen saturation below 94% are encouraged to go to a hospital.Khyati’s parents started noticing excess weight when she was three months old. “People dismissed it saying that she is from a well-to-do family. At six months, she weighed over 15kg. Before the surgery, she was 45kg when her mother weighed 50kg,” said her father Rahul Varshney.Doctors said they were unable to find any hormonal or genetic reason for her obesity, adding that it had nothing to with her diet as she started putting on weight even when she was on mother’s milk.“It could be a genetic condition that we still do not know of. She doesn’t eat any junk food, she doesn’t like sweets too much – so it is not a case of food making the child obese,” said Dr Vivek Bindal, head of Max Institute of Minimal Access, Bariatric, and Robotic Surgery.Doctors said Khyati is the youngest child to get a bariatric surgery. “There is a case of a 2.6-year-old child of 36 kg [undergoing weight-loss surgery] that is reported in medical literature. As far as we know, this is the youngest child to get the life-saving surgery. She may have died without it,” said Dr Bindal.Worried about the excessive weight gain, the parents encouraged doctors to try bariatric surgery on her even though it is not usually considered for children below 12 years old because of the lifestyle changes it entails.Among the challenges faced by doctors were a lack of medical equipment for bariatric surgery on children and no fixed guidelines to decide doses of medicines, anaesthetics or even ventilator settings.“If the ventilator settings were set for a 45kg person, her lungs would not have been able to deal with the pressure. But if we gave it according to a two-year-old, it would not have helped as her chest is heavy. We had to plan for all eventualities,” said Dr Rajiv Uttam, paediatric intensive care specialist.Dr Arun Puri, the anaesthetist, said that five days after the surgery, Khyati’s sleep apnoea started improving and her snoring, one of the symptoms of the condition, stopped completely. “This could pave the way for the surgery becoming available for other obese children in the future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lifesaving-surgery-on-2-year-old-weighing-45kg-101628034599486.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police makes 11 stations child friendly: Colourful walls, books, games||Vibrant graffiti covered walls, eclectic chairs, colouring books and board games — no, this isn’t the description of a play school, but of the colourful corners one can now witness at a police station! Children are brought to the police station owing to a number of reasons. And, to ensure their experience is comfortable, Delhi Police has launched ‘child-friendly centres’ at 11 police stations in the Northwest district. The initiative was launched in a bid to address a few concerns when it comes to children. “We often rescue kids who have been kidnapped or get lost. They have to spend some time in the station while we trace their parents or arrange a shelter. Sometimes, kids are brought in to record their statements against a perpetrator, or are victims of abuse. Occasionally, juveniles who are held for petty crimes need to be counselled — all these require their presence in a police station. Children are impressionable, and we understood that changes had to be incorporated to make our stations safe, comfortable spaces,” says Usha Rangnani, DCP (Northwest), under whose guidance the centres have been set up. One can spot, in these child-friendly corners, a host of toys, educational games, notebooks, colouring books, drinking water and food. The fixtures and fittings, too, are child-friendly, and a female officer is stationed in each corner to tend to the kids. “Complainants often come to the station along with their kids, and are seen speaking to the inspector while taking care of their child. Now, they can simply allow the child to play in the room designated for them, and interact with the police with ease,” says Dinesh Kumar, station house office (SHO) Model Town Police Station.What’s more, the centres will double up as a crèche for children of police personnel. “I have a 1.5-year-old daughter. When I had night shifts, I’d have to leave her at home. But now, I can comfortably bring her with me to work, and feed her whenever required. I know many women like me, who are extremely happy that such centres have come up. Many children, not just our own, would benefit from having a comfortable space to interact with police officers,” opines Vandana, a constable at Ashok Vihar Police Station. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-makes-11-stations-child-friendly-colourful-walls-books-games-101628032117257.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||At 98.07%, record students pass in Class||Schools in the national capital registered a record overall pass percentage of 98.07%, 12.41 percentage points higher than the previous year’s 85.86%, in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 exams results announced on Wednesday.The CBSE used an alternative method of assessment this year after the government cancelled the Class 10 exams on April 15. Last year, the CBSE conducted board exams for most subjects but the pandemic halted the process with students not being able to write tests for some subjects.The improvement in overall performance of Delhi schools was led by the government-run institutions where the pass percentage went up from 82.61% in 2020 to 97.52% this year. The government schools recorded a pass percentage of 68.9% in 2017-18 and 71.6% in 2018-19.Similarly, the overall pass percentage of private schools also improved from last year’s 91.29% to 99.54% in Delhi East region. In Delhi West region, it shot up to 99.61% from last year’s 89.09%.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia congratulated the students: “I am proud to state that 97.52% of Delhi government school students have passed and 186 government school children have scored more than 95%. It is the result of the governance model of @ArvindKejriwal ji that Delhi government schools are setting an example in the whole country.”Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also congratulated the students. “Many congratulations to the children, their parents and team education,” he tweeted.According to the data provided by the Delhi government, of the 1,008 schools from which Class 10 students were assessed, 750 achieved 100% results.The average Quality Index (QI), which reflects the performance of each student, in government schools has also increased to 278.3 this year from 265.31 in 2020.Several government school principals said the alternative evaluation criteria helped their students.Under the alternate assessment criteria, students have been evaluated on the basis of their performances in exams conducted at the school level, including unit tests, mid-term/half-yearly exams, and the pre-boards, following the cancellation of their final examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE had also asked schools to keep their overall passing percentage in line with their best performance in Class 10 final exams in the last three years. The board has allowed schools to moderate marks within a range of plus or minus 2 obtained by the school in the subject in the reference year.“Schools picked their best performance in the last three years and marked students on its basis. It has majorly benefitted average students. Overall, this was the best board could have come up with in the pandemic year,” said Awadesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed School in Rohini, which has recorded 100% result this year.Explaining the major possible reason behind the improvement in overall pass percentage, Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools that also registered 100% pass percentage, said, “The results were prepared on the basis of internal assessments that covered short units (syllabus), and were of short duration. In fact, the major portion of these tests or exams were multiple choice type or short answer type questions. Naturally, children tend to do well in such exams. The problem begins when exams happen for longer hours with long answer type questions. This only highlights the importance of continuous school-based assessment.”The majority of private schools said their result was in accordance with their previous year performances. Meenakshi Khushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar, said, “Our results are almost the same as normal boards . We followed all the norms. There is no difference as such and we are satisfied with it.”Students also expressed relief after the end of an exhaustive pandemic-hit academic year. Hiten Goyal, 15, a student of RPVV Surajmal Vihar, has scored 478 out of 500 marks in Class 10. His father, an electrician, suffered financial losses due to the lockdown. “It’s a challenging year both academically and financially. There was a time when my father did not get work due to the pandemic. But my family did not let it affect my studies. I am happy with the results and satisfied that this long wait is finally over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-98-07-record-students-pass-in-class-101628031290416.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Vaccination karwaya hai? Ask Delhi-NCR residents before hiring help||Finding a domestic help is, as it is, a tedious task for many. But, denizens are now faced with one more challenge — finding a vaccinated house help. With a third wave of Covid-19 anticipated to hit the country in just a few weeks from now, residents of Delhi-NCR are being all the more vigilant and making sure that they hire part-time helpers only once they are vaccinated. “We are getting so many calls every day for helpers and nannies, but everyone is very particular about the maids being vaccinated. They tell us, ‘Dono nahin toh ek vaccination shot laga ke hi lana’. In fact, even after this [ensuring vaccination], we do an RT-PCR test and only then send them,” says Delhi-based Jibin Alex, owner of a firm that provides nannies, nurses and maids.Some people are going the extra mile and investing time in educating their helps about the importance of getting vaccinated, one such individual being Ishita Bhatt. “My part-time maid was very scared of vaccination. She and her family used to feel if they go in for free vaccination, they might fall sick ya marr jayenge. I told her we will get the paid one done for her. Gradually, she understood why it was necessary to get vaccinated. I also told her that if she doesn’t get a jab, we won’t be able to keep her,” says the Gurugram-based environment consultant. Some residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) are taking upon themselves the onus of ensuring that domestic helps get the jab. “Recently, we held a vaccination drive for maids and other workers. We have even compensated those who got their shots outside,” shares Prabhat Bhardwaj, RWA president of Central Park 2, Gurugram. And, domestic helps seem to have realised that if they want to remain employed, getting jabbed is the only way. “Pichle saal se hi kum kaam hai, kyunki lockdown mein nahin aa sakte the hum. Iss baar bhi bahut kum logo ne humein aane diya. Sab puchte hai ‘vaccination karwayi hai kya?’ Ab samajh gaye hain, kaam karna hai toh injection lagwana padega,” says Seetha, a domestic worker. Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-karwaya-hai-ask-delhi-ncr-residents-before-hiring-help-101628030859310.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Lawyer seeks urgent hearing over Delhi police chief appointment||A lawyer on Friday urged the Supreme Court to urgently hear his contempt plea against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the Centre’s decision to appoint Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner days before his retirement date.ML Sharma, the petitioner, mentioned the matter before Chief Justice of India NV Ramana but the judge asked him to wait. “Let your petition be numbered first. We will then see,” the CJI told Sharma.Sharma, who has a penchant for filing PILs, has argued in his plea that Asthana’s appointment is contrary to the Supreme Court’s July 3, 2018, judgment in the Prakash Singh case according to which officers on the verge of their retirement should not be appointed as police chiefs.The top court had said that officers should have at least six months tenure left for their empanelment for the police chief post||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lawyer-seeks-urgent-hearing-over-police-chief-appointment-101628028282624.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Birdwatcher of Munirka Enclave||Kandala. Such an uncommon name. “It means ‘golden’ and indicates someone who has the properties of gold, such as beautiful, precious, rare,” says Kandala Singh. The word is from Punjabi, her mother tongue.A poet, Ms Singh lives in south Delhi’s Munirka Enclave. It is a neighbourhood that “gives me plenty of fodder for poetry—interactions on the terrace with neighbours during lockdown, messages on the colony WhatsApp group, the Ashoka trees, the cacophonous chorus of birds twice a day.”In her 30s, she finished composing Birdwatching this month last year. She wrote the first draft in a single day but “went back and forth on this poem over the next four months, revising and editing, and re-revising with the inputs of a poetry partner.”She feels especially attached to this poem, for it touches upon the “emotional truths and contradictions” of domestic violence. Ms Singh is a survivor of gender violence who also works on gender issues as a researcher and activist.“We don’t always manage to make room for these nuances. Perpetrators of violence are often painted with an unidimensional lens. The lived experience of violence is far more complicated.” Poetry can hold room for these contradictions, she believes.Ms Singh agrees to share the poem with us, which first appeared in the US-based poetry journal Rust + Moth.BirdwatchingMy mother says it was the peacockthat did it, the reason I said papabefore mama. In the memory she madefor me, you took me to the chhatand taught me how to say ‘mor.//I don’t remember the peacocks. I rememberwanting parrots. //She insists they were why I forgaveyou her bruises: red turning blue,then green, colour of rose-ringedparakeets. I remember//pointing a fruitknife at you, blade stickywith orange pulp. I remember//the forests we crossedevery Himalayan summer;how you taughtme to listen for a river;joining tops of bluepine to bulbuls who flewacross, drawing threadswith our eyes to tracetheir flight. I rememberthe shrill in mama’s voice//the first time she called my namefor help. I rememberscreaming STOP.//I remember learningto pronounce or-ni-tho-lo-gist,you explaining you weren’tone. I remember breathing//sessions in therapy, siftingsummer from winter, youfrom mama’s husband,my therapist saying I shouldhold on to the good things you did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-birdwatcher-of-munirka-enclave-101628027313381.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Day 1 of relaxations: Mumbai’s shop owners get relief||Sunil Parmar, who owns a utensils shop at Parel, was relieved while attending to his customers on Tuesday, as there was no pressure to close his shop late afternoon. Instead of having to shut down at 4pm, he can now operate till 10pm, according to the new guidelines that came into effect in Mumbai from Tuesday. “We had decent sales on the first day of extension of timings. This 4pm deadline to shut shops was not feasible,” he added. As part of the Maharashtra government’s decision to partially lift lockdown restrictions, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowed opening of shops till 10pm on all days, which was earlier till 4pm on weekdays. The BMC on Tuesday clarified that shopping malls will remain shut and restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 4pm on all days. Earlier, restaurants were allowed to remain functional only on weekdays, with night curfew in the city between 11pm and 5am. Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 6,005 Covid-19 new cases with 177 deaths, while Mumbai reported 291 new cases with three deaths. The number of cases in Maharashtra has reached 6,321,068, while deaths reached 133,215. There are currently 74,318 active patients across the state, in which Pune tops with 15,552 patients, followed by Sangli, with 7,301 active patients and Satara with 6,848. The number of cases in Mumbai reached 735,657 with 15,911 deaths till date. Despite demands by commuters’ associations and political parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), the state has decided not to allow general public to travel by Mumbai suburban trains, as it is wary of Covid transmission. Like Parmar, thousands of shopkeepers in Mumbai heaved a sigh of relief as the BMC relaxed the timings for shops till 10pm from Tuesday. However, the decision has caused restaurant owners to cry foul, as they still have to close their establishments by 4pm. Restaurant owners have warned of an agitation, with the Vasai taluka Hotel Association organising a 60-km protest march on Wednesday. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an apex body of hoteliers, said they are now gearing for a fight. “They are portraying us as spreaders of Covid-19 and we will fight to the end. We have a right for our livelihood,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson, HRAWI. Major hotel associations will meet on Wednesday to chalk out their course of action.The shopkeepers have welcomed the move. “There is positivity among shopkeepers due to this decision. Now we can operate our shops during normal working hours,” said Mitesh Mody, who owns an electronic outlet at Lamington Road.However, many of the employees who travel long distance are unhappy as they are not being allowed on local trains. “I have been without a proper job for the past two years and surviving doing petty works in my area. It is impossible for me to travel to Dadar everyday by bus,” said Raju Khakre, who lives in Kalyan.The Mumbai civic body has also allowed all indoor and outdoor sports activities, except swimming pools and all other sports related activities where close physical contact is required. However, corporators have complained there is no logic in allowing outdoor sports activities on all days of the week, but keeping gardens and playgrounds daily only between 5am and 9am. Asif Zakaria, Congress corporator from Bandra said, “I do not see any logic in keeping the gardens and open spaces shut in the evening hours.” Meanwhile, non-essential shops in Thane will now be allowed to remain open till 10pm from Monday to Saturday and will be closed on Sunday, while the essential shops can remain open till 10pm on all days. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation too has issued similar notification, however, gardens in Navi Mumbai will not open even for morning walkers and joggers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-of-relaxations-mumbai-s-shop-owners-get-relief-101628021195609.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Kasturba Hospital to start tests to detect variants next week||The Kasturba Gandhi hospital in Chinchpokli installed genome sequencing machines in their laboratory on Tuesday. The hospital will begin conducting tests to identify variants of Sars-Cov-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – from next week, making it the first civic-run hospital to conduct whole genome sequencing in Mumbai.The high speed machine can run tests on 380 samples per round. The civic body will incur a cost of ₹10,000 for testing each sample. The machines will be inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. Currently, it takes over two-three months to get test results of genome sequencing which delays the epidemiological study of the mutated virus in infected patients. With the starting of the laboratory, the results of 380 samples will be available within three-four days. Dr Jayanti Shastri, in-charge of the molecular diagnostic reference laboratory of the hospital, said, “These tests have three phases—library presentation which in simple form is called pre-sequencing preparation, which takes two-three days. Then we do the sequencing of the samples in the machine that generally takes 4-5 hours. In the third stage, we do analysis of the results to understand the variations.”Genome sequencing is not a diagnostic tool, so suspected Covid-19 patients will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR tests for diagnosis. “Unlike RT-PCR, which is a target-based testing, sequencing helps identify unknown pathogens. This will help understand the genetic coding of viruses,” she said. The samples will be collected through the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from international passengers, Covid-19 hot spots, places with high transmission rate, among others. Genome sequencing can also provide better diagnosis among patients showing unusual clinical presentations. “For instance, if a patient is negative for Covid-19, but symptoms indicate the presence of Sars-Cov-2, then sequencing can help us understand the nucleotides,” she added.The machines have been procured through donations that cumulatively cost around ₹10.5 crore.A US-based company has donated ₹6.4 crore, while Mumbai-based ATE Chandra Foundation has donated ₹4 crore for the machine. “An alumnus from our college (BYL Nair hospital) is the reason why we got support from the US company. He facilitated the talks and convinced them to donate,” she said. HT had reported earlier that due to Covid-19 restrictions in international cargo ferrying, the hospital had to wait for months to get the machine from Chicago. “This (genome sequencing) will be a great help in understanding and researching on the new virus Sars-Cov-2. It may give some hidden keys to the puzzles of the virus which may help us plan better,” she added.Since the outbreak of the second wave in the middle of February, three patients with Delta plus variants have been identified. All of them have recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-kasturba-hospital-to-start-tests-to-detect-variants-next-week-101628020955419.html
04-08-2021||Other||Granthi, family held for framing Nabha man in false sacrilege case||Patiala A granthi, his wife and daughter have been arrested for framing a 22-year-old man in false case of sacrilege at Khurd village of Nabha sub-division in Patiala. The trio were putting up inside the gurdwara and their motive was to stop the man from meeting the daughter. SHO Nabha Sadar police station Sukhwinder Singh said, “During preliminary probe, we found out that the man and the granthi’s daughter were having an affair. The accused granthi caught the victim in his house, assaulted him and took him to the main palanquin, where Bir of Guru Granth Sahib was kept. Tarsem was the one who committed the sacrilege.”A case has been registered under Sections 295A (hurting religious sentiments), 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/granthi-family-held-for-framing-nabha-man-in-false-sacrilege-case-101628020835432.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||SKM leader Balbir Rajewal’s posters as next Punjab CM surface in Khanna||Posters exhorting residents to make Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal the next Punjab chief minister have surfaced in Khanna town of Ludhiana district. The posters have come up close on the heels of Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni’s suspension from the SKM over his suggestion that the Punjab farmer organisations involved in the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws should contest the assembly polls next year. Some shopkeepers in the city’s mini-market claimed to have put up the posters, saying they wish to see Rajewal as the Punjab CM. Jagdeep Singh, a trader, said people of the state voted for the parties that promised the moon before the elections but never bothered to address the grievances of farmers and small shopkeepers after coming to power. “The SKM leader is talking about upliftment of farmer and small businessmen, which gives us a hope of a better future. It is up to Rajewal whether he wishes to contest the elections or not,” he added. Rajewal, who is currently in Delhi, expressed surprise over the posters, saying he has no plans to take a plunge into politics. “Such incidents only distract the focus of people from repealing of the three farm laws. I have never talked about contesting the elections. We do not know who put up the posters. We are going to file a complaint as it needs to be investigated,” said Rajewal over phone. These posters have been put up when a parallel Parliament is being run by the farmers against the central government in Delhi, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-leader-balbir-rajewal-s-posters-as-next-punjab-cm-surface-in-khanna-101628020658651.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Vax drive at 300 public centres in Mumbai to be shut today||Vaccination drive across 300 centres in the city will remain suspended on Wednesday owing to lack of vaccine doses, the Brihanmumbai Muncipal Corporation (BMC) said in a statement.There are more than 400 centres in the city, including private hospitals. On Wednesday, although public vaccination centres will remain shut, vaccination at private centres will continue.A BMC official said, “We were informed to receive vaccine stock on Tuesday night. After this, we will distribute these vaccine doses to all public vaccination centres. Once the distribution is done on Wednesday, the drive will resume on Thursday.”According to BMC officials, they could have kept the vaccination drive going by keeping vaccination in the second half of the day. But due to fear of crowding by beneficiaries coming for walk-ins, vaccination centres all together will be kept shut.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 34,807 citizens were vaccinated in the city, including 228 bed-ridden citizens. In the city, overall 7,336,171 vaccine doses were administered till now, and 1,809,075 citizens are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-drive-at-300-public-centres-in-mumbai-to-be-shut-today-101628020657252.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Patients bear the brunt as doctors shut OPDs at Bathinda civil hospital||Patients were a harried lot as protesting doctors at the civil hospital in Bathinda locked the outpatient departments (OPDs) for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. The doctors, who are agitating against delinking of the non-practicing allowance (NPA) from the basic pay, did not allow civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon to enter his office.Vinod Kumar, a patient, had come for the dressing of a boil only to find the OPD block locked. “I had pain and need medical attention. But there is no one to take care of the patients,” he said.Bikker Singh from Kothe Phoola Singh Wala village was worried about missing the last date of medical examination to get an arms licence. “It is mandatory to get a dope test for a new licence or for its renewal. I have to submit the medical certification by a government doctor by Thursday,” he said.Surjan Singh, a resident of Nahinawala village said he had to consult an ENT specialist for an infection in his ear. “It is the third instance today that doctors are unavailable at the OPD. Doctors may have justified demands but patients’ care should not be ignored,” he said.Jasbir Kaur had come from Jaitu in Faridkot district to consult a psychiatrist. “I came with my mother only to see that doctors are away from work today. We have limited resources and cannot afford to visit the hospital repeatedly,” she said.Civil surgeon Dr Dhillon said the doctors are attending only the emergency cases or Covid-related duties. “I am working from home due to the protest outside my office. The doctors had given a call for suspension of OPD work till Wednesday,” said Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patients-bear-the-brunt-as-doctors-shut-opds-at-bathinda-civil-hospital-101628020656054.html
04-08-2021||Other||Patiala submerged, as water-logging continues to plague Royal City||Patiala Heavy rain on Tuesday morning threw life out of gear in the Royal City with the inundated roads exposing the ill-preparedness of the municipal corporation (MC) and the district administration to tackle water-logging. From markets to residential areas, the city was two-three feet under water. Besides low-lying areas, water entered houses in residential colonies outside the walled city.Besides spending lakhs on the cleanliness of the drainage lines in city, the authorities had claimed to be monsoon ready. Rain, however, has washed away such claims. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit, MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur and mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu went around the city to inspect the situation. Shopkeepers had a harrowing time saving their goods from rainwater. The Government TB Hospital, in Rajindra Hospital, near the Mall Road submerged. Baljinder Singh, of Khalsa Mohalla, questioned the MC preparedness. “What’s the use of spending crores of rupees on the cleanliness of the drainage system, if there is no respite from water-logging?”Mayor Bittu added that officials and staff were at work, draining out water. “With the laying of drainage and sewage lines in most parts of the city, we have somehow managed to tackle water-logging situation. We have our teams in the field to redress grievances of residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-submerged-as-water-logging-continues-to-plague-royal-city-101628020535489.html
04-08-2021||Kolkata||Submit report, orders Calcutta HC after Suvendu Adhikari aide arrested again||KOLKATA: A two-judge bench of the Calcutta high court asked the West Bengal government to submit a report on the arrest of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s aide, Rakhal Bera, after a judge granted him bail and barred the police from arresting him again without the court’s permission, Bera’s lawyer Lokenath Chatterjee said on Tuesday.Justice Rajasekhar Mantha on Monday granted bail to Rakhal Bera and shielded him from arrests by the police on the ground that he had been repeatedly arrested in new cases after getting bail in other cases.“The state is once again directed to submit a list of all cases pending against the petitioner anywhere in the state. This court is also inclined to direct that all police stations in the state may register any FIR against the petitioner but he shall not be arrested without the express leave of this court,” Justice Mantha ordered.On Tuesday, the West Bengal government approached the two-judge bench challenging the immunity from arrest granted by Justice Mantha. The division bench comprising justices Tapabrata Chakraborty and Subhasis Dasgupta was hearing the case, Chatterjee said, when “the court was informed that instead of being released from jail, Rakhal Bera had been shown as arrested in connection with another case registered at Nandakumar police station in East Midnapore district on June 16. We told the division bench that the arrest is illegal, especially after the court holding (on Monday) that the cases were politically motivated,” said Bera’s lawyer said. Chatterjee said the division bench asked the state government to submit a report on Wednesday to ascertain why Bera was arrested again.Rakhal Bera, an aide of Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal legislative assembly, was arrested by the Kolkata Police on June 7 in a job scam case filed in East Midnapore district. In this case, Bera, a resident of East Midnapore, has been accused of taking ₹2 lakh from a man in 2018-19 by promising a job in the irrigation department that Adhikari headed at that time. Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year. Four cases were registered against Bera in East Midnapore in June and the fifth one was registered at the Manicktala police station in Kolkata on July 1. In his order on Monday, justice Mantha said the Bera was being punished by the ruling dispensation for changing his political affiliation and for being close to the present leader of the opposition by foisting false cases against him.“There appears to be a pattern being followed by police in coordination with one another in attempting to keep the petitioner in custody by hook or crook on one pretext or the other and by registering one FIR after the other,” the judge said in his order. HT has seen a copy of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/submit-report-orders-calcutta-hc-after-suvendu-adhikari-aide-arrested-again-101628020118064.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||29% year-on-year growth in July GST revenue for Punjab||Punjab reported 29% year-on-year growth in the goods and services tax (GST) revenue in July. The revenue, including state GST, central GST and integrated GST, increased to ₹1,533 crore in July 2021 from ₹1,188 crore in the corresponding month of the previous year, according to a spokesperson of the taxation department. The SGST and IGST stood at ₹1455.85 crore in July 2021, showing 32% year-on-year growth over ₹1103.31 crore collected during the same month last year, indicating an improvement in the pace of economic recovery. The GST revenue up to the month of July 2021 is 85.28% higher than the corresponding period in the previous year. “The state is rigorously monitoring bogus billing and unscrupulous trade practices through effective enforcement. Besides use of advanced data analytics from multiple sources and sector-wise study of modus operandi of tax evasion, holistic and effective tax administration has contributed to the robust increase in tax revenue,” said the spokesperson. During July this year, VAT and CST revenue stood ₹692.44 crore and ₹28.76 crore, respectively, showing 48.85% and 62.49% year-on-year growth. The spokesperson said automobile retail was showing signs of recovery, and real estate and construction activities were increasing, pumping the growth in cement and iron-steel sectors. “Service sector especially hospitality, tourism and food sector, which was worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, has also shown some recovery,” according to an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/29-year-on-year-growth-in-july-gst-revenue-for-punjab-101628020115651.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu meets party’s SC MLAs, to raise Dalit issues with CM||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu who met SC MLAs of the party on Tuesday plans to meet chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh soon to take up issues related to the community. The state president, who met SC legislators for the second time in a week, formed a detailed plan of action to take up issues raised by the community for redressal by the state government. Besides the implementation of the 85th Amendment to the Constitution, the MLAs took up release of five-marla plots to homeless families, abolition of outsourcing for ‘Group D’ posts, regularisation of ad hoc staff, grant of blue cards to poor families, release of funds for scholarships and due representation to the community in boards and corporations, among others. “The priority points for the welfare of SCs will be identified keeping in view the demand and grievance of the community. The state chief said that he will take them up with the chief minister,” said a party leader. The three-hour meeting held at Punjab Congress Bhawan was attended by 20 MLAs, including two ministers. While cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and 18 legislators attended the meeting, cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi was among those who were not present. “The ministers and MLAs spoke in detail about the steps needed for the welfare of the SC community,” newly appointed working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny, who orgnaised the brainstorming session, said. A party release said that Sidhu reiterated the party’s commitment to fulfil the 18-point agenda and do even more than what was promised for the Dalit community at the earliest possible. On Friday also, the new state team had held a meeting with SC legislators on issues faced by the community. Danny said that deliberations were incomplete in the first meeting as some members wanted more time to discuss the issues at length. Later, Sidhu also met party leaders and workers from Nawanshahr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-meets-party-s-sc-mlas-to-raise-dalit-issues-with-cm-101628019882927.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||High-voltage drama as BJP workers, farmers come face to face in Ludhiana||The state-level meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Mahila Morcha went awry on Tuesday after activists of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a protest outside the conference venue at a hotel in Ludhiana. The situation turned tense when the BJP workers went on a counter-offensive and started marching towards the protesting farmers while raising slogans. A heavy police force was deployed outside the hotel to keep the situation under control. Party’s Mahila Morcha national general secretary Sukhbir Kaur Sidhu, state president Ashwani Sharma and state general secretary Parveen Bansal were among those present.The police formed a human chain to stop a possible clash between the SKM activists and the BJP workers. Both the groups tried to break the security cordon, but could not. The farmer activists alleged that the BJP workers hurled expletives at them. Parveen Bansal refuted the allegations. Ashwani Sharma left the venue amid the melee. Also, the party’s women workers were seen flashing bangles at the protesting SKM activists. They were holding the posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Sukhbir Kaur Sidhu claimed that the meeting was successful and the protesters were not farmers.“These are a bunch of workers of the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who were trying to sabotage the BJP programme. The real farmers are busy sowing paddy crops in their fields,” said Sidhu.Later, the police managed to disengage both the groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highvoltage-drama-as-bjp-workers-farmers-come-face-to-face-in-ludhiana-101628019879889.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sultanpur Lodhi wheat scam: FIR recommended against two food supply inspectors||The Punjab food and civil supply department has recommended FIR against two food supply inspectors posted in Sultanpur Lodhi for allegedly siphoning off 24,000 quintal wheat meant for distribution under the state government’s Atta Dal scheme. Kapurthala district food supply controller Geeta Bishambhu has written to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh for legal action against food inspectors Vivek Gupta and Bhupinder Singh. Bishambhu said, “Also, a departmental inquiry was recommended against two other inspectors Vikas Sethi and Rajeshwar Singh to probe their role in the scam to the tune of ₹5 crore.” While Vivek Gupta declined to comment, Bhupinder Singh claimed that he had no role in the alleged rip-off as he was posted in the Fatudhinga area of Sultanpur Lodhi sub-division. Food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had suspended four food inspectors for not disbursing wheat to eligible beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act after the HT reported the scam on June 25. Bishambhu conducted a probe after Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and members of the Kisan Union lodged multiple complaints over non-disbursement of wheat from October 2020 to March 2021 to beneficiaries. It was found that the department’s Sultanpur Lodhi centre didn’t provide records of wheat distribution to the inspection teams despite repeated orders.It was noted in the report that the department staff posted at Sultanpur Lodhi was guilty of “grave negligence” and did not even listen to the district circle office. An official privy to the matter said that a senior functionary of the district administration was aware of the matter but opted to remain silent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sultanpur-lodhi-wheat-scam-fir-recommended-against-two-food-supply-inspectors-101628019816586.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||194-kg heroin seizure: Arrest warrant issued against absconding ex-Akali leader||A court in Amritsar on Tuesday issued an arrest warrant against former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Anwar Masih, an accused in the 194-kg heroin seizure case, who is absconding. On July 12, Masih, a former member of Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board and was on interim bail on health grounds, was asked by the court to report in jail within seven days. Masih, however, purportedly consumed a poisonous substance during a protest outside the special task force (STF)’s Amritsar office the next day, alleging police harassment. He was admitted to a private hospital. Masih was supposed to present himself in the court on Monday, but the hearing was adjourned for a day. “The court issued his arrest warrant after Masih didn’t turn up on Tuesday. He is now absconding and our teams are working to nab him,” said STF deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Vawinder Mahajan. The STF had recovered the contraband from a house owned by Masih at the instance of one Sukhbir Singh alias Happy, who was arrested with 6-kg heroin in Mohali. Masih had rented out his house to another accused Sukhwinder Singh since December 2019. The STF had claimed that Masih was taking ₹80,000 monthly rent from the accused and was aware of the fact that a drug smuggling racket was being run on his premises. Later, the police arrested seven people, including Masih and an Afghanistan national. More people, including racket kingpin Simranjit Singh alias Sandhu, were named in the case. The heroin was smuggled from Pakistan via a Gujarat port, it was found in the investigation. The Afghan national was helping the other accused in processing the contraband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/194kg-heroin-seizure-arrest-warrant-issued-against-absconding-ex-akali-leader-101628019815253.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Kotkapura violence: Give week’s notice to ex-DGP Saini before arrest, HC tells Punjab Police||The high court on Tuesday directed Punjab Police to give seven days’ prior notice in case the former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini is sought to be arrested in the 2015 Kotkapura violence case. The high court acted on the plea of former DGP who had approached it in March and granted him the bail. Subsequently, the high court had quashed the charge sheets filed by Punjab Police on April 9, and the government was asked to constitute a three-member special investigation team (SIT). The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan noted that the DGP was not named in the FIR and it was only on the basis of a challan that he was summoned and also that the charge sheet no longer exists in view of the high court order of April and now there is a fresh investigation by a newly constituted SIT. The court also observed that it will not be appropriate to ignore the factual background of the case as he served the state being an IPS officer and in a 2018 petition, a court examining various aspects involved, including “political colour”, granted a protection that in case he is to be arrested, a clear seven days’ notice should be served. “In view of the change in circumstances during the pendency of this petition, the present petition is disposed of. In case the petitioner is sought to be arrested, one week’s notice shall be given to the petitioner so as to enable him to have recourse to remedies available to him,” the court said while disposing of the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-kotkapura-violence-give-week-s-notice-to-ex-dgp-saini-before-arrest-hc-tells-punjab-police-101628019757724.html
04-08-2021||Other||Found several incriminating docus from ex-Mumbai cop’s NGO: NIA on Antilia case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has sought 30 days more from the court to submit a charge sheet in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases, contending that they have found several incriminating documents from the office of former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma’s Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) PS Foundation at Andheri (East) and the evidence was being analysed. NIA informed the court that the extension of custody of the accused – dismissed cops Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane and Vinayak Shinde and bookie Naresh Gor – was necessary. The agency has already got a 60-day extension and is seeking more time as under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) they can get custody for a maximum time of 180 days. Vaze was arrested on March 13 by the agency and the other accused were taken into custody in the subsequent days. Special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves, appearing for NIA, claimed that several witnesses in the cases were threatened and that they have already provided protection to some of the witnesses. People are feared for their lives and not coming ahead as witness. In such a situation if the agency is not given appropriate time to file a charge sheet and the accused are released on bail, it could impact the pending investigation, Gonsalves argued. He also informed the court that NIA is yet to get a reply from Facebook on the account details of the accused and also from Apple about their mobile phones. “We have found several incrementing documents from PS Foundation’s office in Andheri and they are being analysed,” Gonsalves told the court. The agency also said that the accused had given ₹ 45 lakh to contract killers to carry out Hiran’s murder and they are still analysing bank accounts. After murdering Hiran, the accused had travelled to Dubai and Nepal and the evidence is been collected to corroborate the same. “The accused are police officers and they are not co-operating with the agency at all. We have to question 50 traders to find out how the gelatin sticks used in the Antilia explosives case were brought to Mumbai. If the accused could have co-operated, the work could have been reduced,” Gonsalves told court while pressing for his demand to extend the judicial custody of the five accused for 30 more days till the charge sheet is filed. However, the accused through their counsel pressed for their release, citing several judgements of the Apex court and owing to the delay in filing the charge sheet. The accused told the court that they were lodged in Taloja jail and sought time to reply to NIA’s plea for extension of custody and pressed to carry the matter before a regular court as the NIA court was not working on Tuesday. However, NIA told the court that it wanted the matter to be decided early. The court has now posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/found-several-incriminating-docus-from-ex-mumbai-cop-s-ngo-nia-on-antilia-case-101628019756610.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of I-Day, police mount vigil along Indo-Pak border in Punjab||In view of the upcoming Independence Day, police have increased vigil in areas near the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, especially those falling in Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. In Tarn Taran district, which shares 103-km-long border with the neighbouring country, a massive combing operation is being carried out in the fields situated along the barbed fence. Some farmers, who own agriculture land between the barbed fence and the zero line, are also on the radar of the police. Besides increasing presence at the checkpoints in areas situated near the border, the police are also monitoring the movement of suspicious people closely. Officials believe that drugs and arms smugglers across the border increase their activities ahead of the Independence Day or Republic Day. Just a fortnight ahead of the Independence Day in 2015, three gunmen dressed in army uniform opened fire at a bus and then attacked the Dina Nagar police station in Gurdaspur. Similarly, the Pathankot Air Force station was attacked by a group of heavily armed terrorists ahead of the Republic Day in 2016. “We have made formed several teams for conducting search in the fields situated along the fence. We have inputs that the anti-India elements may send arms or drug consignments ahead of August 15,” said Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale. Another police official said, “We are also keeping a strict watch on some farmers whose record is dubious. We have also asked the BSF not to allow these farmers to cross the fence. We are also watching the labourers who go to the fields across the fence.”Nimbale said, “We have set up 24 checkpoints in every area leading to the border in the district. We are also taking pictures of all suspicious people and their identity proofs. We have deployed rapid response teams and commandos to deal with any untoward incident.”In Amritsar district, checkpoints along the border have been strengthened. Attari deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurpartap Singh Sahota said, “We are keeping a round-the-clock vigil near the border with a focus on suspicious people roaming in the area.” In Pathankot too, search operation is being carried out at public places and sensitive points along the border.On the intervening night of July 30 and 31, the Border Security Force (BSF) gunned down two suspected intruders who entered the Indian territory from Pakistan near Khalra village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in Tarn Taran. Similarly, on July 19, the Amritsar police had seized 8 pistols and 270 rounds from a field near Khalra village along the barbed fence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-i-day-police-mount-vigil-along-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-101628019755351.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP monsoon session: Oppn seeks CBI probe into Mandi MP’s death||Pandemonium erupted in the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha on the second day of the monsoon session on Tuesday when the Opposition demanded a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma. The Opposition walked out of the House after the Speaker rejected their demand. Sharma was found hanging at his Delhi residence on March 17 this year. As soon as the House assembled in the morning, Congress legislator Jagat Negi demanded adjournment of the proceedings under Rule 67, seeking a discussion on the death of the Member of Parliament. Senior Congress legislator Nanda Lal and MLA from Kullu, Sunder Singh Thakur, had also given notice for the adjournment . Negi said Sharma’s son had raised the demand for investigation into death of his father. He said that forensic report was still awaited even after four months of his death. The Speaker, Vipin Singh Parmar, however, rejected the Negi’s demand after which the opposition walked out of the House. Amid the din, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that Sharma was a BJP MP and “his unfortunate death is a huge loss to the party”. But, Sharma died in Delhi and the Delhi crime branch is investigating the case, said Thakur. The chief minister said that Sharma’s son, however, has sought an investigation as was reported in the newspapers. “ Ram Swaroop ji was a Lok Sabha member and represented the Mandi seat. He won the seat with a massive margin . His death was personally disturbing for me,” he said, adding, “This matter doesn’t come under the jurisdiction of Himachal Pradesh government.” Speaking on the issue, leader of Opposition in the assembly, Mukesh Agnihotri, said that the inquiry must be conducted and the chief minister should write in this regard to the authorities concerned. Dissatisfied with the government reply, the opposition members moved into the well of the House and continued raising slogans. The Speaker tried to pacify the Congress members, citing that the matter cannot be discussed under Rule 67. As the Opposition didn’t budge, the Speaker announced the question hour amid sloganeering prompting. Later, the Opposition staged a walkout. Matter of additional relief on death, disability of NPS staff being examined: CMA total of 2,114 employees covered under New Pension Schemes have died after 2003 in various departments, CM Jai Ram Thakur informed the assembly on Tuesday. He was replying to a question jointly raised by CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha, Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari and Chamba MLA Pawan Nayyar. He said the ministry of personnel grievances and pensions vide office memorandum issued on May 6, 2009, has given additional relief on death/ disability of government servants covered under NPS. However, this policy has been adopted by only few state governments, including Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Assam. It has been not adopted by Punjab and Gujarat. He said HP government will examine the matter of giving similar reliefs to government servants under the under NPS. Replying to a question asked by Nahan legislator Rajeev Bindal, the industry minister informed that 1,453 new industries were set up in Himachal in last three year till June 30, 2021. BJP MLA Rajiv Bindal asked the industries minister how many industries were set up in the state by June 2021 with an investment of ₹1,228 crores and providing direct employment to 10,455 people. He said in the coming years, industries with estimated investment of ₹25,000 crores will be set up in Himachal which will create 50,000 employment opportunities. The work on railway line in Bilaspur has begun and the process of land acquisition has started, industry minister said in reply to another question. There are total 17 private universities functional in Himachal which have been set up under the respective establishment and regulation acts. None of the university has been closed down, education minister Govind Singh Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-monsoon-session-oppn-seeks-cbi-probe-into-mandi-mp-s-death-101628019698657.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cop, civilian hurt in suspected militant attack in Srinagar||A cop and a civilian were injured in a suspected militant attack in the Old City of Srinagar on Tuesday.Officials said that militants opened fire on a stationary police vehicle Rakshak at Sheraz Chowk in Khanyar area in the evening. “A constable and a civilian were injured in the firing,” said North Srinagar SP Mubasher Hussain.He said that the attackers probably attacked from a lane.“We are trying to ascertain what type of weapon it was. We are looking for the cartridges,” he added.The injured constable has been identified as Abdul Waheed who was posted at Khanyar police station. The name of the injured civilian could not be ascertained. “Both have minor injuries,” the SP said. Dr Kanwarjit Singh, medical superintendent of Shri Maharaja Hari Singh tertiary care hospital, said that the cop had a bullet injury in his stomach. “He is stable. The civilian was not brought to the hospital,” he added. On June 22, Inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the CID wing of police, was killed after militants opened fire on him at Nowgam near his home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-civilian-hurt-in-suspected-militant-attack-in-srinagar-101628019697111.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||NGT raps Himachal chief secy, DGP over illegal mining in Swan river||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Himachal Pradesh chief secretary and DGP to hold in-house brainstorming session with other departments to deal with illegal mining in Swan river and uphold the law instead of private interest of mining mafia. They may take stock of the situation and plan further course of action to prevent illegal mining, register criminal cases for offences involved, ensure seizure of vehicles involved in crime, assess and recover compensation for the violations, take action of cancellation of leases for violations, revocation of consents, criminal prosecution and other steps for protection and restoration of environment, said the tribunal. The orders were passed by the principal bench comprising NGT chairman Justice Adarsh Kumar Goyal and members Justice Sudhir Agarwal, Justice Brijesh Sethi and expert member Nagin Nanda on a petition filed by one Amandeep regarding illegal mining in Som Bhadra (Swan river) in Una. The petitioner alleged that unscientific mining by using earth movers, in utter violation of the norms and under the nose of the local district administration, was causing constant danger to the river and to the channelisation work.The courts ordered that carrying capacity study must be conducted with a view to determine the number of leases to be granted and inter-se distance to be maintained for the same. Monitoring mechanism in place must be reviewed in the light of startling revelation of the continuing failure of the authorities and colluding officers may be identified and made accountable under the environment, criminal and service laws.First such meeting may be organised within 15 days from the order to take stock of the situation and to plan remedial action. The chief secretary and HP DGP may remain personally present by videoconferencing with their action taken reports on next date of hearing, said the green court. Citing the reports by district magistrate Una and five-member independent committee constituted by it, the NGT expressed shock at the extent of violations and helpless shown in taking remedial action. “There appears to be laxity on the part of the police in not controlling overloading of trucks, illegal and mining. Equal failure is of mining department. So is the failure of the State Pollution Control Board and State Environment Impact Assessment Authority for inaction against violation,” said the court. The next of hearing has been fixed on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-raps-himachal-chief-secy-dgp-over-illegal-mining-in-swan-river-101628019695480.html
04-08-2021||Other||{2015 sacrilege cases} SIT rebuts CBI closure report with 9-point opinion||Faridkot The special investigation team (SIT) probing three 2015 sacrilege cases has filed a nine-point opinion on the closure report of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to negate the clean chit given to dera followers in sacrilege cases. The CBI had concluded that no clue leading to detection of these three cases could be found. “No eye witness could be found,” it had said. The SIT, however, has claimed that from the peculiar facts and circumstances, it is evident that CBI had overlooked certain relevant, important aspects. “The motive behind these three cases is having direct link with Dera Sacha Sauda; and the accused in these cases are dera followers,” the SIT says. Punjab Police has said that the CBI had given the benefit of doubt to the accused on the ground that there is no CCTV cameras installed on relevant points. “On the other hand, the evidence collected by the SIT, as discussed in the report, clearly reveals the role and participation of each accused in the commission of the crime. The CBI has failed to deeply investigate regarding the CCTV footage available on record showing the movement of a Maruti A-Star car (used in the crime). SIT probe shows that the said car belongs to the father of accused Nishan,” it claimed. “The CBI, in its closure report, has observed despite their extensive efforts no person came forward with credible information. SIt investigation showed that the witnesses who came forward with the information have categorically stated in their statements that they tried approaching the CBI but they didn’t listen to them nor recorded their statements,” the SIT says.The SIT said that as far as lie-detection test and layered voice analysis test of three accused, Bittu, Sukhjinder and Shakti, is concerned, parameters for conducting these tests were not followed, and this is against Supreme Court guidelines. “As per the closure report of the CBI, fingerprints and specimens of handwritings of 49 persons were collected, adding that the CFSL report was received pertaining to only 10 persons.Without waiting for the report of remaining 39 persons, the CBI hurriedly prepared the closure report and filed the same in the CBI court at Mohali,” SIT claims. “The CBI has filled a joint closure report in three different criminal cases registered at different points of time, which is not permissible under the CrPC and is against the settled proposition of law,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2015-sacrilege-cases-sit-rebuts-cbi-closure-report-with-9-point-opinion-101628019575411.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Power politics at play, now Sukhbir vows 400 free units||Six months short of Punjab polls scheduled for 2022, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday announced a 13-point agenda to be implemented on forming the government, promising 400 units of free electricity to all residential consumers, a discount of ₹10 per litre on diesel for farming and 75% quota in private sector jobs to Punjabi youth. The slew of promises included quota for women in jobs, reservation for government schools students in professional colleges, cheap electricity to the industry and the MSP for fruits and vegetables. “If SAD is voted to power, 400 units of electricity will be given free of cost to residential consumers across all categories and a discount of ₹10 per litre on diesel to tractor owners and farmers,” he announced at a press conference in Chandigarh on Tuesday. He also promised to restore power connections of all the Blue Card-holder families whose supply was disconnected due to default in payment. “Education and health will be the top priority, as was infrastructure development during our previous two terms (2007-17),” he said, claiming that most of the development projects in the state came when his father, Parkash Singh Badal, helmed the government. On Aam Aadmi Party’s 300 units free power promise, Sukhbir said it has little meaning because a single unit over 300 units will make the consumer to pay the entire bill. “We promise 400 units free irrespective of the consumption,” he said. “All Scheduled Caste scholarships will be revived and our government will also ensure free college-level education to them,” Sukhbir said. He also said there was a plan to introduce ‘student card’, offering a loan up to ₹10 lakh for those who want to pursue college/varsity education from abroad, the interest on which will be paid by the government with a payback moratorium of three years. To a query, Sukhbir said on coming to power, the SAD-BSP government will announce a liquor policy to plug loopholes for better revenue collection. He said Centre’s three ‘black laws’ will be “rejected” if the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power. The SAD has stitched a pre-poll alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) under which it will contest 97 seats and rest 20 will go to the Mayawati-led party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-politics-at-play-now-sukhbir-vows-400-free-units-101628019458427.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena slams BJP for double-standards on cow slaughter||The Shiv Sena questioned the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Hindutva credentials, calling it anti-Hindu after Meghalaya minister Sanbor Shullai made a remark promoting the consumption of beef. The Sena in an editorial in mouthpiece Saamana said the BJP should apologise to the victims of mob lynching and those booked on suspicions of consuming or transporting beef. Last week, BJP minister Shullai encouraged people to eat beef instead of chicken, mutton or fish. The Sena mouthpiece said BJP’s Hindutva is according to political convenience and called for a uniform policy on consumption of beef. “Shullai has supported eating beef. We will not say hang him or call him a traitor [for his statements]. But BJP should apologise to all those who were lynched to death by mobs and those who were insulted for carrying beef and face cases because a BJP minister has [now] supported beef,” said the editorial. The editorial further said that BJP is a pro-Hindu party but time has come for it to introspect whether its Hindutva is politically convenient. “The mob lynching during Modi’s first tenure was a disgrace to humanity,” remarked the editorial. It further said that in the Northeast, beef is the staple diet and there are no restrictions on the slaughter of cows. “If someone in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and elsewhere says that cow is gau mata (a sacred animal) but says it’s a useful animal in Goa, Kerala and the Northeast, then it’s hypocritical and shows double-standards. How can the law change as per the state? Uniform Civil Code should be followed in the case of cows,” the editorial demanded.State BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye declined to comment on the editorial. “We don’t comment on Saamana editorials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-slams-bjp-for-double-standards-on-cow-slaughter-101628019335892.html
04-08-2021||Other||Man, wife killed in accident in Amritsar||Amritsar A man and his wife were killed on the spot when a speeding car hit their motor cycle from the rear near the Wadala Farm House on the Ram Tirath Road in Amritsar on Tuesday night. Balwinder Singh and his wife Raj Kaur belonged to Sadhupura village, under the Ajnala sub-division. Police said the Maruti Suzuki Swift, which has a Punjab Police sticker on its front mirror, dragged the victims for nearly 20feet. According to the eyewitnesses, there were four persons in the car, who fled after the incident. The police have also recovered a policeman’s belt and a bottle of liquor from the car. “My parents were going to meet our relatives in Sangna village. When they reached near Wadala Farm House, a speeding car hit them from the rear. There were four persons, including a cop, in the car, who escaped from the spot. My parents died on the spot. Another man, who was on a cycle, was also injured in the accident and rushed to an Amritsar hospital,” said Akash Singh, the couple’s son.Kambo station house officer (SHO) Prabhjot Singh said, “We have sent the car’s registration number to our technical branch for the identification of owner. We have registered a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against unidentified persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-wife-killed-in-accident-in-amritsar-101628019215161.html
04-08-2021||Other||Farmers siege of Reliance Group stores: Staffers worried for jobs; building owners decry no rent payment||Bathinda The Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM’s) nine-month siege of 20-odd Reliance Group stores, dealing mainly in grocery, has led to food items worth lakhs of rupees going waste in Punjab. With other Reliance outlets also not being allowed to do business, owners of these commercial properties are blaming farmers for their losses, with no rent being paid to them, in accordance with the terms of their lease contract.“The 275 retail outlets, include 18 supermarkets, 150 smart points or medium-scale retail outlets and a chain of apparel. Farmer associations need to rethink their indefinite dharnas outside Reliance outlets,” said Prabhnoor Singh Walia, who heads an association of building owners, who have rented out their premises to Reliance Industries for operating its businesses across Punjab. The Walmart Best Price Store in Bathinda is also unable to run its business. Sources in both establishments claim scores of retaining company executives, retailers, transporters and porters went out of work, as the agitation hit the entire supply chain and earnings. Employees are being paid salaries regularly since October even as there is no work. The fear of large-scale job losses, however, cannot be ruled out.“Wheat flour, oil, Suji, pulses, packed juices and other range of edible products have crossed its best before use date or have simply rotted away. The company has no access to its outlets. Huge quantities had to be dumped at the waste sites in the last few months, with the help of municipal bodies. No company would pay wages to employees indefinitely when its operations are forced to stop,” said an employee requesting anonymity.Corporate sources say Reliance has over 4,000 employees in its outlets/sources in Punjab, whereas the Walmart Best Price store at Bathinda’s Bhucho has about 300 on-roll workers.“Most of these employees are from Punjab and mainly come from farming families. After Adani Group’s decision to shut its dry port in Ludhiana due to prolonged farmers’ dharna, workers are worried about their future,” said senior officials of both companies on the condition of anonymity.A Reliance Industries spokesperson refused to comment. Walia added Punjabis with investments in the non-agriculture sector also have a right to earn their living and the SKM should honour it.“Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws are not allowing Reliance stores to operate in Punjab, whereas other corporate retail chains are functional. The farming sector is integral to Punjab, but other sectors cannot be ignored. Farmer unions should understand that it is the Punjabis and Punjab that will lose if the corporate sector chooses to stay away from investing in the state,” he said, adding a delegation will again meet the SKM leadership on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-siege-of-reliance-group-stores-staffers-worried-for-jobs-building-owners-decry-no-rent-payment-101628018977092.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet fumes at Governor plan to review meetings||In a fresh round of tussle between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Governor BS Koshyari, the ruling coalition has criticised the latter, alleging that he was trying to create two power centres in the state. The state cabinet on Tuesday took objected to the governor’s travel schedule that consists of review meetings in Nanded, Hingoli and Parbhani districts in central Maharashtra districts from Thursday to Saturday. Following the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, chief secretary (CS) Sitaram Kunte went to Raj Bhavan and conveyed the displeasure of the government to the principal secretary to the governor and said the review meetings were “inappropriate”. This is the latest episode in the friction between Koshyari and the Uddhav Thackeray-led government, which assumed office in November 2019. State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that since the time the MVA government has come to power, the Raj Bhavan has “interfered” with state government’s business. The government has also raised objection to the governor inaugurating two hostels built by the minority affairs department for Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University in Nanded district. Malik said the department has not handed over the hostel to the university, but the event is being held without intimating the state government. “On August 5, the governor will hold review meetings with Nanded collector and district officials. On August 6, he is heading to Hingoli, where there is no university or any official programme. He is holding review meetings with district collector and officials. Later, he is visiting Parbhani, where the Agricultural University is located, but he is scheduled to hold review meeting with district collector and officials. Is the governor trying to paint a picture that there are two power centres in the state?” Malik asked. The governor is the chancellor of all the universities in the state. Malik added, “If the governor wants any information, he can ask the chief secretary. Instead he’s going to the three districts and holding meetings with government officials. Therefore, the honourable governor is trying to show that there are two power centres.” The minister further said, “The CS has been directed to go to Raj Bhavan and apprise the governor’s secretary that the programme announced are the state government’s rights and it is not appropriate. The CS will meet his [governor’s] secretary today. The state government has expressed displeasure and the cabinet has opposed the governor’s programme,” Malik said. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister, in a sharp attack on Koshyari, said that the governor seems to have forgotten that he is not a chief minister (CM) any more. Koshyari was the Uttarakhand CM between October 2001 and March 2002. “He was CM once upon a time. He still thinks that he is a CM, but that isn’t the case. Has he forgotten that he is the governor? We are sure that as the cabinet has objected to his programmes, he will not hold the review meetings. He can carry on with his university event in Nanded as he is the chancellor.” Raj Bhavan did not respond to MVA’s allegations. “The programmes of the governor were planned in consultation with the universities that invited him as chancellor. The hostels at Nanded are already operational and students are staying in them. The governor will visit them. As long as meetings with collectors are concerned, those are just a formality,’ a Raj Bhavan official said, adding, “There is no change in the Governor’s programmes.” The tussle between the MVA government and Koshyari has been going on for over a year now. The tussle between MVA and governor first came to fore when the state cabinet nominated Thackeray’s name to be appointed to the upper house of the legislature – a move that would have safeguarded his chief ministership. However, the governor did not nominate him to the legislative Council. Koshyari also held review meetings with officials on Covid-19 management during the first wave, irking the state government. “This has not happened for the first time. After MVA government came to power, it has been observed that Maharashtra governor has repeatedly impinged in the rights of the government. The governor held a review on the Covid-19 management. The state complained to the Centre after which he stopped,” Malik added. In October 2020 a war of words broke out after Koshyari wrote to Thackeray, and remarked if the CM had turned secular for not deciding on reopening of temples and other places of worship. Thackeray in his response hit back saying he did not need a certificate from Koshyari on Hindutva. Another ongoing tussle is over the appointment of members to the Council. The cabinet has recommended 12 names for nomination to the upper house from governor’s quota. However, despite repeated reminders, Raj Bhavan has not cleared the names. In February, the state government denied permission to the governor to use a state government aircraft for a private trip to Dehradun, triggering a row and inviting sharp criticism from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In July, the MVA had expressed displeasure over Governor’s visit to flood-affected areas in Konkan along with BJP legislators. Reacting to the government’s criticism of Koshyari, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the governor has the right to hold review meetings as all the decisions are made in his name. “He is the constitutional head of the state. All decisions are made in his name. So he has the right to do so [hold reviews]. The government does not want to do any real work and therefore, blame game is an easy choice for them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-fumes-at-governor-plan-to-review-meetings-101628018975283.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||After row over transfer, Anchal Goyal to take charge as collector in Maharashtra’s Parbhani||A day after controversy erupted over denying Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Anchal Goyal from taking charge as Parbhani district collector, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday clarified that her transfer was not cancelled and that she will take charge of the post. District guardian minister Nawab Malik said that Goyal was not allowed to take charge following an objection raised with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray (CM). However, Thackeray accepted Malik’s request to allow her to take charge of the position.Goyal, who was transferred to Parbhani as the collector on July 13, was not allowed to take charge last week. On July 30, the general administration department (GAD) directed incumbent collector Deepak Mugalikar to hand over the charge to additional collector Ajit Patil, forcing Goyal to return to Mumbai. The matter has been seen as a case of political interference.“An objection was raised by an elected representative with the CM over Goyal’s transfer as Parbhani district collector, following which she was asked not to take charge for the time being. Her transfer order was not cancelled. Today, the issue was discussed with the CM. I requested him to allow her to take the responsibility and the CM agreed to it. Goyal will soon be asked to take charge as the district collector,” Malik told reporters after the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday.There were reports that the local Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Jadhav from the Shiv Sena made efforts to ensure that Goyal’s transfer order to Parbhani was cancelled. However, Jadhav refuted the charges. “I have nothing to do with her transfer order. I’m simply a public representative. The power of transferring IAS officials lies with the state administration and the chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte),” he told HT on Monday.Malik refused to divulge any name and said he did not know who had raised the objection against Goyal’s appointment. He said it was raised by an elected representative was but clarified that he had never objected to her transfer. “Before leaving for Parbhani, she informed me about going to the district to take charge of the post,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-row-over-transfer-anchal-goyal-to-take-charge-as-collector-in-maharashtra-s-parbhani-101628018675127.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punbus contract staffers halt services at Ludhiana bus stand for 30 minutes||Continuing their agitation against the state government over demand for regular jobs, members of the Punjab Roadways and Punbus Contractual Employees’ Union halted services at the city bus stand for around half an hour on Tuesday. The employees had earlier announced to observe a two-hour strike by shutting down the entry gates of the bus stand on August 3 and 4. But, entry of buses was allowed after half an hour amid problems being faced by the public due to rainfall. Chaos was witnessed outside the stand, as private operators continued operations and the public faced trouble getting into the buses.  Gurpreet Singh, a passenger, said that the employees should not harass the public during their protest. “Even as the bus stand was opened after half an hour, public had to stand in the open while it rained. A few buses also got delayed,” he said.District president of the union, Shamsher Singh said, “Entry was allowed as passengers were facing difficulties due to rainfall. However, the union will shut down the stand for two hours on Wednesday, as the government has failed to fulfil the promise it made before the last assembly elections to regularise the employees. Also, a three-day strike will be observed from August 9.” Station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said there was not much impact on the bus services and even though there was some delay, it was covered up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punbus-contract-staffers-halt-services-at-ludhiana-bus-stand-for-30-minutes-101628018561111.html
04-08-2021||Other||Vigilance raid team stayed at Saini’s home for 18 hours; takes away documents||Chandigarh A day after registering a fresh disproportionate assets (DA) case against Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, the vigilance continued with its operation at the cop’s house in Sector 20 till Tuesday afternoon, after an 18-hour search. Saini’s house had been raided on Monday evening, and sources said the vigilance team had taken away documents related to the case. Besides Saini, seven others also face a case under the Prevention of Corruption ActBefore raiding Saini’s house, the vigilance team was ‘almost sure’ about his presence inside the house. A special technical team has been roped in to analyse CCTV footage and check how and when he left the house. In addition to Saini, the vigilance has named Nimratdeep Singh, an executive engineer with the public works department (buildings and construction); Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, Ajay Kaushal, Parduman Singh, Paramjit Singh and Amit Singla in the FIR.In addition to offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act (2018 amendment), Saini and the others have also been booked under Section 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.Saini is the seventh accused in the FIR of disproportionate assets registered against Nimratdeep and others. A senior vigilance officer claimed that during the inquiry pertaining to possession of DA by XEN Nimratdeep Singh, it was found that Saini had transferred a sum of ₹6.4 crore to the father of Nimratdeep from August 2018 to 2020, without any receipt or purpose. When Nimratdeep’s father was called to explain this fact, a fraudulent agreement was prepared projecting that the money was being paid for the purchase of house number 3048, Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, the house where Saini is presently residing.“This is despite the fact that Saini was earlier projected to be a tenant. In this manner, he in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy with Nimratdeep, transferred money in the account of Nimratdeep’s father thereby abetting his undue and illegal enrichment of Nimratdeep beyond known sources of income,” he claimed.Notably, the vigilane Bureau had registered a case against World Wide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS) Estates Pvt Ltd, Nimratdeep Singh and Surinderjit Singh Jaspal on September 17 2020, under Sections of IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act for getting agriculture land, including the area lying in a natural choe, certified as a regular residential colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vigilance-raid-team-stayed-at-saini-s-home-for-18-hours-takes-away-documents-101628018555138.html
04-08-2021||Other||Road cave-in near Jagraon bridge due to wild growth of trees: Experts||A day after a portion of the Jagraon Bridge’s approach road, from Vishwakarma Chowk towards Railway Station Road, caved in, municipal corporation (MC) officials said it was caused by wild growth of plants/trees which damaged the retaining wall of the approach road.The area was inspected by experts from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) on Tuesday. They said that roots of the trees had damaged the retaining wall and there may have been soil erosion due to the rainfall, causing the road to cave-in. On suggestion of the GNDEC experts, MC staff has started removing the wild growth of trees around the wall of the approach road and the process has been initiated to repair the retaining wall.MC executive engineer Rakesh Singla said, “There is vacant space between the retaining wall of the approach road and another boundary wall established along the road in the area which is filled with sand and garbage. Due to wild growth of the trees, the retaining wall got damaged and soil erosion took place. We are also roping in PWD department as they had initially established the approach road in the 1970s.” Bridge open for movement of traffic: The civic body had repaired the damaged road portion using bulk bitumen on Monday night and the road was opened for traffic on Tuesday morning. Singla said that the work to repair the retaining wall is going on and might take around a week to finish. It is not needed to stop the movement of traffic as of now and the repair work is being done after installing barricades around the area, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-cave-in-near-jagraon-bridge-due-to-wild-growth-of-treesexperts-101628018495387.html
04-08-2021||Bangalore||Cabinet rejig suspense grows, CM says final list likely today||Almost two days have passed since chief minister Basavaraj Bommai landed in Delhi in a bid to get his cabinet approved from the BJP high command as soon as possible to avoid a repeat of 2019, when it took a long time for BS Yediyurappa to get his council of ministers.After a long wait, Bommai on Tuesday night said that the BJP national leadership has informed to provide a final list of candidates by Wednesday morning post which it will be sent to the Raj Bhavan. “We are trying to get the swearing in done by tomorrow itself,” Bommai said. Talking about the delay, he said there were a few issues on the number of leaders to be included and some differences of opinion on carving out places for deputy chief minister’s. He added that the national leaders will take a final call on it. Bommai also said that Yediyurappa and the BJP’s national president are likely to talk, possibly about the cabinet. The CM said that the cabinet, which will have a mix of experience and new faces, will be formed keeping the 2023 elections in mind and to provide a clean, efficient and pro-people government. Meanwhile. some leaders like BC Patil, who served as the agriculture minister has already announced that he will take oath on Wednesday. The chief minister after his meeting with BJP national president JP Nadda on Monday had said that he is likely to get the candidates list by Tuesday. “I have had a detailed discussion with our national president. With JP Naddaji and have explained the ground situation in the state. They have said that they will have a detailed discussion tomorrow (Tuesday). Since Parliament session is going on, by tomorrow(Tuesday) evening or night they might give us a final cabinet list,” Bommai had said. However, with the national leadership still deliberating on the possible candidates, the state continues to wait for some relief after nearly three years (including HD Kumaraswamy-government) for some semblance of stability from the administration to deliver on much needed governance. Especially, at a time when nearly half the state has been impacted by floods and the imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections rearing its head much earlier than anticipated.Yediyurappa’s cabinet, which was dissolved after the change in leadership, had more to do with rewarding loyalists and turncoats who helped him to power in 2019 over considerations of regional and social representation, analysts said.But the BJP high command, it appears, has taken back control over cabinet formation, leaving the chief minister at the mercy of the national leaders whose decision may or may not undercut the newly sworn in chief minister who already bears the burden of being referred to as a “rubber stamp”.“Basavaraj Bommai has been made chief minister by Yediyurappa himself and his stamp will be there on this government,” Siddaramaiah, the former chief minister and Congress’ leader of the opposition said on Tuesday.The BJP high command had instated three deputy chief ministers in Yediyurappa’s cabinet, however, this time around, analysts and people aware of the developments said that there is a likely chance that there will be at least one more addition in the deputy minister’s post.People aware of the developments said that this time, the Centre is trying to get one member of Vokkaliga, one from backward caste and one each from SC and ST community. They have not ruled out the possibility of culling out another deputy CM post for a member of the Panchamasalis, the biggest sub-sect within the dominant Lingayats, to calm tempers from a community that has demanded better representation, reservation and are nursing a growing feeling of neglect for being overlooked for the chief minister’s post.To be sure, Murugesh Nirani was among the probables to replace Yediyurappa but instead the latter proposed the name of Bommai, who is from the Sadar Lingayat sub-sect.The probability of BY Vijayendra making his entry in the government has been peddled by some quarters, but people closely involved in the decision making process, have dismissed the speculation.“This time there could be a good mix of youngsters and seniors in the cabinet and possibly modelled like the union cabinet reshuffle,” said one senior BJP functionary, requesting anonymity.Analysts said that Yediyurappa has pushed prominent seers of the Lingayat community to add more pressure, as a way to challenge the BJP high command.“Its kind of a dividing line as the traditional support of the BJP is Lingayats. But much of this support was routed through Yediyurappa,” said one Bengaluru-based analyst, requesting not to be named.“He (Yediyurappa) has pitted the mathas against the central leadership,” the analyst added.But which seniors to drop has become the big question as one section have accompanied Bommai, another set is squatting in Yediyurappa’s home and a sizeable number are running around in Delhi on their own trying to impress upon the BJP’s central leadership.The likes of Raju Gouda, Sunil Kumar and Apachu Ranjan among others who identify with the core-ideology of the party are expected to make the list, people aware of the developments said.Though there is still no clarity, several persons have batted for the retaining of the 13 turncoats who helped Yediyurappa to power in 2019.In Yediyurappa’s cabinet, nearly half of 30 districts in the state were without representation, which Bommai is looking to fix this time around.A large reason for this was due to the placating of turncoats who were mostly from the southern Karnataka region, including Bengaluru.“The BJP bought our MLAs by paying them crores of rupees and formed the government and I am not sure what Bommai will do now,” Siddaramaiah said.Bommai on Monday however said that there was no question of the turncoats being treated differently since they are no longer “outsiders”. People aware of the developments said that the first list of ministers will be announced by noon on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cabinet-rejig-suspense-grows-cm-says-final-list-likely-today-101628018254644.html
04-08-2021||Bangalore||HC notice to BSY, son in corruption case||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday issued notice to former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his son and BJP state vice president BY Vijayendra, family members, former minister ST Somashekar and an IAS officer in a case alleging corruption in a housing project. The single bench of Justice S Sunil Dutt Yadav directed issuing notices to them on a petition filed by an activist TJ Abraham, who challenged the special court’s order on July 8 this year. The special court had dismissed the case for want of sanction to prosecute Yediyurappa and Somashekar. The special court had said that though “there is some material to refer a complaint about the investigation” against Yediyurappa on the allegation of accepting a bribe, it could not order a probe in the absence of sanction for his prosecution as per the law interpreted by the apex court. A communication from petitioner in the case, TJ Abraham on Tuesday, read: “The Hon’ble Court after hearing the counsels representing Social Activist Abraham TJ … has issued Emergent Notice to be served through Hand Summons to the Accused persons namely BS Yediyurappa, Vijayendra, Shashidhar Maradi, Sanjay Sree, Chandrakanth Ramalingam, ST Somashekhar, GC Prakash (IAS), K Ravi and Virupakshappa Yamakanamaradi. And the matter has been directed to be listed for final hearing during the week after next.” The case pertains to allegedly receiving kickbacks from a contractor for a housing project of the Bangalore Development Authority. It was alleged in the complaint filed before the special judge that Yediyurappa and his family members had abused CM’s office and bribes were received by the former CM through his family members from the contractors. The petitioner had accused Yediyurappa of abusing the powers of his office in allotting, speeding, and approving projects and payments. The money thus collected was routed through bogus shell companies to the companies belonging to the family members of the former chief minister, he added. The matter had also been discussed in the Karnataka assembly when the leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah moved a no-confidence motion and leveled serious allegations. Yediyurappa and his son had rejected the allegation outright, saying that there was no truth in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/hc-notice-to-bsy-son-in-corruption-case-101628018255255.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC teams seize 1,100kg of banned plastic bags||Continuing the crack down on banned plastic carry bags for the second day, the municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday confiscated plastic carry bags weighing around 11 quintals (1,100 kgs) from shops in Jawahar Nagar Camp and vegetable market on Hambran Road. Of this, 7.5 quintals were confiscated from the godown of a grocery store in Jawahar Nagar camp.In total, five challans of ₹20,000 each were issued against four violators in Jawahar Nagar camp and one in vegetable market. Despite resistance from shopkeepers and members of market association, the drive continued in presence of police. MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon, in-charge of the special 13-member MC team formed to impose ban on plastic carry bags in the city, said that challans ranging from ₹2,000 to ₹20,000 can be issued against violators depending on the quantity seized from them. For more than 5 kgs, a fine of ₹20,000 will be imposed, he added.“As per solid waste bylaws, an FIR will be lodged against the violators after the third offence. Warnings have been issued to the shopkeepers and many of them have also started using non-woven fabric bags, which is allowed,” Sekhon said. On July 21, mayor Balkar Sandhu had announced a massive drive to impose a complete ban on plastic carry bags in the city from August 1, stating that apart from creating pollution, dumping of plastic waste also chokes sewer lines.MC teams had on Monday confiscated 1.25 quintals of carry bags after conducting raids at six shops and vegetable markets in Field Ganj, Khud Mohalla, Baba Than Singh Chowk and Chandigarh Road. Challans worth ₹1 lakh were issued. Customers warned of penaltyWhile appealing to residents to use cloth/non-woven fabric bags, MC teams also warned those who were seen using plastic carry bags.Sekhon said that a challan of ₹2,000 can be issued against residents using plastic carry bags and a drive for this will be launched in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-teams-seize-1-100kg-of-banned-plastic-bags-101628018195591.html
04-08-2021||Other||Resolving Centre, farmers dispute needs statesmanship: SS Johl||Ludhiana Renowned economist and former vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), SS Johl, has taken strong exception to the closing of Adani Logistics Services, a subsidiary of the Adani Group in Kila Raipur. Over 400 workers have been left jobless by the decision.“Farmer unions should be clear on what they want. They are opposed to the new law and have problems with the previous marketing setup. If they have some idea, then they should discuss it. The line of talk, only after repeal of the laws, is not the way forward,” said Dr Johl. “By forcibly closing stores and other business ventures we are stanching away employment opportunity from our children. This also creates an environment in which investors will be reluctant to enter Punjab,” he added, holding the Centre responsible for failing to explain its stand properly and showing undue haste in enacting the three laws.“Ensuring that farmers get a fair price of their produce should be the sole objective of the government,” he said, “It is sad that no statesman came forward to mediate or made a sincere attempt to help the two sides in resolving their differences.”On a concluding note, he added that instead of politicising the issue, NRIs could play a constructive role in resolving the current impasse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/resolving-centre-farmers-dispute-needs-statesmanship-ss-johl-101628018075410.html
04-08-2021||Other||No evidence suggesting African’s custodial death, says B’luru police commissioner||A day after a 27-year-old Congolese national died in police custody, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant, in an interview with Arun Dev, clarifies that the death was not a custodial death but admits that CCTV cameras were not installed in the station as per SC guidelines. Excerpts: Was the force used by police against the protesters warranted? They were aggressive. They have assaulted policemen and they snatched lathis (batons) from them. If the police had not used force, they would have further escalated the situation. We have to disperse and secure, so we had to use force. One of the representatives of the African community has told the media that, those gathered acted in an unruly manner. That is on record. How many policemen were injured in the attack? Five police personnel have suffered injuries. The CID is probing a case of custodial death. Have you suspended any officer involved in the alleged crime for a fair probe? No one is under suspension. Prima facie there is no reason to place them under suspension. If the CID asks us, we will look into (placing officers under suspension). The policemen involved in the alleged custodial death are continuing to perform duties. They are conducting a crackdown on those protesting the incident. Isn’t this a matter of concern? Prima facie, there is no evidence suggesting any custodial death. From the information we have received so far, we have not come across any evidence of negligence or causing harm to the person (Joel). None of the officers involved in this case (alleged custodial death) are probing the attack on the policemen. Isn’t the death of a 27-year-old due to cardiac arrest, that too in a police station, highly unnatural? People in their 30’s have died due to cardiac arrest. This is not rare. Was there any CCTV footage of the events that took place inside the police station? No. The Supreme Court had made it mandatory to have CCTV cameras in lockups, interrogation cells, and other parts of the police. Isn’t it a violation of the SC order? The Supreme Court orders are yet to be implemented. A committee headed by the regional committee has given an estimate for the undertaking of this project (of installing CCTV cameras) before the relevant authorities. So, in this station, there are no formal arrangements for CCTV cameras in these places. I’m not aware if they have installed cameras in an informal arrangement. Senior officers have said that they are going to check the background of African nationals, was this prompted by the incident?The person who was arrested and subsequently died in custody was caught with drugs in his possession. He was overstaying in the country since 2015. As of now, we have information about more than 600 people overstaying in the state. This verification of documents is a continuous process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-evidence-suggesting-african-s-custodial-death-says-b-luru-police-commissioner-101628018075966.html
04-08-2021||Other||18% decline in area under paddy in Haryana||Haryana has reported around 18% decline in the area under paddy cultivation this year.As per figures collected from the state agriculture department till date, paddy has been sown on around 12.25 lakh hectare and may go up to around 12.50 lakh hectare as the transplant in some areas is still on.This is around 18% less than last year’s 15.27 lakh hectare and nearly 20% below the 15.59 lakh hectare of 2019, when the state had the highest percentage of area under paddy cultivation, showed the government figures.Area under bajra, another major Kharif crop, and procured on MSP has come down to 3.40 lakh hectare against 5.69 lakh hectare of the last Kharif season.The figures show that the area under Kharif pulses registered a straight increase of over 81% and reached to 87,000 hectare against 48,000 hectare of the last year despite the government having set a target of bringing 50,000 hectares under Kharif pulses.Farmers have not shown much interest in maize cultivation despite government’s efforts to encourage production of the crop and a cash incentive of ₹7,000 per acre for shifting from paddy to maize. There is a small increase in the area under maize crop s compared to last year’s 6,600 hectare.Maize sowing season is almost over and the farmer have grown the crop on just 9,470 hectare against the target of 50,000 hectare set by the government.Officials said the government’s cash incentive scheme for diversification has yielded good results, encouraging farmers to shift from water-guzzler paddy to other crops.“The government had introduced cash incentive schemes for farmers. This is a key factor behind the fall in area under paddy and bajra crop,” said Jagraj Dandi, joint director (statistics), Haryana state agriculture department.On the other hand, farmers are of the view that no or less rainfall during paddy transplant period (June 15 to July 10) is the main reason behind fall in paddy acreage.“I could not transplant paddy on my two acre as there was no rain. I decided to keep my fields empty for vegetable cultivation,” said farmer Madan Lal, of Ratangarh village in Yamunanagar.As per the rainfall reports from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Haryana had received 34% below normal rainfall in the first 11 days (58mm rain) in scattered places against the normal (87.4mm) during this period.Rainfall in June was also 12% below the normal as the state had reported 57.8mm rain from June 1 to July 10 against the normal 86.2mm, stated the figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18-decline-in-area-under-paddy-in-haryana-101628017897953.html
04-08-2021||Bangalore||Amid stir over African’s death in custody, police intensify crackdown||Twenty four hours after the death of a Congolese national in police custody, Bengaluru police have begun tracking those who held a protest outside the police station. Police said the protest was illegal and policemen were attacked by the protestors. The death of the 27-year-old Congolese man in police custody has sparked outrage among the African community in the city. The deceased, Joel Shindani Malu, who worked under the alias Jon, according to police, was arrested by the JC Nagar police on Sunday, on the charges of selling banned narcotics. He died in police custody the same night. Even though the staff of the JC Nagar police are under investigation by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), these officers continued to be part of the probe against those who held a protest against the custodial death. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said the police have not found any reasons for placing any of the JC Nagar police staff under suspension, so far. “If we get any direction from CID to place any officer under suspension, we will look at it,” he said. According to police, he died due to cardiac arrest while in custody, following which, a protest was held by some members of the African community on Monday morning in front of the police station. This resulted in a scuffle between police and protesters, resulting in policemen and protesters getting injured. “Regarding this incident, there are two cases registered. The first case is as per the complaint by our police sub-inspector Latha and in the second case, some of the African nationals who ran from the police station had pushed a person. Since that person is injured, we have registered a case in this regard as well,” said Dharmender Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police, north. One police inspector and two sub-inspectors have been given charge of conducting the investigation. Following the incident, on Tuesday, police have begun a crackdown on African nationals to identify those who are overstaying in Bengaluru. DCP Meena said that police are going through the video recordings of Monday’s protest, to identify those who took part in it. “We will check the documents of everyone who was seen in the video. We will verify how many of them have legal documents with them. Whoever is found without relevant documents will be booked under the Passport Act,” DCP Meena said. The police have conducted urine tests of the five people arrested for the protests on Monday. The urine tests were conducted, as the arrested people refused to provide blood samples. The officers said that out of the five, one person was found to have consumed illegal narcotics. Reacting to the incident, Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai said that police acted in the right manner. “Drug trafficking has been rampant, and those involved are thus being arrested. They had a violent attitude and therefore, police action was taken. When they needlessly attacked the police, our police took action in the right manner,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-stir-over-african-s-death-in-custody-police-intensify-crackdown-101628017894613.html
04-08-2021||Mumbai||12 Mumbai residents booked for ₹4.86-L Adani Electricity theft||Twelve residents of Siddharth Colony in Chembur have been booked based on a complaint by Adani Electricity Mumbai Ltd (AEML) for allegedly stealing electricity worth ₹4.86 lakh from the main powerline.The theft was found during an inspection, jointly conducted by an AEML team and Mumbai Police personnel, the company stated in a release. Last month, AEML discontinued the power supply of about 700 families which had failed to pay the bills from the past two years despite repeated warnings.In the post-disconnection drive, it was found that despite the fact that the meters of these houses had been removed the families continued using direct supply from the main supply, cut out through a cable up to their premises. These residents had used 33,541 units worth ₹4.86 lakh.Commenting on the issue, an AEML spokesperson said, “These consumers were found stealing electricity after disconnection for non-payment of dues. Such consumers put unnecessary tariff burden on consumers who make the payments. Therefore, we will continue with these detection drives and book such offenders.” “Power theft overloads the network. This increases the cost of servicing as cables and transformers are more prone to failures, adding to repair and maintenance costs,” added the spokesperson.The residents however have called it a high-handed move. “We are not in a position to pay [the bills] as many are out of jobs from the past two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. How can we survive without electricity?” questioned a resident, on the condition of anonymity.Last August, AEML had put on hold their mass power disconnection drive after protests and both the sides reached a compromise wherein the residents agreed to clear the bills. However, 700 residents failed to pay the pending amount, collectively worth ₹2.50 crore. AEML provides electricity to nearly 3,250 customers at Siddharth Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12-mumbai-residents-booked-for-4-86-l-adani-electricity-theft-101628017781663.html
04-08-2021||Other||35 milch cattle succumb to foot and mouth disease in Moga village||Moga An outbreak of the highly-infectious Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) has killed 35 milch cattle at Dina Sahib village of Nihal Singh Wala sub-division over the past four weeks, with the first death reported on July 6. The disease is a contagious viral infection. Another 42 animals are critical, with cows bearing the major burden of the disease, officials of the animal husbandry department say. The affected cattle were among 1.5 lakh animals that the state government had vaccinated under the Centre’s National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP) in November 2020. However, the vaccine drive was halted midway after samples of the vaccine failed the quality test. Villagers claimed that at least four animals are dying every day and the death toll has crossed 100. They also alleged that the district animal husbandry department did not include the number of dead calves in its total count of dead animals. The results of samples taken by the department last week confirmed that the deaths were caused by Foot and Mouth Disease. “The results of samples listed negative for heamorrhagic septicaemia, commonly known as ‘Gal-Ghotu’ but they tested positive for FMD,” said an official. A panchayat member Pargat Singh, 32, said, “I have lost four animals, including 3 calves and a buffalo, due to FMD. The animals have been dying since the first week of July and the animal husbandry department had taken it lightly. With senior officials paying us a visit, however, now they are helping us.” Gurveen Kaur, deputy director of the department, said, “The first death due to FMD was reported on July 6 and since then around 35 cattle have died A camp has been set up at the village and our teams are conducting medical examination. Now, there is some improvement in the condition of under treatment animals.” “It is mandatory to vaccinate animals for FMD every six months. The Centre, however, is yet to send the vaccine. For now, the department has procured the vaccine from its own pocket to inoculate the cattle population in Dina Sahib and nearby villages,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35-milch-cattle-succumb-to-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-moga-village-101628017780482.html
04-08-2021||Other||Over 300 acre land damaged due to waterlogging in Rohtak village: Farmers||Farmers in Rohtak’s Girawar village are in a state of despair after over 300-acre of their crop, which are their main source of livelihood, was flooded by water overflowing from the drain over the last few days.Water seeping into their fields reached around 3-ft on Tuesday, causing damage to paddy and other crops. The farmers met Rohtak deputy commissioner Captain Manoj Sheoran a day earlier and asked him to make arrangements to ensure water is drained from their fields.The farmers are up in arms against the administration for its “failure to construct a 100-m drain” which connects the other drain since 2006 and they alleged that the drain was not cleaned before monsoon.Farmer Krishan Kumar, 55, said he had sown paddy on 11 acre and the entire crop got damaged as his fields are in an inundated state for the past one week.“More than 3-ft water is standing in over 300 acre in our village for one week and more water is coming in. We have been requesting the administration to build a 100-m drain which connects the main drain so that water can flow out easily. Due to government apathy, water flows up to 4-ft in our fields every year and we suffer huge losses. The government should provide us compensation,” he added.Another farmer Jaipal said he had sown paddy on five acre and bajra on two acre, but the crops got completely damaged due to waterlogging.“We are already in debt and after our crops get damaged, the debt amount will soar. We have requested local MLA Balraj Kundu but he failed to solve our grievances,” he added.Meham sub-divisional officer Gayatri Ahlawat said the deputy commissioner has conducted a meeting with irrigation department officials and SDMs to look after the situation in fields where water is still standing.“Due to more rain, we have received complaints that drains have overflowed and water entered into fields. We have directed the officials to throw water outside the fields,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-300-acre-land-damaged-due-to-waterlogging-in-rohtak-village-farmers-101628017777492.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses Haryana Progressive Farmers Union’s PIL challenging sedition law||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law in view of the matter pending before the apex court.The plea was filed by the Haryana Progressive Farmers Union in view of registration of a case against 100 farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws, on July 11.The farmer union had sought quashing of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code on grounds that it was violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution.The court found that the persons against whom the FIR was registered are not the petitioners and that there was nothing on records to indicate that they had authorised the petitioner to act on their behalf. The court also found the plea not maintainable.The court also observed that as of the constitutional validity of Section 124-A, the same has already been upheld by a seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court.“The SC decision is final and binding on this court and this court has no power to go beyond the said judgement and examine the validity of the provision which has already been upheld by the SC,” it said, further taking note of the submissions of additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain that constitutional validity of Section 124A has been challenged in the apex court afresh and matter is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-haryana-progressive-farmers-union-s-pil-challenging-sedition-law-101628017595223.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Jind farmer gets bail on ₹4 lakh surety||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday granted bail to a Jind farmer who was arrested for alleged defamatory speeches about Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The HC bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan granted bail in two FIRs after the farmer undertook that he will furnish surety of ₹2 lakh each in both the FIRs.He was booked on May 24 for allegedly making provocative speeches against Khattar, state MLAs and MPs.Associated with farmers’ protests against Centre’s three farm laws, farmer Dalbir was arrested in May. Another FIR also stands registered against him in 2017 for allegedly promoting hatred.He had argued that now challan stands presented. And the apprehension that he was arrested with a great difficulty and there is every chance of him absconding, he is ready to furnish surety of ₹2 lakh each in both the FIRs.The state counsel had said that if enlarged on bail, the farmer would indulge in similar activities and create law and order problem.“While dealing with the petitions for grant of regular bail, this court has no occasion to consider the merits of the allegations in detail. Suffice to say that freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy. At this stage must hasten to add that embargo to freedom of speech is prescribed in Article 19 of the Constitution of India itself,” the court said, dismissing the state’s claims, adding that the nature of contents of the speeches will be subject matter of trial as to whether it was lawful protest against the policies and working of the government or had a different goal and intention.The court, however, said that in case there is a misuse of bail granted to him, the state would always be at liberty to apply for cancellation of the bail order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jind-farmer-gets-bail-on-rs-4-lakh-surety-101628017536898.html
04-08-2021||Other||Months on, Coronil kits yet to be distributed in Haryana||More than two months after the Khattar government announced distribution of one lakh Coronil kits free of cost to patients infected with coronavirus, the ayurvedic medicine packs are yet to be distributed anywhere in Haryana.The kits were ordered from Haridwar-based Divya Pharmacy, an ayurvedic manufacturing unit of Patanjali Yog Peeth, after state health minister Anil Vij had in his tweet on May 23 said that the government will contribute half of the cost through the state’s Covid relief fund and the rest will be borne by the manufacturers.The announcement cost ₹2.72 crore to the state, according to which 25,000 kits each containing Divya Coronil Kit 80 tab, Divya Swasari Vati 80 tab and Divya Anu Tail 20ml were to be supplied at warehouses in Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak and Gurugram as per an official purchase order made on May 18.“However, soon after the order delivery in June, the kits were stopped for distribution in districts pending a sample test by the Haryana Medical Services Corporation,” officials said.On June 29, the drug testing lab at Shri Krishna Ayush University in Kurukshetra received samples for testing efficacy and ingredients, said lab in-charge Dr Raja Singla.“I joined on August 2, but the reports suggest that on July 7, Coronil was found fit on the said norms,” the doctor added.Dr Satpal Jast, Ambala Ayurveda officer, said, “We have not started distribution as there are very few active cases of coronavirus in state. However, the kits will be handed over to the patients if cases rise in the coming weeks.”His counterpart in Yamunanagar, Dr Dilip Mishra (additional charge) contended that the department has received 2,500 kits from the Ambala warehouse. “These will be kept and provided to patients as an immunity booster if a third wave kicks in,” he said.The issue also sparked a controversy as the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had objected to a statement by Patanjali’s co-founder Baba Ramdev on allopathic medicines in treatment of coronavirus. The association had criticized the move by the state calling it “a complete waste of relief funds.”However, Vij had said that they cannot force patients to take this medicine but many believe in Ayurveda and its benefits.Dr Saket Kumar, managing director of Haryana Medical Services Corporation wasn’t available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/months-on-coronil-kits-yet-to-be-distributed-in-haryana-101628017478318.html
04-08-2021||Other||War of words plagues Congress’ Patiala unit||Patiala City mayor Sanjiv Bittu and PUNSUP vice-chairman Krishan Kumar Budhu are indulging in a war of words against each other, exposing the factionalism in the district unit of the Congress. Bittu is a protégé of MP Preneet Kaur, while Budhu is considered close to BIS Chahal, adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Preneet is the wife of Amarinder. In a letter to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Budhu has accused the mayor of corruption, misusing of power in awarding contracts and of promoting illegal construction. “I decided to rake up issue, as corruption is denting the image of Congress in the city of the CM. It is my moral duty to raise voice against such leaders,” alleges the letter. In response, the mayor has said, “Bidhu is a frustrated leader and is levelling baseless charges.” District Congress committee president KK Malhotra and PRTC chairman KK Sharma have come out in Bittu’s support. They claimed that Budhu was indulging in anti-party activities.On Tuesday evening, Budhu issued another press release and said that Malhotra and Sharma had no moral right to demand action against him, as both leaders had worked against party candidate Brahm Mohindra in the 1997 elections. “All these three leaders are surviving in politics by pleasing the members of the royal family. The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee must act against them,” he claimed. SAD district president Harpal Juneja said such charges of Congress leaders against each other proved that corruption was rampant. “The CM must order a probe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/war-of-words-plagues-congress-patiala-unit-101628017475281.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pay compensation for police torture, HHRC to Haryana||The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) on Tuesday recommended that the Haryana government should pay a compensation of ₹50,000 to a Jind youngster, Surya, who was reportedly tortured in police custody in 2018 in Hisar.The commission said the state is vicariously liable for the tortuous acts of its employees and it can later recover the compensation amount from the erring officer.An August 3 order by HHRC chairperson justice SK Mittal and member Deep Bhatia said from the perusal of police inquiry reports and medico legal reports, it is established that Surya went to Hisar’s Jat College on November 14, 2018, to appear in the BA final year examination from where he was picked up by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaipal and taken to urban estate police post. The order said the Surya was beaten up by the cops and as per the medico-legal report, 13 injuries were found on his body.“The ASI tried to explain these injuries by taking the plea that these injuries were possible due to a fall on the ground, either due to heart attack or due to a fit of epilepsy. The plea cannot be accepted as there is no medical record on file,” the commission said.It said during a departmental inquiry, the ASI was found to be negligent and his complicity in giving third-degree torture to the youngster is established.The commission has asked the chief secretary to ensure that compensation to Surya is disbursed within eight weeks from now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pay-compensation-for-police-torture-hhrc-to-haryana-101628017414946.html
04-08-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cabinet nod to death penalty for hooch trade||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday approved amendments to the State Excise Act prescribing capital punishment and life imprisonment in the cases related to deaths caused by the consumption of spurious liquor.The decision to approve the Madhya Pradesh Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which also has a provision of upto ₹20 lakh fine, was taken in a cabinet meeting held on Tuesday, said state home minister Narottam Mishra. “To increase the penalty and punishment imposed on various types of crime under Excise Act, the cabinet approved the amendment in the section 49 (A) of MP Excise Act,” Mishra told reporters.The move comes against the backdrop of the death of at least seven people after drinking spurious liquor in Mandsaur and Indore recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-nod-to-death-penalty-for-hooch-trade-101628017354566.html
04-08-2021||Other||4 water samples from areas around Buddha Nullah fail quality tests||At a time when cholera cases are being reported from different parts of the city, three water samples collected by the district health department from New Chander Nagar and one from Government Primary School, Chander Nagar, have failed quality tests.Suspecting spread of waterborne diseases in areas situated in the vicinity of the polluted Buddha Nullah, NGO Mahatar Sathi Jagriti Manch led by social activist Keemti Rawal, has written to the Punjab State Human Rights Commission seeking intervention and slammed the municipal corporation (MC) for failing to supply potable water despite collecting hefty user charges.Water samples were collected from MC taps at two houses including Rawal’s house and a handloom store in New Chander Nagar and the government primary school on the complaint of the NGO in mid-July. The tests were conducted by department of microbiology, Punjab Agricultural University.As per the reports, Coliform organisms were recorded at 460 at the school and a house in New Chander Nagar, while it was 240 in the sample collected from Rawal’s house and at 150 in the sample collected from the handloom store. E-coli was also detected in all four and the experts termed them as “bacteriologically not safe”. Residents rued that the ground water in the areas around the Buddha Nullah has been badly contaminated due to pollution in the nullah and the failure of authorities in providing potable drinking water is taking a toll on their health.Rawal said, “Cases of cancer and water borne diseases are rising in the areas along the nullah as the ground water is contaminated. Further, deteriorating condition of water supply lines also results in water contamination due to leakage. But, the authorities are not paying heed to the problem, due to which we have sought the intervention of human rights commission. We will also take legal action against the civic body so the MC is charging user charges from us, but it has failed even to provide potable drinking water.” MC superintending engineer Ravinder Garg said, “The MC has not received any report regarding the water samples from the district health department. Also. we are unaware about when and from where these samples were collected as the MC teams were not taken along. I will direct the staff to inspect the area and necessary steps will be taken to provide potable water after receiving the report from the district health department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-water-samples-from-areas-around-buddha-nullah-fail-quality-tests-101628017295945.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Independent Haryana MLA to bring private member’s Bill to make public office accountable||Independent MLA from Badshahpur in Gurugram, Rakesh Daultabad, on Tuesday said he will table a private member’s Bill in the upcoming monsoon session of the assembly to amend the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act.At a press briefing, the Independent MLA who has lent support to the BJP-led state government said the existing law is deficient in addressing the present day requirements. He said the law needs amendments to make the public office accountable for its actions and to enhance democratic accountability and transparency in the functioning of authorities.The MLA, who is chairman of Haryana Agro Industries Corporation, said a strong nexus of corrupt government officials and office bearers of certain residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) have disrupted the peace and harmony of residents.“More than 5,000 RWAs in Gurugram and 2,000 in Faridabad were registered with the District Registrar of Firms and Societies. The majority of RWA complaints or disputes revolved around membership, misappropriation of funds and imposition of illegal rules by the RWA management. The district registrar offices have shown total incompetence to resolve these disputes. Rather their inaction, collusion has given undue benefit to corrupt RWAs,” the MLA said.Three independent MLAs – Randhir Gollen, Dharam Pal Gonder and Nayan Pal Rawat – who were present at the briefing also lent their support to the private member’s Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/independent-haryana-mla-to-bring-private-member-s-bill-to-make-public-office-accountable-101628017237902.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana 112 emergency helpline flooded with missed, blank calls||A majority of the phone calls received on Haryana emergency helpline number 112 are inquiry, appreciation, blank and missed calls in the first 500 hours (about 21 days) after round-the-clock emergency response support system being kicked off on July 13.Additional director general of police (ADGP, telecom and IT) Arshinder Singh Chawla, who is also the nodal officer of Haryana 112 project, said total 2,17,754 calls were received on the 112 helpline number since July 13 after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched the project.Chawla said of all calls, 31,717 calls were from people who genuinely needed help. He said 25,826 emergency vehicles dispatches were made to the incident locations to assist people in distress. “Remaining calls were majorly enquiry, blank, appreciation or missed calls,” the ADGP said.The cop said of total actionable calls received at the unified emergency helpline number, 23,924 callers needed police assistance, 2,836 ambulance services and 241 people requested for fire department services.Of all dispatched calls, multi-service dispatches also happened in which the system dispatched multiple services on a single call. This round-the-clock emergency response support system (ERSS) started functioning from the State Emergency Response Centre (SERC) in Panchkula with highly-equipped 601 police emergency response vehicles (ERVs) across state.The SERC has been digitally connected to police control room at district levels and suitably located emergency response vehicles. It is integrated with the mirror centre in Gurugram and the disaster centre in Hyderabad so that the data remains secure at all times.Haryana 112 is an integrated emergency response system, established to provide emergency services to person in distress anytime and anywhere across Haryana.Chawla said initially the response time was on the higher side than expected. A continuous improvement has been observed on the basis of day-to-day monitoring to bring down the response time to 15-20 minutes.He said the average response time has been brought down from about 34 minutes on July 13 to less than 20 minutes on August 2.The ADGP said it is a new and complex system in terms of its multidimensional components and spread across state, so some issues in the system including delay in response, capturing accurate location of the victim, etc occurred in the initial stage.Now, Haryana 112 is improving rapidly by incorporating suggestions and feedback from Haryana residents. Feedback calls are being made to victims within 24 hours after availing the service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-112-emergency-helpline-flooded-with-missed-blank-calls-101628017112787.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||MC House approves adoption of manual sweeping in Mohali||The municipal corporation of Mohali on Tuesday approved the adoption of manual sweeping of roads in the city. The decision was taken in the MC House meeting held here on Tuesday, which was chaired by mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu.The House also decided to give ₹10 lakh each to the families of two men—contractual sanitation worker Harpal, 22, and a construction labourer, Harpal, 30—who died on July 18 while cleaning a sewer in Sector 62.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We will give a compensation of ₹10 lakh each to the families of the deceased and will later raise the bill towards the water supply and sanitation department for reimbursement.”Regarding manual sweeping, mayor Sidhu said, “We will be recruiting 1,334 sanitation workers. For the last six years, Delhi-based company Lions Private Limited was managing the cleaning of the city through mechanised sweeping at a cost of ₹18 crore per year.”Mayor said, “There were several complaints from councillors and residents that despite paying the hefty amount, the company failed to live up to the expectations of the city as there were several complaints from the residents and councilors.”The reimbursement of the green fodder cost of the gaushala run by Shri Gauri Shankar Dev Dal in the industrial area was also approved.The House also approved an increase in rough cost estimate for operation and maintenance of toilet blocks situated in Zone 2 (Phases 3A, 3B1, 3B2, 4, 7, 8 and industrial areas in Phases 1, 2 and 3) by 25%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-house-approves-adoption-of-manual-sweeping-in-mohali-101628017054281.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate elections kick off||With 49 votes polled out of total 51, the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges recorded 96.08% polling on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges recorded 79.72% polling with 629 total votes polled. The election to the Panjab University (PU) senate began on Tuesday with the polling of technical and professional college constituencies. On Tuesday, voting was held at 28 polling booths across Punjab and Chandigarh. In the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges, 84.1% votes were polled in Chandigarh, and 94.4% and 93.02% polling was recorded in Nawanshahr and Fazilka, respectively. In Hoshiarpur, 82.67% votes were polled; 75.15% polling was recorded in Ludhiana; in Ferozepur, 71.7% polling was recorded; and 70% polling was recorded in Moga as well as in Sri Muktsar Sahib.In the constituency of principals, 100% polling was recorded in Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Moga, Sri Muktsar Sahib and Nawanshahr; 93.75% polling was recorded in Ludhiana; and 80% polling was recorded in Chandigarh.While five candidates are in the fray from the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges, four are contesting from the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges. Three members will be elected to the senate from each of these two constituencies.The counting of votes for both the constituencies is scheduled to be held on August 5, however, it is likely that the results for the principals’ constituency may get delayed due to the issue over inclusion of one vote in the voter list.The senate, which is the varsity’s apex governing body, comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. The remaining are either nominated or are ex-officio members. Since the four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020, PU has been functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-elections-kick-off-101628016993091.html
04-08-2021||Other||HC dismisses PIL challenging sedition law||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law in view of matter pending before the Supreme Court. The plea was filed by Haryana Progressive Farmers Union in view of the registration of a case against 100 protesting farmers against three farm laws enacted by the Centre, on July 11.The union had sought the quashing of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code on the grounds that it was violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution of India.The court found that the persons against whom the FIR has been registered are not the petitioners and that there was nothing on record to indicate that they had authorised the petitioner to act on their behalf. The court also found the plea not maintainable.The court also observed that as of the Constitutional validity of Section 124-A, the same has already been upheld by a seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court. “The Supreme Court decision is final and binding on this court and this court has no power to go beyond the said judgement and examine the validity of the provision which has already been upheld by the Supreme Court,” it said. Further it took note of the submissions of additional solicitor general, Satya Pal Jain, that the Constitutional validity of Section 124A has been challenged in the apex court afresh and matter is pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-dismisses-pil-challenging-sedition-law-101628016932160.html
04-08-2021||Other||Gangster shot at outside ICU of Amritsar hospital; critical||Amritsar Unidentified men fired at Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, a dreaded gangster, at a private hospital in Amritsar on late on Tuesday evening. Rana is an arch-rival of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, lodged in Bathinda jail, and faces over a dozen criminal cases. He was outside the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the KD Hospital on Circular Road, when the bullets were fired at him. He was there as his cousin sister is admitted at the hospital.During the firing, Rana’s aide, Tejbir Singh alias Teja, who is a leader of the student wing of the SAD, and a guard of the hospital were also injured. Amritsar police commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, who visited the spot along with other senior police officials, said Rana’s condition was critical while Teja and the guard are out of danger. DCP investigation Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “Rana’s cousin sister has been undergoing treatment in the hospital. On Tuesday afternoon, Rana along with his aides went to the hospital. At around 7:20 PM, when he was standing outside the ICU section of the hospital, some unidentified persons came and started indiscriminate firing. Rana received three bullet injuries—each on his shoulder, head and a leg. Teja fired back and in the clash, he has also suffered a bullet injury.”“Rana’s family has alleged that Bhagwanpuria and his men are behind the attack,” he said, adding that Rana, is the prime accused in the Patti gang war that took place in 2016 between Bobby Malhotra and Devinder gangs. Rana’s close associate Sukhwinder Singh alias Lala was shot dead by gangster Saraj Singh, an associate of Bhagwanpuria and was also involved in Amritsar Hindu leader Vipan Sharma’s killing in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-shot-at-outside-icu-of-amritsar-hospital-critical-101628016752255.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||IAF to set up vintage airplane museum in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration and Indian Air Force (IAF) on Tuesday reached an in principle agreement to create an IAF vintage museum at the government press building in Sector 18.After weeks of deliberations with the administration, which also included visits to the press building, a team of senior IAF officials from Delhi held a meeting with UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday, where the final decision was taken to go ahead with the project.“Now, the IAF team will get the requisite internal approvals, and thereafter, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed with the administration. After the signing of the MoU, we expect the work on the project to be completed within six months,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.The IAF plans to showcase its vintage aircraft, armaments and memorabilia from different wars, including 1971 Indo-Pak War and Kargil War, at the museum. There will also be a flight simulator at the museum. “Vintage aircraft like Dakota and Spitfire are planned to be exhibited at the museum. There will also be audio video galleries and a space for showcasing documentaries related to the IAF history,” Pal said. The IAF will design the museum, for which it will hire a consultant. “Depending upon the space and design, the number and type of vintage aircraft will be selected by the air force,” said Pal. IAF officials are happy with the space available at the four-storeyed building with glass facade, which is a heritage site. “The IAF officials expect the museum to bring greater awareness in the region, particularly among children, about the role and contribution of the air force in national security and defence,” said a UT official who attended the Tuesday meeting. No takers for vintage car museumThe administration had shut down the government printing press in 2019. It then decided to house a vintage car museum there, a dream project of Badnore. Later, the administration decided to also set up a heritage furniture museum on one of the floors. Another section was planned for organising auction of the spare heritage furniture items.After failing to get any response to tenders floated to invite firms to establish the museum, the administration decided to convert the museum into an IAF vintage museum.“The administration had even reduced the charges in successive tenders but still failed to get any response. The administration has already carried out extensive repairs and facelift of the building. The building located at the prime location on the Madhya Marg has always attracted attention because of its unique architecture. So, a revised proposal was prepared inviting the IAF to create a vintage aircraft museum,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iaf-to-set-up-vintage-airplane-museum-in-chandigarh-101628016572178.html
04-08-2021||Other||Fertiliser firm staffers robbed of ₹15 lakh at gunpoint in Ludhiana||Three car-borne men allegedly robbed the employees of a fertiliser company of ₹15 lakh on Tuesday when they were heading to the office after collecting payments from some dealers. The incident took place near a roadside dhaba in Pal Majra village of Ludhiana, the victims told the police. Complainant Neeraj Kumar, who works in the sales department of Sai Ram Agritech, Rampura Phul, Bathinda, said he, along with his two colleagues, were on their way to their company in a Maruti Suzuki Swift car when a Hyundai i10 intercepted them near a dhaba. There were three masked men in the car and one of the accused pointed a gun at the complainant and snatched the cash bag. Before fleeing, the robbers also punctured a tyre of their car with an ice-pick to avoid a chase. The complainant said he informed his employer and the police soon after the robbers left. Samrala station house officer (SHO), inspector Kulwant Singh said the employees of Sai Ram Agritech used to make collections from different districts and deposit it in the office every month. But there is no fixed date for collection, so it is not clear how the robbers found out about the cash in their victims’ possession. The SHO said police are probing if the accused were following the victims. Closed-circuit television cameras in the area are being scanned for more clues. A case of robbery has been registered against unidentified persons at the Samrala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fertiliser-firm-staffers-robbed-of-rs-15-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-ludhiana-101628016393282.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Prank notice sends Chandigarh Lake Club members into a tizzy||Chandigarh Lake Club found itself in the spotlight on Tuesday after a notice asking its members to follow a bizarre set of rules while visiting the gym and restaurant was shared widely on social media.The club management as well as the Chandigarh administration has claimed it to be a prank, which is being looked into.It all started in the morning as club members visiting the gym found the notice pasted on the information board, asking them to religiously follow some rules to maintain decorum and warned of action against the defaulters. Among other things, the notice talked about wearing a certain approved set of undergarments in the gym that would require a stamp from the authorities. A “smell test” for gym members was also proposed. Another rule mentioned that gym members wearing shorts should have their “legs shaved” or else defaulters would be “depilated” (hair removed) at sight. Another part of the notice read: “Please do not make loud noises while lifting weights.” If this was not enough, there was also a rule that banned the use of foul language except “only permitted bad words” inside the sports complex. While the notice was brought down as soon as members enquired about the bizarre rules, the damage had been done. With its copies shared on social media, netizens had a field day. Tehseen Poonawalla, a businessman and life coach, posed hilarious questions on Twitter: Can members wax instead of shave, who will check the brand of the underwear, what if the member abuses in another language? Another social media user said: “I feel bad for someone who is conducting the smell test.”The club management denied having issued the notice. General manager Naib Singh said: “Monday is a holiday at the club. The management did not put up such a notice. Someone did a mischievous act and put the members in discomfort. We will scan the CCTV footage to identify the culprit and take action.” Singh said all members have been requested not to resort to any such activity in future, while adding that no complaint has been made to police and only internal probe is being conducted.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration, under whose jurisdiction the club operates, clarified that the tweet being circulated in the media regarding the notice is “fake and holds no relevance”. The club has over 1,000 members, and offers gymnasium facilities besides sports infrastructure for tennis, archery and swimming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prank-notice-sends-chandigarh-lake-club-members-into-a-tizzy-101628016392144.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||SDMC spending too much on salaries, says Delhi high court||The Delhi high court on Tuesday expressed displeasure on the “abnormally” high salaries drawn by the employees of South Delhi Municipal Corporation “sitting at home”, and said that the civic body should explore the use of technology to track the employees, including geo-tagging.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked whether the civic body implemented the biometric attendance system and if it was linked to the staff Aadhaar cards.The court said when the corporation was not doing much of sanitation and development work, how it could keep paying so much salaries to its employees. “We have all heard of those employees in the corporation… People are sitting at home and drawing salaries…Is biometric attendance system implemented in MCDs? Have you linked it with their Aadhaar? Is geo-tagging being done to track their locations,” the bench said.The court’s remarks came on a plea by the SDMC, seeking release of money by the Delhi government for paying salaries to its staff.SDMC counsel Divya Prakash Pande told the court that the civic body has biometric attendance system, and added that he will find out if it is attached to the Aadhaar cards of the employees.When Pande told the court that the monthly expenses of SDMC include ₹214 crore for salaries and ₹30 crore for pensions, the court said the civic body was incurring abnormally high expenditure on salaries which is not justified as their core job is sanitation. “You need to see if you are overstaffed and paying salaries…,” the bench said.The SDMC counsel said that they were reviewing if they were overstaffed.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, objected to the SDMC application saying the corporation cannot move two forums for the same remedy as the civic body’s similar plea is also pending before a single judge of the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sdmcspending-too-much-on-salaries-says-delhi-high-court-101628016271574.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Panel recommends installation of dust monitors at construction sites, govt accepts report||Delhi environment minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday accepted the recommendations of the expert committee constituted by the government on dust management, which included measures such as the installation of dust monitors at construction sites, similar to the ones in London and Paris. A senior government official said deputy chief minister Sisodia, who is looking after environment portfolio as an additional charge in the absence of minister Gopal Rai, accepted the recommendations proposed by the dust management committee. The committee proposed tighter monitoring mechanism for “better environmental compliance and controlling dust emissions from large construction and demolition sites” and said technology-based real-time air quality tracking needs to be implemented and violations would invite heavy fine. “Construction and road dust contributes between 15% and 40% of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) emissions in Delhi. Tighter monitoring of large construction sites will help us reduce these emissions,” the committee said. Earlier this year, the Delhi government had set up the committee comprising environment experts from Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), IIT-Delhi, The Energy Resources Institute (TERI), Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to review international best practices and recommend actions for better management of dust pollution in Delhi. The recommendations included mandatory real-time monitors at all large construction sites, which will be constantly monitored by the DPCC, and if found tampering with the equipment, heavy penalty will be imposed on the site. To that end, the sites will also be required to deposit a predetermined bank guarantee with the DPCC, the recommendations further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-panel-recommends-installation-of-dust-monitors-at-construction-sites-govt-accepts-report-101628016215899.html
04-08-2021||Other||Class-10 students in Ludhiana rejoice as CBSE finally declares results||As the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) finally announced the Class-10 results on Tuesday, students of the batch of 2021 rushed to their alma mater to celebrate their achievement with their friends and teachers one last time before their set out on new challenges that life has to offer.In view of the pandemic, many schools had allowed only the top-scorers to visit the campus so as to maintain social distancing. Though the batch missed out on the board-exam experience, their reactions to the results were similar to the batches before them. While some were excited about their scores, some were left disappointed. Prabhjit Kaur, a student who scored 93%, said she was not satisfied with her marks.“I did well in my school exams and expected more than 98%, but the assessment method reduced my percentage.” As no exams could be conducted due to the pandemic, results were declared on the basis of a tabulation policy -- 40% weightage was given to marks scored in Class 10 pre-boards; 30% to marks in mid-term examinations and 10% to unit tests results. To ensure accuracy and fairness, an eight-member result committee was constituted at each school, comprising the principal, five subject teachers and two external members.Prabhjit says she will appear for the exam again to improve her results. “Class-10 marks are crucial as they affect one’s chances of getting into school and stream of choice in Class-11,” she said.The board did not release any merit list this time. Nankana Sahib Public School principal Harmeet Kaur Waraich said now that students have cleared a major challenge in life, they must prepare for the next phase. “I congratulate all the students and teachers for efforts they put in. The year was especially challenging due to the pandemic and they did a good job adapting to the new mode of learning.”  Improvement examStudents who are not satisfied with the results have been given the option of appearing for an improvement exam. The CBSE plans to hold these exams when the situation is conducive. As per information, the board will take a decision on the dates after September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class10-in-ludhiana-rejoice-as-cbse-finally-declares-results-101628016214288.html
04-08-2021||Other||Dalit girl’s alleged rape-murder: Medical board to conduct autopsy, Rahul and Kejriwal condemn incident||New Delhi: A board of three doctors will conduct an autopsy of the charred remains of a Dalit 9-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered on Sunday by four people at a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi, even as protests by family members and political activists over the incident continued for the third day on Tuesday. The accused, including 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, were booked under sections pertaining to rape, murder and threatening charges, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act. They were sent to jail. Though the accused have maintained that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from an electric cooler, the family have alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after frightening the family off from informing the police about her death. Demanding death penalty for the four men and speedy justice through a fast-track court, the parents of the girl and nearly 200 people, including local residents, politicians and social activists, are protesting on Pankha road, close to the crematorium.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tagged a Hindi news clip reporting the incident and tweeted, “Dalit ki beti bhi desh ki beti hai (A Dalit’s daughter is also the daughter of the country).” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he will meet the family members of the girl on Wednesday. “The murder of a 9-year-old innocent in Delhi after her rape is shameful. There is a need to improve law and order in Delhi. The culprits should be given capital punishment at the earliest. Going to meet the victim’s family tomorrow, will do everything possible to help the family in this fight for justice,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.At the protest, the girl’s mother alleged that the accused locked her inside the crematorium and cremated her daughter’s body without her consent. “They offered me money, asked me to return home and not tell anyone what all happened at the crematorium,” she said.The girl’s father said they will continue to protest until the culprits were hanged. “The priest and the other three men raped and killed my daughter and cremated her body to hide their gruesome crime. We want them to be hanged till death for what they did to our daughter. Till then, we will continue our protest to demand justice for my daughter,” the father said, sitting on a makeshift stage that has been set up in the middle of the Pankha Road.The girl’s mother also alleged that her husband was locked in a room and assaulted by a man named Naresh in the presence of the cops at the Delhi Cantonment police station, late on Sunday night. However, the police refuted the allegations, saying no such assault took place, and added that Naresh is a relative of the couple. They said the girl’s parents were called to the police station for counselling and completing the legal formalities.Among the politicians who visited the protest site on Tuesday were Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad alias Ravan and Aam Aadmi Party’s Mangolpuri legislator Rakhi Birla, who is also the deputy speaker of Delhi assembly.“I have come to meet the family and enquire about the entire incident. It’s a horrible case that cannot be expressed in words. What we saw in Hathras (UP) last year has been repeated in the national capital. Our team of lawyers will fight the case. We will make sure the girl’s family gets speedy justice and a strong message is sent that atrocities on women and children will not be tolerated,” said Azad.The child, who lived with her parents in a rented house near the crematorium, went to fetch water from the water cooler installed at the crematorium around 5.30pm on Sunday. Half an hour later, the priest and the three men called the girl’s mother and showed her the child’s body, the police said.“They told her that the girl was electrocuted to death while having water from the cooler... asked her to not inform the police about the death. They told her that the police will register a case and the body will be sent for an autopsy, during which doctors will remove her vital organs and sell them. The four then cremated the body,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh.Police said the mother’s statement before a magistrate was recorded on Monday where she did not make the rape and murder allegations. In the evening, her statement before the SC/ST commission was recorded and she accused the four men of raping and killing her daughter and cremating her body.“Initially, the case was registered under culpable homicide not amounting to murder, wrongful confinement and destruction of evidence. After the girl’s mother statement before the SC/ST commission, we added rape, murder and threatening charges under revenant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in addition to the SC/ST Act. There was no delay in police action,” said joint commissioner of police (New Delhi) Jaspal Singh.The police have identified the accused as Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, and three employees Salim,55, Laxmi Narayan,49, and Kuldeep,63.Many women protesters, who were carrying placards seeking justice for the girl whom they named Gudiya, demanded that the case be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for further probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-girl-s-alleged-rape-murder-medical-board-to-conduct-autopsy-rahul-and-kejriwal-condemn-incident-101628016212122.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt response on plea for door-to-door vaccination drive||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea by an 84-year-old woman seeking directions to introduce door-to-door vaccinations on an urgent basis for the elderly and bedridden citizens of Delhi.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on the plea by Dhiraj Aggarwal, which also sought a helpline for registering such citizens. The plea further said the petitioner is yet to be vaccinated as she could not visit the vaccination centre on account of her ill health.The plea said many fellow senior citizens and bedridden citizens, who are vulnerable to Covid-19, have no not private transport to reach the vaccination centre or even a family member who could help them with the registration process. Aggarwal also said visiting a vaccination centre also exposes senior citizens like her to the virus.Aggarwal, represented by advocate Vinay Kumar, argued that it is the obligation of the authorities to introduce a helpline and door-to-door vaccinations and not doing so goes against a citizen’s right to life.“It is the obligatory duty of the respondent no. 1 and 2 (Centre and Delhi government) to take care of super senior and bedridden citizens. Denying the vaccine by not introducing a helpline number for registration... and a policy on urgent basis for door-to-door vaccination ...is against the fundamental right to life of a citizen,” the plea said.The petition said certain states such as Jharkhand have already begun door-to-door vaccination campaigns.The matter will next be heard next on September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-response-on-plea-for-door-to-door-vaccination-drive-101628016151565.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||'No arrest in JNU violence case': Centre tells Parliament||The Centre on Tuesday informed Parliament that the Delhi Police has not arrested anyone in connection with the violence that took place in the Jawaharlal Nehru University in January last year.While replying to the question of DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran, MoS (Home Affairs) Nityanand Rai said the Delhi Police has constituted a special investigation team of the crime branch to investigate the three cases. “As reported by Delhi Police, no arrest has been made in these cases,” Rai further said.On January 5, 2020, around 100 masked and armed individuals unleashed violence at the JNU campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-arrest-yet-in-jnu-violence-case-centre-tells-parliament-101628016091612.html
04-08-2021||Other||Delhi govt restricts movement of light and medium goods vehicles on stretches near busy markets||New Delhi: The movement and idle parking of trucks and other goods vehicles at major congested stretches and city markets such as Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Karol Bagh, Green Park, Yusuf Sarai and Sadar Bazar will be prohibited during specified hours, starting this week. The Delhi government on Tuesday evening issued an order regulating the movement of goods vehicles in some of the highly congested areas of the city. A gazette notification of this order will be issued on Wednesday after which the restrictions will come into force immediately. The traffic police will act against the violators of the rules. The public works department (PWD) has been directed to install signages at these stretches at the earliest to inform the public about the regulated traffic movement. Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the order was in the works for several months now as discussions on identifying the stretches were going on in consultation with the Delhi traffic police.“We hope this will decongest the busy stretches, and also help reduce pollution as Delhi, over the past few years has seen mushrooming growth of small to medium sized goods vehicles. There were no restrictions on their movement. This is the first time that movement of goods vehicles, including the small and medium sized ones, are being regulated in the city at this scale. Such vehicles will have no entry on the specified roads during the given timings,” Gahlot said. According to the order, between 12:30pm and 8pm, heavy, medium and light motorised goods vehicles will not be allowed in and around the markets mentioned above and those located at Kamla Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Vikas Marg, Mahipalpur, Rajouri Garden, Tilak Nagar, and Dwarka sector 10 main market. Same timings will apply to the markets listed above.On the Barapullah from Ring Road till INA to Sarai Kale Khan, a complete round-the-clock (24 hours) ban has been imposed on all categories of buses (excluding mini buses and RTVs), Gramin Sewa vehicles, heavy, medium and light goods vehicles, e-rickshaws and e-carts. To address the perennial traffic congestion issue in Najafgarh, the entire Phirni Road, Najafgarh (Delhi Gate – Chhawla Road crossing – Dhansa Road crossing) will be out of bounds for heavy to light goods vehicles from 7am to 11pm, read the order issued by KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport). Stretches such as Pataudi House Road, Daryaganj (from the T-Point at Kasturba Hospital Marg to T-Point Dakhni Rai Street) will be prohibited for goods vehicles from 12 noon to 3pm. There are at least eight stretches where the prohibitions will be effective in two phases every day. For example, the Agra Canal Road from Kalindi Kunj to Faridabad Border will be shut for good vehicles from 7am to 11am and from 5pm to 11pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-restricts-movement-of-light-and-medium-goods-vehicles-on-stretches-near-busy-markets-101628016031563.html
04-08-2021||Other||Rise in top scorers in Class 10 exams, CBSE attributes it to alternate assessment scheme||New Delhi: The number of students scoring above 90% in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 results has shot up this year as the board switched to an alternate assessment policy in light of the Covid pandemic.While the number of students scoring 90% and above has increased by 9%, there has been an increase of 38.3% in the number of those scoring 95% and above. Of the total 2,097,128 Class 10 students across the country whose results have been declared by the CBSE, 200,962 (9.5%) and 57,824 (2.76%) candidates scored 90-95% and above 95% respectively, higher than last year when 184,358 and 41,806 students scored in the same range. CBSE officials attributed the spike to the alternate assessment scheme, under which students were evaluated on the basis of their performances in school level unit tests, mid-terms/half-yearly exams, and the pre-boards, following the cancellation of their final examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The CBSE had also asked schools to keep their overall pass percentage in line with a reference year -- that is chosen from their best performance in Class 10 final exams in the last three years. “The increase in the overall pass percentage is because schools moderate the marks by +/-2 in accordance with their best percentage in the last three years. So the best of all the schools have together increased the overall pass percentage this year. This ultimately increased the number of top scorers,” said CBSE controller examination Sanyam Bhardwaj.Principal of a government school said that the schools which had been performing averagely benefited by the policy. “Many schools that had scored less in pre-boards later moderated marks in accordance with their reference year performances in final exams. This is how their overall score and number of top scorers increased,” the principal said. Ameeta Wattal, former principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road and chairperson of DLF foundation (schools and scholarship), said, “In the absence of any robust system to evaluate students without examination, this was the best way to evaluate students amid the pandemic. However, this could have huge repercussions later as the children move to senior classes, in terms of understanding and quality of learning. Steps need to be taken to check that. We must immediately start different ways of learning both online and offline and ways to bring children back to schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rise-in-top-scorers-in-class-10-exams-cbse-attributes-it-to-alternate-assessment-scheme-101628015985272.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Privatisation of power helped save Delhi ₹1.2 lakh crore since 2002, say discoms||Ever since electricity distribution was decentralised in Delhi in 2002, the national capital has saved at least ₹1.2 lakh crore, mainly in terms of transmission loss, data shared by the three discoms on Tuesday showed.The Delhi Vidyut Board was disbanded in 2002 and the power sector was privatised because of which aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses have significantly reduced,the discoms said. “Delhi discoms have saved the city and its consumers over ₹1.2 lakh crore over the past 19 years. Of this, the biggest component is AT&C loss reduction, which has saved over ₹95,000 crore. At present, each percentage of AT&C loss reduction saves Delhi consumers around ₹250 crore,” said a BSES discom official, on condition of anonymity. Records show that at the time of privatisation, AT&C losses in the national capital were over 55%. In fact, they were as high as 63% in east and central Delhi. Currently, AT&C losses stand at around 7.5%, a record reduction of around 48%, the discoms further said.“This is followed by investments of around ₹19,000 crore made by the Delhi discoms to improve the distribution network in the national capital. Currently. In the decade before privatisation, the AT&C losses in Delhi had increased by 20%. This, coupled with prolonged outages, was a reason to bring in privatisation. Now if we compare Delhi’s current power distribution system, then the losses in other states will be much higher,” the official quoted above said. However, discoms said since there has been no significant tariff hike in Delhi since 2014, their power purchase costs have increased by over 300% since 2014, as compared to just 91% increase in the retail power tariff during the same period. “The savings by way of AT&C losses have provided a cushion to the Delhi discoms to ensure business continuity despite non cost reflective tariffs over the years. Due to non cost reflective tariffs, revenue gaps (regulatory assets) of the Delhi discoms have crossed the mark of over ₹50,000 crore, to touch ₹51,646 crore as of March 31, 2020,” said an official of discom Tata power-DDL, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/privatisation-of-power-helped-save-delhi-1-2-lakh-crore-since-2002-say-discoms-101628015973757.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Two held for smuggling liquor through Asola Bhatti sanctuary||The Delhi forest department on Tuesday arrested two men for smuggling crates of liquor from Haryana into Delhi, via the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, senior officials said.Senior forest officials said the patrolling teams seized 11 boxes with over 200 bottles of country liquor, adding that the accused were booked under the Wildlife (Protection) Act (1972).“The accused were produced before the magistrate on Tuesday. They will be booked under the relevant sections of Wildlife Protection Act,” said Amit Anand, deputy conservator forests (south division).Hindustan Times reported in July how smugglers from unauthorised neighbourhoods near the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary was using the forest routes to bring in large quantities of liquor from Haryana to Delhi. These smugglers have carved out dirt paths through the thick forest to connect illegal liquor vends in Haryana to Sangam Vihar from where it is believed to be further distributed to other localities. Since the rate of liquor in Haryana is lower as compared to Delhi, this is a viable business for many bootleggers in Sangam Vihar area, forest officials said.These incidents started becoming more frequent after the city went into a complete lockdown last year on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, said forest department officials. The smuggling cases spiked again during the second lockdown this year, when liquor shops in the national capital were closed.Range officer Satyendra Prakash said smugglers have been pulling down boundary walls around the sanctuary to gain access to the liquor vends on the Haryana side. “For the past few days, we have been tracking the movement of motorcycles, but they managed to get away. Today during early morning patrolling, our teams finally caught them,” Prakash said.Experts said such movement of people and vehicles in a protected forest area is not only dangerous to the safety of animals but can also have a long-term impact on their movement and foraging patterns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-booked-for-smuggling-liquor-through-asola-sanctuary-101628015973292.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Low-income settlements have limited access to public transport, finds CSE study||Those living in unplanned, low-income settlements in the national capital have “limited access” to affordable public transport, resulting in 1.5 times to 3.5 times increase in their monthly cost of transport, according to a report released by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Tuesday. Residents of unplanned neighbourhoods also had to walk longer to access mass transit systems such as the Metro than those in planned neighbourhoods in the same vicinity, the study found.However, even planned residential neighbourhoods, including high-income areas, lacked public transport connectivity, though their situation is better than that in unplanned settlements.The report is based on a ground level assessment of infrastructure for accessibility in 16 residential neighbourhoods of varying economic status such as Tughlaqabad Extension, Govindpuri, Kalkaji, Shahpur Jat, Tughlaqabad village, Greater Kailash, and CR Park, among others. At a time when the government is investing heavily on developing public transport infrastructure and making efforts to promote its use in a bid to curb air pollution, CSE experts said accessibility and connectivity to and from unplanned and planned neighbourhoods have to be improved for substantial gains.As per the report, planned settlements are about 1.3 times better connected than low-income unplanned settlements and have 1.5 times better access to boarding points for buses, Metro etc.As per the Master Plan Delhi 2041 (MPD 2041), the population is estimated to be about 27-30 million by 2041 and it is likely to generate 46.2 million trips daily. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, CSE, said Delhi will “remain locked in the pollution and carb trap” if an 80% share of public transport is not achieved.“This requires immediate improvement in neighbourhood scale accessibility to bus and Metro services and minimisation of interchanges. The expectation of MPD 2041 is that 50% of Delhi’s population will be within the influence zone of mass transit systems by 2041 and mixed-use development will encourage a shift towards public transport. This can be fulfilled only if design and infrastructure improve at the neighbourhood-level for safe and efficient access,” said Roychowdhury.The 16 areas were assessed on parameters such as access to public transport, quality of accessible infrastructure, connectivity between the settlement and rest of the city, accessibility within the settlement etc.And it found that planned settlements are more accessible than unplanned and low-income ones.The report compared journeys from Garhi (low-income unplanned settlement) and East of Kailash (a planned residential areas, located next to Garhi) to the city’s centre.It was found that residents have to walk a longer distance from Garhi — a 27-minute walk— to the Metro station than from East of Kailash, which involved only a 13-minute walk, though both localities are in the same vicinity. The report stated that “on average, walk time of a trip is 1.2–1.8 times in unplanned areas compared to planned areas”. Due to lack of proper connectivity and accessibility to public transport boarding points, those living in unplanned areas end up paying 1.3-3.5 times more on a trip than those from high-income group areas in the same vicinity.As per the report, all neighbourhoods fell short on one key parameter — accessible infrastructure for safe access and connectivity. But it is 1.8 times better in planned areas with high-income group settlements as compared to unplanned neighbourhoods. The streets are 1.7 times more walkable and penetration of intermediate para transit is 1.9 times higher in planned areas than in unplanned areas.Even the general sense of safety is 1.7 times higher in planned areas, finds the study.Roychowdhury said efforts have to be made to improve residential areas’ connectivity and accessibility to public transport services. For that, she said there is a need to frame area-specific and neighbourhood-wise plan for improving accessibility and connectivity.In the 100-page report, CSE has also recommended measures that should be taken to ensure that buses and metro services are accessible by foot or by bicycles, and also pushed for a better feeder (bus) service system. There is also a need to work towards a “citywide development of integrated and affordable public transport service that deeply penetrate and connect neighbourhoods efficiently”, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lowincome-settlements-have-limited-access-to-public-transport-finds-cse-study-101628015734810.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab monsoon mess: Probe ordered after roads turn into rivers in Zirakpur||A week after roads turned into rivers in Zirakpur on the periphery of Chandigarh, the Mohali district administration has initiated a probe into the construction of about 60 illegal colonies in the town. Several housing societies, markets and roads were inundated after barely 30mm of rainfall. In the absence of proper drainage, the town is dependent on choes and nullahs to drain out rainwater. In fact, the Zirakpur residents’ body joint action committee had complained about the illegal colonies to the Punjab chief minister’s office last month, after which an inquiry was ordered. Mohali additional deputy commissioner (general) Komal Mittal, who is conducting the inquiry, said: “I have sought documents pertaining to the illegal colonies from the Zirakpur municipal council and will submit the report in seven days.” Meanwhile, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has asked the revenue department to stop the registry of 23 more illegal colonies in Zirakpur, Gazipur, Peer Muchalla, and Nagla. Joint action committee president Sukhdev Chaudhary, who is leading the campaign against the illegal colonies, said: “Colonisers are violating many a rule in Zirakpur. Most of them have illegally occupied government land and started construction. MC officials are in the know. So, we lodged a complaint with the CM’s office and finally an inquiry has begun.”Newly appointed Zirakpur MC executive officer Girish Verma assured residents and said, “We will provide all related documents to the ADC and with the help of this report, we will also come to know about the illegal colonies.” The pitfalls of the haphazard construction may have come to the fore last week but it is an old issue plaguing the town for years. In February 2018, then Mohali additional deputy commissioner Charan Dev Singh Mann issued an inspection report in which he cited the connivance of the municipal council officials with builders as the root cause for the mushrooming illegal colonies and violations in projects in Zirakpur. “The situation on the ground is alarming and the safety of buyers and their hard-earned money is at stake,” he said in his report. Unplanned, exponential growth After more than a decade of unplanned development, Zirakpur got a master plan in 2009. But before it could be implemented, the town’s population exploded by 282% between 2001 and 2011. With the population expected to shoot up to 3 lakh by 2021, and 8 lakh by 2030, this urban sprawl stands little chance of orderly development. Harish Gupta, the president of the Zirakpur Builders Association, said even the proposed road-7 (PR-7 or Airport Road) aligned with housing and commercial projects has been approved by the MC but no sewage line or rainwater management has been planned. “Despite charging an extra ₹5 lakh per acre as PR cess from the builders, the department provides no facility,” he said. City of realtors and politicians According to the Punjab local government department, there are 59 illegal colonies within MC limits even though unofficial sources say the numbers are higher. Ironically, most of these were developed after the master plan was notified. Dera Bassi tehsil, of which Zirakpur is a part, has 57 illegal colonies in an area that falls under GMADA’s jurisdiction. Of the 31 members of the Zirakpur MC, 20 councillors from both the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) are either colonisers or realtors. Local SAD MLA NK Sharma is also in the realty business. Vinay Kumar, the residents’ JAC vice-president, summed up the sentiments of most residents when he said, “We live in a city where elected representatives work for builders, not for residents. The illegal realty development needs to be stopped as the city is fast turning into an urban slum.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-monsoon-mess-probe-ordered-after-roads-turn-into-rivers-in-zirakpur-101628015672272.html
04-08-2021||Other||Hubby, 25, and in-laws arrested for wife, 18, dying by suicide||PUNE: A man, 25, and his parents were arrested for allegedly driving his wife, 18, to commit suicide within nine months of their marriage in Pune. The man’s wife was found dead in their house on Monday after which her mother, 45, lodged a complaint.According to Ratnadeep Gaikwad, assistant police inspector (API), Hadapsar police station, the couple got married on November 27, 2020 but it is yet to be verified whether the girl turned 18 before or after the wedding.API Gaikwad said, “We have asked for the deceased’s birth certificate and other documents for verification. Her parents said they will bring them after her funeral. Her husband and in-laws have been arrested and taken to Yerawada as I was on leave till Monday. I will now be taking their custody for further investigation.”A case under sections 498(a), 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hubby-25-and-in-laws-arrested-for-wife-18-dying-by-suicide-101628015613514.html
04-08-2021||Other||Cycle track on Sus-Pashan road being used for four-wheeler parking||Pune: Cyclists on Sus-Pashan road have been left with no option but to ride on the main road, as the dedicated cycle track is being used for parking by shopkeepers and restaurants. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) re-laid the track and marked it as a cycle track, still vehicles especially, four-wheelers, are parked on the track.Dinkar Gojare, PMC executive engineer, road department, said, “Currently people are parking vehicles, but going ahead people will not face such a problem as PMC is implementing proper planning for the road and in the next six months it will be implemeted completely.”Resident Purwang Ahir said, “PMC did good work by re-laying it, but people are parking vehicles which should not be happening. In the evenings, when generally most people from Pashan come cycling, there is no space to ride a bicycle.”PMC along with the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), also took part in the streets4people design competition.Sus-Pashan road was selected under the competition by the Smart Cities mission and ITDP.“In future, PMC will have officials to guard the cycle track. The place of parking will be managed and cyclist will have a dedicated track for cycling,” said Pranjal Kulkarni from ITDP.“Unless PMC takes strict action, people will keep parking vehicles on the footpath and track,” said Chetan Rangari, a cyclist from Pashan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cycle-track-on-sus-pashan-road-being-used-for-four-wheeler-parking-101628015612910.html
04-08-2021||Other||Woman arrested 16yrs after duping group of Rs4 lakh under pretext of job||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police on Tuesday arrested a woman, 16 years after she allegedly duped multiple people of Rs4 lakh under the pretext of finding them jobs.The arrested accused was identified as Rahat Alibali Sayyed alias Alka Bhagwandas Sharma, 54, a resident of Anandyog Society in Sakorenagar area of Vimannagar in Pune and a native of Jagirpuri, Delhi.The police were investigating a 2005 case where a woman lost money to another woman who took the money under the pretext of getting the former and two of her friends employed in a foreign country. The complainant in the case, 32, and two of her friends paid a total Rs4 lakh to a group of three people, as per the complaint lodged in the case.“Hawaldar Amol Pawar of Unit 1 of the crime branch on Tuesday received information from an anonymous source about a woman who had been booked 16 years ago and was now living in Vimannagar under a different name to hide her original identity,” read a statement issued by the police. The police set a trap early in the morning on Tuesday and nabbed the woman as she stepped out for her morning walk. She was living under the alias of Alka Sharma and kept giving the same name to the police till she was interrogated, the police said.The woman has been arrested under sections 420 (cheating), 109 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code in the case registered at Khadak police station on July 4, 2005. The Khadak police are further investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-arrested-16yrs-after-duping-group-of-rs4-lakh-under-pretext-of-job-101628015612240.html
04-08-2021||Other||50% of eateries have closed down in the last 1.5 years: United Hospitality Association||Thousands of traders and shop owners across the city participated in the “Ghata Nad” protest to oppose the state government’s decision of not giving any relaxations to the city. Several other unions and associations supported the protest, including the United Hospitality Association (UHA), of hotel and restaurant owners. Small and big hotel owners, their staff and other people gathered today at Good Luck Chowk and protested against the decision. “For the last two years we are hardly doing any business and now when the Covid cases have gone down we should be given some more relaxations. We follow all the Covid guidelines and rules very strictly, for our own and customers’ safety. Despite that there is no timing extension or relaxations given to Pune city. The current timings are not suitable for anyone, neither for us and nor for public. Who will come to have lunch or dinner between 7am and 4 pm,” said Sandeep Narang president of the association. Another member, Rahul Ramaswamy Ramnath, owner of Cafe CO2 at Bhugaon said, “People come to relax at the hotel. Due to this pressure and depression of not having business, till now, four hotel owners have died by suicide in the state. From 3,500 small and big hotels and restaurants 50 per cent have closed down in the last 1.5 years. Those who are remaining are now struggling to survive, and if state government gives such restrictions then it will be impossible for us to do business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-of-eateries-have-closed-down-in-the-last-1-5-years-united-hospitality-association-101628015611598.html
04-08-2021||Other||Cannot consider Pune city in isolation: state task force||PUNE As Pune city residents expressed frustration over the state government not providing any relaxations with regards to opening up more facilities or extending shop timings in the city, the state Covid-19 task force, which acts as an advisory body to the state government, has said that the districts of concern continue to remain under previous restrictions. These 11 districts, as an administrative unit, have continued to report a positivity rate of more than 5% in the last two weeks. While Pune city’s combined positivity rate has been below state average, the city’s RTPCR positivity is yet to come below 5% consistently for two weeks. Public representatives and citizens have been demanding special regulations for Pune city as a separate entity, and considering the positivity rate of the city. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol even announced that he would support the business class which has been most affected due to the lockdown and said that the city’s reducing positivity rate must be considered, and not the district’s as a whole. However, the state task force has said that even though the city is performing well in terms of reducing cases and positivity rate, it cannot be considered in isolation. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “When we advised the CMO regarding relaxations we recommended it based on three factors mainly for all the districts; one, a RTPCR positivity of lower than 5% constantly for two weeks, every single day; two, over 70% fully vaccinated population which is not likely as of now and three, strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which is in the hands of the public. The districts of concern have had a RTPCR positivity rate of more than 5% in the last two weeks. I cannot say specifically talk about Pune, but this is the yardstick we applied. Also another factor is the R naught value which may be higher in these districts. If there are a lot of RAT tests being conducted then it is not a representative sample and so we have to separate the RTPCR positivity rate.”Joshi added, “All cities ultimately have to take certain precautions when they open up, especially large metros which are densely populated and see large migration. These are zero crowding, zero unmasking situations in public space and to maintain some Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, try to maintain vaccination and if somebody has symptoms so self-test and self-isolate so that the spread is prevented.” Joshi also pointed out that even though the city has reported a lower positivity rate than the rural areas, the movement of people from rural to urban cannot be restricted and so the urban areas are still at risk of higher infection. AMC Ravindra Bhinwade said, “It is a good thing that Pune city is recording a lower RTPCR positivity rate. In the past two weeks alone, Pune city has reported an RTPCR positivity rate of less than 5% except on 18th which was a Sunday. However as Pune continues to remain under ongoing restrictions as per state government orders we will continue to implement them.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state Covid-19 advisor said, “We cannot consider Pune city or even PCMC as a separate entity epidemiologically, although it is true that the city has seen a fall in the number of new cases and the positivity rate has gone down. However, the peri-urban areas surrounding Pune city are quite a large number and are still reporting a higher number of Covid-19 cases. “We did indicate that the shops could be kept open for a slightly longer period, however, opening of restaurants, especially AC restaurants, is absolutely not recommended. Only restaurants with proper ventilation were recommended to be kept open. The positivity in rural areas is still higher than the state average I will sound a similar warning bell for Mumbai as the relaxation come with a great risk. Surveillance of indicators involving private hospitals should be monitored, including that of waterborne or monsoon-related illnesses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cannot-consider-pune-city-in-isolation-state-task-force-101628015555622.html
04-08-2021||Pune||Politicians unhappy with Maharashtra govt's decision on Covid-19 norms for Pune||Even as the positivity rate in the city has been declining and is under the state’s average for the last few weeks, the state government’s decision to not offer any relief to Pune from the existing curbs is now being questioned on many levels.For the duration of July 15–21, the average positivity rate in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits was 3.9%, while it came down to 3.4% during July 22-28, and further dropped to 3.23% for July 29-August 2, making the city fit into the criterion announced by health minister Rajesh Tope last week. Tope said those areas with an average positivity rate less than that of the state will be offered relaxations.Under Pune district, the state government’s previous order clearly mentions that Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and the rural parts be considered as three separate units. City-based traders said the Shiv Sena is ill-treating the city given that another party is in power at civic body here.Muralidhar Mohol, Pune mayor, questioned the mechanism of deciding which parts be granted relief.“Since a month, the positivity rate in Pune city is below 5%. State government had said that if the positivity rate remains below 5%, then curbs can be eased. In the weekly Covid review meeting I demanded several times that Pune should get relaxations. Traders and people are demanding the same. Guardian minister said that we are positive about it, but on other hand health minister said different things and CM took a different decision.”Pune city, according to Mohol, is fulfilling the criteria of relaxations set by the state government. “If these criteria are applied, then Pune belongs to level 2. It is important to give relaxations to Pune and the state government should rethink its decision.”According to data by the district administration, the oxygen bed occupancy in PMC is 7.86%. As per the earlier five-level unlock plan declared by the state government, a positivity rate below 5% and oxygen occupancy percentage below 10% allows more relaxations from Covid-induced curbs. After the level 3 restrictions were made a baseline for restrictions in the state, no official mechanism of unlocking was declared, but the health minister had mentioned that districts below the state average on various Covid indicators would get some relaxations.As the positivity rate in PMC has dropped a demand has been made to ease the level 3 curbs in Pune city, but no clear answer has been given by the state administration in this regard.Maharashtra cabinet minister for minority affairs Nawab Malik clarified that no special treatment has been given to Mumbai, saying the decision was taken as the positivity rate in Mumbai dropped to 1%. Malik asserted that if the positivity rate in Pune and the other 10 districts drop then relaxations would also be given to these areas. It has raised the question of whether the state government has secretly changed the criteria of relaxations.“In Maharashtra, there are 11 districts where positivity rate is above 5%. According Central government’s guidelines in order to contain the spread in such areas some restrictions have to be in place. In Mumbai, the positivity rate has dropped to 1%. So relaxations have been given in Mumbai. Shops are now allowed to remain open till 10 pm. If the positivity rate falls further in Pune and 10 other districts and situation comes under control then Covid curbs would be eased there too,” said Malik.Prashant Jagtap, NCP city unit chief said, the daily caseload in Pune city has decreased in the last 15 days. “As NCP members, we will request guardian minister Ajit Pawar to give some relaxations to Pune city. Undoubtedly the collective Covid numbers from the district is high, but Pune city has been recording fewer cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/politicians-unhappy-with-mva-decision-on-covid-norms-for-pune-101628015555002.html
04-08-2021||Other||Delhi govt to identify mohalla clinics for Ayush treatment||New Delhi: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said that the government will soon identify a few mohalla clinics in the city to also provide ayurveda, unani and homeopathy treatments, and issued directions for waiver on fees paid for waste disposal by Ayush clinics.Jain further said that the Indian system of medicines (ISM) can play a “crucial role” in recovery from health issues that usually follow Covid-19 infection.“Health Minister Satyendar Jain met the delegation of Ayush doctors, today, to address their demands. Ayush is a specialised stream of practice in ayurvedic, unani and homeopathic ways of treatment which is also referred to as the Indian system of medicine. The ISM delegation raised several issues. The most important issues were regarding the subsidy for electricity in their clinics, the introduction of Ayush in mohalla clinics, and relief from ₹890 fees levied on biomedical waste collection.from Ayush clinics. The doctors submitted that the Ayush clinics were small and didn’t produce biomedical waste. Thus, the fee should be waived off or reduced. Jain immediately responded to this submission and gave directions to the designated departments to put this into effect,” said Jain’s office in a statement issued on Tuesday.Jain further said, “Mohalla clinics should be selected around Delhi to accommodate and introduce Ayush treatment which will serve the dual purpose of providing welfare to the Ayush doctors as well as people.”He soon issued direction to the health department to identify few mohalla clinics for Ayush treatments, the government said.Jain also emphasised the importance of Ayush in the overall health infrastructure of Delhi, especially during the Covid times. “Ayush will play a crucial role in the post-Covid-19 recovery of patients through its natural ways of boosting immunity and giving treatment with minimum use of medicines. The ISM delegation also proposed the setting-up of a ‘State advisory committee for Ayush’ to which Health Minister Satyendar Jain responded by saying that it will be taken into consideration. The Delhi government is devoted towards the promotion and betterment of Ayush and will do everything in its capacity for ensuring the well-being and welfare of the people as well as the ISM doctors,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-identify-mohalla-clinics-for-ayush-treatment-101628015554419.html
04-08-2021||Other||Pune traders allege bias, firm on violating deadline from Aug 4||Pune: Hundreds of traders and hoteliers in Pune held ‘Ghanta Nad’(Bell clanging) protest on Tuesday to draw the Maharashtra government’s attention to their demand for an extension in current operation hours for shop keepers in the city following similar relief to 22 other districts in the state on the basis of their respective Covid-19 caseloads. The restriction to end operation by 4 pm between Monday and Friday was retained for all shops in Pune district, inviting protests from traders, industries and restaurants in the city. “Covid cases have gone down in Pune city and yet shop timings continue to be up to 4pm. To oppose this biased decision by the state government, all our association members and traders across the city protested today while planning to keep the shops open till 7 pm from tomorrow,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP). Pune city’s positivity rate for the week ending August 1 has been 3.3%, which is less than average positivity rate of Maharashtra. The business community wants Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and rural parts of districts to be assessed as separate administrative units to decide their grade of relaxation citing lower Covid positivity rates. Maharashtra government on Monday left out 11 districts including Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad, and Palghar from the ambit of relaxations citing their high Covid-19 caseload. Maharashtra recorded 4,869 fresh cases on Monday, taking its tally to 6,315,063 including 75,303 active cases. The association says it has reasons to allege bias claiming the new relaxations allow all essential and non-essential shops to remain open till 10 pm in Mumbai and 8 pm in other districts. They say that while the state government allowed the civic bodies to take the final call on easing of restrictions in Mumbai city, suburban areas and Thane, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad were denied any relief. At around 11.45 am several traders gathered near Sonya Maruti Chowk on Laxmi Road in Pune city before marching towards Alka Talkies Chowk while beating kitchen utensils and Bells. Similarly, other shop owners, traders and their local unions across the city protested in front of their shops. Ranka accused Uddhav Thackeray government of “favouring” Mumbai since the Shiv Sena controls the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Shiv Sena government has given relaxations to Mumbai just because it is in power in the BMC. But in Pune, another political party is in power so they are not giving any relaxations to Pune. We have decided to keep our shops open from tomorrow up to 7 pm and [are] ready to face any action taken by the police or government authorities,” said Ranka, referring to the fact that the Bharatiya Janata Party runs the Pune corporation. When asked about allegations by traders Maharashtra minister for minority affairs Nawab Malik said in Mumbai that government decided to relax curbs in Mumbai because positivitu rate there was less than 1%. “Tomorrow if Pune’s cases come down, government will immediately ease restrictions,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-traders-allege-bias-firm-on-violating-deadline-from-aug-4-101628015553890.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||No deaths due to oxygen shortage at Jaipur Golden, Delhi Police tells court||The Delhi Police on Tuesday told a city court that the death of 21 Covid patients at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi’s Rohini this April was not caused by shortage of medical oxygen.The police filed a status report before metropolitan magistrate Vivek Beniwal on Tuesday while the court was hearing a plea by family members of the deceased who claimed that the hospital management should be punished, but police, with mala fide intention, have neither arrested nor set up an inquiry against the hospital.On the last date of hearing, the court criticised the probe agency for “casually filing a report” and directed the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) concerned to file a better report.DCP Pranav Tayal on Tuesday filed the status report and informed that due to the acute shortage of oxygen and increased number of deaths, the hospital sought to draw a link between oxygen supply and fatalities. The report said that the hospital was right in raising the alarm about the shortage of oxygen in wider public interest and the other admitted patients.The report further said the hospital did not receive oxygen supply for almost 30 hours — from 5.30pm on April 22 to 11.45pm on April 23.“On scrutiny of death summaries of all deceased persons, it revealed that no death of patient was caused due to shortage of oxygen,” Tayal said.The police also told the court that the hospital authorities were not in a position to comment on or refute the preliminary conclusions drawn by a Delhi government committee, that also probed the deaths.The family members of the dead patients have demanded a CBI probe and said that the cause of the death of the deceased has been mentioned as respiratory failure by the doctors for the reason that proper oxygen supply was not given to the patients on time.On Tuesday, the court was told that on the date of the incident, the hospital was starved of oxygen and it is a matter of record that M/s Inox, the gas supplier, supplied 3.8 MT on April 24 at 5:30 pm.“Resultantly, when this situation ensued, there appeared to be a linkage between the unusually high number of deaths and deficient oxygen supply,” the hospital added.The court will now hear the matter on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-at-jaipur-golden-delhi-police-tells-court-101628015552722.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet nod to continue Wi-Fi hot spots in Capital||The Delhi cabinet led on Tuesday approved the continuation of the government’s free Wi-Fi facility in the Capital.“The free Wi-Fi facility started by the Arvind Kejriwal government will continue. The Cabinet gave its approval for extension of the scheme on Tuesday. The aim is to provide people with Wi-Fi at every 500 metres in Delhi. Each hot spot has a radius of 100 metres. Every person is being given 15 GB of data for free every month... The internet speed is 100-200 mbps on an average,” the government said in a statement.Kejriwal launched the free Wi-Fi scheme from a bus stop at ITO in December 2019, and the Delhi government subsequently set a target of setting up 11,000 hot spots to provide free Wi-Fi facility across Delhi.So far, free Wi-Fi hot spots have been installed at 10,561 locations, including 2,208 hot spots at bus stops.Now, more than 21 lakh people can avail the free WiFi facility simultaneously, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cabinet-nod-to-continue-wi-fi-hot-spots-in-capital-101628015553297.html
04-08-2021||Other||Civic chief submits official proposal for increase in water supply from Mulshi dam||PUNE The Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Tuesday, submitted an official proposal to demand five TMC (thousand million cubic feet) of water from Mulshi dam, now in the possession of the Tata company.The PMC commissioner said in the proposal, “Earlier, 11 villages merged with the PMC and in June this year, 23 more villages merged with the municipal limits. The existing water is not enough for the city. As more population has been added to the municipal limit, the state government must approve the additional water supply from Mulshi dam.”The standing committee of the PMC on Tuesday approved the proposal and sent it to the general body. After getting a nod from the general body it will go to the irrigation department for final approval.The state government has also instructed the PMC to send such an official proposal.Deputy chief minister AJjt Pawar, while inaugurating the Bhama Askhed water project, instructed the municipal corporation to submit an official proposal for the same.The irrigation department is also checking the legal aspect of how to get water from Mulshi dam. The water is getting used for hydraulic purposes and later goes directly into the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-chief-submits-official-proposal-for-increase-in-water-supply-from-mulshi-dam-101628015551509.html
04-08-2021||Pune||HC stays Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority planning committee||While the Bombay High Court (HC) on Tuesday stayed the metropolitan planning committee of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, PMRDA officials claimed that only the committee had been stayed and that this would not impact work related to the draft development plan (DP) such as calling suggestions and objections to it.A PMRDA official who did not wish to be named said, “The stay has been given only for the metropolitan committee and not for the draft DP work. We do not think that there is any legal problem in calling for suggestions and objections. The administrative process of compiling suggestions and objections to the DP will take almost a year after which the same will be scrutinised before being sent to the metropolitan committee for approval.”Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) filed a writ petition and challenged the metropolitan committee of the PMRDA. Ganesh Bidkar, BJP leader of the house in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “It’s a victory for the BJP. As the state government was suppressing the municipal corporation’s right, the High Court has ruled against the state government.”“As the High Court has stayed the metropolitan committee, the PMRDA will not be able to call for suggestions and objections or even carry out further work on the DP,” Bidkar said.Attacking the Shiv Sena, Bidkar said, “Sena leaders Sanjay Raut and Tanaji Sawant are not from Pune. Then too, the chief minister appointed them here. They might have purchased land in the PMRDA area which is why they were appointed to the PMRDA. While appointing outsiders however, the state government did not appoint member of parliament (MP) Girish Bapat or any BJP member of legislative assembly (MLA) from the city. The state did not even appoint the mayors from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad on the metropolitan planning committee.”When contacted, metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase however said, “We are waiting for a written order to get further clarity. It is early to make any comment on the issue.”The issue in question:While the metropolitan committee of the PMRDA has the right to approve the development plan (DP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been kept away from the planning committee of the PMRDA by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). Rather than appoint an elected BJP member, the MVA appointed Sanjay Raut and former minister Tanaji Sawant – both of whom are not from Pune - to the committee. With Pune MP Girish Bapat, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, PCMC mayor and other BJP MLAs not on the committee, the BJP alleged that the MVA is playing politics.“The BJP is ruling in both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations. Ideally, mayors or standing committee chairmen should be nominated members. The ruling party has avoided MP Girish Bapat and other BJP MLAs altogether,” according to the BJP.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was not possible to hold elections for the planning committee. The planning committee consists of 30 members. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was not possible to hold elections. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is the PMRDA committee president.The Maharashtra government has appointed MP Supriya Sule, MP Sanjay Raut, MP Shrirang Barne, MLA Tanaji Sawant, Sangram Thopate, Sunil Shelke and Sanjay Jagtap as committee members while the rest of them are government officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hc-stays-pmrda-planning-committee-dp-work-will-not-be-affected-says-pmrda-101628015493894.html
04-08-2021||Other||HSC pass percentage: Pune division records 99.75% , cut-offs for admissions to undergrad courses to increase||PUNE A whopping 99.75% of 231,331 students from Pune the division cleared the Class 12 Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) course, the results of which were declared on Tuesday, after the state government cancelled the exam and adopted an assessment to derive the results. The passing percentage this year in Pune is been higher by 10% over 2020, when 89.45% students cleared their HSC. This means top colleges in the city and the rest of the division are likely to have higher cut-offs for admissions for admission to graduate courses, which will lead to more competition among students looking for admissions to graduate courses like BA, BCom and BSc. Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said that the cut-off may increase this year, but it will be only marginal. “Because of good results this time, it is likely that marginally the cut-offs may increase. But, they will not be too high,” said Pardeshi. He also added that if the university permits, top colleges can increase the capacity by 10 per cent, depending on infrastructure and other factors. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, said that prominent colleges will witness a higher cut-off this year, as many students have scored good marks. “There is likely to be higher competition this time for courses like Bachelor of Science. One lakh students have not registered this time for the Common Entrance Test (CET) for entrance to Engineering courses, as compared to last year. These students may seek admission for BSc, Bachelor of Arts and Commerce courses. Hence, if the university permits, big colleges can increase the capacity by 10 to 20 per cent,” said Zunjarrao. Speaking about Pune division’s results, Dinkar Patil, chairman, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), said that in Pune division, 231,331 students appeared for Class 12 . “Around 99.75 per cent of students in the division have passed Class 12 . Of these, 99.66 per cent male students passed and 99.77 per cent females passed,” said Patil. He further added that the pass percentage for commerce this year is higher than arts and science. “Commerce has a pass percentage of 99.91% in the division, whereas Arts is 99.75% and Science is 99.73%,” said Patil. Repeater candidates in the division also scored well this time. “Pass percentage for repeater candidates is 98.91 per cent this year. Whereas in 2020, only 34.08 per cent repeater candidates passed,” said Patil. He refused to share data about how many students scored 100 per cent marks in the Pune division. “There should be a demarcation regarding which division has a higher number of students with 100 per cent marks and 35 per cent marks. Hence, that data will not be shared by the board,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hsc-pass-percentage-pune-division-records-99-75-cut-offs-for-admissions-to-undergrad-courses-to-increase-101628015492748.html
04-08-2021||Other||HSC results: 99.63 passing percentage in state||PUNE The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Tuesday, declared the Class 12 Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) results, with an overall passing percentage of 99.63 per cent in the state. The passing percentage increased this year by 8.97 per cent as compared to last year when the passing percentage was 90.66 per cent. This year, due to a rise in Covid cases, exams were cancelled by the state government. An assessment has been made using alternative criteria, where 40 per cent weightage is given to exams held in Class 12, 40 per cent marks is derived from unit tests and first-semester exams, or practical exams; of the balance 60 per cent, 30 per cent is from Class 11 marks and the other 30 per cent from the average of the best three performing subjects in Class 10.Girls edged the boys with 99.73 passing percentage as against 99.54 per cent in the state. The highest passing percentage was in the Konkan region at 99.81 per cent, followed by Pune region with 99.75 per cent. The lowest percentage was in Aurangabad region at 99.34 per cent. The passing percentage of physically challenged students this year is 99.59 per cent.A total of 1,319,754 students from Arts, Science and Commerce and Higher Secondary Vocational Courses (HSVC) registered for the exams. Of these, 1,314,965 students from nine regions in the state cleared Class 12.A total of 66,871 repeater students registered for this year’s HSC, of which 63,063 students passed. The passing percentage of repeater students in the state is 94.31 per cent. “This year we had declared the Class 12 examination for April, but due to Covid cases rising in the state exams were canceled for the safety of students. While cancelling the exams it was decided to do the assessment of students through internal marks and assessment within the schools. Accordingly, the formula was set and now results have been declared. Results were declared at 4 pm and to avoid any technical glitches website students can check their results on four websites,” said Dinkar Patil, chairman of the state board. “A total of 12 students have scored 35 per cent and 91,420 students scored above 90 per cent, while 1,372 students scored above 95 per cent. There are 46 students who have scored 100 per cent marks,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hsc-results-99-63-passing-percentage-in-state-101628015493311.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi cabinet approves policy to make city oxygen self-reliant||The Delhi cabinet on Tuesday approved the Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021, which aims to make Delhi self-reliant in production of medical oxygen by providing subsidies and tax reimbursements to the private enterprises that invest in production, transport and storage of the life-saving gas.The policy was drafted after Delhi faced a severe crisis of medical oxygen during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic – also the worst so far – in April this year, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Delhi battled an acute shortage of oxygen in April and May as hospitals in the capital sent out SOS calls to authorities to replenish their dwindling stocks.In a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office, he said, “The Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021 provides several incentives to the private sector to set up oxygen production plants, storage facilities, and oxygen tankers… This will help improve oxygen availability in Delhi...”A senior government official said the policy is likely to be notified later this month.The statement said the government aims to encourage setting up new manufacturing enterprises and expanding the production capacity of existing ones for “uninterrupted oxygen supply”.It also said that the government has set five targets: 1. Setting up of liquid oxygen (LOX) manufacturing facilities of 50 MT (metric tonnes) to 100 MT; 2. Setting up of non-captive oxygen generation plants of minimum 10 MT and maximum 50 MT capacity up to a total of 100 MT; 3. Setting up of captive oxygen generation plants of minimum 500 LPM (litres per-minute) capacity at hospitals and nursing homes to cater to peak demand for medical oxygen, up to a total capacity of 200 MT; 4. Setting up of cryogenic tankers of minimum carrying capacity of 10 MT for ferrying liquid medical oxygen up to a total capacity of 500 MT; 5. Setting up of liquid medical oxygen storage tanks of minimum 10 MT capacity up to a total capacity of 1,000 MT.For liquid oxygen manufacturing plants, non-captive cryogenic plants and PSA plants for hospitals and nursing homes, an enterprises will be eligible for a one-time subsidy of ₹20 lakh per MT capacity; one-time subsidy of ₹3 lakh per MT for cryogenic tankers; and a one-time subsidy of ₹1 lakh per MT on liquid medical oxygen storage for hospitals, nursing homes and re-fillers.The statement further promised power subsidy for such units as well. A total of 160 pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants are supposed to be installed in public and private hospitals in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-delhi-cabinet-approves-policy-to-make-city-oxygen-selfreliant-101628015492187.html
04-08-2021||Other||CBSE Class 10 results: Pune division reports 99.92 pass percentage||PUNE Pune division has reported a 99.92 pass percentage, the fourth highest in the country for the Class 10 results declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The results were declared on Tuesday. CBSE schools in Pune city also reported good results.As per CBSE officials, a total of 2,097,128 students appeared for the Class 10 exam across the country and 2,076,997 students passed, which puts the pass percentage at 99.04 per cent.Of these, 16,639 schools’ results are still under process, as per CBSE officials.DAV Public School Aundh reported a 100 per cent pass percentage. Total students in the school for Class 10 were 544. Of these, 280 scored above 90 per cent. The topper is Atharva Kshirsagar who secured 98.6 per cent marks, followed by Bhagyashree Mohan who scored second highest with 98.4 per cent. One student in this school with a learning disability secured 72.4 per cent, as per the school authorities.Girls across the country scored 99.24 pass percentage in Class 10, whereas boys reported 98.89 per cent. Girls performed marginally better than boys by 0.35 per cent. Transgenders reported a 100 percent pass percentage, said CBSE officials.Meera Nair, prinicipal, Amanora School said that the school results were 100 per cent this time.“A total of 156 students appeared for the examination, of which 46 students acquired a score above 90% and 106 students scored above 80%. The school topper is Avani Sakurikar with 98.6 per cent, followed by Geetanjali Pandey with 98 per cent and Neha Narayan with 97.8 per cent,” said Nair.Neelam Chakrabarty, prinicipal, Delhi Public School (DPS), said a total of 269 students appeared for Class 10 exams and the pass percentage is 100 per cent.“Of 269 students ,144 are boys and 125 are girls. The highest percentage was scored by two students, Shlok Parmar and Aloki Upadhyay, who both secured 99.2 per cent. A total of 156 students secured more than 90 per cent and 242 students secured more than 80 per cent,” said Chakrabarty.Bharti Bhagwani, principal at GG International School, said that the school reported a 100 per cent result. “Of a total of 122 students, 18 scored 90 per cent and above marks and 35 students scored marks between 90 and 95 per cent. Also, 33 students scored between 80 and 90 per cent. The school topper is Amruta Bhalerao with 98.8 per cent,” said Bhagwani.Arti Sharma, principal at Army Public School, Khadki, said that the total number of students who appeared in the exam were 381. “A total of 32 students scored above 95%, 78 students scored above 90% and 102 students scored above 80%. The school topper, Anushaa Ashutosh Shukla, secured 99.6%. Sai Bhandarkar and Akshita Singh stood second with 99% and Urvi Bhoraskar, Anshuman Singh, Methika M, Sanjana Bheri and Somdatt Kabi came third with 98.4%,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-class-10-results-pune-division-reports-99-92-pass-percentage-101628015491508.html
04-08-2021||Other||Class 10 results: How CBSE evaluated students this year||New Delhi: Following the cancellation of Class 10 final exams in view of the situation triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had announced an alternative assessment method to evaluate students based on which it declared results on Tuesday. At 99.04%, almost all regular students whose results have been released passed the CBSE Class 10 this year through the revised criteria and became the first-ever batch to pass without taking board exams. According to the alternative assessment policy’s formula, the theory marks of each subject have been computed on the basis of internal exams conducted by the schools throughout the year. In the assessment policy, 10 marks were allotted on the basis of students’ performance in the unit or periodic tests, 30 marks on the basis of their performance in mid-term or half-yearly examinations, and 40 marks on the basis of their score in the pre-board examinations. Most schools conducted these exams in the online mode.These marks were then added to the actual marks scored by the students in internal and practical exams conducted by the schools for the subject either in online or offline mode.Every school was asked to constitute a result committee consisting of eight members, including the principal, five subject teachers and two external members. To ensure that the results are prepared on time, CBSE trained school staff on the assessment policy.“An online webinar was conducted to explain the tabulation policy. This webinar was viewed by more than 90,000 teachers. This was a live program on YouTube wherein after explaining the policy, queries of the schools were also resolved by the CBSE. Queries received on email, WhatsApp and on phone were converted into frequently asked questions (FAQs), uploaded on websites and sent to all the schools,” CBSE controller examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a statement on Tuesday.The schools were asked to keep their overall pass percentage in consonance with a reference year which could be chosen from among the institute’s best performance in CBSE Class 10 exams in the last three years.The board had also said that the overall average marks for the schools for 2021 should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by it in the reference year.The schools were also allowed to moderate marks by +/-2 from their reference year and to check inflation of marks by schools, the CBSE launched a portal to submit the marks. “The portal was tuned with the reference year and the mean marks. It only accepted scores in accordance with it. This portal helped schools to upload marks in a time-bound manner,” Bhardwaj said.Meanwhile, the board has also clarified that in case any candidate is not satisfied with the marks allocated, they will be given an opportunity to appear in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive to hold the examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-10-results-how-cbse-evaluated-students-this-year-101628015433256.html
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 10: Chitkara International School records 100% pass percentage||With 100% pass percentage in Class 10 CBSE exam, Chitkara International School students proved their academic mettle yet again. Of the total 109 students in the school, 22 students secured more than 90% marks while 31 students scored 80% and above.Topping the charts with a whopping 98%, Vansh Goyal has bagged the first position in the school followed by Radhika Sharma (97%) and Ashpreet Singh (96%) respectively. Joining the list of toppers, Manmohit Singh, Anshika Jaswal, Aakrit Sharma and Paarth Sethi secured the fourth position with 94% marks each. More so, Vansh Goel, Radhika Sharma and Ashpreet Singh secured 100/100 in Mathematics. Director Niyati Chitkara said, “We’re all beaming with pride at the resounding success of our students in CBSE exams. It is indeed the concerted effort of teachers and students that has bore fruit, and we wish to commend and congratulate all students of the region and the country for displaying such inspiring resilience, hard work, discipline and positivity despite the uncertainties of the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-class-10-chitkara-international-school-records-100-pass-percentage-101628015432176.html
04-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Cop assaulted during anti-encroachment drive||A policeman was stabbed during an anti-encroachment drive in Sector 125 on Tuesday, said police.The victim, head constable Anwar Abbas Zaidi who is with the Dial 112 force, was taken to a hospital where he is out of danger, police added.According to police, the incident happened in the afternoon near Amity University when the Noida Authority moved in to remove encroachments there. When people in the area argued and manhandled the authority officials, the police was called in, they said.“Police personnel were sent to deal with the situation. When the head constable tried to intervene and sort the matter out, one man assaulted him with a knife and then fled the area,” said deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1) Rajesh S. “We have identified at least two involved in the incident and efforts are on to nab them. There are no CCTV cameras at the spot but three teams are working on tracing them. We will register a case against them for assault and take necessary action.”A Noida Authority official said that it was a routine drive to remove vendors who had set up shop on public land on the roadside.“The officials asked them to move to the authorised vending zones to conduct their business. When they misbehaved with the staff, the police were called in,” said the official.In a separate incident, police said that a video on social media of a biryani seller’s vend allegedly being overturned by a policeman in Surajpur was fake.“It was found that the seller himself had overturned the stall to tarnish the image of the police who had asked them move from public spots that caused congestion. We also have CCTV footage that showed this. The vendor and his brother themselves did this and shared the video on social media. We will take necessary action against them,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cop-assaulted-during-anti-encroachment-drive-101628014652592.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cabinet nod to salary hike for MLA's||The Delhi cabinet on Tuesday approved salary hikes for legislators in accordance with the Centre’s proposal, the government said in a press statement.The statement, issued after a meeting of the cabinet chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, said, “Delhi Cabinet approves salary hike for MLAs as per Centre’s proposal. Delhi MLAs will only get a salary of ₹30,000. CM Arvind Kejriwal-led Cabinet approves Centre’s proposed salary for MLAs. Delhi’s MLAs will continue to be among the lowest-paid MLAs across India.”It said, “Even as the cost of living in Delhi has risen substantially, the restriction imposed by the Centre has forced Delhi’s MLAs to be amongst the lowest earning MLAs in the country whereas MLAs of states ruled by the BJP and the Congress earn around 1.5 to 2 times the amount that the MLAs of Delhi will earn. The salary of Delhi’s MLAs hasn’t increased since 2011 and the Delhi government had requested the MHA that the salary of Delhi’s MLAs be at par with MLAs of other states. The basic salary was requested to be set at ₹54,000. However, the MHA refused to do so.”According to a break-up shared by the government, the total monthly salary of ₹90,000 comprises ₹30,000 basic salary, ₹25,000 constituency allowance, ₹15,000 secretariat allowance, and ₹10,000 each for telephone and conveyance.The break-up, however, does not mention several additional salary elements such as allowance for attending assembly sessions, committee meetings, medical facilities, pension, electricity and water reimbursements, annual travelling reimbursements and reimbursement for data entry operators, said a senior official who did not wish to be named.The increase approved by MHA is likely to open up a new front in hostilities between the Centre and Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government.“The Delhi Cabinet today approved the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers of Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, (Amendment) Bill 2021 and MLAs/Speaker-Dy Speaker/Chief Whip/Leader of Opposition of Legislative Assembly of Delhi (Amendment) Bills 2021. After Cabinet approval, the proposal and draft bills will be sent for MHA’s approval before being placed in Delhi Assembly,” the statement said.The raise, the first since 2011, will mean Delhi’s lawmakers remain among the lowest paid in the country.As per the data shared by the Delhi goverment, in Uttar Pradesh, a legislator’s monthly salary and allowances add up to ₹95,000 a month; in Gujarat, ₹105,000; in Bihar, ₹130,000; in Rajasthan, ₹142,500; in Haryana, ₹,55,000; and in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, ₹198,000 and ₹190,000 respectively. Telangana pays its lawmakers ₹250,000 a month.Leader of the Opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that the AAP government has failed to provide basic facilities to legislators.Bidhuri, a BJP legislator who represents the Badarpur assembly constituency, said: “The Delhi government has failed to provide furnished offices to MLAs, vehicles and basic facilities. I have written to the CM’s office and Speaker in this regard. The Delhi government does not need the central government’s approval for such things. Now, they are trying to blame the central government regarding the current increase in MLA’s salaries even though that is adequate in the light of the pandemic and its financial implications. This is the time to talk about preparations against a potential third wave of Covid-19 and not issues such as salaries of MLAs which does not directly affect the public. The AAP government should stop looking for excuses to hide their failures on the fronts of public transport, health infrastructure, water supply, etc.”In the 70-member House, the AAP has 62 members, and the BJP has eight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-okays-mlas-salary-hike-as-per-centre-s-proposal-101627979670480.html
04-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal launches initiative to make Delhi a ‘global city’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched an initiative that aims to support partnerships of the government with corporates and citizen groups to work towards policies and strategies for the city’s development. The sectors for development include public infrastructure, transport network, solid waste management and fighting air pollution.The initiative has been named “Delhi@2047”, which is in line with the Aam Aadmi Party’s vision document incorporated in the state budget 2021-22.“Delhi has to be turned into a global city. We have to prepare a road map regarding our vision on how we see Delhi in 2047 – with the country completing 100 years of Independence. When we say 2047, we are not procrastinating. We are developing strategies. We have to set both short-term and long-term goals. Long term goals include increasing Delhi’s per-capita income to match that of Singapore, bidding to host Olympic Games. Goals such as 24x7 supply of water across the city have to be accomplished immediately,” said Kejriwal, addressing a video conference involving policy makers and corporate stakeholders, which was live-streamed.Kejriwal said, “In the last five years, several sectors in Delhi, such as education, health, power and public services, have witnessed good growth and improvement... Several sectors need more work in the days to come, such as Delhi’s roads, water supply, public transport system, development of lakes, sports infrastructure, solid waste management and fighting air pollution. It is not rocket science. Cleaning Delhi actually can be turned into a revenue generating idea... For doing such works, we need cooperation of residents, the corporate sector and all other sectors.”While tabling the budget in the Delhi assembly on March 9, finance minister Manish Sisodia said Delhi’s population is likely to reach 32.8 million by 2047.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-launches-initiative-to-make-delhi-global-city-by-2047-101627978410462.html
