05-08-2021||Other||Zika ground zero: Central team wants health department to be more aggressive with preventive measures||PUNE The central team has asked the state health department to be more aggressive with preventive measures to contain the Zika virus, the first case of which was detected in Belasar village, Purandar taluka, Pune district. The three-member team comprising Dr Himmat Singh from the National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), Delhi, and associate professor Dr Shilpi Nain from the Lady Hardingee Medical College, Delhi, and Dr Mangesh Gokhale the of National Institute of Virology (NIV), on Thursday, began a two-day visit to the village to assess the situation. District malaria officer Dr Ajay Bendre and state entomologist Dr Mahendra Jagtap were also present during the visit. Jagtap said that the central team interacted with local health officials and suggested a few more steps to ensure that the virus is contained. “The central team inspected water storage facilities and interacted with doctors and staff from the primary health centre,” said Jagtap. Dr Bendre said that between July 20 and July 27, many samples tested positive for the virus. “Now the number has reduced as there is more awareness and more preventive measures are being taken to contain the spread. The first round of surveillance is over and we have begun a second round. We are using fumigation and checking for mosquito larvae by going door to door. We are hoping to contain the situation in the next 15 days,” said Dr Bendre. The district administration has collected samples of mosquitoes as the virus is spread mainly through Aedes mosquitoes. The administration has also collected samples for genome sequencing to identify the lineage of the virus and to find out how dangerous it could be for pregnant women. These samples have been sent to the NIV for genome sequencing. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that the result of genome sequencing of the samples will be available in a week’s time. “The whole process of genome sequencing takes time. And the results will be available in the next seven days. The central team will continue their visit on August 6 as well. The team will then share their observations after their visit is complete on Friday,” said Dr Awate. As of August 5, of the 158 samples sent to NIV, six tested positive for dengue, 79 for Chikungunya, 19 for dengue and Chikungunya and one for Zika and Chikungunya, while 48 tested negative for any of the infections and 14 reports are yet to be declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zika-ground-zero-central-team-wants-health-department-to-be-more-aggressive-with-preventive-measures-101628188196103.html
05-08-2021||Other||Pune shops open till 7pm, day 2: Traders meet mayor in effort to stop fines||PUNE For a second consecutive day, traders and shop owners in the city kept open shops till 7 pm on Thursday, despite warnings from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the police department. Many shop owners faced action on Wednesday and were fined by PMC officials. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) is supporting the move by shop-keepers. An online meeting of the association was held and it was unanimously decided to make the protest more aggressive, till demands are fulfilled. “We are not going to stop our protests and today, we decided to reach out to many as of our members who are scared due to PMC and police action. Our demands are very simple and for the benefit of public too, we just need our timings to be changed till 7pm,” said Fatechand Ranka, president, FTAP.Association members and other unions met Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Thursday over the PMC action. “We met mayor Mohol and requested him to give instructions to PMC teams not to take any action. Accordingly, Mohol has instructed PMC officials and staff who were fining shop owners and traders,” added Ranka. Meanwhile, policemen were taking rounds of market areas like Laxmi road, Kumthekar road and Tilak road after 4 pm and taking photos of shops which were open. Bhushan Mane a footwear shop owner on FC road said, “People start shopping after 4 pm and evening is our major time to do business. How can we close the shop? We are ready to pay the fines, but we cannot close the shop at 4pm anymore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-shops-open-till-7pm-day-2-traders-meet-mayor-in-effort-to-stop-fines-101628188194949.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Israel visit: HC notices to Maharashtra govt, DGIPR||The Bombay high court on Thursday issued notices to the state and the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) on a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging that soon after the Assembly elections in November 2019, a delegation of senior officials embarked on a tour to Israel under the garb of studying advance web media, whereas the real object was to acquire a spying software on the lines of Pegasus. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by Right To Information (RTI) activists Laxman Bura and Digambar Gentyal, was informed by advocate Tejesh Dande that the petition sought action against five DGIPR officials who participated in the study tour between November 15 and 25, 2019, to Israel. The PIL stated that the tour was based on a September 5, 2019, invitation by the Consulate General of Israel. While elaborating on the issue, the petition stated that through an RTI query filed in November 2019, it was found that the five DGIPR officials led by then director Ajay Ambekar had gone on the Israel tour without following mandatory procedures as laid down in the government resolution of 2014, resulting in the misuse of public funds. The GR stipulates seeking approvals and sanctions from various authorities and the Central government for foreign tours of officials and also discourages such tours if any alternate mode, like video-conferencing, was available, so as to avoid expenses to the government coffers. The petition stated that as the cost incurred during the foreign tour was around ₹14 lakh, it was mandatory on the officials to obtain an approval from the Central government as well then Maharashtra chief minister but they permissions were taken.The RTI query, the petition stated, further revealed that the topics which the officials had gone to study included new trends in government PR, new ways of utilising web media, usage of digital marketing tools, preparation of holistic and comprehensive media plan for dissemination of government messages, utilising media in the times of emergencies and eventualities and other such topics. While stating that the topics were not significant nor revealed any substantial and specific importance which required going to Israel, the petition alleged that the tour had some other agenda. “It appears that under the garb of media management training and other allied activities, the government was sending its officials to bring other modalities in the country for misusing them during election process, including electronic voting machine hacking software etc,” the petition stated. The PIL has also referred to news reports which questioned the purpose of the tour and has claimed that there seems to be a nexus between the alleged phone-tapping case and the Israel tour. The petition, noted that though Israel had expertise in agricultural technology, contrary to it, the study tour was in respect of enhancement of usage in web media, which created reasonable suspicion as to the purpose of the tour and the motives behind it.In light of these submissions, the petition has sought a judicial inquiry into the tour and also prayed for the court to call records pertaining to the visit and inform HC as to what special knowledge the officials gained and how it will benefit the country. After hearing submissions, the bench issued notices to the state government, DGIPR and the officials, and asked them to file affidavits in reply within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/israel-visit-hc-notices-to-maharashtra-govt-dgipr-101628187354542.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar invites Amit Shah to visit sugar industry institute in Pune||Amid Opposition’s attempt to corner the Narendra Modi-led Central government over the Pegasus snooping reports, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Sharad Pawar has invited Union home minister Amit Shah to visit Vasantdada Sugar Institute in Pune, which is being run by the cooperative sugar industry in Maharashtra. Shah is likely to visit Pune next month.The Central government recently formed a cooperation ministry and Shah has been appointed as the first Union cooperation minister of the country.On Tuesday, Pawar had a meeting with the Union home minister in Delhi, which fuelled speculations. Later, in a series of tweets, Pawar said that he brought to Shah’s notice the two most emergent and severe issues such as the minimum support price (MSP) and permissions to set up ethanol manufacturing units within the premises of sugar mills.“When the Union home minister informed NCP chief that he is likely to visit Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management (an institute in Pune that comes under the cooperation ministry), Pawar saheb said if you’re coming to Pune then you’re also invited to Vasantdada Sugar Institute,” said a senior NCP leader, requesting anonymity.Pawar had met Shah in Delhi when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had called a breakfast meeting with Opposition leaders over the alleged Pegasus snooping controversy.However, this is not the first time that one of the senior-most Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders would be visiting Vasantdada Sugar Institute. In the past, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and former finance minister late Arun Jaitley have visited the institute on Pawar’s invitation. Gandhi, too, had visited the institute.On July 17, Pawar met PM Modi in Delhi to discuss the amendments made by the Centre in the Banking Regulation Act to limit the rights of cooperative banks.After the NCP chief’s meetings with PM and Shah, party spokesperson Nawab Malik on Tuesday issued a clarification and said NCP and BJP share different ideologies. “Both are like two opposite sides of a river and their alliance is impossible till they are bound to their ideologies,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-invites-amit-shah-to-visit-sugar-industry-institute-in-pune-101628187054540.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Implement reservations in faculty recruitment: Education ministry to IITs, NITs, IIMs||The Union ministry of education (MoE) has been following up with centrally-funded technical institutions (CFTI) to implement reservations in faculty appointments, shows information received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.HT has accessed a series of three letters issued by the department of higher education wherein MoE has asked CFTIs such as Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) to implement the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers Cadre) Act, 2019 having flexible faculty cadre structure. The RTI was filed by an education activist who wished to remain anonymous.The first communication is dated September 17, 2020, followed by a letter this year on February 10. The latest in the series is a letter issued on July 16, reiterating the instructions to follow the reservations policy. Unlike other universities, all CFTIs follow a flexible cadre system. This means that the sanctioned strength of faculty at different grades is not fixed. Faculty members graduate from assistant to associate to professor positions during the course of their career. Until 2019, reservations were applicable only to entry level assistant professors. But the Central government has since extended the reservation policy to all positions. However, none of the 22 IITs in the country have more than six teachers from Scheduled Tribe (ST), while 18 of them have 10 or fewer candidates from Scheduled Caste (SC) category on their faculty rolls. Seven IITs had 10 or fewer faculty from Other Backward Classes (OBC). Of the 23 IITs in the country, data for IIT-Mandi was unavailable. It has now come to light that the Central government has been following up with institutes on the matter. Emails to Amit Khare, secretary of higher education, MoE, did not elicit any response.IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “Yes, there has been a letter from MoE in this regard, and since IITs follow a flexible cadre structure, we shall be seeking guidance from our board of governors on this.” IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao, too, said the institute received letters from MoE on the matter.“It is not new that IITs are pushing for exemption to faculty reservation. We have learnt from the past that people from upper castes always opposed reservation. They opposed reservation in student admission also. The parliament and Supreme Court have deliberated on the issue of reservation a lot. Finally the concept of reservation has to prevail in countries like India. But as far as faculty reservation is concerned, IITs and other CFTIs are asking MoE for providing guidelines for making a reservation roster in a flexible cadre structure. It is the MoE that is delaying the implementation of faculty reservation in IITs,” said Rajesh Paswan, associate professor and convenor of Joint Forum For Academic and Social Justice, New Delhi. Paswan said the instructions issued by MoE to IITs are insufficient to ensure effective implementation of faculty reservation. “MoE should either immediately abolish the flexible faculty cadre structure in IITs and other CFTIs or issue clear cut guidelines for making reservation rosters in flexible faculty cadre structure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/implement-reservations-in-faculty-recruitment-education-ministry-to-iits-nits-iims-101628186994605.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||After row, Maharashtra Governor drops hostel inauguration event||Following objections by the Maharashtra cabinet over his decision to inaugurate two hostels and hold ‘review meetings’ with district officials in Nanded, Hingoli and Parbhani, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari decided against inaugurating the hostels as he began his three-day tour of the Marathwada region on Thursday but maintained that he is working as per the authority given to him by the Constitution.Reacting for the first time since the tussle between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Raj Bhavan broke out over the issue, Koshyari in Nanded said, “The Constitution has given me the task of the three development boards and therefore, when I visit these districts, I call a few officials and hold discussions with them. The work happening here [in Nanded] is good and it can be implemented in other areas. As I am the chancellor, it is my duty to visit all the universities. Due to Covid-19, I could not visit them, but as cases are reducing, I am travelling again.”The governor, however, refrained from speaking on objections raised by the state cabinet over inaugurating the hostels and holding review meetings. When local reporters asked if his tour has created a political storm, the governor asked, “Are you [the media] doing [politicising] it?”“The two minority girls and boys’ hostels were already in use for the past three years and did not make sense to inaugurate it. The governor visited the university,” an official said.Raj Bhavan officials added that governor held meeting with district officials. “As per the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, the governor has a responsibility towards the tribal areas or Scheduled Areas. He was given a presentation on the implementation of schemes for the tribal population, their education schemes, Covid-19 situation, ongoing irrigation projects, etc,” the official said.Earlier in the day, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had questioned what will the inauguration of the hostels, which is operational, by the governor “prove”? He tweeted that by inaugurating an old building, the image of governor gets dented. “Considering the post of the hon’ble governor, he is expected to inaugurate new buildings, education and innovative initiatives and hostels that lift the standard of education and not inaugurate a four-year-old building (sic),” he said in a series of tweets.In a seemingly tactical move by the state government, Nanded guardian minister Ashok Chavan did not receive the governor on arrival. As per protocol, the guardian minister and other district officials are expected to receive the governor or other visiting dignitaries. With the governor scheduled to visit Hingoli and Parbhani on Friday and Saturday, guardian ministers Varsha Gaikwad and Nawab Malik could also skip receiving the governor.“The government will follow the protocol, but it is not mandatory for ministers to be present,” said Parbhani guardian minister Malik, adding that Raj Bhavan did not mark copies of the schedule to the guardian ministers.Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena continued its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “States where BJP is not in power, they want to rule through the governors. You can see what happens in Delhi, West Bengal and Maharashtra,” said Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut.Reacting to the criticism, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “The ones who are criticising are those who don’t understand the Constitution or don’t accept it. As per the Constitution, the governor is the head of state, and the chief minister and cabinet are created to aide and advise him. Therefore, nobody can tell governor to not tour the state. Other governors have toured the entire state, but no objections were raised. So, I request them [MVA leaders] to read the Constitution and then make such statements.”Meanwhile, Koshyari cleared a file containing the names recommended for Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC). The development came after minister of state Dattatray Bharne met Koshyari on Wednesday over clearing the file. This will fill up the posts in MPSC board that have been vacant for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-row-maharashtra-governor-drops-hostel-inauguration-event-101628186815900.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosives scare: Court grants NIA one more month to file charge sheet||A special court on Thursday gave the National Investigating Agency (NIA) 30 more days to file charge sheet in the Antilia explosives scare case and murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran.NIA had already got a 60-day extension for filing charge sheet in the twin case and had asked for 30 more days. The agency said if the accused were allowed to get out on bail, they might pose a threat to the investigations and added that several witnesses have been threatened in the matter.The agency, through special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves, informed the court that the extension of custody of the accused – dismissed police officers Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane and Vinayak Shinde, and bookie Naresh Gor – was necessary. The special court on Thursday also rejected the default bail application of Vaze. Vaze cited judgements by the Apex court and submitted that the agency should have filed a charge sheet within the given time to the first applied section in the first information report. He added that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which gives 180 days’ time to the agency to file a charge sheet, was applied later in his case.NIA judge DE Kothalikar, while rejecting his plea, said Vaze had wasted precious time of the court, but as he was in judicial custody, the court refrained from imposing any cost on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosives-scare-court-grants-nia-one-more-month-to-file-charge-sheet-101628186696642.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Set up committee to resolve issue of train travel in Mumbai for fully vaccinated: HC tells state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to form a committee to look into and resolve the issues related to train travel and also asked the government to find a solution to verify and permit fully vaccinated persons to travel on local trains. The court made the observation while hearing a bunch of public interest litigation (PILs) filed by lawyer groups and Marathi Patrakar Sangh representing media persons seeking access to local trains to fully vaccinated persons. While observing that it was imperative for all to earn a livelihood, in light of the commuting constraints that are peculiar to Mumbai compared to other cities in the state, the HC said there was a need for solutions specific to Mumbai. The court asked the state to come up with a solution for train travel within a week. The bench, while referring to the interview of Dr Shashank Joshi in Hindustan Times on the problems of train travel and commuting during Covid, noted that the doctor had said that verifying whether an aspiring commuter was fully vaccinated was a cumbersome job and told advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that “if it is cumbersome find a solution. Form an expert committee to resolve the issue”. In response, Kumbhakoni pointed to the note of caution by Dr Joshi wherein he has stated that train travel should not be allowed unless 70% of the population was fully vaccinated and said that the travel permissions for lawyers and their office staff were almost worked out. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was informed that only essential service providers and government employees were currently allowed to travel by local trains. The rest of the population had to travel by buses, which was inconvenient and time-consuming. In the earlier hearing the court had suggested that the state should work with the railways to set up a dedicated counter to verify vaccination certificates of fully immunized persons and then issue them a separate identity card and monthly, quarterly or six monthly passes. The advocate for the Marathi Patrakar Sangh informed the court that journalists had to be on ground zero to report facts and should be considered as frontline workers. He submitted that nearly 140 journalists had lost their lives during the pandemic and their families deserved to be compensated as well. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “Travelling by train is essential for people in Mumbai as bus charges are very high. We can say this is a city with special needs and is comparable to Calcutta or Delhi. Every time something is required, there are PILs. Why not have an administrative committee to look into such issues. These are important issues which touch the livelihood of people. If the administrative machinery is geared up to look into these issues, everything would be fine.” The court then expressed hope that the state would come up with a solution to the problem of train travel by August 15 so that “everyone could get freedom from the issue” and posted the PILs for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/set-up-committee-to-resolve-issue-of-train-travel-in-mumbai-for-fully-vaccinated-hc-tells-state-101628186574403.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||After ease of curbs, Mumbai locals see surge in daily commuters||With the easing of Covid lockdown relaxations by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) based on the directives of the Maharashtra government, both the Central and Western Railway are witnessing an increase in the number of passengers travelling by local trains. The Maharashtra government on Monday issued orders under ‘Mission Break the Chain’ to relax curbs in 14 districts in the state. The decision for Mumbai and Thane was to be taken by the local disaster management authorities, according to the order. The BMC on Monday allowed shops and essential and non-essential establishments to remain open till 10pm. Hotels and restaurants are allowed to stay open till 4pm and all indoor and outdoor sports activities, apart from swimming, are allowed. On the Western Railway, around 700,000 passengers travelled on July 31. The number was around 1,300,000 on Monday, on Tuesday around 1,100,000 and on Wednesday around 1,000,000. On the Central Railway, around 900,000 passengers travelled on July 31, around 1,700,000 on Monday, around 1,400,000 on Tuesday and 1,300,000 on Wednesday on the main, harbour and trans-harbour lines. General public are not allowed to travel by local trains currently. Only people working in essential care, government officers and those travelling for medical purposes are allowed to commute. On an average, last week nearly 800,000 people travelled on CR daily and 500,000 on the WR. The railways have also witnessed an increase in the number of ticketless commuters. Between April and July, 304,000 passengers were fined for travelling without ticket and proper identification on the CR and 234,000 were fined on the Western Railway. A total of 90,000 commuters were fined by the Central Railway for travelling ticketless in July, as opposed to 62,000 in June. “We are seeing an increase in passengers over the past three days compared to last week, but it would be early to determine the exact increase and the cause. We have increased checks at the entry and exit points of the railway station and are also checking inside the compartments,” said a senior CR official. Passenger associations have stated that people are desperate to travel. “A number of people travelling without tickets as they have no other option left for their livelihood. This number will increase. Permitting shops to remain open till 10 pm and not allowing working people to travel is wrong. Many people working in small shops lost their jobs and are desperate,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-ease-of-curbs-mumbai-locals-see-surge-in-daily-commuters-101628186214319.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case against Param Bir Singh: Thane Police take custody of arrested builders||A metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday granted Thane Police transit remand of builders Sanjay Punamiya and Sunil Jain who were arrested by Marine Drive police on July 22 in the ₹20-crore extortion case in which former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and six other police officers are also named as accused.A case has also been registered against Singh, some other police officers and the two builders at Kopri police station in Thane.The 14-day police custody of the two accused builders ended on Thursday after which they were produced before the magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.Kopri police then moved an application and sought transit remand of the two. Punamiya’s lawyer Subhash Jha opposed the plea, contending that his client’s health condition was not good and needed medical treatment.Special prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap, however, submitted that medical examination of the accused carried out in the past 48 hours showed he had no serious health issues. The court then directed police to take Punamiya to Sir JJ Hospital for medical examination. The court also granted transit remand of the two accused to Kopri police, who will produce them in Thane court on Friday and seek their further custody in the Kopri case.A special investigation team (SIT) of the Mumbai Police is probing the Marine Drive case under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (local arms) Nimit Goyal. According to SIT, one of the two builders, believed to be close to Singh, claimed to have “settled” between 1,000 and 1,500 cases registered under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) using their clout in the police department.SIT is probing a first information report (FIR) filed based on a complaint by builder Shyamsundar Agrawal who alleged that Juhu police had filed a MCOCA case accusing him of having links with the underworld. Agrawal claimed that based on this false case, Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of Punamiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-thane-police-take-custody-of-arrested-builders-101628186154391.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Versova beach promenade work is in violation of CRZ rules?||Public works department (PWD) officials confirmed that an elevated walkway being constructed along Versova Beach will be completed in the next three to four months. The project, however, violates Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) instructions laid down at the time of recommending the project for Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) clearance in 2017. Two PWD officials involved with the project, who did not wish to be identified, said they have been given a deadline to finish the work in time for diwali in November. “So far, it has been happening haphazardly. In April and May there was no labour available because of lockdown, and then the weather became rough. If a resident raises a complaint with a senior official, we are told to stop the work for a few days,” a site engineer said, adding they were not aware of any lapse in CRZ rules. However, the minutes of an MCZMA meeting from June 2017 state that PWD has not been allowed to construct an elevated walkway or undertake any work of the scale that is currently happening on site. The sandy beach is a CRZ-I area where construction activities are prohibited, the coastal authority has noted in response to similar proposals by Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), which have, at different times, sought to carry out “beautification” of the beachfront. PWD was allowed to go ahead with the ostensible purpose of their proposal to reconstruct an existing 1.2-km anti-erosion bundh from Picnic Cottage till the Hindu crematorium before Versova Koliwada. This bundh, PWD had submitted, was essential for protecting properties along the stretch “from further damage caused by the tidal action”. MCZMA had categorically prohibited any promenade construction or reclamation of CRZ-1 area and allowed for the bundh to be remodelled into a sea-wall. “But the current work of constructing a new wall, eight metres from the original bundh, has neither been recommended nor approved by MCZMA. The eight-metre gap has been backfilled to about 16 feet above sea level and the walkway is to be built over that, according to the plans we have obtained. What is expressly not permitted cannot be done by creative engineering. A walkway cannot be created in the garb of anti-erosion measures,” said environmentalist Zoru Bhatena, who has raised the issue with various authorities in three complaint letters dating to early 2020.HT reached out to PWD secretary Anil Gaikwad but did not receive a response.During multiple visits to the site this week, an HT team also noted that several feet of sand on the seaward side of the new RCC (reinforced concrete) wall have been buried under tetrapods, a process which began over a year and half ago, in contravention of MCZMA’s directions against reclaiming the beach. As a result, the once expansive coast of Versova beach — which was a nesting site for Olive Ridley turtles in 2018 — has been reduced to a small sliver of its former self, and the high-tide line has been significantly altered. Environmentalists and fisherfolk from Versova Koliwada said what remains of the beach is also likely to disappear in a few years. “It will look like Marine Drive. All tetrapods and no sand,” said Deepak, a fisherman and boat owner who only gave his first name.In a letter to state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday, city-based NGO Vanashakti pointed out that reclaiming the beach in this manner amounts to breach of public trust. “Beaches are the property of the commons... To eliminate its natural character is simply contrary to the Doctrine of Public Trust. Places of scenic beauty are to be kept free from transformation and degradation... People have an inalienable right to access natural spaces and it is unconstitutional to take that right away,” stated the letter authored by Stalin D, director of the NGO.“What is being pushed as an anti-erosion project is only going to erode the beach further. When you reduce space for the water to spread on the shore, it will stagnate and pull back the sand. Erosion at Versova beach is in any case becoming a problem as tides have become stronger due to construction of coastal road. This business of reclaiming the sandy beach with tetrapods is also a way to mask the impact of the coastal road construction. Several experts had warned the civic body that other beaches will start eroding because of it,” said Stalin.Narendra Toke, chairman of MCZMA and director, state environment department, did not respond to requests for comment. Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary of environment department and MCZMA member, could not be reached for comment despite attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/versova-beach-promenade-work-is-in-violation-of-crz-rules-101628185856046.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 100 days after first shot, no clarity on which dose Andheri woman got||It’s been over 100 days since 58-year-old Meena Upadhyaya received her first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine, but confusion about which vaccine she received has led to a delay in her second shot. While Upadhyaya says the hospital is not confident about which dose she got, the hospital says she got Covishield. The Andheri resident took her first dose at the Holy Spirit Hospital on April 16. A receipt acknowledging the payment of ₹250 was also stamped with Covishield. On May 14, 84 days after the first shot when Upadhyaya became eligible for the second dose, she found that her certificate on Co-WIN mentioned Covaxin. “We immediately rushed to the hospital for clarity. They told us that their records showed that she was given Covaxin,” said Upadhyaya’s husband, Kishore. “But there was no vaccine stock available with them. A few weeks later, the hospital said that she had received Covishield. We are worried to take the second shot as the hospital is not confident about which vaccine was exactly administered to her,” he said. When Hindustan Times reached out to Sister Sneha Joseph, the executive director of Holy Spirit Hospital, she said that their inquiry showed that Upadhyaya was administered Covishield. “We have received Covaxin on two to three vaccination days only,” said Joseph. “We have administered Covishield on all other days. We are sure that she (Upadhyaya) was administered Covishield.” Upadhyaya is worried about the possible side effects if she lands up getting a mixed dose. In this scenario, it could be a possibility that there was an error while entering the data on CoWin. The other possibility could also be that the hospital receipt was mistakenly stamped with Covishield. Joseph refused to comment on whether there was an error in the data entry or stamping. Prashant Sapkale, assistant municipal commissioner of the K-East ward that covers Andheri, said that a mixed dose is not advisable as per the Centre’s protocol. “The hospital has to thoroughly investigate which vaccine was given and only then administer the second dose,” he said, adding, “We will look into our records about the vaccines that were supplied to the hospital. Our medical team will also visit the hospital to look into their records.” Oxford- AstraZeneca’s Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin have very distinct technologies. Covishield has been made with a viral vector platform, while Covaxin is an inactivated viral vaccine. Last month, India’s central drug authority permitted Christian Medical College, Vellore to conduct a clinical trial by mixing the two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin. Findings of a study carried out in Spain showed potent immune response by administering a mix of Oxford–AstraZeneca and Pfizer–BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccines. Another study carried out in the United Kingdom on the same combination of vaccines observed that people experienced higher vaccine-related side effects. In June, the Indian Council of Medical Research mandated that vaccination centres stick to the protocol of administering the same vaccines. “Vaccines are meant to work on our immune system and mount the immune response to make antibodies,” said infectious disease expert Dr Om Shrivastava. “Till the evidence proves otherwise, giving mixed doses would mean unnecessarily playing with the immune system. This is not advisable.” However, physician Dr Jalil Parkar, who practises at Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital, said there is nothing to worry about in case of a mixed dose. “The safety of both the vaccines has been established,” he said. Vaccination expert Dr Naveen Thacker, who is also a former civil society representative to GAVI, the vaccine alliance board, said Upadhyaya should go ahead and take the second jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-100-days-after-first-shot-no-clarity-on-which-dose-andheri-woman-got-101628185854410.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||‘Lockdown in Delhi when positivity rate reaches 5%’: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that lockdown in Delhi will be immediately imposed if the positivity rate reaches 5% again. Jain was addressing a virtual session hosted by Assocham India. He also said the Delhi government is preparing to set up 37,000 Covid-19 beds in order to tackle the probable third wave of the pandemic.“We have made public what our response would be. If the positivity rate now goes up to 5 per cent, then we will go for an immediate lockdown without delay,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The Capital on Thursday recorded a slight fall in the positivity rate to 0.08%.“Over 37,000 dedicated beds for COVID-19 patients are being set up presently and the Delhi government is preparing for the worst-case scenario so that it can save precious lives,” Jain said. Delhi took lessons from the experiences of the second wave and has ramped up infrastructure ahead of the third wave with focus on installing PSA oxygen plants to setting up more oxygen, ventilator and ICU beds, the health minister added.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) earlier approved a colour-coded response action plan under which restrictions will be placed in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation in the area.Jain also said that the government is setting up ICU beds and ventilators in the makeshift hospitals which were set up to tackle the second wave. He said infrastructure is being ramped up in hospitals created at Chattarpur, Sant Nirankari Colony and Ramlila Maidan.Earlier, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed concern regarding the chances of a third wave. He said the Delhi government is preparing on a war-footing to tackle the next wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-in-delhi-when-positivity-rate-reaches-5-satyendar-jain-101628185284823.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||602 bedridden persons got Covid vaccines at home in Mumbai, BMC tells HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that 602 bedridden and severely ill persons had been administered the first jab at their homes, since the drive was started from K-East ward on July 30.Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC also informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that in all 4,715 persons, who could not go to vaccination centres had registered for home vaccination in the citySakhare said BMC started the drive on a test basis from the K-East ward on July 30. He submitted that a two-member team — a doctor and a nurse visited the beneficiary along with an ambulance, administered the doses and also observed the beneficiaries for 30 minutes post-vaccination, to ascertain that there was no adverse event following immunisation (AEFI). He added that nearly 55 lakh people in Mumbai have already been vaccinated with at least one jab while 18.97 lakh people have got both jabs of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine.He was responding to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking directions to the Centre, state and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination to severely ill, disabled, bedridden and persons aged over 75 years. On Thursday, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the state government had formulated a state policy for home vaccination for the immobile and bedridden persons and the drive had been successful so far. The policy, based on the views and opinions of the state Covid task force and experts, states that it aimed to reduce morbidity and prevent fatality due to Covid-19, to provide both jabs to eligible persons within the stipulated time and build population immunity against the infection. The policy further states that the jabs would be administered after receiving the written consent of the family members and the eligible persons would be given Covaxin based on its availability.During the course of the hearing on the PIL, advocate Kapadia thanked the court and the authorities for starting the home vaccination drive. However, he pointed out that certain beneficiaries were facing problems as their family doctors were not willing to give certificates stating that the beneficiary was not likely to not have an AEFI. She submitted that the BMC doctors could be asked to issue the certificates. She also expressed concerns about BMC involving NGOs in the home vaccination process and submitted that some of the beneficiaries did not have identity cards as they had been bedridden for 20 years, hence the issue should also be addressed. She also reiterated the need for a helpline number for the registration of home vaccination. After hearing the submissions, the court asked Kapadia to forward her suggestions and concerns to the state government counsel.“The state government shall consider them and if considered appropriately, proceed to implement those which are acceptable,” observed the bench and said that the drive should be given seven-eight days. The court also directed the BMC to file a short affidavit indicating the total number of bedridden people vaccinated by August 11 and also asked it to indicate the exact role of NGOs in the home vaccination drives. The PIL will be heard on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/602-bedridden-persons-got-covid-vaccines-at-home-in-mumbai-bmc-tells-hc-101628185375615.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: MVA slams CBI as its probe completes a year||As the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput completes a year, the ruling allies in Maharashtra have slammed CBI and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government for misuse of central agencies to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the unfortunate incident. They said CBI’s silence and failure to complete the investigation proves that the move was politically motivated and that it was an apt example of how these agencies are being used by the Narendra Modi government for political agenda.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. He allegedly died by suicide. The Mumbai Police was probing the case when CBI took over the investigation on August 6. After registering a first information report (FIR), the Bihar government recommended CBI probe in the matter. Since then, there have been allegations of politics in the investigation into the actor’s death.“A year has passed since CBI started a probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s case, and CBI has not yet reached any conclusion. It has been more than 300 days since the AIIMS panel denied murder angle in the case. CBI is still deliberately silent on this matter. Who is pressuring CBI? What progress has been made in the past one year by CBI which made it a very prestigious case? Is there any order issued by the Modi government to deliberately keep the investigation in Maharashtra pending and inconclusive?” said Sachin Sawant, Congress general secretary and spokesperson of the state unit.“It was BJP’s ploy to tarnish the image of the Mumbai Police and destabilise the MVA government. The then Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey was used for this. The BJP stooped too low and openly levelled murder and rape charges, and even used the actor’s death in Bihar elections,” he added.Dr Sudhir Gupta, who led the AIIMS panel re-evaluating Rajput’s post mortem report, said the actor’s death was a suicide and not a murder. AIIMS doctors had submitted their findings to CBI on September 29 last year.“The transfer of Rajput’s case to CBI was politically motivated. A case was registered in Bihar despite having no jurisdiction as the incident happened in Mumbai. Based on the FIR, a CBI investigation was ordered. However, even after a year, CBI is unable to ascertain if it was a suicide or a murder,” said Nawab Malik, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) national spokesperson and skill development minister.He alleged that the move was a deliberate attempt to defame MVA and use it in the impending Bihar Assembly elections.Maharashtra BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari countered the allegations saying the delay in investigation was due to non-cooperation of the Mumbai Police and the state government. “Mumbai Police are not cooperating with CBI following the directives of the state government. This is the reason the CBI probe in the matter is delayed. If MVA allies are so concerned to know what has really happened, they should ensure that the police extend full cooperation to CBI,” Bhandari told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-mva-slams-cbi-as-its-probe-completes-a-year-101628185314256.html
05-08-2021||Other||Acute shortage of teachers ailing govt primary, upper primary schools in UP||Government-run primary and upper primary schools of Uttar Pradesh are reeling under acute shortage of teachers, said two senior officials of state education department citing official records.As per the data of basic education department, in the 1,13,289 government-run primary and 45,625 upper primary schools of the state a total of 72,712 posts of assistant teachers are lying vacant. These vacant posts, include 63,261 in upper primary schools and 9,451 in primary schools. This is the situation when during the past three years, recruitment drives for filling up 68,500 and 69,000 vacant posts of assistant teachers has improved the situation somewhat from the past, a senior state education department official, who is in the know of things, said on condition of anonymity.A whopping 51,112 posts of teachers are lying vacant in rural upper primary schools as on June 2021 — a fact which the state government itself has accepted in the Supreme Court in June 2020. The remaining 12,149 vacant posts are in schools located in urban areas. For urban areas, teachers are not directly appointed against these posts and teachers in rural areas are transferred here, the official further said. Out of the total 13,653 posts of assistant teachers in urban primary and upper primary schools, at present mere 1,524 posts are filled while the remaining 12,128 are lying vacant. “This is due to the fact that after 2011, transfers of teachers from rural to urban areas have not taken place and each year a large number of teachers retire bringing the count of teachers down further,” said the second official pleading anonymity. What’ more, a large number of posts of principals in these schools are also lying vacant. Presently, as many as 53,778 posts of principals are lying vacant at these schools in both the rural and urban areas, the official said citing basic education department records.“The failure of the government to fill up the existing vacant posts of teachers is sad and an injustice to students enrolled in these institutions. Unless teachers are recruited, the idea of imparting education as per the RTE Act-2009 norms will continue to remain a distant dream,” said Suresh Kumar Tripathi, Teacher MLC (Allahabad-Jhansi Division).Prayagraj district president of Prathmik Shikshak Sangh Devendra Kumar Srivastava said his association had been constantly being demanding that vacant posts of teachers in both rural and urban primary and upper primary schools be filled urgently. “This is needed not just for ensuring quality teaching but also balancing the workload of the existing teachers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/acute-shortage-of-teachers-ailing-govt-primary-upper-primary-schools-in-up-101628185254426.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||100,669 beneficiaries vaccinated in Mumbai on Thursday||A total of 100,669 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 430 vaccine centres in Mumbai on Thursday, of which 35,691 beneficiaries received their second dose, and 64,978 beneficiaries received their first dose. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also vaccinated 463 bedridden beneficiaries on Thursday, as the door-to-door drive started at all 24 wards across the city. It was started on a pilot basis in the K East ward of Andheri (East) on July 30.Walk-in vaccination for citizens above 18 years of age was held at 270 vaccination centres in 227 electoral wards across the city on Thursday.The vaccination drive will take place at the state and BMC vaccination centres across the city on Friday, BMC said in a statement on Thursday evening. BMC had received 100,005 vaccine doses on Tuesday night.A senior civic official from the civic public health department said on Thursday night, “BMC is yet to receive information on when it will get the fresh batch of vaccine doses. This may hamper the availability of doses at some centres in the city on Friday.Of the 430 vaccination centres operational on Thursday, 294 are operated by BMC, 20 by the state or central government and 116 are private vaccine centres.So far in Mumbai 1,844,708 beneficiaries have been vaccinated completely, and 5,592,131 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/100669-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-mumbai-on-thursday-101628185134418.html
05-08-2021||Lucknow||Cab driver case: Cops likely to be booked under corruption charges||Former inspector in-charge of Krishna Nagar police station and two sub-inspectors are likely to be booked under anti-corruption charges in the wake of the controversy over the harassment of a cab driver, who was thrashed publicly by a woman at Awadh crossing here on Saturday.The driver had alleged harassment by cops and claimed that he was made to pay ₹ 10,000 to get his cab released from the police station.A senior police official privy to the investigation said the cab driver had mentioned about money taken from him for the release of his cab from the police station. Now, charges of prevention of corruption act were included in the FIR registered in the matter. He said initially charges were levelled only against the woman who allegedly thrashed the cab driver without any provocation.He said the investigation of the case had been transferred to Banthra police station in-charge Jitendra Singh, who had been directed to include corruption against former Krishna Nagar inspector Mahesh Chandra Dubey and two sub-inspectors if the allegation of paying ₹10,000 by the cab driver was found true.Dubey was on Wednesday removed from the post of the inspector in-charge of Krishnanagar police station. He along with second officer Mannan and Bhola Kheda police outpost in-charge Harendra Singh was sent to the reserve police lines after their negligence was found in the entire incident.Action against the police personnel came two days after the FIR was registered against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cab-driver-case-cops-likely-to-be-booked-under-corruption-charges-101628184234249.html
05-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand not to stamp ‘East Pakistan’ on certificates of displaced Bengalis||Dehradun/Rudrapur: The Uttarakhand government will stop mentioning the phrase, “Poorvi Pakistan” from caste certificates issued in Udham Singh Nagar to members of the displaced Bengali community who migrated from erstwhile East Pakistan, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Thursday.Dhami told a delegation of the Bengali community from the district, also referred to as US Nagar on Thursday, that a formal proposal will be placed before the state cabinet soon.At the meeting, Bengalis from Shakti Farm, where most of the displaced Bengalis were settled, earlier asked the chief minister to consider their demand to remove the two words from their certificates.Sitarganj MLA Saurabh Bahuguna said there are around 2 lakh Bengalis in US Nagar and the two words on their certificates were considered a disgrace.“They have been living here, working here, they have voting rights, many of them work in government jobs. But when they go to get caste certificates, ‘Poorvi Pakistan’ word is written on them. It is a disgrace for them,” he said, adding that it was a question of their identity.Members of the Bengali community living in the district said they migrated from Bangladesh (erstwhile East Pakistan) after Partition and were settled in the district by the central government in 1951-52. More people came later, in the 1960s and later in 1971 when Bangladesh was created, due to religious persecution and harassment. They were brought here to the Transit Camp area in Rudrapur and were settled in the Rudrapur and Shakti Farm area of the district. At present they live in Khatima, Nanakmatta, Sitarganj, Gadarpur, Bazpur also of US Nagar. Premanand Mahajan, a former two-time MLA from Gadarpur and a member of the Bengali community in US Nagar said the phrase on the certificates was considered “a blot” on the community.“Our ancestors came here just after Independence. We have been living here for decades but even then ‘Poorvi Pakastani’ word is mentioned on our certificates issued by the local administration. The chief minister’s announcement that the words will be removed from certificates is really appreciated and it has been our long-pending demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttrakhand-not-to-stamp-east-pakistan-on-certificates-of-displaced-bengalis-101628184174461.html
05-08-2021||Other||Brahmin-Dalit bonhomie can change face of UP politics: BSP leader||Seeking support of Brahmins and Dalits for his party in the 2022 UP assembly polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Thursday urged the Brahmin community members to establish brotherhood with Dalits. He claimed that the united strength of 13% Brahmins and 23% Dalits could change the face of politics in Uttar Pradesh.Addressing “Prabuddh Varg Sammelan” (intellectuals’ conference), the name under which the party has been conducting its Brahmin outreach programme since the first conference in Ayodhya on July 23, at a marriage hall premises in Lakhimpur Kheri, Mishra dubbed the BJP government’s claim of UP topping the chart in terms of development a “farce”. Citing various incidents, he alleged that repression of dalits and Brahmins in UP was continuing unabated as was the case during the previous Samajwadi Party regime. Alleging that “futile efforts” were on to divide the Dalit community, he claimed that was community was firmly with BSP chief Mayawati.Former UP minister Nakul Dubey, BSP district unit president Uma Shankar Gautam, Nageshwar Trivedi, Shashi Dhar Mishra, Mohan Bajpai and Karuna Pandey from Ayodhya were prominent among those who expressed their views on the occasion.  ---Deo Kant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brahmindalit-bonhomie-can-change-face-of-up-politics-bsp-leader-101628183874975.html
05-08-2021||Patna||CBSE Class 10 results: Students, parents in Bihar protest over low marks||A large number of city-based students who appeared in the Class 10 exam conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) were disappointed after checking their results announced on Tuesday. On Thursday, hundreds of students and their parents protested near Bihta against low scores awarded to them by their respective schools. Irked students and parents burnt tyres on road and paralysed vehicular movement for several hours.Similarly, scores of students and parents vented their ire on a private school near Gola Road and sought clarification from the school administration over low marks given to them.Ramesh Kumar, a parent of a Class 10 student, alleged that marks computed by the school were not fair. He said, “My daughter has not scored below 80% in any exam in the last five years but she has been awarded 60% in Class 10. On the other hand, her other classmates who hardly managed to pass exams in preceding classes have been given high scores. This shows biased treatment by the school.”Meanwhile, Bihar Public School and Children Welfare Association has alleged that some private schools have awarded inflated marks to their students and sought CBSE’s intervention in the matter.Association’s chairman DK Singh said, “One Patna-based private school has awarded 499 out of 500 marks to its 17 students, besides giving above 90% marks to 85 students. Awarding such high scores to a bunch of students indicate suspicious assessment and irregularity in following the moderation policy directed by the board. Such malpractice is an injustice to meritorious students who have compromised with average marks.” “We want the board to review the school’s result and check whether the school has followed laid norms in letter and spirit or not,” he pressed.CB Singh, president of the Association of Independent Schools, appealed to Class 10 and 12 students to take the written exam for their result improvement.He said, “As a majority of meritorious students are unhappy with their results, we advise them to take the written exam and prove their merit. As CBSE would follow strictly Covid-19 safety protocols, students and their parents need not worry about infection.”CBSE released a circular for the dispute settlement process regarding the computation of results.“Disputes regarding computation of results will be referred to a committee by the CBSE. The board is preparing a policy for submitting representations to CBSE. This policy will be uploaded to the board’s website by Thursday evening. The schools that are making contact to CBSE in any form are requested to make the representations once the policy is uploaded on the website by complying the direction given therein,” said the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cbse-class-10-results-students-parents-in-bihar-protest-over-low-marks-101628182554124.html
05-08-2021||Ranchi||Monsoon session of J’khand assembly from Sept 3||The Hemant Soren Cabinet on Thursday approved the proposal to convene a week-long Monsoon session of the Jharkhand assembly from September 3, besides approving eligibility rules for Secretariat service conducted by Jharkhand Staff selection board, besides appointing three new members in the Jharkhand Public Service Commission. The Monsoon session will conclude on September 9, officials said.“The Cabinet also approved amendment in rules 7(1) and 7 (7) of the Jharkhand Secretariat clerical service rules 2010. According to the amendment, candidates will have to have passed Class 10 and 12 from a school in Jharkhand,” Cabinet secretary Vandana Darek told media persons. The Cabinet also approved proposal to relax norms for exams conducted for on-roll typists in departmental exams, officials said. Besides, it approved appointment of three new members in Jharkhand Public Service Commission--Prof Ajita Bhattacharya, Prof Anima Hansda and Dr Jamal Ahmed. The Cabinet, in total, approved 27 proposals, including giving extension to 22 special fast track courts to hear cases related to rape and POCSO Act for two years, besides approving an advance payment of ₹3 crore for inflation of voter identity cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/monsoon-session-of-j-khand-assembly-from-sept-3-101628182194472.html
05-08-2021||Other||Need to intensify agri development efforts: Bihar Guv||Governor cum chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Thursday said the agriculture sector is crucial to Bihar’s economic growth and efforts should be made to intensify development on that front. Chauhan was speaking at the 49th foundation day of Darbhanga’s Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) through video conferencing.The Governor, however, maintained that the state witnessed rapid development in areas such as education, health care, roads and electricity, while it was yet to catch up with the national average in fields of literacy, health care and gross domestic product.Addressing the audience, the Governor expressed happiness over the fact that the occasion coincided with the birth centenary year of Lalit Narayan Mishra, who is known for his significant contribution in Railways development, Mithila painting, Maithili language and Kosi canal scheme in Mithila.“In its half a century journey, the university has succeeded in setting remarkable standard in academic sphere,” the Governor said.Discussing the university’s achievements , vice-chancellor Prof Surendra Pratap Singh said publication of research works, organising seminars and workshops are regular activities of the universityState education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhury was the chief guest of the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-to-intensify-agri-development-efforts-bihar-guv-101628182014055.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Allow vaccinated people in Mumbai locals; livelihood depended on trains, say passenger assn||The demand for resuming local train services in the city for the general public has been increasing everyday. Commuter associations have stated that with relaxations in the citizens should be allowed to travel by local trains for work. Subhash Gupta, ex-member of National Railway Users Consultative Council and president of Rail Yatri Parishad gives an insight in to the problems faced by the general public without access to local trains.*The state government has refused to resume local train travel for general public for the fear of Covid transmission. What is your reaction? There is no logic in not resuming local trains for the general public due to fear of a third wave. Earlier local train services were resumed in stipulated time and they should be resumed for passengers now as well. The general public cannot commute in Mumbai in the absence of local trains, which is the only affordable mode of transport (in terms of both cost and time). People residing in suburbs such as Kalyan and far-off areas like Karjat are dependent on trains to reach their workplaces.*As coronavirus cases are increasing in Kerala, the state government is being cautious on local train travel. An overcrowded train could become super-spreader. Kerala and Maharashtra are different. The increase in cases in Kerala is not due to public transport. Public transport is operational in cities across the world. Not permitting passengers to travel will not help in reducing the number of cases. We are asking the state government to permit only working professionals to travel by trains and not leisure travel. The people who are fully vaccinated should be allowed to commute.*Doctors have stated that despite being fully vaccinated there are chances of contracting the infection. If not cautious then one could spread the virus to other people. Maharashtra has witnessed an increase in cases in rural areas. There is no local train network in the rural areas and people largely commute by their personal vehicles, so why have cases increased in rural areas? We suggested allowing fully vaccinated people as the chances of getting infected is less. Across the country all state governments are allowing vaccinated people to commute, then why not Mumbai. There is no alternative to local trains and it truly is the lifeline of the city. People have their livelihood depended on trains and keeping it suspended is only going to increase financial burden on citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-vaccinated-people-in-mumbai-locals-livelihood-depended-on-trains-say-passenger-assn-101628181537145.html
05-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal MLA seeks police probe into unauthorised vaccination camp at TMC office||Indian Secular Front (ISF) MLA, Nawsad Siddique, has written a letter to the inspector-in-charge of Bhangar police station in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district, alleging that an unauthorised vaccination camp is operational at the local Trinamool Congress (TMC) office.He has called for an immediate inquiry into the matter, which as per his letter, unfolded at TMC’s office in Kharamba in Narayanour Anchal under Bhangar Block I.“This is completely out of the regulation of the Health Department and is unauthorised,” Siddique wrote in the letter.Siddique, who is the sole ISF and non-BJP or TMC MLA in the state assembly, has also sought “higher investigation” against all persons involved in the alleged unauthorised vaccination camp that he said was conducted by a local TMC leader.“Covid vaccination programme is not a concern to any party or a person for that matter,” the ISF MLA further wrote in the letter.West Bengal: Bhangar MLA from Indian Secular Front (ISF) Nawsad Siddique writes to the Inspector incharge of Bhangar Police Station on South 24 Parganas district, complaining about an unauthorised vaccination camp at a local TMC office and seeking an immediate inquiry into it. pic.twitter.com/i8nVltdknENews of fake vaccination camps in the state first emerged in June after Bengali actress and TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty along with others were administered, in what later turned out to be fake Covid-19 vaccines, in north and south Kolkata.Debanjan Deb, the primary accused in the case, who impersonated himself as the joint commissioner of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), was arrested. He later confessed to organising fake vaccination camps – one at north Kolkata’s City College and another in south Kolkata’s Kasba, news agency ANI reported.Also Read | Kolkata fake Covid-19 jab drive accused admitted to organising two camps: PolicePolice said that Deb would put receipt stamps on letters he wrote to government agencies, and later penned down responses himself in order to convince the victims. More than 800 people are suspected of being inoculated with these fake jabs, police added.Last month, the West Bengal CID had conducted a search at the office of Deb, and said that several documents and materials have been recovered that could be key to their investigation.As many as eight of Deb’s associates have been apprehended so far in cases ranging from cheating to an attempt to murder, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-mla-seeks-police-probe-into-unauthorised-vaccination-camp-at-tmc-office-101628180582370.html
05-08-2021||Ranchi||Fake firms used for ₹300 crore GST evasion in Jharkhand: CGST dept||The Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) department , Ranchi, has unearthed an alleged ₹300 crore scam wherein firms, mainly from Chhattisgarh and Odisha, used fake bills and invoices generated by shell companies registered in Jharkhand for tax evasion, officials said on Thursday. As per CGST officials, they have identified atleast 19 such shell firms--barring one registered on a fake Ranchi address--which were used by firms in neighbouring states to raise fake bills and invoices to claim input tax credit (ITC). “Analysis of the firms showed that fake bills and invoices raised from these firms were used to transfer ITC (Input Tax Credit ) to other firms. During probe, it was found that seven firms were registered on the same address, while other five were registered on the same address at another location. The rest also had fake addresses. In total, these 19 firms were used to issue fake bills and invoices worth ₹294 crore,” said SK Singh, principal commissioner. Officials said most of the aforementioned firms dealt in coal and scrap in Chhattisgarh and Odisha. “We have informed our counterparts in those states to realise the due tax from these firms. The exercise was a part of nationwide effort to identify tax evasions. From April to June this year, the department has realised ₹7,000 crore across the country, wherein firms were using the same modus operandi to evade tax,” a senior official of the department said. On possible action against people running the shell companies for a possible commission, officials said there are penal provisions in the Act itself and they would act accordingly after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/fake-firms-used-for-300-crore-gst-evasion-in-jharkhand-cgst-dept-101628181234115.html
05-08-2021||Other||Divisional commissioner to act on Tope’s prompt: Will pitch for relaxations at Covid review meeting on Sat||PUNE A day after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that government will reconsider relaxing Covid curbs in the city if local authorities recommend the same, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, on Thursday, said a proposal in this regard would be made at Saturday’s Covid review meeting in Pune. According to Rao, the administration plans to recommend the easing of curbs in Pune city and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad, where the positivity rate is below the state average. Rao said “appropriate recommendations” for relaxations would be made to the state government, after a thorough discussion with public representatives and other district authorities. “On Saturday, we are going to conduct a weekly Covid review meeting. Based on the latest Covid data to be reviewed at the meeting, we will definitely recommend to the state government that PMC and Pimpri-Chinchwad should get relaxations. I cannot say at this point what the decision will be, but we will discuss it and the guardian minister (Ajit Pawar) will take an appropriate decision,” said Rao. He also appealed to traders and shop owners to be patient till Saturday, even as shop owners in the city were adamant about keeping shutters open till 7pm, defying the state government’s prescribed 4pm deadline. Rao’s comments came after Tope, speaking to HT on Wednesday, said: “If there is pressure or if there is a real need of keeping the shops open till 8 pm, then the local authorities should recommend this to the government. If a local authority like the municipal commissioner recommends shops be open till 8 pm to the government, we will consider it.” Tope’s remarks may be the first step towards breaking the deadlock between traders and the state government, as he claimed to have discussed the issue with chief secretary Sitaram Kunte. Meanwhile, Rao asked traders to be patient till Saturday and assured them that “some decision” will surely be taken. “We are continuously in touch with traders. We are thankful they have cooperated for the last 18 months. So we are not blaming them now. We are discussing and appealing to them to be patient. They have waited for so long, now it is just a matter of two days, till Saturday. Some decision will definitely be taken on Saturday and after that, ultimately, it is expected that they will behave responsibly, in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Rao. He also indicated that though the collective positive rate of the entire district exceeds the state average, separate decisions could be expected for PMC and PCMC. “The positivity rate in PMC and PCMC is not very less. I agree with the people’s sentiments. At the last meeting, there was an echo of the demand that relief from restrictions should be given. If you ask me if separate decisions can be taken for PMC and PCMC, then I feel that it could be possible,” said Rao. While denying relief to Pune city, the government has considered the entire district as one unit while evaluating the positivity rate, despite a government’s previous order clearly stating that Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and the rural parts be considered as three separate administrative units. While the city’s positivity rate for the past fortnight is around 3%, making it eligible for relaxations, Pune did not make the cut because the entire district’s positivity rate has been above 5% in July. Mayor questions Tope’s suggestion The BJP termed Rajesh Tope’s remarks as passing the ball to the PMC’s court, when different standards were applied to Mumbai. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “When the state government gave relaxations in 22 districts, including Mumbai, were proposals sought from those parts?” Earlier in July, guardian minister Ajit Pawar had said that a positive decision would be taken for Pune in terms of relaxations. “When it comes to Pune, why are recommendations are being sought from the local body? There is a lack of coordination among different stakeholders in the state government and Pune is suffering because of it. State government should immediately take a decision to ease curbs in Pune. Everyone in the city has been demanding this,” said the mayor, adding that the administration, traders, business operators, and common people are asking for some relief. Changing tone?Days after he appeared tough with traders, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Thursday, urged the shopkeepers across the state not to violate the deadline. Earlier this week, speaking in Sangli, Thackeray said he “did not care” even “if traders have threatened to defy orders”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/divisional-commissioner-to-act-on-tope-s-prompt-will-pitch-for-relaxations-at-covid-review-meeting-on-sat-101628181053427.html
05-08-2021||Patna||Police recover minor girl’s mutilated body in Munger, SIT formed||The police early on Thursday morning recovered mutilated body of a missing eight-year girl in Munger, officials said,adding that a case has been lodged in this connection.The body was sent for postmortem examination to ascertain if the victim was raped, Munger superintendent of police (SP) Jagunath Jala Reddy said. A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to solve the case, he said.As per available information, the girl, a resident of a village falling under Purabsarai police outpost limits, went missing after she went with her father for fishing on Wednesday noon. Her father lodged a missing person’s report the same night. According to the complaint, the girl and her father had gone to bank of River Ganga for fishing. However, the girl left to return home alone around 4pm, but never reached. Her body was found around 5am on Thursday at a secluded spot, barely 300 metres from her house, police said. The SP said a case was lodged in this connection under Sections 302 (murder), 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act will be invoked on the basis of the father’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/police-recover-minor-girl-s-mutilated-body-in-munger-sit-formed-101628180994190.html
05-08-2021||Patna||Mob runs riot in Jehanabad after lock-up death, two suspended||At least five policemen and a senior official were injured in Jehanabad district on Thursday when a mob protesting against the death of a theft suspect in lock-up attacked the local police station and vandalised police vehicles, the district police chief said, adding that they had to fire in air to control the situation. The police officer on duty at Ghonsi police station and a police chowkidar have been suspended, Jehanabad’s superintendent of police Deepak Ranjan said, without taking their names.The deceased was identified as Grijesh Kumar Yadav, 25, a resident of Lakhawar, who was taken into custody on Wednesday night in a theft case and kept in the lock-up at Ghonsi police station.Around 9 am on Thursday, Yadav allegedly hanged himself with a wire of mobile charger tied around the bars of the toilet adjacent to lock-up. He was rushed to Sadar Hospital but was declared brought dead by the doctors, the officer said. Family members of the deceased alleged the police had thrashed him inside the lock-up. Police, however, rejected the allegations and said the man was earlier jailed in a case related to motorcycle theft and was detained this time for questioning in another case. After the news of his Yadav’s broke, locals surrounded the police station and pelted stones, in which five policemen and subdivisional officer Nikhil Dhanraj were injured.The agitators later blocked Jehanabad-Patna-Gaya National Highway and disrupted vehicular traffic for more than three hours. They were demanding that the policemen responsible be booked for murder whereas the police had lodged a case of abetment of suicide.SP Deepak Ranjan said the chief judicial magistrate had been informed regarding the incident and proceedings were being carried out as per law. “CCTV footage has also been preserved to facilitate the inquiry,” he said.An autopsy has been conducted at Sadar Hospital but the report was awaited, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mob-runs-riot-in-jehanabad-after-lock-up-death-two-suspended-101628180514440.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Domestic travel recovery continue; Mumbai airport reintroduces five flights to Tier-2 cities||July witnessed a 132% year on year growth in domestic passenger traffic as Covid-19 cases remained low in the month, revealed rating agency ICRA. Domestic passenger traffic grew around 56 -57% (at around 48-49 lakh) in July, compared to around 31.1 lakh in June 2021. According to ICRA, the airlines’ capacity deployment for July was 90% higher than July 2020 (47,200 departures in July this year against 24,770 departures in July last year). Kinjal Shah, vice president and co-group head, ICRA, “For July 2021, the average daily departures were at approximately 1,500, which is significantly higher than the average daily departures of around 800 in July 2020, and higher than around 1,100 in June 2021. Though it remains lower than around 2,000 in April 2021. The average number of passengers per flight during July 2021 was 104, against an average of 98 passengers per flight in June 2021.”“Though the recovery continued in July 2021, there is continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, while both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections,” Shah added.While the scheduled international operations have been further suspended till August 31 the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) is estimated at around 2.1 lakh, seeing growth of approximately 43%.Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) too witnessed a surge in passenger travel to the Tier 2 market in July. Sectors such as Hyderabad, Goa and Ahmedabad (top three tier-II sectors that performed) saw 7%, 5% and 5% passenger traffic respectively to these cities. Indigo, Air India and GoAir (the top three airlines) catered to over 3.5lakh, 80,000 and 46,000 passengers respectively. Looking at this upsurge in passenger traffic and easing of travel restrictions CSMIA reintroduced five domestic routes to Tier-2 cities like Bareilly, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Ajmer and Porbandar. IndiGo has started operating four weekly flights to Bareilly and five weekly flights to Tirupati. Air India will operate three flights to Visakhapatnam and five flights to Tirupati and SpiceJet will operate daily flights to Porbandar and three flights to Ajmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/domestic-travel-recovery-continue-mumbai-airport-reintroduces-five-flights-to-tier-2-cities-101628180394050.html
05-08-2021||Patna||In a first, Bihar plans biometrics in panchayat polls to check bogus voting||The State Election Commission ( SEC) plans to use biometric technology in the upcoming panchayat polls in Bihar to check bogus voting and duplication of voters, the first such initiative in rural local bodies polls in the country, a top official familiar with the matter said.A proposal has been sent to the panchayati raj department for approval by the state cabinet. Notification for panchayat polls, to be held in 10 phases, is expected by the end of August. The SEC plans to hold election in 2-3 blocks in each district in every phase so that the poll exercise is completed by November. Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary (panchayati raj), said, “The proposal for using biometric system to check malpractices is in active consideration of the government and will be approved soon. This is being done on the directions of the highest authorities in the government so that authentication of voters should be done in the panchayat polls.” Meena said voters’ authentication would be done by biometric devices and a photograph would be taken. “Real time data would be stored in the cloud, which would help in fast detection of any attempt at multiple or bogus voting,” he said. Biometric devices, along with tabs and authentication machines, would be installed at all booths where voters would first be asked to give their thumb impression and a photograph of the voter would be taken. There are 2.58 lakh posts in the three-tier rural local bodies and complaints of rigging and electoral malpractices have been common. This time, panchayat polls will be held through electronic voting machines ( EVMs) for four posts in panchayat bodies while ballot papers would be used for election in two posts of gram kutcheries, the bodies having powers to abjudicate and resolve petty disputes at the village level. SEC officials said the government is expected to spend ₹28 crore on the project, to be handled by a public sector enterprise. “Even if any voter tries to cast multiple votes at other booths in the entire block where polling is being held in the phase wise election, he/she would be easily detected as all data would be shared booth wise in real time. If there are allegations of bogus voters, each of the suspected voter would be asked to furnish their Aadhaar card or other identification document and that would be checked with the voters’ data base immediately,” said a SEC official, who has seen the demonstration of the new system. Sources said the Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited ( BECIL), a public sector undertaking with expertise in providing digital solutions, cyber security and other I-T related projects, has been roped in to implement the biometric system in the panchayat polls, officials said.“Such a system has not been used in any part of the country in rural local bodies polls as per my knowledge,” Meena said.On apprehensions that the new system would mean longer wait for voters in the queue, Atul Sinha, deputy director general, department of telecom, ministry of communications, New Delhi, said, “The biometric system would not slow down the voting process. During polls, voters are verified by their identity proof, be it election I-card or other papers, which takes 1-2 minutes. The biometric process will be much faster than that.” Sinha, who has led various information technology projects in Bihar, said implementing the biometric system would require very less internet speed as the biometric posh machines consume less data. “In rural areas, the internet connections have increased and posh machines can even run through mobile phone data. Besides, the booths are located near heavy public load areas where net signals are good ,” he said. In Bihar, the total number of internet subscribers is 39.34 million, of which 22.62 million are in rural areas while 16.72 million are in urban areas, as per data till 2019 mentioned in the Telecom Statistics of India report, ministry of communications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-a-first-bihar-plans-biometrics-in-panchayat-polls-to-check-bogus-voting-101628180335414.html
05-08-2021||Other||Punjab tops states on sustainable development goals||Chandigarh Punjab has ranked number one among the states in the country in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index-2020-21 for sustainable cities and communities, besides making it to the front-runner list with a score of 68. There were 22 indicators, including percentage of individual household toilets constructed against target (SBM-G), pupil-teacher ratio at secondary level (Classes 9-10) and percentage of households electrified, where the performance of the index score was 100, said chief secretary Vini Mahajan. She said this after reviewing the department-wise progress of the state as per SDGs India Index-2020-21 at a meeting on Thursday. During the meeting, some administrative secretaries apprised the chief secretary that data values taken for the indicators were not based on latest trends. They added that as per the present scenario, there would have been a significant improvement over the data values used for SDG India index 2020-21. All administrative secretaries were directed to take up issues related to data correction. Administrative secretaries of agriculture, rural development and panchayats, forests and wildlife, home affairs, labour, revenue, new and renewable sources of energy, higher education, industries and commerce, science technology and environment, social security, transport, water resources, health and family welfare, water supply and sanitation, school education, power and local government attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-tops-states-on-sustainable-development-goals-101628180334076.html
05-08-2021||Patna||Men on bike go on shooting spree in Siwan, two dead, two injured||In an incident that has left the police baffled and locals terrified, two men riding a motorcycle went on a shooting spree in a bustling locality at Maharajganj in Siwan district of Bihar on Thursday afternoon, leaving two people dead and two others injured, before speeding away, police and eyewitnesses said.Maharajganj is about 140 km from the state’s capital Patna. Around 3 pm, a group of people were on their way to Ramprit More when the assailants arrived and started shooting randomly in all directions, including in the air, forcing people to run for cover.“It is not clear who the assailants were and why they fired randomly at the people,” Polastu Kumar, subdivisional police officer of Maharajganj, said, adding that a manhunt has been launched. Police are looking for any CCTV footage, he said.According to eyewitnesses who were not willing to be identified, the assailants first shot one Mohammad Arman Mansoori, who died on the spot. Later, they shot another youth, later identified as Sudama Yadav, who was declared dead at Sadar Hospital in Siwan. The assailants then shot at another man, identified as Ashok Patel of Raghunathpur. They then shot at a man driving a car which blocked their way and sped away. The injured, identified as Manish Kumar of Ragarganj, has been taken to Sadar Hospital. Mohammad Yusuf, who was with Arman, said the assailants appeared to be shooting randomly without any reason. “They were shooting whoever they were looking at. Sometimes, they were shooting in the air. The young man riding pillion had three pistols. Everyone was running for cover. I saw three people fall after being shot,” he said. The police said eyewitnesses were not able to share any details about the shooters. “There is no motive known to us as of now,” said Polastu.Siwan’s superintendent of police Kumar Abhinav said forensic experts had reached the spot to collect samples and a probe was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/men-on-bike-go-on-shooting-spree-in-siwan-two-dead-two-injured-101628179914106.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university directs colleges to waive full fees of students who lost parents to Covid||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday released a circular directing all affiliated colleges to implement fee waiver for undergraduate or postgraduate education for students who lost either or both their parents to Covid, more than a month after the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant made the announcement. The circular also highlights partial or complete fee waivers under various miscellaneous heads for all students.“As per the directives of the Maharashtra government and the recommendations of a committee constituted by the MU vice-chancellor, reduction of fees only for the 2021-22 academic year has been recommended. 100% fee waiver should be given to students who have lost their father/mother, or both parents to Covid-19,” stated the circular dated August 4. The circular further mentions 14 heads for which colleges need to partially or fully waive off fees. In the case of the library, laboratory, gymkhana and extra-curricular activity fees, colleges should waive off 50% of the fee for all students. Similarly, colleges have been directed to waive 100% of student welfare fund, caution money deposit, library and laboratory deposits. “However, if a college has already published an online magazine, they can collect 25% of the magazine fund and in case colleges have conducted extra-curricular activities they can collect 50% of the actual fees,” states the MU circular. On June 29, following a meeting with the vice-chancellors of all state universities, Samant had announced a complete fee waiver for students who lost either one or both parents to Covid and assured this fee waiver until the completion of their undergraduate or postgraduate course. While waiving miscellaneous fees for other students, Samant also clarified that tuition and development fees levied by aided as well as unaided colleges will not be discounted. “If the pandemic situation normalises in the future and students are allowed to attend physical classes, the proportionate fee component under different heads as mentioned in the circular, including hostel fees may be charged separately by all colleges,” added the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-directs-colleges-to-waive-full-fees-of-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101628179194075.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Don’t make the same mistakes to spur third wave,say doctors||When the second wave started in mid-February, weddings, vacations and family functions had turned into super spreader events due to non-adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Now, with further relaxations in lockdown-related restrictions in the state, health experts have cautioned citizens from ‘making similar mistakes’ to prevent the anticipated third wave.“The second wave started from high-rise buildings as they didn’t follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. They attended crowded weddings without wearing masks and went on vacations without following safety guidelines. Elderly people who are more vulnerable to Covid-19 also participated in family events,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Results of an analysis by the civic body last month showed that 91% of the total Covid-19 cases in the second wave were reported from non-slum areas. Therefore, the civic body’s main priority this time round will be high-rise buildings in the days following the relaxation of rules.“We hope that the public will learn from their mistakes. Repeating the same mistakes will certainly lead to an increase in cases,” added KakaniIn the second wave, the transmission rate was almost 100% more than the first wave due to the mutation of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Experts said any violation of safety rules can increase the positivity rate in the city which is currently below 1%.Dr Rahul Pandit, director-critical care, Fortis Hospitals Mumbai and member of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce, said the Delta variants are very infectious and can easily spread to a large number of people in small groups.“In the impending third wave of Covid-19, these factors will continue to pose big challenges. Since we now know that the Delta variant is highly infectious and spreads as quickly as the chicken-pox virus, we must not drop our guard. Social gatherings that could turn into super spreader events must be avoided, and masking-up should be taken seriously,” said Dr Pandit.Dr Harish Chafle, consultant intensivist and chest physician, Global Hospitals, Parel, said evolution and circulation of more transmissible variants of Sars-Cov-2 viruses can become a reason for the rise in a number of cases as it has happened before.Anticipating a rise in cases in the next 3-4 weeks, ward officers have already started preparatory measures with Covid-19 jumbo centres in Mulund and Dahisar instructed to reopen to handle any sudden rise in cases.“We are trying to sensitise non-slum residents about the need to maintain Covid-19 safety measures. We are making announcements about the guidelines through moving vehicles,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer, R-Central that covers Borivli.Meanwhile, BMC is planning to boost vaccination drive. In Mumbai, almost 10% of the population is fully vaccinated but, experts from the state’s Covid-19 task force said the number is inadequate to stop a possible third wave.Dr Pandit said that when the second wave hit Delhi, the seropositivity rate was 50% which indicates that 100% immunisation is key to stop the spread of the virus.“In cities across India, especially metros like Mumbai, where at least 50% of the population has received their first dose, it is important that more and more people get vaccinated. A serosurvey which was done by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) did suggest that about 50-60% of the population across the country had developed a good number of antibodies. However, that must not make us complacent,” he said.Medical experts have emphasised the need to avoid crowded places and adhere to double masking.“There is also a possibility that this Covid-19 virus might further mutate to another variant which will make it more lethal. That’s why everyone needs to get vaccinated as soon as possible so that some form of herd immunity is achieved which will prevent cross-transmission of the virus in the community,” said Dr Chafle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-don-t-make-the-same-mistakes-to-spur-third-wave-say-doctors-101628178954408.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: CET unfair, say parents; Bombay HC to hear plea today||The parents of students from the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) board are a worried lot as the Bombay high court (HC) will hear the plea of thousands of non-state board students aiming for first-year junior college (FYJC) seats, today (July 6). The parents have questioned the Maharashtra state board’s decision to conduct a common entrance test (CET) for all FYJC aspirants based solely on the state board syllabus and have also raised concerns over its decision to hold a physical entrance exam for 15 and 16-year-old students amid the pandemic. “The Maharashtra state board has argued that majority students are in favour of the CET exam, but they are going by the registration figures where 10 lakh state board students have registered for the CET, compared to less than 35,000 non-state board students. Most ICSE and CBSE students have decided to forgo a seat in the first common admission round to avoid the stress of an entrance exam, and that is not fair,” said a parent of an ICSE student. He added that only those ICSE students scared of losing a seat in a good college have registered for the test to have a good chance during seat allotment.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. According to a circular released by the state board last month, an optional CET will be held based on the Maharashtra state board’s Class 10 syllabus. Priority will be given to students who appear for this exam in the first seat allotment list for FYJC seats. It will be a 100 marks multiple-choice question format exam held over two hours. The exam will have questions from seven different subjects including English, Mathematics, Science and Social Sciences, each carrying 25% weightage in the test and students need to attempt only four papers out of these.“ICSE board allows students to drop subjects like Maths and Science in Class 9 and 10 and now suddenly, the state board expects our children to appear for the entrance exam based on subjects or topics they’ve never studied. What’s worse is that the board is insisting on an entrance exam despite a Supreme Court order clarifying that CET should only be held for admissions to professional courses,” said the mother of another ICSE student.While the HC had asked heads of ICSE, CBSE and IGCSE boards to submit question banks to the state board, parents are still hopeful that the court on Friday scraps the CET exam altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-unfair-says-parents-bombay-hc-to-hear-plea-today-101628178653910.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university starts admission process; students stress over high cut-off list||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday started the sale of admission forms, kicking off the admissions process to undergraduate degree courses across its 800-odd, affiliated colleges. With Class 12 results behind them, degree aspirants will now face the difficulty of ensuring admissions in a college and course of their choice. For years, the seat allotment merit lists announced by the university kept throwing a higher cut-off across traditional and self-financed courses, however this year, colleges fear an explosion of high scorers taking over the first three merit lists, leaving very little wiggle room for the rest. “A few years ago, Delhi University colleges had witnessed their first merit lists ending at 100%, this year it might happen in some Mumbai college as well,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college on condition of anonymity. “With a high number of Class 12 students across boards scoring 90% and above this year, students with scores below 90% will find it tough to bag a seat in any of the top city colleges, especially in self-finance courses,” he added. Increasing Covid cases forced most school education boards to scrap their Class 12 exams this year and instead assess students based on their performance in Class 10, 11 and 12. The final result brought forward an explosion of students joining the 90% bandwagon. While ICSE and CBSE schools boasted of nearly 50% or more of their Class 12 students scoring above 90-95% this year, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) announced Class 12 results this week and the number of 90% scorers across the state jumped 12-folds compared to last year. For the first time, 46 HSC students also managed to score a perfect 100% this year. According to MUs admissions schedule, pre-admission registrations will go on till August 14 and colleges will have to complete the in-house and minority quota admissions by August 14 as well. The first open merit list is scheduled to be announced on August 17 this year. “Since in-house quota students will be given first preference for traditional courses (BA, BCom, BSc), there’s a good chance that most colleges will not have a single seat left for outsiders for the general merit list,” said TA Shiware, speaking for the management of Wilson College. He is also the chairman of the Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges.Questions have already been raised regarding the higher number of students clearing Class 12 exams this year compared to previous years. “This automatically means more students will apply for degree colleges. Looking at this issue the Maharashtra government had previously suggested that colleges be allowed to increase their intake capacity to accommodate more students. There is, however, nothing on paper as yet and we are unsure if we are allowed to admit more students,” said Naresh Chandra, principal of Birla College, Kalyan. This concept of increased intake has been questioned by many experts, especially considering the limited infrastructure available in city colleges. “Increasing intake capacity or adding new divisions for courses means colleges will have to continue this system for the next three years till this batch graduates. While this works fine during online classes, most colleges will run short of space once physical classes begin,” added Shiware, and highlighted that aided colleges are currently also struggling with vacant teacher posts and increasing intake will create problems for colleges.While most colleges are sure they will have no seats left for open category merit lists after filling up traditional courses with in-house and minority quotas, many fear a high number of admissions withdrawals once merit lists for self-finance courses begin. “Every year students confirm seats in traditional courses as a back-up plan and wait for their names to appear in the merit list of a self-finance course. This year too I fear a large number of seats will go vacant after every round of seat allotment, making the admissions process more chaotic than ever,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-starts-admission-process-students-stress-over-high-cut-off-list-101628178414473.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mhada announces lottery process for 8,205 low-cost houses||The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) has announced the lottery process for the allotment of 8,205 low-cost houses in the vicinity of Mumbai. The advertisement for the application process would be released on August 23 and the computerised draw would be held on October 14 this year.These houses would be located in places like Virar, Mira Road, Shirdhon, Khoni, Gotheghar and Vengurla.According to housing minister Jitendra Awhad, the majority of the houses have been set aside for the weaker sections of society. “We have kept 97% of the houses for the economically weaker section (EWS) and the lower income group (LIG),” said Awhad. “The entire computerised lottery system would be held in a transparent manner,” he added.EWS covers the section whose family income is less than ₹25,000 per month, while LIG covers the section whose family income is in the range of ₹25,000- ₹50,000 monthly. The next two — middle-income group (MIG) comes in the salary range of ₹50,000 to ₹75,000 while the higher income group (HIG) are those, whose family income is more than ₹75,000 monthly.In recent years, the peripheral areas of Mumbai have seen exponential growth as realty prices here are less compared to Mumbai. Mhada houses are popular due to their low prices compared to private builders and also the titles are clear.Awhad further announced that Mhada is planning to construct 10,000 houses in cities like Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati, Pune and Aurangabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mhada-announces-lottery-process-for-8-205-low-cost-houses-101628176913926.html
05-08-2021||Other||Three held for abetment to suicide in Malerkotla||SANGRUR Malerkotla police have arrested three persons for abetment to suicide, after the body of a 28-year-old man, of Hathan village, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at the residence of his woman friend on Wednesday. Police have registered a case following a complaint from the victim’s brother under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC at Sandaur police station. He alleged that the accused called his brother at their place and forced him to commit suicide.Malerkotla DSP William Jeji said the three had been arrested an investigation had been started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-malerkotla-101628176613887.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||BMC conducts special vaccination drive for judges, staff of Bombay high court||At least 2,200 Bombay High Court judges and staff members took the Covid-19 vaccine jab during a special vaccination drive conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recently, a civic official said on Thursday.The special camp was conducted at the High Court premises on July 30 and 31, by the BMC's A ward, which covers Colaba, Fort, Churchgate and other areas in south Mumbai, the official said.While Chief Justice Dipankar Datta had already taken the jab, many other judges of the High Court participated in the drive, in which both first and second doses were administered, he said.The Chief Justice on Thursday presented a letter of commendation and appreciated the efforts of the A ward's medical team for conducting the drive in a well-planned manner, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-conducts-special-vaccination-drive-for-judges-staff-of-bombay-high-court-101628176084315.html
05-08-2021||Other||Change tack on paddy stubble issue, Central panel tells Punjab||Chandigarh The Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas’, has asked Punjab to focus on ex-situ management of paddy straw. This means methods in which the straw is moved from its original place. The most common way is to tie the straw in bundles and supply it as fuel in biomass-based power generation plants, industrial boilers and in coal based-super critical power generating units.To date, the focus has been on cost-intensive in-situ management of straw. The commission, formed in 2020, sent a communique to Punjab government on July 28 to change tack. Experts say ex-situ management involves lower cost.“The commission has asked Punjab to formulate a policy to establish a supply chain system so that stubble is available to the user during the year, for which storage facilities also need to be maintained,” said Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Krunesh Garg. “The state government is advised that paddy straw-based biomass pellets and torrefied charcoal can be used in thermal plants for co-firing up to a blend ratio of 10% without any boiler design modifications,” an advisory from the commission to the state reads. On July 13, the commission had met organisations such as Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI), Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR), along with Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments. Here, the National Thermal Plant Corporation (NTPC) had accepted that paddy straw could be used in 17 plants it runs; this will consume 50 lakh tonne stubble. Punjab’s science, technology and environment and power departments are working on a proposal to increase for ex-situ management of the paddy straw. “The commission has suggested using straw in manufacturing ply-board, packaging material and even furniture. The commission has also asked the state and the Centre to make a fund outlay report,” an official said. Over 220 lakh tonne of paddy stubble is produced a year. Biomass power generating plants in the state consume 50 lakh tonnes; of the remaining 170 lakh tonne, 100 lakh tonne is not managed, with the majority of farmers prefer burning it. Due to high silica content, paddy straw is not used as dry fodder, like wheat straw. During paddy harvest in Oct-Nov, stubble is a major health hazard. The number of machines (76,590) given to the farmers in the last three years (2018-2020) are insufficient to deal with stubble burning menace, department officials said, adding that the Centre has given ₹666 crore as subsidy for in-situ management for the past three years. A subsidy of ₹250 crore has been sanctioned for the current year. “The window between paddy harvest and wheat sowing is short so stubble can’t be managed with the machines available,” said an official of the agriculture department, adding in the current year, at least 25,000 agro-machines will be given to farmers for in-situ management of paddy residue. “We are exploring the option of raising funds from Centre’s renewable energy ministry,” Garg, of PPCB, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/change-tack-on-paddy-stubble-issue-central-panel-tells-punjab-101628176313827.html
05-08-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Heavy rain alert issued for 23 districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued an `orange' alert forecasting `heavy to very heavy' rainfall in six districts of Madhya Pradesh even as Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the state had not seen such devastation in the last 70 years. The IMD on Thursday evening also issued a `yellow alert' forecasting `heavy' rainfall in 17 other districts.Rain-related incidents have claimed two lives in the state so far, officials said, adding that food packets were airdropped in the flood-ravaged areas of Gwalior and Chambal divisions.An orange alert warning of rains ranging from 64.5 to 204.4 mm in 24 hours at isolated places was issued for the districts of Rajgarh, Shajapur, Agar-Malwa, Mandsaur, Guna and Ashok Nagar. The yellow alert forecast of rainfall ranging from 64.5 to 115.5 mm at isolated places was issued for Sheopur, Morena, Bhind, Neemuch, Shivpuri, Gwalior, Datia, Vidisha, Raisen, Sehore, Hoshangabad, Dhar, Dewas, Narsinghpur, Tikamgarh, Niwari and Sagar. Both the alerts are valid till Friday morning, said P K Saha, senior meteorologist, IMD, Bhopal. Gwalior and Chambal divisions comprise the districts of Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena and Bhind in north Madhya Pradesh. A rain-related death each was reported from Shivpuri and Sheopur districts. An air operation had been started to rescue people in the flood-hit Bhind district and Karera in Shivpuri district.“The state has not seen such devastation in the last 70 years that the rain-ravaged Gwalior-Chambal region is facing. Bridges near the Ratangarh Mata Temple and Sankua in the area were damaged and many people got stranded in those areas,” a state official said, quoting chief minister Chouhan.On Wednesday night, 57 people were rescued from Kali Pahadi in Shivpuri district while 13 people were rescued from Teela area in Shivpuri, officials said.Chouhan also spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the morning. The prime minister assured all possible help to the state, officials said.The CM also spoke with Union Home Minister Amit Shah who said the Centre will send an advance team to assess the damage, officials said.Vice President Venkaiah Naidu also called Chouhan to enquire about the flood situation and relief operations.Food packets were being dropped from aircraft in various inundated areas including 13 locations in Sheopur, officials said.The chief minister also chaired a meeting in the morning at his official residence to review the flood situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-heavy-rain-alert-issued-for-23-districts-101628175212432.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||‘Responsible govt doesn’t take issues faced by people lightly’: Delhi minister||With monsoon wreaking havoc in the national capital where several important stretches were waterlogged, Delhi Public Works Department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday asked officials to stay active in addressing complaints from citizens.“The foremost responsibility of a responsible government is to not take any problem being faced by the people lightly and a steadfast administration is paramount for a people-oriented government which the Delhi government is,” the minister said in a statement.In the meeting, discussions on the waterlogging problem in Narela Industrial Estate owing to the low capacity of the existing drain in the area were also done.Jain said that issues such as cleanliness, desilting, maintenance or even building new drains, if required, should be done “as soon as possible.” “Not only just in Narela but anywhere in the city so that the people of Delhi don’t face any problems due to waterlogging,” Jain, who is also the national capital’s health minister, added.A similar meeting chaired by Jain last month saw him instructing officials for the rapid refurbishment of roads, which were damaged from waterlogging.In the ongoing monsoon, Delhi received massive rainfall ranging between 27.6mm to 126.8mm that was recorded at the Safdarjung weather station on Sunday.Also Read | 127mm in 3 hours: Parts of Delhi get unusually heavy spell of rainMoreover, waterlogging was reported in many important parts of the city such as Sarita Vihar, ITO, Yamuna Bazar and Anand Vihar, among others. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi may receive a good spell of rain on Friday.The MeT department officials said that the monsoon trough that had shifted towards the south – thereby causing more rain in Rajasthan, is “likely to come close to Delhi by Thursday evening” causing moderate to heavy rains.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/responsible-govt-doesn-t-take-issues-faced-by-people-lightly-delhi-minister-101628172473390.html
05-08-2021||Noida||32 arrested for duping ₹10 crore from US citizens in Noida||Police in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida have arrested 32 people from a fake call centre that was allegedly duping US citizens on the pretext of fixing computer virus, officials said on Thursday.The estimated money conned from the American citizens by the call centre so far is worth over ₹10 crore, according to official estimates.Based on a tip-off, the police raided the call centre and arrested 32 people who were found working on the spot. Those arrested include people living in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Gurgaon.The call centre was operational since last one year from the special economic zone (SEZ) in the Bisrakh area, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Noida) Ankur Aggarwal said."A total of 32 people have been arrested from the call centre that was duping American citizens. The accused would interact with the US citizens over internet and send bugs into their computer system but scare them by telling that their system has got a virus," he said."The accused would then offer them a solution for virus removal and ask the target to transfer money for the service being provided by them. The accused would then remove the bug created by them only," the officer said.The accused would seek up to USD 1,000 (approximately ₹74,000 as per Thursday's exchange rate) in exchange of their "service", DCP Aggarwal told reporters."The call centre made a profit of up to USD 4,000 every night and they had been operational for around a year now, as per information gained from the accused during questioning. The fraud amount is well in crores of rupees," he said, adding that employees working on calls were paid ₹20,000 a month while the manager was getting ₹1.25 lakh to ₹1.50 lakh monthly.He said around 15 to 20 more people, including the mastermind behind the con job, have been identified and search is on to track and arrest them.An FIR has been lodged at the Bisrakh police station under Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and under provisions of the Information Technology Act, the police said.The police have seized 50 computers and related devices from the call centre, where people worked overnight in order to match the normal work hours in the US, they said. PTI KIS SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/32-arrested-for-duping-rs-10-crore-from-us-citizens-in-noida-101628171467695.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Oil spill makes sand at Mumbai's Juhu Beach turn black||More than 5 kilometre of the sand at Mumbai's popular tourist spot, Juhu Beach, turned black on Thursday owing to an oil spill.People, who came for a walk in the morning today, said that the oil in the seawater was flowing towards the shore that has turned the sand to black.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that the administration will inspect the situation at the beach."I will assign a ward officer to inspect the oil on the Juhu Beach. We don't know the reason yet but, whenever we have the information we will share it," she told reporters here."Usually we put sand over it but first we will inspect the situation," she added.Pramod Virkar, a local resident said: "We have never seen oil in the beach and in the seawater, it has happened probably due to breakdown of a steamer."Another resident, Hari said, "The sand is sticky and we cannot walk on it. It will also harm the marine life and the environment."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oil-spill-makes-sand-at-mumbai-s-juhu-beach-turn-black-101628170767057.html
05-08-2021||Dehradun||U'khand govt to honour freedom fighters, 'corona warriors' on Independence Day||The Uttarakhand government decided to honour freedom fighters and "corona warriors" who have done outstanding work during the pandemic, said state chief secretary SS Sindhu.He said that officials have been directed to prepare the outline of the programs to celebrate Independence Day in a grand manner. However, the chief secretary said that Covid protocols will be followed in the state-level program of Independence Day at Parade Ground in Dehradun."Freedom fighters will be honored by visiting their residence on August 15. The officials who have done good work in various departments in the past years and corona warriors who have done better work during the corona period will be honored," he said.The chief secretary said that he has given instructions to all the departments to hand over the list of such people to the Sports Department."Covid protocols will be compulsorily followed in the state-level main program of Independence Day in Uttarakhand. There will be no participation of children in the main program to be held at Parade Ground of Dehradun. NCC Parade, cultural programs and Kavi Sammelan will also not take place," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-govt-to-honour-freedom-fighters-corona-warriors-on-independence-day-101628168429869.html
05-08-2021||Kolkata||Covid: Mamata says Bengal may reopen schools, colleges after Durga Puja vacation||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday her government was considering reopening of schools and colleges that have been shut since March due to the second wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Banerjee said educational institutes might reopen in West Bengal on alternate days after the Durga Puja vacation in November.“However, nothing has been finalised just yet,” Banerjee said while addressing reporters after holding a meeting of Global Advisory Board (GAB), headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, at the state secretariat, Nabanna. The Nobel laureate is in Bengal to discuss the government’s pandemic-related strategies.The chief minister’s comments on Thursday come weeks after a senior education department official said the state government had no plans to reopen schools at any level in the near future due to the threat of the third wave of the pandemic.The official said that whenever schools reopen, students of higher classes will be the first to start attending offline classes and not those who belong to primary classes. This was in response to a statement from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava, who had said it will be wise to reopen schools across India for primary section students as they can handle the viral infection better than adults.“We had sought to start on-campus classes at secondary and higher secondary levels in February before the second wave. But the virulence of the pandemic changed the situation and campus activities had to be entirely stopped,” the Bengal education department had added.In July, several states, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, have partially reopened their schools following a downfall in daily Covid-19 cases. This month, so far, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have started physical classes.West Bengal has so far reported 15,30,850 cases, 18,180 deaths and 15,01,925 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease. On Wednesday, 826 new cases, 10 deaths and 838 recoveries were reported, according to the health department’s bulletin. The active cases in the state now stand at 10,745.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-mamata-says-bengal-may-reopen-schools-colleges-after-durga-puja-vacation-101628168842168.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Revoke award given to Nallasopara hospital where 7 Covid patients died: BJP to Governor||A new controversy has erupted after Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on July 31 awarded Dr Ranjeet Upadhyay, medical director of Vinayaka Hospital in Nallasopara, with “Best hospital” award during an event at Raj Bhavan. Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Nallasopara unit has demanded that the award be taken back as seven Covid-19 patients died in the hospital on April 12 due to oxygen shortage.The award was sponsored by a national Hindi newspaper and the event was attended by state health minister Rajesh Tope. “It is surprising that the award was given to a hospital in Nallasopara where seven Covid patients died,” said Manoj Barot, a BJP worker who has written to the Governor. “We demand that the Governor take back the award,” he said. Dr Sachin Jadhav, personal assistant to Tope, said, “The government has no role in the selection of the names of the awardees.”Dr Upadhyay said, “The award was not self-recommended. I accepted it from the Governor with humility. The award was bestowed to my three-year-old hospital for the yeoman service to the community in providing medical services in 2020. We dedicated our hospital for Covid patients.” He further said that Vasai Virar civic health department has given the hospital a clean chit and concluded the patients did not die of oxygen shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/revoke-award-given-to-nallasopara-hospital-where-7-covid-patients-died-bjp-to-governor-101628167253475.html
05-08-2021||Kolkata||Mamata writes to PM Modi, claims state receiving fewer Covid-19 vaccine doses||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged once again on Thursday that the state is receiving a much lower number of doses despite having a high population density. She wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to ramp up the supply of vials. In her letter, Mamata expressed apprehension that the Covid-19 situation in Bengal might escalate if the vaccine supply is not augmented.“West Bengal will require around 14 crore doses of Covid vaccines to cover all the eligible people. Presently, we are administering four lakh doses per day and are capable of administering 11 lakh doses per day. Yet, we are getting a much lower number of doses despite having a very high population density and a higher rate of urbanisation,” the West Bengal chief minister wrote in her letter.Mamata also alleged that other states are being provided with a larger number of vaccine doses. She said other states can get a higher number of doses but Bengal cannot be deprived of doses. “I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived,” Mamata wrote. Mamata said several letters were sent to the Prime Minister but the Centre did not pay ‘due attention’ to Bengal’s needs. According to news agency ANI, the Bengal chief minister claimed that Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka received more vaccine doses. Mamata said that the positivity rate in the state is currently at 1.57% due to the state government’s efforts. People familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that over 30.9 million people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Bengal. The chief minister also said that the state is weighing options regarding reopening schools and colleges on alternate days after the Durga Puja vacation, according to another report by PTI.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-claims-state-receiving-fewer-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101628164378269.html
05-08-2021||Patna||EC mulls use of biometrics in coming Bihar panchayat polls to check bogus voting||The state election commission ( SEC) is all set to use biometric voting technology in the forthcoming panchayat polls in Bihar to check bogus voting.People aware of the development said a proposal has been sent to the panchayati raj department for approval and clearance by the state Cabinet. The panchayat polls notification in 10 phases is expected to be done by the end of August. The SEC plans to hold election in 2-3 blocks in each district in every phase so that the poll exercise is completed by November.Under the proposal, biometric devices along with a tab and authentication machines would be installed at all booths. Voters would first be asked to give their thumb impression and their photograph would be taken. The government is expected to spend ₹28 crore in the project to be handled by a public sector enterprise.Also Read | Bihar varsity cancels admission of 24 PG students citing ineligibilityThere are 258,000 posts in the three-tier rural local bodies and complaints of rigging , electoral malpractices have been a common grievance of voters and candidates. This time, panchayat polls will be held through electronic voting machines (EVMs) for four posts in panchayat bodies while ballot papers would be used for two posts of gram kutcheries, the bodies having powers to resolve petty disputes at the village level.“ Even if a voter tries to cast bogus voting in any other booth, he/she would easily be detected as all booth-wise data would be shared through cloud computing,” said a SEC official, who has seen the demonstration of the new system.Sources said the Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited (BECIL), a public sector undertaking, has been roped in to implement the biometric system. Additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena said, “The proposal for using biometric system to check multiple voting and other malpractices is in active consideration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ec-mulls-use-of-biometrics-in-coming-bihar-panchayat-polls-to-check-bogus-voting-101628165633150.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tokyo Olympics: Wrestler Vinesh’s uncle Mahavir Phogat blames poor coaching||Indian wrestler Vinesh Phogat’s uncle Mahavir Singh Phogat lashed out at foreign coaches after she was defeated at the Tokyo Olympics by Vanesa Kaladzinskaya of Belarus in the 53-kg category on Thursday. Also read: Ravi Kumar Dahiya wins silver medal for India in men’s 57kg freestyle wrestlingAfter Vinesh’s Olympics campaign ended in a heart-breaking exit, Dronacharya awardee coach and Vinesh’s uncle Mahavir Singh Phogat said: “I didn’t expect such a poor performance from her in the quarter final. She lost due to poor training by foreign coaches. I thought they will provide her good coaching as the government provided them all facilities.” Nothing short of gold, says uncle “It does not matter how many silver and bronze medals you have secured, it’s only gold that depicts our performance. Our family was expecting only a gold from her. Now, I will train her for the next four years so that she can win a gold in the next Olympics,” her uncle said. Mahavir Phogat said he had trained his daughters Geeta and Babita and niece Vinesh, 26, with the aim to win only a gold. Disappointed, but have faith in her: Mother Vinesh belongs to Balali village of Charkhi Dadri in Haryana. Her mother Premlata said she was disappointed but wins and losses are part of the game. “It was just a bad game for Vinesh. We have struggled a lot to make our daughter a gold medallist at the Olympics. We have faith in her and she will fulfil this dream in the next Olympics,” she said. In the quarter final win, Vanesa, the reigning champion, took revenge from Vinesh at the international stage after facing a similar embarrassing defeat by ‘fall’ earlier this year in Ukraine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tokyo-olympics-wrestler-vinesh-s-uncle-mahavir-phogat-blames-poor-coaching-101628163713098.html
05-08-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Restaurants on the reform menu for this social educationist||People all around the world have eaten away from home for centuries, but the restaurant as opposed to the inn or the khanaval, food-stand or other convenience or necessity, has existed for merely 250 years. Even though Marco Polo wrote about restaurants being operational in China in the 10th century, the modern restaurant was born in Europe in the mid-eighteenth century, and it took a century more for it to reach India.Bombay and Calcutta boasted of a few European restaurants in the mid-nineteenth century which almost exclusively served the wealthy European clientele. These institutions had all the characteristics that could be attributed to the modern restaurant – waiters, menus, longer operational hours than an inn. But, these restaurants did not cater to the common Indian population. Travelers, pilgrims, students expected to be fed, and the options were limited. “Pune Bhojanagruha”, the first modern, “native” restaurant in Pune and Maharashtra, owned by Narayan Ramchandra Ponkshe opened in June 1881, and started to fill this void.The restaurant, unfortunately, could not sustain itself shut its doors in 1884. Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, one of the tallest social leaders in Maharashtra then, had actively supported the endeavour. It is likely that he had made a financial investment in the restaurant. He had written an editorial in “Kesari” in 1882 to make people aware of the restaurant. Chiplunkar was not alive when the restaurant closed down.It was Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, social reformer, educationist , and the founder-editor of “Kesari”, who took it upon himself to sell Maharashtra on the necessity of the modern restaurant. Between 1885 and 1887, he wrote two articles in “Kesari” elaborating the need for restaurants in developing cities like Pune. He followed it up with another article on the same topic in 1893 in his newspaper “Sudharak”. All three articles were titled “Bhojanagruha”.The first of Agarkar’s articles appeared on February 10, 1885. The articles (which I found arduous to translate into English) are full of his signature sarcasm and wit. They are excellent specimens of his brilliant command over the language and could be considered among the finest articles on food ever written.“We had written an article a few years ago informing our readers about a Western establishment named ‘Bhojanagruha’. The building flaunted a big signboard bearing the name, and it was a testimony to the changing times in Pune. We were very sure that the Bhojanagruha would be a great success. But unfortunately, we were proven wrong”, he admits in the beginning and then proceeds to enlist the reasons behind this debacle – patrons not paying for their orders, lack of quality of food, mismanagement at the restaurant. He attributes the loss made by the restaurant to the first cause. If the proprietor is not paid for the food, how is he supposed to buy groceries for his establishment, he asks.Agarkar’s article mentions some dishes from the menu at “Pune Bhojanagruha” – Bhakari (flatbread made of jowar or bajra), rice, tempered dal, buttermilk, laddoos, and chiwda. These dishes were praised by many when the “Bhojanagruha” started, but later, because the clients were unwilling to pay on time, the quality suffered. The buttermilk turned watery and tasteless, the bhakaris were chewy, and it was impossible to find pulses in the dal, Agarkar writes.The article brings forth an unfortunate outcome of this debacle. The owner of the “Bhojanagruha” went bankrupt due to non-paying patrons. This also explains why the “Bhojanagruha” had to change its location almost every year. Agarkar rues the loss suffered by the proprietor, but advises his readers not to be wary of this incident, and start another “Bhojanagruha” as soon as possible.The lack of restaurants in Pune and Maharashtra was not a perfunctory concern for Chiplunkar and Agarkar. They genuinely believed that restaurants were important markers of the development of a city and the nation. “A Bhojanagruha is an important institution for the development of a city and its inhabitants. The restaurants should be encouraged and helped in every possible way. We have this misguided habit of ridiculing entrepreneurs and businessmen. They are absolutely necessary if we need to make our country self-reliant. I regret that we failed the Bhojanagruha”, Agarkar concludes.Agarkar’s second article which appeared in 1887 tows the same line. He begins by admonishing his readers for not paying at the “Bhojanagruha”. “Our people have this peculiar habit of saving as much money as possible. They either bury it under their houses or in their fields or buy jewellery for their wives and daughters. This custom was acceptable during the reigns of the Mughals or the Peshwas when people were worried about protecting their wealth. But these days one could travel from Banaras to Rameshwar fearlessly with all their money. So one should also be fearless in spending it. Rather than using it to make jewellery, one should have paid for the food at khanavals and Bhojanagruha, or start a business”, he writes.He then makes his readers aware that there is no shame in starting a restaurant. “This business is a respectable one like any other, and should not be discouraged. We need educated people who understand economics to start Bhojanagruhas. I myself have studied the trade a bit, and I think that it is possible to earn a profit of Rs30 each month if one goes on to invest Rs500 to start a Bhojanagruha. This business definitely gives high returns, and it is unfortunate that nobody has thought of starting one after the previous debacle”, he writes. Students and travellers are suffering due to the lack of respectable restaurants, and the citizens of Pune should step forward to feed them and earn money in return, he urges. One of the brilliant features of this article is the appeal he makes to women. “This business is ideal for women. They should start a Bhojanagruha instead of staying home and cooking for their families. They would be able to earn a respectable amount and would soon be able to support their families”, he writes.Agarkar wanted Pune to have at least 10 colossal buildings housing “Bhojanagruhas”. The buildings should have big signboards announcing the names, he wrote. This wish remained unfulfilled during his lifetime. But within a few decades the restaurants in Pune, and India, became a site of supposedly healthful eating. They indeed became markers of the prosperity of the country. We have to be grateful to Ponkshe, Chiplunkar and Agarkar for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-restaurants-on-the-reform-menu-for-this-social-educationist-101628160774991.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey bronze: Haryana’s Sumit even worked as dhaba cleaner||As news of the Indian hockey team winning the bronze medal match by defeating Germany 5-4 at the Tokyo Olympics reached the native village of player Sumit Kumar, 25, celebrations broke out at Kurad in Sonepat district of Haryana. Residents of the Jat-dominated village came out on the streets to congratulate the Sumit’s family. But behind Thursday’s glory is a story of focus and struggle.Also read: Festival at Surender’s home in Haryana after Olympic bronze in hockeyTravelled ticketless to save for fruits Midfielder Sumit Kumar, who belongs to a landless labourer’s family, did odd jobs, including working as a dhaba cleaner, to make ends meet. His elder brother, Amit Kumar, quit playing hockey so that Sumit could get the facilities needed to make it to Team India. “Before selecting the sports hostel in Gurugram, Sumit worked at dhabas in Murthal for five years so that he could arrange for the diet and other expenses. Milk was a luxury. During his early days, he used to travel in trains without ticket to save for meals and fruits,” Amit said. Amit recalled that Sumit had started playing hockey simply to get a pair of shoes and a hockey stick being provided free by the academy coach at their village. “Slowly, he started spending the entire day on the hockey ground. At one time, we thought that he might quit the game due to the family’s poor financial condition, but he continued. After three years at the sports hostel, Sumit was selected in the Sports Authority of India’s (SAI) north zone Bahalgarh centre. He didn’t visit home even on weekends to save on the bus fare,” Amit said. Skipped brother’s wedding for hockey Sumit’s village coach Naresh Kumar said that he was so passionate about hockey that he did not attend the wedding of his elder brother, Jai Singh, who worked as a labourer. Sumit has dedicated the bronze medal to his mother Darshna Devi, who passed away last year. “My mother worked as a domestic help to bring us up. Had she been alive, she would have been the happiest person today. It was her dream that India win a medal in hockey at the Olympics. Though she is not alive, her blessings are always with us,” Sumit said over phone from Tokyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hockey-bronze-haryana-s-sumit-even-worked-as-dhaba-cleaner-101628160533135.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: Police start process of lookout notice against Param Bir Singh||In a case of extortion registered against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Thane police have started the procedure for a lookout notice for all 28 accused, including underworld gangsters and journalists, confirmed a senior police officer. Singh, along with then deputy commissioner of police Deepak Devraj, assistant police commissioner NT Kadam, ex- cop Pradeep Sharma, senior police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire, and gangster Ravi Pujari were booked after a complaint was filed by Ketan Tanna. Tanna, who is in construction business, claimed that Singh and his team extorted crores of rupees from him by threatening him with a fake crime case. They allegedly also threatened to carry out his “encounter” if he did not pay.Also Read | Param Bir Singh moves Bombay HC, seeks orders to disband Chandiwal CommissionOn Tuesday, Tanna wrote to Thane zone one deputy police commissioner Avinash Ambure, saying the accused could flee from the city and necessary action should be taken in advance. Tanna, who is in construction business claimed that Singh and his team extorted crores of rupees by threatening to get him involved in a fake crime case. They allegedly also threatened to carry out his encounter if he does not pay. Tanna’s lawyer Sagar Kadam said, “ We submitted a letter to DCP, stating that some of the accused in this crime have their personal weapons with them which are yet to be recovered by police. All the accused have their passport with them therefore there is chance that they may fly out of India. If they are not arrested early, they can file false complaint against me and other complainants to pressure us. They can remove evidence in the above crime and also influence witnesses. Therefore, my client requested that they be arrested soon. My client is ready to assist police to locate their hideouts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-police-start-process-of-lookout-notice-against-param-bir-singh-101628159932709.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Mithapur on cloud nine after hockey bronze at Olympics||Moments after the India men’s hockey team clinched the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday, celebrations broke out at Mithapur, the native village of captain Manpreet Singh and his teammates Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar, in Jalandhar district. Four of the 18-member Team India squad are from Jalandhar district, including Hardik Singh from Khursopur village. Also read: Festival at Surender’s home in Haryana after Olympic bronze in hockeyFormer Olympian and Congress MLA Pargat Singh also belongs to Mithapur. Residents of Mithapur rushed to the houses of Manpreet, Mandeep and Varun to celebrate the much-awaited medal after 41 years. At Manpreet’s house, people danced in joy to the beats of the dhol as his mother, Manjit Kaur, congratulated the captain on the historic win over a video call. Bronze equally precious, history made: Kin “Hard work of more than 12 years has finally borne fruit for Manpreet and his teammates. We were hopeful for the gold but the bronze medal is equally precious as history has been made. India will win the gold next time,” Manjit said. She said Manpreet didn’t call her up after losing the match to Australia. “He was upset but I motivated him to focus on the bronze medal match,” she said. Player Mandeep Singh’s father Ravinder Singh agreed that it’s a historic occasion. “I’m proud of the boys, it’s the biggest ever gift.” Relatives and friends gathered at Varun’s house as his father Bhrama Nand congratulated him on the victory. The families of the three players also paid obeisance at the local gurdwara. Hardik Singh’s father, Varinderpreet Singh, is a superintendent of police at Batala. Residents of their native Khursopur village exchanged greetings with the family after the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-mithapur-on-cloud-nine-after-hockey-bronze-at-olympics-101628157592749.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ruckus in Himachal assembly over chief secretary’s transfer||Noisy scenes were witnessed in the Himachal Pradesh assembly on Thursday as the opposition Congress protested the removal of chief secretary Anil Khachi and walked out of the House when it was told that the appointment of officials was the prerogative of the government. Also read: India prepared for long haul with China over LadakhAs soon as question hour ended, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri raised a point of order, seeking the clarification from the government. Referring to Khachi’s Himachali background, Agnihotri sought to know the circumstances that prompted the government to change the chief secretary. Ram Subhag Singh is new chief secretary Earlier in a notification on Thursday, the state government appointed Khachi, a 1986-batch IAS officer, as the state election commissioner with immediate effect. Khachi was appointed the chief secretary in 2019. Ram Subhag Singh, a 1987-batch IAS officer who was serving as additional chief secretary industries, transport and labour and employment, has been appointed the new chief secretary. Raising the matter in the assembly, Agnihotri said that earlier another Himachali officer, VC Pharka, was the chief secretary but was removed by the Jai Ram Thakur government. He said Vineet Chawdhary and BK Agarwal also served on the post but were removed. “What is it that is forcing the government to change the chief secretary for the sixth time?” the Congress leader said. In his reply, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the opposition is not to decide the appointments. Appointments prerogative of govt: Speaker Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar ruled that the issue can’t be raised in the House. “The appointment of officers is the sole prerogative of the government,” he said ruling that nothing would go on record. At this, the Congress created a ruckus and walked out of the House. Speaking on the issue after the opposition’s walkout, the chief minister said that this issue could not be raised in the assembly and the House does not decide whom to appoint. Thakur said that the government had followed the due process in shifting the officer. He criticised Agnihotri for categorising officers based on their domicile. He said sorting the officers as those from the state and those from outside the state was wide off the mark. “Officers belong to the country and contribute to the development of the state to the best of their capacity and capability,” he said. Referring to the chief secretaries appointed as adviser during the previous Congress rule, the chief minister said Khachi has been appointed on a constitutional post where his tenure will be for five years and status equal to the High Court Judge. “If we look back, the Congress had appointed the chief secretary by ignoring the seniority of other officers,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ruckus-in-himachal-assembly-over-chief-secretary-s-transfer-101628154592299.html
05-08-2021||Other||Two years since Article 370 abrogation: Shops closed in Srinagar; traffic hit||There was a shutdown in Srinagar on Thursday on the second anniversary of the nullification of Article 370 which gave a special status to Jammu-Kashmir.Shops were shut and businesses closed in many parts of the city while traffic movement was also partially affected. Only shops selling essentials such as medicines and vegetables were open.Traders in Lal Chowk said senior police officers were forcing them to open their establishments.“I saw policemen calling shopkeepers and even picking locks of closed business establishments,” claimed a resident on the condition of anonymity.Photojournalists alleged police were not allowing them to click their pictures or videos as they forced shopkeepers to open. Heavy security arrangements were made across the city as the forces established checkpoints at multiple places.Also Read | Two years since Article 370 abrogation: Mehbooba Mufti leads protest in SrinagarMarkets of Residency Road, Hari Singh High Street and Goni-Khan were also mostly closed. “Despite police coercion, I have not opened my shop. Article 370 was a safety net for J&K. Its revocation means we are vulnerable now,” said a trader of Jehangir Chowk. They said they have been getting calls from police for the past two days not to observe a shutdown on August 5. Farhan Kitab, president of retailers association, said for the past two days, traders of the business hub have been approached by both the administration and the police.“The administration told us that the shops from Lal Chowk to Poloview are on Nazool land and the traders have not renewed the legal formalities and are hence liable for legal action. Four of our shops were sealed on Wednesday,” he said.He said police also held a meeting with them, asking them not to indulge in any “anti-national’ activity on August 5. “We are a trade body and if anybody goes on a strike, it is their personal choice. We can’t force anybody,” he said. “Some shops are open in the city centre,” he said.A call to Srinagar senior superintendent of police Sandeep Chaudhary elicited no response.President of Kashmir Chamber of Industries and Commerce, Sheikh Ashiq, told HT on Wednesday: “We are business people and we should not have been dragged into this.”The special status of J&K under Article 370 was nullifed on August 5, 2019, by the Centre and the erstwhile state split into two Union Territories. For months, Kashmir saw curbs on movement of people as well as on communication while almost all prominent political leaders were detained to prevent mass protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-years-since-article-370-abrogation-shops-closed-in-srinagar-traffic-hit-101628154532487.html
05-08-2021||Kolkata||Eye on election: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee sets up team to visit Tripura every month||With an eye on the Tripura assembly elections, the Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee has set up a team comprising senior leaders who will be camping in the northeastern state every month. The team comprises veterans, including ministers such as Bratya Basu and Moloy Ghatak, members of Parliament such as Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, trade union leader Ritabrata Banerjee, former legislator Samir Chakraborty and other senior leaders such as party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. “TMC leaders will be camping in Tripura to help the party expand its base ahead of the elections. Abhishek Banerjee himself went to Tripura earlier this week. This will help boost the party’s grassroot level infrastructure and let them know that senior party leaders are standing beside them,” said a TMC leader, requesting anonymity. The TMC, after returning to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term with a sweeping victory in the recently held assembly elections, is now eyeing Tripura where assembly polls are due in 2023. The state is currently ruled by BJP - Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (BJP-IPFT) alliance. Also Read | Bengal’s advisory board, led by Abhijit Banerjee, to discuss impending 3rd waveAfter achieving a resounding victory over the BJP in the recent West Bengal assembly elections, the TMC renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party play a bigger role in national politics. Recently, a team comprising Basu, Ghatak and Ritabrata Banerjee visited Tripura after the Tripura Police purportedly confined the I-PAC team. Ghatak and Basu again went to Tripira ahead of Abhishek Banerjee’s visit. Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the in-charge of the party’s expansion plans, announced in June this year that they plan to expand their base in other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). For the first time, the TMC observed Martyr’s Day - the party’s flagship programme – in Tripura, Delhi and a few other states on July 21. “The TMC’s state unit in Tripura will be changed and the new set up will be announced in the next few days. Later, the district and block presidents will also be appointed. The party has plans to set up booth committees by December this year,” the TMC leader quoted above said. The BJP, however, said that the TMC has hardly any presence in any state outside Bengal. “The TMC doesn’t have any presence in any state. Let them first form their base. They can think of elections later. It is a democratic country, and anyone can go anywhere. But this is just a gimmick to divert attention from the NHRC report,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/eye-on-election-tmc-s-abhishek-banerjee-sets-up-team-to-visit-tripura-every-month-101628153632405.html
05-08-2021||Patna||Police rescue minor girl after marriage to Rajasthan man in Bihar’s Kaimur||Police rescued a 15-year-old girl who was forcefully married to a Rajasthan man and was being taken away to the state on Wednesday night from Bihar’s Kaimur.Police also arrested the groom and his two relatives just when they were about to get into a car with the girl for their journey to Rajasthan.The arrested people were identified as 35-year-old Dharmendra Singh, the groom, Dayal Singh, both from Rajasthan, and Kunal Jat of Amrei Bari near Ahmedabad in Gujarat, police said on Thursday.Police conducted a raid at the house of Jitendra Gupta in Bhabua following a tip-off.Gupta, his wife Manju Devi and some other people escaped on seeing the police team. Also Read | Bihar varsity cancels admission of 24 PG students citing ineligibilityThe girl told the police that her parents got her married to Singh against her will. A case under non-bailable sections 9 and 11 of The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, has been registered against the parents, groom and his two relatives.The arrested men will be sent to jail. Police are conducting raids to arrest the parents to find out if they had sold the girl or were forced to marry her off, superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar said.Some interstate gangs involved in trafficking young girls for marriage and prostitution are active in the hilly regions of Bihar and Jharkhand. On July 20, nine girls, two of them minors, were rescued by Rohtas police from a house in Dhangain village in Bikramganj police station limits. Police also recovered ₹1.70 lakh cash from the alleged traffickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/police-rescue-minor-girl-after-marriage-to-rajasthan-man-in-bihar-s-kaimur-101628149373035.html
05-08-2021||Bangalore||ED raids properties of K’taka Congress MLA and former legislator in IMA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted searches at properties associated with Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan and former MLA Roshan Baig in connection with the I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) Ponzi scam case. The IMA scam pertains to ₹4,000 crore collected by IMA Group from over 100,000 gullible investors in the name of providing attractive returns on investment. The raids are underway in multiple locations in Bengaluru since Thursday morning. According to officials in the know of the developments, the searches are being conducted by officers from New Delhi. So far, searches are underway at the two residences of Baig in Shivajinagar, and at the Chamarajpet residence of Khan, apart from the offices of National Travels, a firm he owns. Also Read | B’luru extends night curfew, invokes Sec 144 to curb Covid spreadOn April 27, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had filed a supplementary charge sheet against former Karnataka minister Baig in connection with the IMA Ponzi scam case. Baig was the minister for urban development in the Congress-led state government between 2014 and 2018. The CBI named the then MD of IMA Group, Mohammed Mansoor Khan, the company, Baig’s company Daanish Publications, and others in the charge sheet. “It was alleged that the accused former minister received several crores of rupees from IMA funds for election expenditure. It was further alleged that the accused was also utilising the said funds for day-to-day expenditure, including salaries of employees of his firm. It was also alleged that the accused has spent the funds for various social and cultural activities in his constituency to increase his popularity,” read a statement from CBI. While Zameer Ahmed Khan was questioned by ED and other agencies regarding his property transaction with IMA founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan, he has not been charged by any agency to date. IMA was an investment banking company run by Mohammed Mansoor Khan, who claimed it was a Sharia-compliant operation run on Islamic principles, which took huge deposits primarily from members of the Muslim community. When IMA stopped paying dividends in March 2019, investors lodged complaints with the police, and in June 2019, the Karnataka government set up an SIT to investigate the more than 51,500 complaints that had been filed by investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ed-raids-properties-of-k-taka-congress-mla-and-former-legislator-in-ima-case-101628148472102.html
05-08-2021||Patna||26 children rescued from train; Bihar Police suspect trafficking racket||The railway unit of Bihar Police rescued 26 children from Karmbhoomi Express train that was on its way to Amritsar in Punjab from New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal via Bihar late on Wednesday evening. They have also arrested 12 alleged child traffickers. The operation was conducted on a tip-off from NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan. A joint operation carried out by Government Railway Police (GRP), Railway protection force (RPF), Railway Childline and Child Welfare Committee (CWC) rescued 12 children from Hajipur station when train was arrived. Another nine children were rescued at Sonepur, and five at Chhapra railway stations. Also Read | Bihar varsity cancels admission of 24 PG students citing ineligibility“All the rescued children are boys, believed to be under 10 years of age, however no document or certificate of their age was recovered,” said Sudhir Shukla, nodal director of Child Line. He said majority of the people travelling with them claimed to be their uncles, or neighbours. Inspector Ganesh Singh Rana, in-charge of RPF post (Hajipur) said the children belong to Katihar, Kishanganj and Purnia and are suspected to be taken to Saharanpur, Ambala, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Delhi as child labour. “Statements of people travelling with them are being recorded. Their parents are being called. Counselling will be done by the child welfare committee on Thursday before handing over the children to their family members,” he said. Police are looking for other members of the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/26-children-rescued-from-train-bihar-police-suspect-trafficking-racket-101628148412007.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||At Cannes, people pointed out my short height: Masoom Minawala||Masoom Minawala is on a journey to put Indian fashion on the global map. The blogger, who walked the red carpet for the second time at the Cannes Film Festival, earlier this month, turned heads in a stunning white chiffon stitched saree. While her look garnered much appreciation, she had to face her fair share of trolling as well. “When I was at Cannes, some people pointed out my short height. While I do receive appreciation, I also get criticised about things that I didn’t even know were supposed to be controversial. From a simple word that I may have written in my caption to my physical attributes, everything seems to be on the radar,” she reveals. So how does she counter it? The 27-year-old feels the key to facing such negativity is to become comfortable with your own self. “As a public figure, you receive some backlash daily. The only way to overcome all of it is to keep my composure and authenticity off-screen and on-screen,” she shares. Knowing she has a duty to make her nation and the fashion industry proud, comes with a certain amount of responsibility. To keep the pressure at bay, Minawala makes sure she stays well hydrated and confident in her skin. She continues, “I just feel grateful to be able to represent my country and its culture on such a massive global scale. At the same time, I feel responsible for living up to my industry’s expectations and empowering Indian fashion. It’s a celebration of my work and all the strength and persistence that goes towards it. The fact that I’m getting closer to my mission of taking Indian fashion to global avenues makes it all worth it.”The fashionista reveals that while visiting Cannes felt surreal, she never even dreamt about it during her years of blogging. Recalling the experience, she shares, “When you are surrounded by all the biggest names in the industry and cameras, and also representing your country, it is natural to feel nervous, like I did. But I make sure I step out of my comfort zone from time to time to gain that confidence. It’s good to remain comfortable but getting experimental once in a while gives you courage.” While Minawala wore several outfits at the French Riviera, she chose a saree at the red carpet as a homage to desi fashion. She says, “What better way to represent my country than with our iconic silhouette. I stuck to a traditional saree with a contemporary twist as created by Manish Malhotra’s magical sartorial abilities. It felt empowering to be able to stand on a global platform like that wearing a saree with pride.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-cannes-people-pointed-out-my-short-height-masoom-minawala-101628148292051.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||I want to try street food from North India: Justin Narayan||Be it major sporting events like the Tokyo Olympics or culinary competitions like MasterChef Australia, Indians are making the country proud in every field. Such was a feat achieved by Justin Narayan, an Indian-origin chef from Perth who won the 13th season of the popular cooking show, with his modern renditions of a number of traditional Indian delicacies. “Indian food has a lot of layers and complexity of spices. Its understanding helped me drive flavour in a short span of time,” says the chef, whose roots go back to Chennai, Tamil Nadu. He also reveals that he enjoys experimenting with Indian flavours. “I like my take on a few dishes, it was my play on Indian flavours. I made a version of my mum’s chicken curry, I did a version of dal bhaath, I even did a chicken taco dish with Indian curry spices in it. I also prepared a lamb curry sauce for the semi-final cook. It was like my modern take on a lot of different Indian food,” he says.Narayan, who was up against Pete Campbell and Kishwar Chowdhury, is the second Indian-origin winner of the competition — Sashi Cheliah was the first, having won the tenth season. But, the 27-year-old’s triumph was celebrated across the country. “It was very overwhelming. A lot of people have been so kind to write incredible comments and messages, and it’s a huge honour to be able to represent my culture. It feels great to have won that competition and to represent Indian culture on a stage like MasterChef,” says Narayan, who wishes to dedicate his prize money ($250,000) for the welfare of underprivileged children in India. “I’m definitely going to try and work towards using the money to start a restaurant that would help contribute towards (welfare of) kids in slums. When I was in India on my last trip, it was impactful to see those children. I’m passionate about doing this, and if I can participate with an organisation that’s doing that already in an incredible way, why not?” he says.When it comes to Indian food, what would he say is his all-time favourite? “Masala dosa with all the chutneys on the side,” he says, but is quick to add, “There’s just so much to choose from, so it’s quite hard to narrow it down. I have visited Delhi and Agra as well. However, I need to visit more places, discover and try more food. I can’t wait to try street food from north India on my next trip.” Viewers can watch the show on Disney+ Hotstar Premium and Disney+ Hotstar VIP. Author tweet @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/i-want-to-try-street-food-from-north-india-justin-narayan-101628147992891.html
05-08-2021||Patna||Bihar varsity cancels admission of 24 PG students citing ineligibility||The administration of LN Mithila University, Darbhanga, has cancelled the admission of 24 post-graduate (PG) students in Maithili department, after detecting that all of them had obtained BTech degrees at the graduation level, which didn’t meet the eligibility criteria laid down for admission into the PG course, informed a university official, requesting anonymity.According to the official, the matter surfaced when these students, who were admitted to the 2020-22 batch via an online process due to the Covid-19 pandemic, filled applications for semester examinations. The university administration the detected that none of them had studied Maithili at graduation level, either as main or subsidiary paper.LNMU cancelled the admission of these students even as a show cause notice was served to head of department (HoD) Maithili. However, incumbent HoD Prof Ramesh Jha, when contacted, pointed out he had assumed charge of the department recently. The students were admitted earlier. He, however, confirmed receipt of a show cause letter in this regard. According to dean students welfare Vijay Kumar Yadav, LNMU administration has constituted a probe committee to initiate an enquiry into the episode and fixed the responsibility for the lapses in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-varsity-cancels-admission-of-24-pg-students-citing-ineligibility-101628146491925.html
05-08-2021||Other||Man sentenced to 30 years’ imprisonment for raping minor step niece||A local court in Bokaro district awarded 30 years rigorous imprisonment to a 29-year-old man on Wednesday, after holding him guilty of raping his minor step niece for around two months last year. Her parents were stuck in Uttar Pradesh due to the lockdown imposed during the first wave of Covid-19 at the time.Special judge of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court, Janardan Singh, also fined the man ₹1 lakh after a trial that lasted six months.“The court held the accused guilty of the crime under Section 6 of POCSO Act and awarded him 30 years rigorous imprisonment. Ansari has also been held guilty under sections 376 (2) of IPC and 8 of POCSO,” said special public prosecutor SK Jha.Also Read | Calls for justice mount after Dalit girl’s rapeAccording to the prosecution,the 17-year-old was staying at her uncle’s home in Bokaro during the lockdown.Her parents had gone to Uttar Pradesh but got stuck there due to the lockdown declared early 2020. “The girl said that when no one else was home one day, the man intoxicated her by giving her a cold drink laced with sedatives and raped her. He continued to outrage her modesty, threatening her with dire consequences. It was only when her father and stepmother returned home that she narrated her ordeal following which a complaint was filed with the police,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-sentenced-to-30-years-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-step-niece-101628143071919.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Olympic hockey bronze worth its weight in gold: Punjab CM||With 10 of its players in the India men’s hockey team that defeated Germany 5-4 to win the bronze medal after 41 years at the Tokyo Olympics, Punjab erupted in celebration on Thursday. This is India’s first Olympic medal in hockey since they won the gold at Moscow in 1980. Also read: India win bronze medal in Tokyo, first Olympic medal in hockey since 1980Terming it a proud and historic moment for the nation, Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh congratulated the team and tweeted: “A tremendous achievement to be finishing on the podium after 41 years. The hockey bronze is worth its weight in gold.”In the 18-member squad, 10 players are from Punjab, namely captain Manpreet Singh, vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh, Varun Kumar, Rupinder Pal Singh, Hardik Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh, Mandeep Singh, Shamsher Singh and Simranjeet Singh. Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi announced an award of ₹1 crore for each of the 10 players from the state. “On this historic day, I’m delighted to announce the cash award of ₹1 crore each. We await your return to celebrate the much deserving medal in the Olympics.” Leaders from Punjab took to social media to shower appreciation on the team. “Four decades of wait finishes off with a thriller performance. Congratulations to the men in blue on winning the bronze in hockey,” said state Congress leader Partap Singh Bajwa. “This victory is huge and will go a long way in re-energising the sport in the country,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hockey-bronze-worth-its-weight-in-gold-punjab-cm-101628141573165.html
05-08-2021||Other||1 dead, 11 others injured in Maoist blast in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||A labourer died and 11 others were injured after Maoists blew up a vehicle they were travelling in with an improvised explosive device (IED) in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh on Thursday, a police official said. Police said those in the vehicle were mostly labourers. Three of them were critically injured and were rushed to the hospital. One of them, Dhan Singh, succumbed to his injuries later. Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava said the incident took place at around 7.30am near Ghotiya village under Malewadhi police station limits. Also Read | C’garh villagers sit in protest over man’s death; forces say he was a Maoist“It was a command IED triggered by Maoists as we have found wires. The blast caused injuries to all the 12, including a woman. Police team rushed to the spot and rescued them,” the SP said. The SP added that the Maoists may have mistaken the SUV to be a police vehicle and targeted it. “All of them were labourers and were going to Telangana from Balaghat (MP). No police vehicle is permitted on the under-construction route that connects Narayanpur to Dantewada. The driver was following Google map, so he entered that area and was targeted,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-people-injured-in-maoist-blast-in-c-garh-s-dantewada-101628139891471.html
05-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal's advisory board, led by Abhijit Banerjee, to discuss impending 3rd wave||The Global Advisory Board (GAB) , headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, will meeting on Thursday at the state secretariat in West Bengal to discuss how to beat the impending third wave of Covid-19.The body was set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to advise the state government on issues related to the pandemic.“GAB is scheduled to meet today [Thursday]. Nobel laureate Banerjee has come to Kolkata. He is expected to be physically present in the meeting, which will be chaired by the chief minister at the state secretariat,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.Swarup Sarkar, former regional director of WHO (World Health Organization); Tom Frieden, ex-CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, US); Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank; and JVR Prasad Rao, a former union health secretary, are part of the board along with senior health experts and doctors from the state.Also Read | Covid-19 cases may double in US, says FauciOn Wednesday, the Centre wrote to all states to actively consider imposing local restrictions on the public observation of occasions like Muharram, Onam, Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja.These occasions are lined up from August to October, starting with Muharram on August 19, Janmashtami on August 30, Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10 and Durga Puja between October 5 and October 15.Even though the daily cases of Covid-19 dropped to 575 on Monday, the number of fresh cases shot up to 729 on Tuesday. On Wednesday, West Bengal reported 826 new cases. At least 10 people died on Wednesday.The daily count of cases had crossed the 20,000 mark in mid-May soon after the assembly polls in the state.The government has already started boosting infrastructure to tackle the expected third surge by earmarking more than 10,000 beds for paediatric patients. The West Bengal government has also set up a 10-member expert committee comprising doctors from state-run hospitals to tackle the third wave of Covid-19.In 2020, fresh cases of Covid-19 had witnessed a steady rise during the festive season. The number of cases had hit a peak of 4,157 on October 22, 2020 during the first wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-advisory-board-led-by-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-to-meet-today-101628138571884.html
05-08-2021||Other||14 daily wagers ‘rescued’ from bonded labour in Goa||Fourteen daily wagers employed by a contractor for undertaking railway double tracking work at Quepem in South Goa were “rescued” from bonded labour by the sub divisional magistrate, based on a complaint by the National Adivasi Solidarity Council from Telangana. The labourers who were employed to work on the doubling of the railway track from Vasco to Karnataka, which is being staunchly opposed by environmental and anti-coal activists, were found to be staying next to railway track in unhygienic conditions, without proper shelter and toilet. “Some of the labourers were found to be as old as 72 years. The labourers complained about not receiving minimum wages, restrictions regarding returning home, no ESI - Provident Fund,” Arun Pandey of Anyay Rahit Zindagi, the NGO that was involved in their rescue, said. Also Read | Strengthening socio-economic rights of women in the informal economyThe labourers were living along with their children in the makeshift shanties beside the railway track and there were no facilities either for them or for their children. Including children, the number of people at the camp was 19. Speaking to HT, Vasudev Rao of the Telangana-based National Adivasi Solidarity Council said that the sub divisional magistrate has filed a report before the collector and further legal action is being pursued. “We work with the SC/ST and adivasi people in Telangana and during our work we were informed that these labourers were kept in bonded labour conditions. So we initiated action with the help of the local NGO and complained to the district magistrate,” Vasudev told HT. A group of labourers who is underpaid and not allowed to visit home qualifies as bonded labour. The contractor who had arranged the labourers on behalf of Track and Towers Infratech Ltd has been booked and is being proceeded against as per the law, authorities said. For now, the contractor has agreed to pay them the difference in wages, but if found guilty, he will have to pay further compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-daily-wages-rescued-from-bonded-labour-in-goa-101628135811418.html
05-08-2021||Patna||Bihar police officer in soup over husband posing as cop on social media||Photographs of a sub-divisional police officer’s (SDPO) husband in police uniform have gone viral on social media, leading to a probe in Bihar’s Bhagalpur. In the photographs, Kahalgaon (Bhagalpur) SDPO Dr Reshu Krishna can be seen in her uniform, but what riled social media users was her husband accompanying her, in uniform, complete with the IPS insignia on it. Sharing the photos on social media, Krishna also claimed that her husband was attached with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Also Read | Smuggled liquor reaches dry Bihar via UPApparently, a user raised the issue before the PMO, which sought a detailed report from the state police headquarters (SPH). As of now, no complaint has been lodged against Krishna’s husband though an inquiry by the Bhagalpur police revealed that Krishna’s husband, Roshan Krishna, is not a police officer. Krishna herself ranked 13 rank in the Bihar public service commission and was a state topper among women. Krishna has blocked her social media accounts since and has removed the controversial pictures from the site. Bhagalpur city SP Swarn Prabhat said a detailed inquiry is going on. Senior officials at the SPH have expressed dismay at the pictures and have termed it as an abuse of IPS emblem. “Does this not show disrespect to the uniform?” asked an officer official. A retired BPS officer-cum-former general secretary of Bihar police association, KK Jha said, “It is a violation of the uniform code. This tendency has been growing and needs to be checked. This could attract disciplinary action against her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-police-officer-in-soup-over-husband-posing-as-cop-on-social-media-101628135391445.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light rainfall likely today, says IMD||After few days of dry weather, Delhi may receive light rainfall on Thursday. A good spell of rain, however, is likely on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast. According to MeT officials, the monsoon trough had shifted towards south resulting in more rain in Rajasthan and adjoining areas while Delhi is receiving only light showers. “The trough is likely to come close to Delhi by Thursday evening. A ‘moderate to heavy’ spell of showers is expected on Friday,” the official said.Also Read | PM Narendra Modi speaks to CM Mamata Banerjee over flood situation in BengalDelhi gets most of its rainfall in August, he added. However, the first week of August so far has only received patchy rainfall. The minimum temperature recorded at Safdarjung on Thursday was 26.5 degrees Celsius, considered normal for this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-rainfall-likely-today-says-imd-101628134911336.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Form independent lawyers’ panel to protect children’s interests: Bar assn to family court in Mumbai||The Family Court Bar Association has requested the principal judge of the family court in Bandra to form a panel of independent lawyers to protect the interest of children whose parents are involved in bitter legal fights.The family court bar association has submitted a representation to the principal judge after noticing that in several matters reaching the family court, children are either neglected or used as a tool by one parent to settle personal scores.After the family court reopened post the Covid-induced lockdown, it witnessed a surge in the petitions related to conflicts between spouses with regards to access to a child / children, and a family court had to appoint independent lawyers in at least two matters for protecting rights of the children of spouses involved in bitter matrimonial discord.The Family Court Bar Association on Tuesday wrote to the principal judge, family court, to form a panel of independent lawyers to protect the interests of children.“In many cases, issues related to maintenance and access to children) are avoided and it is affecting the upbringing of the children. At times the children are used as a tool to settle their personal score in matrimonial proceedings,” said the representation.Also Read | Number linked to ex-Supreme Court judge, lawyers on latest Pegasus list“It is observed that the children are the silent sufferers and mostly not heard and not represented parties in the matrimonial proceedings. In many cases children are at high risk to suffer from Parenting Alienation Syndrome (PAS) which is affecting the mental health and psychological aspects of children (sic),” the association’s letter added. The association believes that an independent children’s lawyer would help to protect the child’s interest in maintenance, custody /access and other related issues to the welfare and upbringing of the children. The association has also suggested a host of guidelines for the independent children’s lawyer and those include that they shall be in regular touch with the child before every date and shall express the child’s views before the Court. The independent children’s lawyer, according to the association, should look into the academic performance of the child, and in case of child sexual abuse the independent children’s lawyer shall visit Child Welfare Committee (CWC) or police or other authorities concerned and report it to the court. The association also suggested that the independent children’s lawyer can get the help of a child psychologist if a child needs one. The concept of appointing independent children’s lawyer began in December 2019 when family court judge PL Palsingankar for the first time ordered appointment of an independent lawyer for a seven year old boy whose parents failed to come to terms over the issue of access to the child during school vacations. The court said independent lawyers should be appointed for children, especially where there are allegations of abuse or neglect in relation to the child / children, in highly contested matters, where there are allegations of tutoring the children and mental health issues alleged to exist in relation to one or both of the parents.While describing the role of the independent children’s lawyer, the court said, “the independent children’s lawyer shall give his/her frank opinion about of the health physical and mental of child/children, progress of child/children academic and extra curricular, attachment with parents, use of the child/ children, independent opinion whether child/children is/are tutored or brain washed by particular parent either custodial or non custodial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/form-independent-lawyers-panel-to-protect-children-s-interests-bar-assn-to-family-court-in-mumbai-101628134611155.html
05-08-2021||Other||8 arrested in Rajasthan for making obscene videos, extorting money from people||The Rajasthan police have arrested eight people from Alwar for blackmailing and extorting money. The arrested accused have confessed they extorted ₹15 crore from people across the country and an American in Texas. The police has recovered ₹1.87 lakh cash, a luxury car, 12 mobile phones and three ATM cards from the accused.Alwar superintendent of police Tejaswini Gautam said they learnt about a mobile number through which was being used to cheat people. They formed a special team and one of the constables sent a message to that number. While chatting with the constable, the accused made a video of the screen showing an obscene video, later threatening to make the video viral, and seeking ₹10,000 from the constable.Also Read | Heavy rain warning for west MP, east Rajasthan and Uttarakhand for todayGautam said the mobile’s location was traced and a car was intercepted near Rupbas bridge. Three of the accused -- Sajid (20), Ashfaq (20) and Rashid (21) were in the car and the constable’s video was on one of their phones. Interrogation revealed five more people were involved in the racket. The police then arrested Shohaib (28), Saif (26), Akram (33), Moin (23) and Moin (20). The SP said that gang first trapped people on social media. Then they shared obscene clips with their victims and made their videos watching them. They demanded money with the threat of making those clips viral if not paid.Gautam said the arrested accused have accepted duping people of ₹15 crore. They also confessed to making a nude video of a person from Texas city in America and many people.They also claimed that a sizeable chunk of the population in their village is involved in such a crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-arrested-in-rajasthan-for-making-obscene-videos-extorting-money-from-people-101628133591100.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Capital adds 67 fresh cases, no Covid deaths||No Covid-19 death was recorded in the national capital on Wednesday, for the fifth time since the fourth wave of infections subsided in the city. Delhi also added 67 fresh cases of the infection, at a positivity rate of 0.09%, showed data shared by the city health department.The test positivity rate is an important metric to understand the spread of an infection in a region.Experts recommend a number below 5% for a two-week period before an infection can be considered under control in a region.This statistic in the city has been below this threshold for 76 days now, and below 1% for 66.The city recorded no Covid-19 deaths on July 18, July 24, July 29 and August 2 as well, showed data from the state government.The second wave swept the city between April-May, and left thousands dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-adds-67-fresh-cases-no-covid-deaths-101628117190457.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Lieutenant Governor’s Covid meet sparks fresh row with state govt||A review meeting convened by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday regarding the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has led to a fresh conflict between the elected government in Delhi and the Raj Bhavan, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying the LG holding parallel meetings without informing the state government is “against the Constitution”.The LG on Wednesday tweeted about a Covid-19 review meeting with chief secretary Vijay Dev, additional chief secretary (home and health) Bhupinder S Bhalla, divisional commissioner Sanjiv Khirwar, Delhi Metro chief Mangu Singh and other senior officials, and the directions issued to the officials.Kejriwal responded to the LG’s tweet, and requested him to avoid direct meetings with officials of the Delhi government.“It is against the Constitution and the Supreme Court Constitution bench judgment to hold such parallel meetings behind the back of the elected government. We are a democracy. People have elected a council of ministers. If you have any questions, please ask your ministers. Avoid holding direct meetings with officers. Let’s respect democracy, sir,” the CM tweeted.Officials in the CM’s office said no ministers were asked to attend the meeting.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia questioned the LG’s authority to convene such a meeting.“Despite the Constitution and Supreme Court judgment, and by cornering the elected government, what kind of Covid-19 management is happening here? The LG nowhere has the right to call officers separately behind the chief minister’s back. Then in what capacity and with what objective was this meeting called?”Sisodia tweeted.The LG’s office did not respond to requests for comment.During the meeting, the LG expressed concerns over reported violation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in the Delhi Metro and other public transport. Accordingly, the divisional commissioner, Delhi Police and MD, DMRC were advised to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are strictly enforced, the LG office said.In a letter to Baijal on July 17, Sisodia alleged that over the past three months, the LG has been calling bureaucrats to his office, issuing directions and “putting pressure” on them to implement his orders. He termed it as a “murder of democracy” and “humbly requested” Baijal to desist from such “activities”. “Under the Constitution, the Delhi LG can take decisions only on police, land and public order,” Sisodia added.“Over the last few months, you have been calling prominent officials of the Delhi government to your office and issuing directions related to work of their departments. I have also come to know that you are also issuing directions to the officials on subjects that come under the purview of the elected government, without even keeping the ministers in the loop, and later officials of the L-G secretariat are pressuring the bureaucrats to implement such orders,” Sisodia said.On July 22, Baijal wrote back to Sisodia that he should not have made the letter public, and rather taken up concerns over administrative issues over a personal discussion. The LG shared details of meetings held by his office in the past three months – which involved issues such as Covid-19 management, implementation of public welfare schemes such as ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’, water supply and housing – adding that Sisodia’s letter did not specify any instance of “obstruction”, and accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government of looking at his efforts through a “biased lens”.He further said that some of the meetings with the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana regarding shortage of water supply in Delhi were chaired on Kejriwal’s request.“Several complicated administrative issues involve multiple departments and it is needless to say that on matters of public importance the opinion of the elected government should be in favour of cooperation and harmony… It is unfortunate that my efforts with clean intent towards public welfare were seen through a biased lens and misinterpreted. In the end, I want to repeat that I shall continue fulfilling my constitutional responsibilities aimed at serving the people of Delhi,” said Baijal’s letter to Sisodia, written in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lieutenant-governor-s-covid-meet-sparks-fresh-row-with-state-govt-101628116847771.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Raju’s paratha corner||A poly bag filled with tomatoes and lemons is hanging from a tree trunk. Another bag has green chilli pickles. The air is smelling of pre-sliced onions and hot steaming parathas. Stall owner Raju is absent-mindedly stirring the matar (pea) dish inside a brass cauldron.This pavement landmark in south Delhi’s Panchsheel Park has been in existence continuously for 30 long years. “It has always been here, on this same spot,” asserts Raju in a low voice. His late father had founded it, after moving to Delhi from a village in Badayun, UP. He taught Raju how to make the matar subzi and paratha from scratch, including the pickles. The elder brother runs a similar stall in Khan Market.In his 40s, Raju is dressed formally in grey pants and a collared shirt with sleeves rolled up to the elbows. He is very slim; his arms are so thin that they have the flatness of a two-dimensional figure.It’s late morning and the Outer Ring Road is busy with speeding cars. A man appears at the stall and wordlessly sits under the tree. He seems to be a regular patron, for Raju starts making a fresh paratha for him without any prompt. A little plastic bag is filled with mashed potatoes “for those who want aloo paratha.”Now Raju lifts the handkerchief from the brass cauldron, and scoops out a ladle of matar in a bowl. The dish looks boringly bland, as if it had been boiled and left at that. “But it’s salted.” Raju lightly sprinkles some masalas on the serving portion, tosses in some chopped tomatoes and onions, squeezes half a lemon, sprinkles chopped dhaniya and hands the meal to the man sitting on his haunches.He now turns to face the road and, while staring at the passing cars, remarks that he gets both chhote (small) and bade (big) people as customers.What does he mean by chhote?“Those who are labourers and guards, and who work hard.”And bade?“Those who are educated, and live in big houses.”Raju considers himself in the former category, “because I don’t live in a big house, and I work very hard.”He prepares a new serving. This time the paratha is stuffed with mashed potatoes. It’s delicious and feels as light on the palate as the matar. The green chilli pickle is homey. Raju’s stall opens daily from 7am to 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-raju-s-paratha-corner-101628110889018.html
05-08-2021||Other||Cops told us to not to shut shops on August 5: Kashmir traders||Traders in Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar have alleged that they have been asked by the J&K Police to not observe a shutdown on August 5, the second anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370.The allegations come amid J&K Police terming fake, a statement released in the name of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani in which people were asked to observe ‘civil curfew’ on August 5 and also on India’s Independence Day on August 15. “As per family sources of SAS Geelani, the tweet is fake and issued by someone from Pakistan. Police are taking action against those who are circulating it to instigate violence. An FIR under relevant sections of Unlawful Activities Prevention has been registered at Budgam police station,” police said in a tweet.However, many traders and shopkeepers in Srinagar, including those in and around the city centre, Lal Chowk, said they have been asked not to shut shops on Thursday. “Police on Tuesday told our market’s president that shops should remain open on Thursday. If someone fails to do so, he will be himself responsible for the consequences,” said a trader of the market opposite Kashmir Haat.He said that on Wednesday, police officials visited the market and reiterated that shops should be kept open on Thursday. “August 5 is a day when our special status was snatched away from us. Our conscience won’t allow us to open shops,” he said.Shopkeepers from Goni Khan and Maharaj Bazaar also reiterated the claims.On July 8, a spontaneous shutdown was observed in parts of Kashmir on the fifth death anniversary of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani. While separatists would call a strike on Wani’s anniversary but after the crackdown on them and revocation of J&K special status on August 5, 2019, there have been no calls from them for strike.The allegations come after a senior police officer had told a public gathering in north Kashmir recently that “peace has now returned to Kashmir and the shopkeepers should not down shutters on August 5 and 15”.Kashmir Chamber of Industries and Commerce president Sheikh Ashiq confirmed that traders have been getting calls from police. “I also came to know that there is some exercise going on though I didn’t get any call from the police personally. Traders called me saying that they have been called by the police. We are business people and we should not have been brought into this,” he said.Messages to director general of police Dilbag Singh and inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar elicited no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-told-us-to-not-to-shut-shops-on-2-anniversary-of-abrogation-of-art-370-kashmir-traders-101628111568717.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s monsoon brekkkie: Drive through, foodies!||Up on a cloudy morning and feeling lazy to cook? Well, why venture into the kitchen when the romantic weather beckons for pet puja while on a ride? Fighting the fear of Covid-19, Delhiites are out and about to revisit some popular food joints for a scrumptious breakfast in the comfort of their vehicle. “Weekend night pe party karne ke baad chhole bhature for breakfast seemed perfect,” says Chhaya Dhawan, a management consultant, who was spotted at one of these joints. And there are others who are indulging in bedmi puri, kachori, parathas as well as Dalgona coffee at several places across Delhi-NCR. Here’s where denizens love to grab drive through breakfast, when it’s monsoon:Wake up! Coffee or tea? The aroma of hand beaten coffee permeates in the humid air, giving a perfect reason to wake up on a lazy monsoon morning. And if the same fragrance makes you crave for coffee/tea, head to this place that’s famous for its cold coffee. Food blogger Nikhil Chawla says, “They have been in the market for many years and have been serving hand beaten coffee since long. Even before the Dalgona trend came in, they were already serving it. They add chilled milk in front of you, without using any machine beaters, and that’s what makes it different and delicious!” Where: Huda Market, Sector 56, Gurugram Binge on Bedmi Puri If you are a fan of the typical regional Indian breakfast dish, Bedmi Puri, this is the place for you! “Come monsoon and the urge to dig into break pakoda and kachori is so high that it’s difficult to resist,” says Ravi Thakur, a businessman from Gurugram, adding, “For such snack cravings, we mostly go to this place called Baljee, which is a very old and renowned shop. But what pulls me and my family there the most is a breakfast of freshly prepared Bedmi Puri that’s serves hot to our car! It’s a staple weekend breakfast for us, and the taste is just amazing, much better than what you get at many restaurants in the Millennium City.”Where: Sadar Bazar, Roshan Pura, GurugramPunjabi style brekkie Want a breakfast that leaves no space for lunch? Drive to this popular spot in south Delhi, for chhole bhature. “We are so happy to have the rush back,” says Naresh Soni, owner of Baba Nagpal Corner, informing, “We start making chhole bhature at 7.30am aur continuously 3pm tak banate rehte hain kyunki customer aate hain subah me, specially during the breakfast hour.” To ensure that the cars parked around this food joint don’t let to a traffic jam, often a personal guard is employed to clear the traffic. Arpita Tripathi, a software engineer who is regular at this eatery, says, “They have clearly the best Chhole Bhature in south Delhi! Eating here on Sundays is a ritual that my brother and I’ve been following since eternity. It’s like soul food to us! And the best is that it’s delivered by one of their staff members right to our car at the noise of a honk and a gesture to place an order.” Where: Nirmal Puri, Lajpat Nagar IVSouth Indian fareFor all your South Indian fans out there, we know that the day doesn’t begin without pipping hot idli, vada or garam dosa. And if you are craving a delicious plateful of these south Indian delicacies, then look nowhere else as Kesavan Kutty’s stall is the one good old place that has been a fav since generations! “I love having dosa and vadas with piping hot sambhar from this stall,” says Ramit Ahuja, a chartered accountant from Karol Bagh, adding, “It once used to be a daily affair for me and my colleagues. We would come here every morning for breakfast, and gorge on these freshly made delicacies it in our car. I missed this ritual during the lockdown period.” Where: Shop No 6, Jantar Mantar RoadShah Rukh Khan’s favourite, too! A landmark for those who have been in Delhi for decades, this spot is known to be one of the favourites of actor Shah Rukh Khan; during his days in the Capital. And it comes as no surprise for who says no to freshly tossed paranthas! Now located right below the Moolchand Metro Station, this place is frequently visited by early morning walkers as well as travellers from other cities alongside locals. Divya Sanchit, a teacher from east Delhi says, “I had heard so much about this place that when we decided to start eating out after lockdown, my husband and I headed here. We saw a video of this place showing how one can be safe in one’s car and yet enjoy an amazing aloo paratha or egg paratha, and just love every bite of it.” Mahinder Khattar, manager of the eatery, adds, “Lockdown ke baad ab crowd phirse badhne laga hai. Sab breakfast ke leeye aate hai aur car mein ya scooty pe baithke hi khaate hai. We are following all precautions and are happy to see that people are back.” Rajma Chawal tales Those on the lookout for a brunch love to halt at Jain Chawal Wale on route to a romantic drive in the rains. Akshat Jain, manager, says, ”We open at 7 in the morning and have people coming in for breakfast. Most of them opt for rajma rice, kadhi rice and shahi paneer with rice. We are also in the process of getting our staff vaccinated and so far 70% of them have got the shot.” Where: Baba Kharak Singh Marg, P Block, Connaught PlaceCrisp kachoris, served garma garam!And how can kachori and bread pakoda lovers be missed in this breakfast trail? Bhai Ji Kachori is your go-to place! Manika Verma, a teacher from Shalimar Bagh says, “My husband and me are big kachori fans, and this is our typical breakfast on any holiday. We’ve been driving down to this place for years for the outstanding kachoris they serve with aalo ki sabji. It tastes heavenly on days when Delhi is drenched in the rains!” Where: Deep Cinema Road, Wazirpur Village, Ashok ViharAuthor tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-monsoon-brekkkie-drive-through-foodies-101628111547128.html
05-08-2021||Other||243 new Covid cases, 4 deaths in Himachal||Himachal on Wednesday recorded 243 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,06,832 while death toll mounted to 3,511 after four patients succumbed to the contagion. Mandi reported the highest 72 infections followed by 45 in Chamba. Twenty-five cases were reported in Shimla, 21 in Kangra, 18 in Hamirpur, 16 each in Bilaspur and Kullu, 11 in Una, seven in Solan, four in Sirmaur, three in Kinnaur and two in Kullu. The active cases have climbed to 1,508 while recoveries reached 2,01,773 after 145 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/243-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-himachal-101628111148626.html
05-08-2021||Other||HP assembly: Oppn walks out alleging backdoor appointments in govt jobs||Shimla Pandemonium continued in Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha on the second consecutive day as the opposition Congress created uproar and later staged a walkout alleging backdoor appointments in government jobs. As soon as the House assembled, Congress legislators Asha Kumari and Inderdutt Lakhanpal sought adjournment of the proceedings under Rule-17 demanding a policy for outsourced employees. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, however, rejected their demand after which the opposition started to create a ruckus.The opposition members alleged that there were irregularities in the appointments and jobs were being given through backdoor. Speaker said the adjournment motion notice given by the opposition members has been rejected. To this, the Congress members started raising slogans.Amid the din, the speaker announced the question hour after which opposition staged a walkout.CM slams CongressChief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur condemned the opposition and said they were behaving irresponsibly by disrupting the question hour. He said he was hoping that the opposition would hold a fruitful discussion today, but it didn’t happen. The CM said the Congress had given notice of adjournment motion on Covid last time and the government had got it discussed. But Congress is giving adjournment motion notice on every issue and it is not right. He said whatever recruitment is being done on outsource basis is being done in accordance with rule. He said the Congress was trying to derive political mileage. Taking a jibe at the opposition party, he said there was a leadership void in the party and its legislators are indulging in one-upmanship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-assembly-oppn-walks-out-alleging-backdoor-appointments-in-govt-jobs-101628110968587.html
05-08-2021||Other||J&K saw 77% dip in Covid cases in July, but it’s time to be more cautious||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 cases in July dropped by 77% while deaths due to the disease decreased by 86% despite an increase of tests by 25% as compared to June.Experts say the cases may continue to fall for a few weeks after which it may rise due to lifting of restrictions.According to the official data, the UT recorded 5,800 infections and 55 deaths in July while in June, it had seen 25,197 cases and 416 deaths.In July, there was a consistent decrease in test positivity rate (TPR) -- the percentage of tests that turn out to be positive out of the total tests conducted during the period. Between July 1 and 10, the TPR stood at 0.46%, between July 11 and 20, it was at 0.28% and from July 21 and 31, the figure stood at 0.23%. The daily cases went below 100 after July 20 to a low of 63 on July 23 in the second wave.However, in the past 10 days, the UT has seen a slight increase in cases. The TPR from July 25 to August 03 has seen a slight increase of 0.24%. Over the last 10 days, the daily cases have been fluctuating between 100 and 160.Experts say the situation may remain like this for two to three weeks after which, the cases are expected to rise again as restrictions have been eased.“We are exactly at the position where we were in February when the first wave had ebbed. The daily cases will hover around 100, sometimes 20 up and sometimes 20 down and this will change after two-three weeks when the cases will again rise,” said Dr Owais H Dar, general secretary of Doctors Association of Kashmir.“As restrictions have been eased and everything is open, people are hardly wearing masks. The virus variants are also evolving. These will obviously contribute to the emergence of the third wave,” he said.The overall test positivity rate (TPR) in the month of July dropped to 0.32% while it had been 1.80% in June.In May, when the second Covid-19 wave peaked, the TPR was 8.77% with the month recording 1.14 lakh cases and 1,625 deaths.There has been a consistent increase in the average monthly number of tests in the past three months. The UT conducted 17.58 lakh tests in July – over 25 % more than June when 13.93 lakh tests were performed. On an average, 56,700 people were tested daily in July against 46,400 in June.Dr Owais said he is hopeful the third wave won’t be severe.“The one positive this time is that large part of our population is vaccinated. So we expect that the peak this time won’t be very high. But it will also depend on the mutations of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-saw-77-dip-in-covid-cases-in-july-but-it-s-time-to-be-more-cautious-101628110728670.html
05-08-2021||Other||Still no trace of missing pilots in Kathua chopper crash||The fate of two Indian Army pilots — a lieutenant colonel and a captain — remained unclear on Wednesday, a day after their Rudra helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam lake in Kathua district. MARCOS commandos of Indian Navy were called in on Wednesday to intensify the searches in the deep waters of the Ranjit Sagar dam, around 30 kms from Pathankot. MARCOS is a special-forces unit of the Indian Navy, usually called in for conducting special operations. “Searches are on but there is no clue so far. Neither the wreckage nor the missing pilots have been traced as yet. The search operations were resumed on Wednesday morning. Marcos divers of the Indian Navy were called in from Delhi,” said Kathua district police chief SSP Ramesh Kotwal. The crash occurred on Tuesday morning around 10.30. Rescue operations were suspended at night. On Tuesday, the search parties had found some chopper skids, fuel tanks, stabiliser, helmets and the identity card of one of the two pilots. The Rudra helicopter, built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake, said a second official. The helicopter belonged to the army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which earlier lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021. The depth of the crash site has been measured to be over 200-ft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/still-no-trace-of-missing-pilots-in-kathua-chopper-crash-101628110488896.html
05-08-2021||Other||August 5 is seen as a day of disempowerment: JKPC||Jammu Kashmir Peoples Conference, led by Sajjad Lone, on Wednesday said August 5 will perpetually be remembered as a dark day and a day of disempowerment in the history of J&K.“August 5th is seen as a day of disempowerment, a reminder of the humiliation that people of J&K were subjected to,” party spokesperson Adnan Ashraf Mir said in a statement.Adnan said the decisions taken on August 5, 2019, are spiteful and contrary to the ideals and values of a democracy and federal character of the Indian State.“These decisions contravene the very ideas of justice and dignity that form the core of the political system and constitutional philosophy of the republic of India.”Adnan said these decisions were thrusted forcefully upon the populace of the region and lack acceptance or legitimacy amongst the masses.“Confusing the quiescence of the people of J&K as an acquiescence or approval to the decision taken on August 5th is gross misreading of the situation drummed up by sections of the media and intelligentsia. Reality and perception on the ground is diametrically opposite to the make-believe assessments that do not take the point of view of people into consideration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/august-5-is-seen-as-a-day-of-disempowerment-jkpc-101628110308620.html
05-08-2021||Other||Jammu mourns demise of its daughter Padma Sachdev||Modern day Dogri language poet, noted author and Padma Shri recipient Padma Sachdev passed away at a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday. She was 81. Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages (JKAACL) condoled the demise of renowned personality. A condolence meeting was held which was addressed by secretary of the Academy, Rahul Pandey, who termed Padma’s death a big loss to Dogri literature in particular and Indian literature in general. Expressing his deep condolences to the bereaved family, Pandey prayed for eternal peace to the departed soul, and said Sachdev’s absence will be long felt in Jammu and Kashmir. Additional secretary, academy, Dr AS Amn, recalled his long personal association with Padma Sachdev, and said she was a member of various high-powered committees of the academy from time to time. She was a regular contributor to its Dogri and Hindi publications. Dr Javaid Rahi, chief editor, stated that being a writer par excellence, Padma Sachdev was awarded with 4th highest civilian award Padma Shri in 2001, besides Sarswati Award, Sohad Award and Kabir Samman for poetry for the year 2007-08 given by Government of Madhya Pradesh. Sachdev was born in Purmandal area of Jammu in 1940 in the house of Sanskrit Scholar Prof Jai Dev Badu. Sachdev also wrote the lyrics for the song ‘Mera Chhota Sa Ghar Baar’ from the 1973 Hindi film Prem Parbat. She also penned the lyrics for two songs for the 1978 Hindi film, Aankhon Dekhi, including the famous duet Sona Re, Tujhe Kaise Milun sung by Mohammad Rafi and Sulakshana Pandit. She worked with All India Radio in Jammu and Mumbai and shifted base to New Delhi and Mumbai after marrying singer Surinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-mourns-demise-of-its-daughter-padma-sachdev-101628109948855.html
05-08-2021||Other||Rain-related mishaps claimed 222 lives in HP this monsoon||Heavy rains and floods in Himachal have so far claimed 222 lives, rendered 12 persons missing and destroyed 1,152 houses and cowsheds this monsoon, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur stated in the assembly on Monday. He was replying to a resolution, ‘Losses to farmers due to erratic weather pattern caused by climate change’ moved by members Inder Dutt Lakhanpal, Balbir Verma, Vishal Nehria and Jia Lal under Rule 130. The minister said climate change was affecting not just Himachal and India but the whole world. “Due to climate change, there is unseasonal rain, hailstorm and snowfall which have led to loss of lives and damage to property and crops. Earlier, cloudbursts were reported in very few areas, however, off late the phenomenon has become more frequent and it is hard to predict where it would occurr. Many reasons can be attributed to these extreme weather events -- deforestation, urbanisation, hydro projects and mining in the name of development,” said the minister. He said famers and horticulturists have suffered a loss ₹354 crore due to hailstorm this season and a report regarding this has been submitted to the centre. Thakur said farmers have also suffered losses due to drought-like situation in the last one-and-a half years while many drinking water supply schemes have dried up. He said the government is providing all possible help to people affected by flashfloods and other natural calamities. He said the chief minister has provided assistance of ₹10 crore for relief works after Batseri landslide incident of Kinnaur. He said schemes worth crores are expected to be approved soon for the Centre for disaster mitigation by channelisation of rivers and rivulets. Earlier, initiating the debate on resolution, Barsar MLA Inder Dutt Lakhanpal said the farmers of Himachal had suffered huge losses due to drought in summers and now the heavy rains have damaged their crops. Dharamshala legislator Vishal Nehria said heavy monsoon rains triggered floods in Dharamsala, causing loss of life and property. He demanded relief to the affected people and rehabilitation of the displaced.Balbir Veram said the orchards in Chaupal of Shimla have been washed away due to heavy rains. He said orchards can be saved by constructing check dams on water streams. Participating in the debate, legislator Jia Lal said many roads have been damaged in his constituency, Bharmour, due to rains and floods. He said electricity and water were also disrupted and 23 people died in rain-related incidents in his constituency. He demanded to expedite the work on restoration of bridges, roads, electricity and water supply schemes. Kinnaur MLA Jagat Singh Negi said the situation was bad in Lahaul-Spiti and people had to spend two days in a cave after the cloudburst. He questioned why the administration didn’t stop vehicular movement on the road at Batseri while rocks were already falling before the deadly landslide. He demanded an increase in the compensation amount for people affected by the disasters. Pawan Kajal raised the issue of damage caused by heavy rains in Kangra. He told that the water of Manjhi Khad caused great damage to the crops. A total of 11 members participated in the debate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rainrelated-mishaps-claimed-222-lives-in-hp-this-monsoon-101628109768778.html
05-08-2021||Other||Supplementary chargesheet filed against Srinagar ex-deputy mayor in Kehwa Group case||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has produced supplementary chargesheet against bank officials and the former deputy mayor of Srinagar municipal corporation (MC) in a case related to Kehwa Group. An ACB spokesman, in a statement, said a case was registered in the PS ACB Anantnag for offences of fraud, cheating, illegal appropriation of bank loan for unrelated business activities and misappropriation of back-ended subsidy against Sheikh Imran, director of Kehwah Square Pvt Ltd, and bank officials for misuse of official position as public servants. “During investigation, it was established that for the establishment of integrated CA storage project with a total capacity of 5,000 MT eligible for the cost of ₹3,300 lakh under erstwhile Horticulture Mission for North East and Himalayan States (HMNEH) scheme on the basis of certificate given by the bank, ₹1,650 lakh at 50% eligible project cost (EPC) was sanctioned in favour of the accused company,” the ACB said in a statement, adding that main chargesheet in the case was filed on August 31, 2020 against Sheikh Imran (ex-deputy mayor, Srinagar) director Kehwah Square Pvt Ltd, and other bank officials before the court of special judge anti-corruption Pulwama for conspiracy and misappropriation of bank funds. The ACB produced supplementary chargesheet against in-service bank official Aijaz Ahmad Sheikh, the then in-charge credit, J&K Bank, business unit Hari Singh High Street, Srinagar, before the special judge, anti-corruption, Pulwama. The supplementary chargesheet was produced after sanction for launching prosecution against the said bank official Aijaz Ahmad Sheikh was accorded by the competent Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supplementary-chargesheet-filed-against-srinagar-ex-deputy-mayor-in-kehwa-group-case-101628109349120.html
05-08-2021||Other||NIA arrests 4 operatives in ISIS Kerala module case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted searches at five locations in J&K and Karnataka in ISIS module case of Kerala and arrested four terror operatives.They have been identified as Obaid Hamid of Bemina in Srinagar, Muzammil Hassan Bhat of Bandipora in Kashmir, Ammar Abdul Rahman of Ullal Mangalore and Shankar Venkatesh Perumal aka Ali Muaviya of Bangalore.NIA had registered a suo-moto case against seven known and other unknown accused persons under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on March 5 this year pertaining to terrorist activities of one Mohammed Ameen aka Abu Yahya of Kerala and his associates, who have been allegedly running various ISIS propaganda channels on different social media platforms for propagating ISIS ideology and recruiting new members.Earlier, NIA had conducted searches and had arrested to three accused persons namely Mohammad Ameen, Rahees Rasheed and Mushab Anwar in this case in March.During investigation, it was revealed that Ameen had visited Kashmir in March, 2020, for Hijrah (a religious migration) and raised funds in association with Kashmir-based accused Mohammad Waqar Lone aka Wilson Kashmiri and his associates.Chargesheet against 6 in LeM conspiracy caseNIA on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against six terrorists for conspiracy by Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM), working at the behest of Jaish-e- Mohammed to carry out terrorist activities in J&K.They have been identified as Hidayat Ullah Malik, son of Abdul Hamid Malik of Sharadpura, Shopian, Baseerat-ul-Ain, daughter of Nazir Ahmad Wagay of Ganowapura in Shopian, Jan Mohammad Teeli, son of Abdul Rashid Teeli of Kokernag in Anantnag, Mudabir Manzoor son of Manzoor Ahmed Wagay of Arshipura in Shopian, Mushtaq Alam, son of Mahfuj Alam of Deobahuara in Chhapra of Bihar and Jawed Alam, son of Mahfuj Alam of Chhapra in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-arrests-4-operatives-in-isis-kerala-module-case-101628109049085.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Only CM can meet your demands, we’re just a link: Punjab govt panel to Bargari Morcha leaders||The committee constituted by the Punjab government for holding negotiations with the Bargari Insaaf Morcha leaders on Wednesday claimed that only the chief minister can meet their demands as it does not have the mandate to do the needful. The panel comprising cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kikki Dhillon had approached the morcha in December 2018, announcing that the government had accepted all their demands. On this, Akal Takht parallel acting jathedar and morcha head Dhian Singh Mand had announced to end the six-month protest at Bargari village of Faridkot district where the Guru Granth Sahib was desecrated.Mand, who had “summoned” the committee to the Akal Takht on Monday, has accused the state government of deceiving them. The panel members did not appear before him. In a two-page open letter to Mand, the committee members wrote, “Ensuring punishment to the culprits of the sacrilege and police firing incidents is the job of the state home department which is under the chief minister. Therefore, only he has full information of the progress in the case.” They added, “The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), managements of Takht Patna Sahib and Takht Hazur Sahib and other elected Sikh bodies do not recognise you as the Akal Takht jathedar. In such a situation, there is a likelihood of SGPC employees clashing with you if you hold a meeting there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-cm-can-meet-your-demands-we-re-just-a-link-punjab-govt-panel-to-bargari-morcha-leaders-101628106768155.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 1 crore dose mark, half of target population vaccinated||Punjab has crossed the milestone of administering 1 crore anti-coronavirus doses. With this, around 50% of the target population in the state has been vaccinated at least with the first dose. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “We crossed the 1 crore mark on Monday. As per the state’s own assessment, we have nearly 2.4 crore beneficiaries aged above 18 who have to be vaccinated as per the present criteria.” However, the state continued to perform poorly on ensuring speedy and timely second dose for the beneficiaries as the data shows that only 25 lakh people have been vaccinated with both the doses. “Ideally, the figure of fully vaccinated people should have been at least 60 lakh by now. We are going slow on the second dose as we are focusing too much on the first jab which is exhausting most of the supply being received from Centre,” a senior official admitted. Following the Centre’s recent letter to the Punjab government, it was decided to consume 80% of the fresh supply for the second jab. But the district health authorities continued to focus more on the first dose. “Of the total first dose beneficiaries, 97 lakh were registered through the Union health ministry’s CoWIN app whereas the rests were registered on the state’s COVA application. And of the total administered doses, 88 lakh are of Covishield while 12.4 lakh are of Covaxin,” the nodal officer said. Nearly 14,000 doses of Sputnik-V have also been given in the state, he added. Punjab will get 22 lakh vaccine doses this month, according to an official communiqué received from the Centre. Last month, the state had got 21 lakh doses. “This month, we plan to use at least 16 lakh jabs for the second dose,” an official said. Among the districts, Ludhiana administered maximum 14.50 lakh doses followed by Jalandhar (9.66 lakh), Hoshiarpur (8.88 lakh), MOhali (7.79 lakh), and Amritsar (7.35 lakh). Mansa, Barnala, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka districts are lagging behind in the vaccination drive. Also, nearly 55% of the vaccinated population is male and 45% female.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-crosses-1-crore-dose-mark-half-of-target-population-vaccinated-101628106592701.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Row over heritage structure: SGPC task force, Sikh activists clash at Golden Temple construction site||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force and some Sikh activists clashed on Wednesday at the construction site of jora ghar (where shoes are kept) in the Golden Temple complex where remains of an old building structure were found during excavation recently. On Wednesday, Sikh Sadbhawna Dal head and former Golden Temple hazuri ragi Baldev Singh Wadala sent an 11-member jatha to the site to oppose the ongoing construction work through Heritage Street but police stopped them midway. They were apprehending that the structure declared as ‘historic’ by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) may be damaged due to the construction work being carried out by the Kar Sewa volunteers. But when 5-6 of the activists managed to reach the site to lodge their protest, the SGPC task force employees thrashed them. Turbans of the activists were also tossed in the melee. The SGPC employees also snatched and damaged the cameras and mobile phones of journalists covering the scuffle. A woman reporter of a web channel alleged that the SGPC men misbehaved with her and snatched her mobile phone and did not return it.When informed about the development, a group led by Wadala started marching towards the site but was stopped by the police. On this, they sat on a dharna there. “The administration assured us that the work will be stopped in view of the historic importance of the structure till final decision is not taken on its preservation. But the work is going on unabated. We will keep on sending our jathas till the work is not stopped,” said Wadala.“If the sangat (devotees) starts gathering at the site to oppose the ongoing construction and the situation turns out of control, the administration will be responsible,” he added.Also, Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira held a meeting with representatives of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal to break the impasse, but to no avail. “The portion of the site where the structure was found is left untouched and the work is going on in the rest of the area. The heritage structure will not be damaged,” said Khaira.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-heritage-structure-sgpc-task-force-sikh-activists-clash-at-golden-temple-construction-site-101628106591520.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar hospital firing: Gangster Rana Kandowalia succumbs to injuries; Bhagwanpuria, aides booked||Gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning, a day after he was shot at by four unidentified persons in an Amritsar-based private hospital where he had gone to enquire about his cousin sister’s health. The commissionerate police have booked notorious gangster Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, his associates Jagroshan Singh and Money Rayya besides two unidentified persons in Kandowalia’s killing. The case was registered under sections 302 (murder) and 442 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code. Kandowalia, who was facing nearly 15 cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder, was out on bail since 2019 and even got married in the interim period. He hailed from Kandowalia village in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division. The police said the assailants pumped six bullets into Kandowalia’s body night after barging into the hospital on Tuesday. During the firing, his close associate Tejbir Singh Teji, a leader of the Shiromani Akali Dal’s student wing Student Organisation of India (SOI), also received three bullet injuries, but his condition is stated to be stable. A hospital guard also sustained a bullet injury on his leg. The police said Tejbir also fired from his pistol, injuring one of the assailants who managed to escape. In the CCTV footage procured from the hospital, the assailants are seen fleeing from the hospital with Teji firing at them. FB post claims ‘responsibility’An unverified Facebook post on an account named after Bhagwanpuria claimed that the gangster and his “brother” got executed Kandowalia’s murder. The post claimed that one Mandeep Batala, also a history sheeter, killed Kandowalia at the instance of Bhagwanpuria for supporting gangsters Vicky Gounder and Devinder Bambiha in the past. Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “We are examining the authenticity of the post. So far, we have not booked Mandeep Batala and Goldy Brar in the case. According to the eyewitnesses, gangsters Jagroshan and Money Rayya were among the four persons who attacked Rana.”They will bring Bhagwanpuria on production warrant from the Tihar jail, the DCP said. Jagroshan and Money are facing seven and 12 criminal cases, including that of murder, attempt to murder and extortion. Also, Kandowalia was fired at by some unidentified persons after attending a hearing in a murder case in an Amritsar court in February last year, but escaped unhurt. The police had suspected Bhagwanpuria’s role in the attack. Kandowalia was one of the key accused in the 2016 Patti gang-war between the gangs led by Bobby Malhotra and Devinder that left gangster Dilbag Singh, alias Lama Patti dead. He had surrendered before the then special task force (STF) headed by then inspector general (IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in February 2017. In April 2017, Rana’s close associate Sukhwinder Singh, alias Lala was shot dead by Bhagwanpuria’s associate Saraj Singh who was also involved in the killing of Vipan Sharma, a Hindu outfit leader, in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-hospital-firing-gangster-rana-kandowalia-succumbs-to-injuries-bhagwanpuria-aides-booked-101628106588250.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||6th Pay Commission report: Govt sub-committee assures union leaders 15% salary hike||The sub-committee of the Punjab government constituted to resolve the issues of employees regarding implementation of 6th Pay Commission has conveyed to the various union leaders that after implementation of the proposals, every employee of the state will get a minimum salary hike of 15%. During a meeting on Wednesday, the sub-committee led by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra also told the union leaders that employees on an average will get ₹79,250 per annum over and above what they are being paid. Other members of the sub-committee are finance minister Manpreet Badal, forest minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, medical education minister OP Soni and health minister Balbir Sidhu. The average arrears of employees and pensioners will be ₹23,240, the panel said. On the main demand of the employee unions to increase salary with the multiple of 3.4 and not 2.57, the sub-committee clarified that even the 7th Central Pay Commission has fixed a multiplier of 2.57, which has also been adopted by neighbouring Haryana. The sub-committee also agreed to restore the allowances at the revised rates, which, it said, shall double the monetary gains of the employees. For doctors, the sub-committee said their Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) — 20% of the basic pay — has been linked to the basic pay. “The sub-committee has assured the employees that the state government was very much considerate to their issues. We have appealed to them to rejoin work,” said Mohindra. Union leaders said they will discuss the assurances of the sub-committee in a meeting to be held Ludhiana on August 7. “The sub-committee has clarified on issues related to only the pay commission. It has not assured us anything on our demand of restoring old pension scheme and to regularise the contractual employees. Our response will be conveyed to the government on August 7,” said Sukhjit Singh, president, Central Providend Fund (CPF) Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6th-pay-commission-report-govt-sub-committee-assures-union-leaders-15-salary-hike-101628106350135.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Preneet urges Jaishankar to probe, check contract marriage frauds||Member of Parliament from Patiala, Preneet Kaur, has written to foreign affairs minister Jaishankar, raising the issue of spurt in contract marriage frauds occurring in the lure for Canadian permanent residency. She urged the Union minister to work closely with the Canadian high commissioner and the Canadian government to check the trend. In her letter to the Union minister, she sought setting up a commission to assess the scale of the fraud marriage crisis in India and analyse the number of cases and volume of fraud. The Patiala MP also urged the ministry to develop a method to investigate such cases and recommended a mechanism to deport people defrauding innocent citizens. She underlined her concern towards the imploding crisis, especially in the wake of prevailing economic condition which is forcing people to relocate to foreign lands to seek education or employment or to be with their families. “Allure of attaining a permanent residence in Canada has facilitated a few greedy people to take advantage of innocent Indian citizens and rob them of large amounts of money through contract marriages and marriage fraud,” the MP wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/preneet-urges-jaishankar-to-probe-check-contract-marriage-frauds-101628106047748.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two years on, ITBP cook held for stalking||The Chandigarh Police have finally arrested a man who was booked for stalking in September 2019.According to police, the accused, Karan, belongs to Jalandhar and is employed as a cook with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in Dehradun. He was arrested by the police when he came to Chandigarh to join the investigations and was soon granted bail.Karan was booked on the complaint of a Zirakpur woman working as a manager in a cafe at Elante Mall. The victim in her complaint had alleged that the accused had visited the cafe for the first time in August 2019 and asked for her mobile number, which she had shared. Thereafter, Karan had started giving her unnecessary calls. He would visit the mall every day and follow the victim wherever she went, the police said.The accused was identified on the basis of the CCTV footage obtained from the cameras installed in the cafe. A complaint was lodged at Industrial Area police station and a case under Section 354D (stalking) of the IPC was registered.In his defence, Karan had said that there was a misunderstanding and denied the allegations. The police had informed the ITBP about the case and Karan was called to join the investigations.Man held for sharing objectionable video Two years after being booked for making and circulating an objectionable video of his female friend, a Sector-25 man has been arrested, police said on Wednesday.The accused, who works as a driver, was identified as Amlesh Yadav, 29, of Dainik Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25. A case was registered at the Sarangpur police station in November 2019 under various sections of the IT Act on the complaint of the victim’s brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtwo-years-on-itbp-cook-held-for-stalking-101628105807605.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting teachers block Punjab education secretary’s office||Members of Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) Qualified Unemployed Teachers Union, who are protesting for the past one month, on Wednesday blocked the entry and exit gates of the Punjab education secretary’s office in Phase 8, Mohali. The education department and education board employees were forced to leave their vehicles inside the premises after 5pm and scale the walls of the office building to go back to their homes. The teachers are protesting over their long-pending demands of regularisation. Representatives of the teachers’ union said, “We will not retreat till the government agrees to meet our demands and regularise us. Rains, scorching heat or immense cold conditions, nothing can force us to retreat.” Union leaders Jhujar Singh Sangrur, Deepak Kamboj and Ranjit Singh Bhattiwal said that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had in 2016 come to their protest site and promised that once his government comes to power, they will in the first cabinet meeting regularise the services of teachers. “But now, more than four years have passed but the Captain’s government has not lived up to its promises. So, we have decided to hold massive protests till anyone from the current dispensation comes and gives us assurance. We also demand that our lump sum salary be increased to ₹40,000,” they added. The protesters demanded that one lakh ETT teachers’ recruitment notification must be published, 2,364 ETT pass teachers must be considered, age limit be relaxed, points for higher qualification be abolished and extra weightage given to education providers and volunteers be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-teachers-block-punjab-education-secretary-s-office-101628105757398.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab will dare Centre by rejecting 3 farm laws: Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said Centre’s three farm laws, which, he claimed, were illegal and unconstitutional, will not be implemented in the state. “The Congress is committed to the cause of farmers. We will not let the three black laws be implemented in Punjab. These central farm laws are a direct attack on the federal structure of India and against the spirit of the Constitution as agriculture is a state subject,” Sidhu said. He, along with cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, visited the house of Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur. Later he addressed the media in Patiala. In his recent meeting with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Sidhu had underlined the need to reject the farm laws in the Vidhan Sabha as it was done in the case of Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal. “We will not settle for any amendment. Punjab needs to counter the Centre by coming up with its own laws,” Sidhu said. Sidhu’s visit to Jalalpur’s house comes days after local Congress leaders and workers held a protest rally against him. “I will come to Ghanaur whenever the local MLA needs me,” he said in a gesture of support to the local MLA. Randhawa slammed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal for promising free electricity up to 400 units in Punjab. “The party will dissect Sukhbir’s promises with logic in the coming days. Why didn’t he give free electricity when his party was in power? Why were faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-will-dare-centre-by-rejecting-3-farm-laws-sidhu-101628105754973.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur suffers in absence of stormwater drainage||Even though Zirakpur is a town with a population of nearly four lakh and at least 100 high-rise group housing societies along with 40 commercial establishments, it has no stormwater drainage system and is entirely dependent on choes and nullahs to drain out the excess rainwater.Every year during monsoons, residents of Zirakpur bear the brunt as they wade through waterlogged streets and drain out water from their shops and houses. The absence of a robust drainage system and dependency on natural drains is clearly pointed out in the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority’s (PUDA’s) Zirakpur master plan for 2031. In several areas, however, these drains and choes have been encroached upon — another consequence of Zirakpur’s exponential and unplanned growth. “The town has witnessed 281.9% growth between 2001 and 2011 Census,” the master plan mentioned.A former executive engineer of the Zirakpur civic body said, “It is the result of haphazard construction and lack of rainwater drainage system. There is no separate arrangement for the disposal of rainwater. Excessive laying of paver blocks and incomplete construction work is also causing water to accumulate.”As per Girish Verma, executive officer of Zirakpur MC, the town is old and there is no stormwater drainage system. “It is a low-lying area, but we are working to fix the problem,” he added. ‘An island of chaos’Joint action committee president Sukhdev Chaudhary, who is leading a campaign against illegal colonies, said, “The township, which is considered the gateway to Punjab, is an island of chaos surrounded by planned cities of Chandigarh, Panchkula, and Mohali. Growth in the town has been haphazard with villages giving way to colonies, mostly illegal, and property dealers and realtors tapping into the need for modest housing for those less privileged.”As external and internal development charges, the civic body collects ₹1 crore per acre from the residential group housing societies and ₹1.35 crore from the commercial establishments. Harish Gupta, president of Zirakpur Builders Association, said Zirakpur’s civic body is considered one of the richest in Punjab and has around ₹200 crore with it to develop infrastructure. “But they completely failed to build a proper drainage system. The only area that is safe from waterlogging is a high-ground terrain and the rest of the town is settled in low-lying areas,” he added. On the poor management of rainwater drainage, MS Aujla, former director, Punjab local government’s town planning department, said it was not only the drainage, but the consideration of topography to allow natural passages for the flow of rainwater towards choes or nullahs. “The situation is further aggravated by the construction of roads crisscrossing the natural flow of water as per the terrain,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-suffers-in-absence-of-stormwater-drainage-101628105747930.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon’s heaviest showers inundate Chandigarh roads||Normal life came to a standstill in parts of Chandigarh on Wednesday afternoon when showers lashed the city. In about two hours, 55.4mm rainfall was recorded in the city which, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), was the highest received this monsoon season. Waterlogging affected the northern sectors along the Madhya Marg while a roundabout in Sector 17 was flooded and cars had to be towed out of there. President of the market association in Sector 22, Subhash Narang, said, “The drainage system here is rarely cleaned. As it rained so fast, the roads got flooded. Nobody was able to enter or leave the market around this time.”Chairperson of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), Hitesh Puri, said, “We received complaints about blocked drains from multiple parts of the city. The authorities must take adequate steps to avoid waterlogging during monsoons.”As per the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s (MC’s) superintending engineer (public health) Shailender Singh, at least 15 teams were present on the spot to look after flooding issues. “Waterlogging happened because of incessant rainfall. We received calls from the areas adjoining the Madhya Marg besides sectors 22 and 30. It took our teams an hour to pump out the excess water,” he added. As per the IMD, downpour will continue in the coming days as well. IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “Showers are likely to lash daily, but will be scattered over the region. Chances of light to moderate rain up to 30mm are there for the next few days.”Maximum temperature of the city went up from Tuesday’s 31.4 degrees Celsius to 34.5 degrees on Wednesday. Minimum temperature went down from 26.9 degrees on Tuesday to 26.5 degrees on Wednesday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will hover between 34 degrees and 35 degrees, while the minimum temperature will remain between 26 degrees and 27 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoons-heaviest-showers-inundate-chandigarh-roads-101628105689336.html
05-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government’s revenue collection goes up by ₹1980.43 crore in July||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday claimed a consistent increase in the state’s revenue with its collections going up by ₹1980.43 crore in July 2021, the first month of the second quarter of 2021-22.The state government’s revenue collections of ₹12655.85 crore are, however, only 74.1% of the target of ₹17,076.93 crore set for July 2021.“Yes, our collections are going up consistently. The state government realised revenue of ₹12,655.85 crore in July (2021-22) against ₹10,675.42 crore collected in the same month in 2020-21,” said minister for finance Suresh Khanna while releasing the statistics about revenue collections that took a dip in 2020-21 following restrictions due to the fight against Covid-19.The state government’s tax revenue increased by ₹ 2026.30 crore in July 2021-22 vis-à-vis the tax collections in July 2020-21. But the non-tax revenue in the mineral and mining sector went down by ₹ 45.87 crore during the same period. The government earned revenue of ₹178.54 crore in this sector in July 2020-21 but the amount declined to ₹132.67 crore in July 2021-22. Hence, the increase in overall revenue collections was reduced to ₹1980.43 crore in July 2021. Khanna did not give any specific reason for the decline in the non-tax revenue during the period. He said the revenue collections had consistently increased in the first four months of 2021-22 (April 1 to July 2021).The state government’s total tax collections from April 1 to July 31, 2021 (2021-22) remained about ₹42739.71 crore, 68.8% of the target of ₹ 62,137.00 crore for the same period. Its tax collections in the first four months are about 22.9% of the annual tax collection target of ₹ 1,86,345.00 crore for 2021-2022. The non-tax revenue collections in the first four months remained at ₹ 2065.25 crore, about 30.5% of the target of ₹ 8075.53 crore and 9.7% of the annual target of ₹ 25,421.67 crore.The state government spends about ₹12,000 crore to ₹13,000 crore every month on the payment of salaries to its employees and pension to its retired employees. The government’s total collections of ₹12655.85 crore in July may only be sufficient for the payment of salaries and pension and the state government may have to go for market borrowings in the coming months to fund development projects.Uttar Pradesh goes to assembly elections in the early 2022 and the state government will need more funds to complete or step up the pace of many important development projects.“An increase in the state government’s revenue vis-a-vis the collections of 2020-21 and consistent upward trends in the first four months of 2021-22 clearly indicates that Uttar Pradesh’s economy is gradually regaining its momentum. It also reflects the efforts to collect more revenue, which should put the state government in a comfortable position to undertake developmental activities at an accelerated pace. The increasing revenue gives more fiscal space to state government and reduces its compulsion to go for market borrowings. The state government, however, needs to be proactive in augmenting its non-tax revenue, especially in the mineral and mining sector, in the coming months,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor at the department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-s-revenue-collection-goes-up-by-1980-43-crore-in-july-101628105567656.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress: Rift widens as six Chhabra loyalists resign||Dissidence against the incumbent leadership in the Chandigarh Congress continues to brew as six more leaders resigned from the primary membership of the party on Wednesday. The development comes two days after the former general secretary, Sandeep Bhardwaj, had quit. Those who resigned are former general secretaries of District Congress Committee Jagdeep Mahajan, Rajneesh Bhardwaj and Charanjeet Sharma; former vice-presidents Dinesh Sharma and Beant Singh; and former secretary Harvinder Singh Goldy. All of them were considered loyal to party’s former city chief Pardeep Chhabra, who had been criticising the Congress leadership for “ignoring and sidelining” him and his loyalists. The phrasing of the resignation letters was same and all were addressed to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. They all blamed “high handedness” of former party MP Pawan Kumar Bansal for their resignations. The disgruntled voices in the Congress have been growing ever since Chhabra was replaced by Subhash Chawla as the new city chief in February this year.However, the internal crisis deepened after Chawla announced his new executive committee. The 133 new office-bearers, alleged Chhabra, didn’t include his loyalists. He also claimed that the party made the appointments based on not merit but “money and sycophancy”. Chawla and Bansal are the main recipients of his criticism.The allegation has been strong refuted by Chawla, who has maintained that he has retained nearly 99% of Chhabra’s team in the new committee.Notably, the new Congress appointees are slated to meet on Thursday at the Congress Bhawan in Sector 35. Chawla has ensured that this time, Chhabra has been informed and invited to the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-rift-widens-as-six-chhabra-loyalists-resign-101628105447445.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Raigad police support colleagues in rebuilding homes lost to floods||The Mahad floods that wreaked havoc to thousands also affected 30 police officials and employees of Raigad police. Their homes were also swept away by the floods. These 30 families of the cops, however, received a helping hand from other cops from the Raigad police department, who collected money for these families and got them essentials. Superintendent of Police, Ashok Dudhe from Raigad police, said, “The intention was to rebuild their world that was swept away in the floods. The affected staff, even after facing such a huge loss, were doing their duty and providing security to the ministers visiting Mahad city. They have worked throughout the pandemic and deserve to be cared during these tough times. The whole Raigad police force has their back.”A total of ₹25 lakh was contributed by the police staff for their colleagues. The affected were provided with essentials including bed, fridge, mattress, TV, clothes and grains.“The affected included an assistant inspector, two sub-inspectors, assistant sub-inspectors, head constables among others,” police inspector Dayanand Gawade from local crime branch, Raigad, said.Gawade was assigned as the coordinating officer in the initiative. He said, “We could source fridge and TV directly from a company in Pune while the furniture was procured from Ulhasnagar. All the affected are back to their homes now and picking up their lives from the beginning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-raigad-police-support-colleagues-in-rebuilding-homes-lost-to-floods-101628105270005.html
05-08-2021||Jaipur||11 including 8 children die in two incidents in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Eleven people including 8 children died in two separate rain-related incidents in Pali and Bundi district of Rajasthan on Wednesday. Of the eight children, four drowned in a pond in Rajasthan’s Pali district. Two of them were brothers.Station House officer, Ras police station, Surendra Kumar said the children slipped when they entered the pond for a bath. He identified the children as Jagdish Meghwal (12), his brother Ajay Meghwal (10), Ajan (16) and Asif (10). In another incident, seven members of a family including four minors were killed after a wall collapsed of their house due to incessant heavy rain in Rajasthan’s Bundi district.The incident took place on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday in Navghat area of the district, said police.Police said an old wall collapsed on the house in which two brothers, Mahendra Kaivat and Mahaveer Kaivat, lived with their families. Due to this, the roof of the house caved in, burying seven family members under the debris.Police and rescue workers managed to pull out two people from the debris. Three more were rescued on Wednesday morning and the remaining two in the afternoon.The dead have been identified as Mahendra Kevat (40), his wife Anita (32), Mahaveer’s wife Meera (40), Pusi (10), Tammana (9), Deepika (7) and Kanha (5), the police said.Mahaveer escaped unhurt as he rushed out of the house as soon as he heard the wall collapsing, they said.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and Lok Sabha Speaker and Kota-Bundi MP Om Birla expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident.The weather department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in some areas in eastern Rajasthan districts on Wednesday and Thursday. According to the weather department, several areas in Rajasthan’s Bundi, Baran, Sawai Madhopur and Kota districts received extremely heavy rains while many other areas received heavy to very heavy rains till Wednesday morning.Khatoli here recorded the highest rainfall at 280 mm, followed by 258 mm in Bundi in the eastern part of the state, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/11-including-8-children-die-in-two-incidents-in-rajasthan-101628105147529.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Reservation: Modi-led Centre trying to politicise quota issue, says Maharashtra government||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday termed the Central government’s plan to bring in an amendment clarifying that the power to give reservation to the socially and educationally backward classes is with the states “an attempt to politicise the issue”. The state government said that the Maratha reservation cannot be restored unless the Centre removes the 50% cap. The Supreme Court, in its order on Maratha reservation on May 5, had ruled that the 102nd constitutional amendment has taken away the state governments’ powers to give reservation to any community on the basis of backwardness. The Centre had moved a review petition over the SC order and said it did not mean to take away the powers. The apex court, however, had turned down the review petition. The Centre has now proposed to bring in an amendment to give clarity over the powers of the state. Ashok Chavan, public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on reservation, said that giving mere powers for the reservation to the state would not serve any purpose. “The decision could spread the wrong message among the community members that it would facilitate the restoration of the reservation, but until the 50% ceiling on reservation is not lifted, the state will not be able to decide on the reservation. While bringing in the amendment to give powers to the states, the Centre should also make constitutional changes to remove the ceiling,” he said. Chavan said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government was trying to politicise the issue. “During our meeting with PM Modi on June 8, we had demanded the removal of the cap. Not just Maharashtra, even other states that have been fighting the legal battle for reservation had expressed similar sentiments, but the Centre has chosen to keep silent on it and now wants to shift the onus on the states,” he said. Reacting to the state government’s stand, leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar said the state should take necessary steps for restoration of the reservation without giving any excuse. “By deciding to give powers to states, the Centre has cleared its stand. Now it is time for the state government to give reservation beyond 50%. The central government has been very positive about the reservation to Marathas, but instead of doing its bit, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi has been pointing at the Centre just to get rid of its responsibility,” he said. Vinod Patil, a petitioner for the reservation to Marathas, said, “The Central government’s decision is a positive move towards the reservation. The state should take steps to restore reservation to the community by weeding out the objections taken by the apex court.” On May 5, the five-judge bench of the SC struck down the 12% and 13% reservation given to Maratha community in education and jobs under the SEBC Act, 2018. It ruled that it crossed the limit of 50% ceiling on reservation and the empirical data of the community collated by Gaikwad commission does not prove the backwardness and had also stated that after the 102nd constitutional amendment, states have no power to give any such reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reservation-modi-led-centre-trying-to-politicise-quota-issue-says-maharashtra-government-101628105089090.html
05-08-2021||Other||Ex-MLA’s son among those booked for attacking SHO in Yamunanagar||The Yamunanagar police have booked several people, including the son of a former MLA from Radaur, for allegedly attacking a police team and injuring in-charge of the Radaur police station.As per the FIR, complainant Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge of Radaur police station said the incident took place on July 1. He, along with other cops, were bringing the body of a youth Anil Kumar, 38, of Radaur, who had allegedly succumbs to his injuries sustained in a clash in his colony on July 21.He alleged that some people stopped the ambulance and tried to pull out the body near Dhaurang village of Yamunanagar.They stopped the police vehicle and a group of about 50-60 people including Gaurav and Narender, both residents of Radauri village, and Deepak, of Jubbal village, stood in front of his vehicle all of sudden, he alleged.“Many people, including Narender, Gaurav and Deepak grabbed me by the neck, pulled me out of the police vehicle and slapped me. The others tried to pull out the body with the intention to block the road,” he added.He said with the help of other cops, police managed to foil their attempt but he sustained injuries.The SHO said former BJP MLA Sham Singh Rana’s son Nepal Rana was also involved in the attack as he had also made a call on his phone number and told him that he has called people to teach him a lesson for not arresting the accused involved in the attack on Anil.On his complaint, a case was registered under Sections 147, 149, 186, 323, 506, 332, 353, 341 and 120-B of the IPC at Yamunanagar Sadar police station against Gaurav, Narender, Siyanand, Deepak, Nepal Rana and others, police said.However, Nepal Rana refuted the allegations of his involvement.“Being in public life I have to call the SHO everyday but this cannot be linked with the alleged attack,” he added.Radaur Singh Rana, who has now joined the INLD, also met Yamunanagar superintendent of police on Wednesday and demanded an investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmlas-son-among-those-booked-for-attacking-sho-in-yamunanagar-101628105087312.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vegetable prices continue to rise in Chandigarh||As the prices of fuel continue to stay on the higher side, and with recent spells of rain in the region, the price of vegetables at the apni mandis continues to go up. The prices are likely to keep increasing till the end of the monsoon season.Tomatoes that had remained relatively cheaper throughout the season have now started to become expensive. Cauliflower, which was available for around ₹30 per kg in the summers, is now more than double that price.Speaking about the price hike, a mandi supervisor for the Punjab Mandi Board, Satbir Singh, said, “There are two main reasons behind the price hike. Since rains have damaged a lot of vegetables in both Punjab and Himachal, the supply has gone down. Further, transportation costs have also increased due to the high price of diesel. Prices will continue to stay high until the monsoon season gets over.”Singh added that many farmers had taken to growing their vegetables on nets so they don’t get spoiled in the rains; they also charge heftier prices for this. This has affected how people are purchasing vegetables now.Arvind Kumar of Sector 47 said that he was now more mindful of buying vegetables with the increasing prices: “Coriander, which is a staple in our diet, has also become expensive.”Meanwhile, the footfall at the mandis has gone back to normal as per the officials. Earlier both traders and customers were unwilling to come, the numbers have increased now as Covid cases have gone down in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vegetable-prices-continue-to-rise-in-chandigarh-101628104908497.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tikri border rape: HC dismisses bail plea of accused Anoop||A high court bench on Wednesday dismissed the bail plea of Anoop alias Anuj, a co-accused of the alleged rape of a West Bengal woman, who was a participant of the farmers’ protest at Tikri border.The order was passed by the bench of justice Rajesh Bhardwaj acting on the plea Anoop, who had approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail. A detailed order is awaited.The complaint which became basis for the FIR was given by the deceased activist’s father and a case was filed on May 9.The West Bengal woman, who had been first assaulted on April 28, had succumbed to the coronavirus at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.As per police, the main accused in the rape of the 25-year-old woman, has admitted to sexually assaulting her twice — once on the train to New Delhi and then at the protest site.In all, there are six accused, who were with her on the train from West Bengal to New Delhi, when she came to join protest. The HC had dismissed the bail plea of another accused Ankur Sangwan on June 29 but is still at large. As of now, police have arrested only Anil Malik. Anoop had claimed that it was actually a case of molestation but the serious charges of gangrape was filed against them by the police to oblige their political bosses. During the hearing on Wednesday, state’s additional advocate general Deepak Sabharwal had told court that as an evidence prosecution has secured tower locations of the victim, Malik and Anoop.“Their phone location remains the same. In his disclosure statement, Anil too has named Anoop and call records procured also show that both Anoop and Anil spoke to each other on multiple occasions,” Sabharwal told court, adding that it was a case of gangrape and prosecution will require custodial interrogation of Anoop to ascertain details of the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikri-border-rape-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused-anoop-101628104907380.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana signs MoU for promotion of handlooms, handicrafts at int’l level||The Haryana government on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Walmart Vriddhi, a growth and training programme designed for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and Haqdarshak, a technology platform.An official spokesperson said the MoU was signed by director general (MSMEs) Vikas Gupta, Nittin Dutt on behalf of Walmart Vriddhi, and CEO Aniket Doeger on behalf of Haqdarshak to create a pathway for MSMEs products to move towards the international market.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the portfolio of industries and commerce, said the state government with the help of e-commerce companies such as Walmart, will help in displaying products of traditional weavers of rural areas, handlooms, and handicrafts at international levels.Chautala asked Doegar to prepare a research report on best running welfare scheme of each state so that Haryana can work out the possibilities of implementing them under its one block, one product scheme.Gupta said the products of MSMEs will be displayed in 24 countries and will be available in 10,500 stores under 48 banners.Meanwhile, the state government has also notified employment generation subsidy scheme with an objective of creating employment opportunities for people in skilled, semi-skilled, and unskilled category.Chautala said under the scheme, ultra-mega projects, cluster establishment, MSMEs, large and mega projects will be provided subsidy for employing skilled, semi-skilled, and unskilled category persons domiciled in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-signs-mou-for-promotion-of-handlooms-handicrafts-at-int-l-level-101628104788165.html
05-08-2021||Other||212 accused of illicit liquor, drug smuggling held in Kaithal in July||At least 212 accused involved in 167 cases of sale of illicit liquor, drug smuggling, theft, loot, gambling and robbery registered in the police stations across Kaithal have been arrested in July.Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said the accused were arrested during a special drive launched by the police to put a check on the criminal activities in district.He said of the 167 cases, 103 cases were related to violation of the Excise Act for illegal trade of liquor, 43 cases were related to theft, 10 cases of NDPS Act, seven cases of gambling, and four cases under the Arms Act.He said police have recovered 40,448 bottles of illicit liquor, 2,463-litre lahan, stolen items worth ₹29.69 lakh, 2.8kg opium, 1.2kg charas, 2.5kg ganja and 2,729 banned pills, six illegal weapons, and 12 live cartridges from their possession.The SP said police have arrested seven bail jumpers and five proclaimed offenders in July. Nineteen accused belonged to three gangs involved in snatching and robbery and their arrest helped to solve 16 cases registered in district, he added.The SP has urged people to report the crimes as they happen for timely action and arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/212-accused-of-illicit-liquor-drug-smuggling-held-in-kaithal-in-july-101628104667244.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club to hold tourney to boost junior golf||In order to give a push to junior golf in the tricity, Chandigarh Golf Club will host the inaugural Pro Am Championship on August 6 at the Club Greens.Three junior golfers with one professional golfer will form a team for the tournament. This will be an opportunity for the junior golfers to brush up their skills.A total of 15 pro golfers will be seen in action along with category A and B junior golfers.Top golfers who would be seen in action are Karandeep Kochhar (leader in PGTI merit list), Akshay Sharma, Yuvraj Sandhu, Angad Cheema, Harinder Gupta, Abhijit Chadha along with Neha Tripathi, who is the 6th ranked player in the Women’s Pro order of merit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-to-hold-tourney-to-boost-junior-golf-101628104607312.html
05-08-2021||Other||Ravi has promised to win gold, says wrestler’s granny||Diwali came early for the Dahiya household at Nahri village in Sonepat district of Haryana on Wednesday afternoon after Ravi Dahiya sensationally turned around the 57kg semi-final bout by pinning Kazakhstan’s Nurislam Sanayev to enter the finals.The family and others broke for a jig and celebrated Ravi’s stunning triumph. Most excited was his grandmother Savitri Devi, who was teary-eyed after the win and said, “Chora bol ke gaya hai gold laake dega (Ravi has promised to win a gold medal in the Olympics). We have seen a tough time as a family and Monu (Ravi) has now brought good days for us.”The village has a population of around 15,000. Ravi, 23, son of a farmer, is the third Olympian to emerge from this village after Mahavir Singh (1980 Moscow, 1984 Los Angeles) and Amit Dahiya (2012 London).With the semi-final win, Ravi became the second Indian wrestler ever to enter the Olympics final after Sushil Kumar back in 2012 London Olympics.Ravi idolises Sushil and Yogeshwar Dutt. In fact Sushil and coach Satpal Singh have worked relentlessly on grooming Ravi at Chhatrasal Akhara in Delhi.“Sushil has played a big role in shaping up Ravi’s career. He was always bright as a young trainee and had the hunger to reach the top. I was not surprised with the way he played the semi-final bout. It is his natural game. He likes to attack. He was just himself and did not come under big-stage pressure. He is going to win the final and get India a gold,” said former wrestler Darshan Lal, who is now the vice-president of the Wrestling Federation of India.Ravi picked up the sport at six.Nahri village residents and people from adjoining villages reached Ravi’s house to congratulate his father Rakesh Dahiya.Recalling Ravi’s formative years, Rakesh said, “I enrolled him at Chhatrasal Akhara and before that he would just train at the farm land. Raj Pahalwan was training him at the village. Despite financial crunch, we sent him to Delhi.”“I used to travel for one hour everyday to give him milk and fruits which have been his diet for the last 10 years. Coach Satpal had identified his talent and had told me that he will make India proud,” he added.Wrestling runs in the Dahiya clan’s blood. His father used to wrestle in his youth but could not pursue it due to financial issues.Ravi’s father owns land which is less than an acre in the Nahri village. His younger brother Pankaj Dahiya could not come home but watched the bouts with his friends at the Chhatrasaal Stadium where he trains as a Greco-Roman wrestler.Ravi will be the fifth wrestler from India to win an Olympic medal after KD Jadhav (bronze in 1952), Sushil Kumar (bronze in 2008 and silver in 2012) and Yogeshwar Dutt (bronze in 2008) and Sakshi Malik (bronze in 2016).Ravi is a two-time Asian Championships gold medallist and a bronze medal winner at the World Championships in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ravi-has-promised-to-win-gold-says-wrestler-s-granny-101628104548035.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||2,300 students to appear for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya entrance in Ludhiana||As many as 2,302 Class-5 students will appear for the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya Selection Test (JNVST) at 14 government schools in the district on August 1.The examination centres are- Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar, Boys; Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar; Government Senior Secondary School, Multi-purpose; Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Chanan Devi; Government Senior Secondary School, Pakhowal; Government Senior Secondary School, Halwara; Government Senior Secondary School, Jagraon; Government Senior Secondary School, Sidhwan Bet; Government Senior Secondary School, Delhon; Government Senior Secondary School, Samrala; Government Senior Secondary School, Khanna; Government Senior Secondary School, Macchiwara; Government Senior Secondary School, Doraha and BM Government Senior Secondary School, Raikot.This has left the school principals in a fix, as the exam will be conducted on a working day (Wednesday) this time, unlike previous years.Navdeep Romana, principal of GSSS, Multipurpose, said, “The test will be conducted on Wednesday and we will ask our students to attend online classes on that day, as it is not possible to accommodate so many students. We have to follow social distancing norms and all candidates will be accommodated as per Covid protocol.”The district education department has arranged a meeting on Thursday, in which centre superintendents will be briefed about their duties by the principal of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Dhanansu.Aradhana Nanda, principal of GSSS, Jawahar Nagar (boys), said, “Over 650 students are currently attending offline classes at our school and after the meeting tomorrow, we will decide whether we will call hold physical classes on the day of the test.” The selection test is designed and conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education and students who clear it exam will get admission into Class 6 in JNV. Navodaya Vidyalayas offer free education to talented children from Classes 6 to 12. Free boarding, school uniforms, text books and stationary are also provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2300-students-to-appear-for-jawahar-navodaya-vidyalaya-entrance-in-ludhiana-101628104488685.html
05-08-2021||Lucknow||First anniversary of bhoomi pujan for Ram temple to be marked in Ayodhya today||The first anniversary of the Ram temple’s bhoomi pujan (groundbreaking ceremony) on Thursday is likely to be a low-key affair due to Covid-19 restrictions though special prayers would be offered and yajnas (oblations) organised on the occasion in Ayodhya after which devotees would get a special “poori, sabzi and kheer” as prasad (edibles offered to the deity and then given to the faithful).“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be there on the occasion to participate in a special puja. He will also offer a Ram naami (a cloth with Lord Ram’s name inscribed on it) and perform aarti at the temple,” Satyendra Das, the head priest of the Ayodhya temple, confirmed.“Ram Lalla (baby Ram) would don new clothes and special poori-sabzi and kheer prasad would be distributed among the devotees,” Das said.“The special prasad would be for all the devotees who turn up but if we run out of it, then devotees would be given fruits,” the head priest said.“We spent a lifetime waiting for the day when Ram Lalla would move out of the makeshift arrangement and get an abode befitting the Almighty. Naturally, grand celebrations were in order but the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust that is overseeing the temple construction would take a final call on the nature of celebrations,” the head priest said.“Nothing newsworthy,” said Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, when asked if any special programmes were lined up for Thursday on the completion of one year of the bhoomi pujan that was done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, 2020. “Oblations or yajna too would be organised, but the celebrations would be low-key,” said a saint. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is spending the night at Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur of which he is also the head priest, would leave for Ayodhya by a helicopter at noon (Thursday), officials said.“After landing at the Ram Katha Park in Ayodhya, the chief minister would attend a government function at Vasudev Ghat to mark Anna Mahotsav before arriving at the Ram Janmbhoomi site for holding special prayers on the occasion,” a senior official privy to the chief minister’s plan said. After the prayers, the CM is expected to gather details about the temple construction and leave for Lucknow. Volunteers of the Bajrang Dal, too, have been advised to stay indoors, offering prayers and reciting Hanuman Chalisa (prayers glorifying Hanuman).“We may gather in small numbers at temples to chant Hanuman Chalisa (prayers for lord Hanuman) and offer special puja. The moment is big but due to Covid-19 concerns and government advisory, it would be best if the cadres offer prayers from their houses,” said Rakesh (he goes by one name), a senior functionary of the Bajrang Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/first-anniversary-of-bhoomi-pujan-for-ram-temple-to-be-marked-in-ayodhya-today-101628104428422.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Anindita Mitra appointed MC commissioner||Anindita Mitra, a 2007-batch Indian Administrative Services officer of the Punjab cadre, has been appointed as the new Chandigarh municipal commissioner. She will replace KK Yadav, whose term will end on August 21.Mitra’s name, which was proposed by the UT administration to the home ministry, was approved by the Union cabinet’s appointments committee on Wednesday.Earlier, the Punjab government had sent the names of two more IAS officers for the post — Amit Kumar and Rajiv Prashar, both of 2008 batch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhanindita-mitra-appointed-mc-commissioner-101628104427086.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Strike by Punbus contractual staffers leaves passengers harried||Chaos was the order of the day outside the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal on Wednesday as contractual employees continued their strike for the second consecutive day.Seeking regularisation of jobs, members of the Punjab Roadways and Punbus Contractual Employees Union closed entry to the bus stand for two hours till 12pm, resulting in harassment to passengers. While bus operators continued operations outside the bus stand, passengers had a hard time finding the right bus, leading to delays.A passenger, Kulvir Singh said buses were available outside the bus stand, but no one knew which one to board for their respective destinations: “Inside the bus stand, counters are assigned for various stations and conductors also guide the passengers. But it was a nightmare today.” Standing their ground, the protesters threatened of a three-day strike from August 9.Union’s district Shamsher Singh said, “The employees have been struggling for regular jobs for a long time. The government had even assured to fulfil our demands during the last Assembly elections. But the promises have not turned into reality. If the government does not act soon, we will intensify our protest.”Bus stand station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said Punjab Roadways buses departed from outside with some delay. The bus stand was reopened after two hours and the buses left as per normal schedule, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianastrike-by-punbus-contractual-staffers-leaves-passengers-harried-101628104375819.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vocational labs paving road to jobs for govt schoolchildren in Ludhiana||The newly-constructed beauty and wellness and construction laboratories at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, are helping students of Classes 9 to 12 learn through practical application and become job-ready. Such vocational laboratories have been set up at 23 government schools in the district under the National Skills Development Corporation. With offline classes underway, students are making full use of them now. The school’s beauty and wellness laboratory is equipped with proper chairs, mirrors and equipment used for beauty treatments such as for pedicure, manicure, hair spa, hair and skin treatment. “In this course, practical exposure is important along with theoretical knowledge. I am training students everyday and over 300 students of Classes 9 to 12 have opted for the course,” said Sarabjeet Kaur, vocational trainer at the school. Pallavi Kumari, a Class-12 student, said, “When I joined school on July 28, I was overjoyed to see the lab. I had opted for a beauty and wellness course as a vocational subject in Class 9, as this can be a good career option after I complete my studies.Now, I wait for the class everyday.”On the other hand, the construction lab gives students an understanding of components used for building, major building parts, construction equipment, tools and instruments. The walls of the laboratory are beautified with pictures of building material, common tools used in construction and instructions on steps are required to construct a building. School principal Taskin Aktar, said, “These laboratories help students get a clear idea about the subject as they spend most of their time learning about how to use equipment. This experience will help them in their careers as skill-based courses are in demand everywhere in the world.”The new lab developed for construction and infra development is a hit among the students at senior secondary school in Haibowal Khurd. Principal Kamaljit said, “We now have 225 students in the appeal and 237 of them have opted for construction. After the labs were developed this year, more students have opted for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vocational-labs-paving-road-to-jobs-for-govt-schoolchildren-in-ludhiana-101628104368923.html
05-08-2021||Other||Neeraj Chopra’s family elated as he qualifies for javelin throw finals||It was a great beginning of the day on Wednesday for the family of Panipat’s Neeraj Chopra as he qualified for the Tokyo Olympics javelin throw finals with first attempt of 86.65m.There were celebrations in the Khandra village, where Neeraj lives in a joint family consisting of 19 members. According to his family, right before his performance in the early morning, the villagers remained glued to their television sets to watch his performance.Soon after his victory, people gathered at his residence and celebrated the win by distributing sweets.His father Satish Kumar, who is a farmer, said, “I feel proud of my son. We are confident that he will win a gold medal for the country. Now we are waiting for his performance in the finals on Saturday.”“I’m happy with the achievement of my son. He has brought laurels for the country again,” said his mother Saroj Bala.Neeraj’s uncle Bhim Chopra said he was confident that he will win his first medal in his first Olympics as took just a few seconds to make it to the finals.”“Not just the family, the entire country is waiting for his next performance on Saturday,” he added.India’s medal contender and Arjuna awardee Neeraj created history in 2016 by becoming the first Indian athlete to bag the title of world champion by clinching gold at the U-20 World Championships in Poland.He won gold at the 2016 South Asian Games with a throw of 82.23m and won another gold in Asian Athletic championships in 2017 with a throw of 85.23m.In 2018 Commonwealth Games, he won a gold medal with his best effort of 86.47m. Again, in 2018, he broke the national record at the Doha Diamond League with a throw of 87.43m.Neeraj could not qualify for the Rio Olympics 2016 as he lost the competition scoring 82.37m, falling short of the required 83m by just 63cm.He has completed his graduation from Kurukshetra University and is posted as a subedar in the army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neeraj-chopra-s-family-elated-as-he-qualifies-for-javelin-throw-finals-101628104367464.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh logs no new case for first time since outbreak||For the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak on March 18 last year, Chandigarh recorded zero fresh case on Wednesday, according to data available with the UT health department.The news is a big respite for the city residents and the authorities, who had been eagerly waiting for the day.With this, the daily positivity rate also stood at zero, as out of 1,498 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, none returned positive. The authorities have conducted 6,19,395 tests to date.Meanwhile, no death was reported for the fourth consecutive day. The UT has recorded 61,965 cases so far, of which only 31 remain active. While 61,123 patients have been cured and discharged, 811 persons have lost their lives. Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh, said: “Finally, the day is here. We had been waiting to see zero case for a long time now. It is a big relief for all of us.”Dr Kang said a lot of factors have played role in the decline in figures. “Sero survey shows that nearly 78% adults and 67% children have antibodies. This could be because of high exposure during the two waves and vaccination. As many as 91% people have got the first dose and 27% have been fully vaccinated.”Urging people to get vaccinated on priority, she said: “If every person gets vaccinated, then we will be on a much stronger footing.”Mohali, Panchkula see uptickEven as Chandigarh recorded no case on Wednesday, the neighbouring districts reported an uptick with seven people testing positive in Mohali and four in Panchkula. These were the highest single-day tallies for the two since July 25 and July 16, respectively. However, no death was reported.In Mohali district, three cases surfaced in Kharar, two in Dhakoli and one each in Mohali and Banur. In Panchkula, three were reported from Sector 20 and one from Sector 15.Mohali has recorded 68,468 cases and 1,057 deaths so far, while the figures stand at 30,647 and 376, respectively, in Panchkula. The active caseload in the two districts stands at 32 and 12, respectively. Doctors have urged people to keep exercising caution and adhere to Covid safety protocol, which are needed to avert the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-logs-no-new-case-for-first-time-since-outbreak-101628104308210.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Goenka Group set to take over power department||Kolkata-based industrial and services conglomerate RP-Sanjiv Goenka (RPSG) Group is all set to take over the Chandigarh electricity department. On Wednesday, the group’s flagship Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC)’s wholly-owned subsidiary Eminent Electricity Distribution (EED) quoted the highest bid for the department. “EED quoted a bid of around ₹871 crore against the reserve price of ₹175 crore,” said a senior UT official privy to the development. The next highest bid of ₹606 crore was made by Torrent Power (see box). EED was one of the seven companies in the race for taking over the department, others being Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power and Torrent Power. Originally, 21 companies had bought the request for proposal, but only these seven entered the bidding stage. On Tuesday, technical bids of all the seven companies were approved, following which the financial bids were opened on Wednesday.“The final bid report will now be submitted to the empowered committee on power privatisation headed by the UT adviser. After its approval, the report will be forwarded to the Union government. The Union cabinet will take the final decision. The entire process is likely to be finished within a short time,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. The decision to privatise the electricity department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. The UT had committed to finish the process by the year-end but it got entangled in legal battles, as the UT Powermen Union approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against privatisation. The move also elicited criticism from resident welfare associations and opposition parties.The process was stayed by the high court twice. Most recently, on May 28, the HC had applied the brakes on privatisation, and even pulled up the administration for its “undue hurry” during a raging pandemic. On both occasions, the administration had approached the Supreme Court, which allowed the process to continue. The HC will be taking up the case again on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgoenka-group-set-to-take-over-power-department-101628104129837.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Clean drinking water supply in 99% of Haryana’s households: Centre||All rural households of Jind and Palwal in Haryana on Wednesday were connected with tap water supply under the flagship ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme, according to the Union Jal Shakti ministry.Now, all households in 21 of the 22 districts in Haryana have tap water supply. Mewat is the only district where nearly 82% families are currently connected with piped water supply.Every family of Mewat will have tap water connection by early September and Haryana will be the sixth state in country to have 100% households having domestic water connections, the ministry said in a release.“Considering the coordination with the central government and the speed at which Haryana government has functioned, it is expected that the target will be achieved as early as the last week of August or the first fortnight of September,” a ministry official said.Under the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme, the Centre has set a target of providing 55-litre drinking water per person per day to all households.There are close to 31 lakh rural households in Haryana. In August 2019, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme, only 17.6 lakh rural households (57%) in Haryana were getting drinking water from the tap. The remaining 43% families had to travel long distances to collect drinking water.Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, over 13 lakh families have been given connections in less than two years and 30.68 lakh rural households of the state have started getting clean drinking water from their taps, the officials said.No paucity of funds to meet target: ShekhawatUnion Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said Haryana will not face any problem of funds in providing water connection to every household under the mission.“In the current financial year, about ₹1,120 crore have been allocated for this scheme,” he said.The amount is more than seven times against the ₹150 crore allocation of 2019-2020 and about four times more against the ₹290 crore allocation of 2020-2021.“In the current financial year, about ₹257 crore have been released by the central government to the state,” the minister said.‘6,638 villages, every school, anganwadi getting tap water’The ministry said 6,045 village panchayats and 6,638 villages have secured the distinction of becoming ‘Har Ghar Jal Saon’ in Haryana.Similarly, all 12,988 schools and 21,789 anganwadis in Haryana are now connected with piped water supply system.There is a provision of rainwater harvesting in 366 schools and gray water reuse in 1,233 in the northern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/clean-drinking-water-supply-in-99-of-haryana-s-households-centre-101628104128011.html
05-08-2021||Noida||Four held after two separate encounters in Noida||Police on Wednesday arrested four persons following two separate encounters that took place under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction. In the first encounter near Sector 42, two suspects were injured. According to police officials, they allegedly robbed an elderly couple of ₹30,000 after offering them a lift in their cab near Sector 37 to Etawa on Tuesday night. A case was registered at Sector 39 police station. “We intensified checking in the area. Around 3am on Wednesday, a cab was asked to stop near Sector 42 but the driver tried to flee after breaking through the police barricade. There were three men in the cab. Two of them were injured in the retaliatory firing after they fired at us. All the three were arrested,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. The injured were identified as Pankaj Mishra and Deshraj while the third was identified as Ramkishan Mishra, all natives of Delhi. The officials said that they have a criminal history of robberies in Noida, Ghaziabad and Lucknow. Police said that the stolen money, two countrymade pistols and a WagonR car were recovered from them. In another encounter on Wednesday afternoon, a 45-year-old man was apprehended. The suspect was identified as Sunil, a Rajasthan native currently living in Greater Noida’s Raipur village. Sunil was wanted for allegedly stabbing a police head constable on Tuesday during an anti-encroachment drive in Noida’s Sector 125. The constable is still in the hospital, said the officials. Police said that they had a tip-off about Sunil’s movement near Sector 94. When a police team reached there, he tried to flee and fired at the team chasing him. In the retaliatory firing, he was injured and then nabbed, police said, adding that a countrymade pistol was recovered from him. Later, his sister, who was also involved in the assault, was arrested, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-after-two-separate-encounters-in-noida-101628103707873.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man found dead in car: Two booked for culpable homicide||Five days after a 30-year-old man died of suspected drug overdose, police have booked his two acquaintances for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Vishal Khera, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar, Bhamia Road, was found dead in a car near Chakk Swaran Nath village on Chandigarh Road on July 30.Police have booked Harjit Singh of Moti Nagar and Samrat of BK Estate, on the complaint of his father, Prem Khera.In his complaint, Prem stated that on July 30, Vishal did not return home at night. When they went looking for him, he was found unconscious in a car on Chandigarh Road.Vishal was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.According to Prem, Vishal had recently bought a factory on Chandigarh Road from Harjit, and since then they had been meeting frequently, along with Samrat. Prem alleged that when they met on July 30, Harjit and Samrat gave his son drugs. When his condition deteriorated, the duo, instead of looking for medical assistance, abandoned the car and fled the scene.He alleged that Harjit and Samrat were drug addicts and also drove Vishal into the habit.Investigating officer (IO) Hazoor Singh said following the complaint, the duo had been booked under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code at the Koom Kalan police station. No arrest has been made yet.The IO said the deceased’s post-mortem examination had been conducted and viscera samples had been sent to the forensic sciences laboratory for chemical examination.If guilt is proven, Section 304 of the IPC entails imprisonment up to two years, or fine, or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-found-dead-in-car-two-booked-for-culpable-homicide-101628103706843.html
05-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar: Residents, realtors oppose proposed circle rate hike||A day after the Gautam Budh Nagar stamp and registration department proposed a steep hike in existing circle rates--on the basis of which a buyer pays stamp fee at the time of registering a property in his name,--objections started pouring in from stakeholders in large numbers even as experts in the realty sector called the increase ‘ill-timed.’ If the proposal floated by the stamp and registration department is accepted, buyers will have to cough up more money to buy property in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway. So far, dozens of social groups, such as Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), an umbrella body of at least 70 housing societies, federation of apartment owners of Noida and Greater Noida, Progressive community foundation, federation of Noida RWAs and Gautam Budh Nagar district development RWAs, have filed objections. The National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), and many other developers have also filed their objections against the hike in circle rates. “The proposal to raise circle rates in Noida, Greater Noida and along the Yamuna Expressway by as much as 40% and additionally apply a 5-12.5% surcharge on properties along the Metro route or near the expressway could not have come at a less ideal time. The NCR’s real estate market has only just begun recovering from the impact of two lockdowns. At this point of time, a softer pricing regime would have encouraged more buyers as they are still grappling with the financial hurdles brought along by the Covid-19 outbreak. Currently, it is in the proposal stage and we hope the authorities reconsider this ill-timed move,” said Anuj Puri, chairperson of Anarock Property Consultants.Rajiva Singh, president of Noida federation of apartment owners associations (NOFAA) , said the government should reject this proposal immediately. “The realty market has witnessed 30-40% reduction in property rates due to the economic crisis in view of Covid-19. The government should instead reduce the circle rates to give a boost to economy,” said Singh after filing the objection.Developers said that it is high time that circle rates be reduced and made more realistic.“Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra governments have reduced circle rates in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The UP government should take similar steps o revive the market. Also, the government should reduce stamp fee from 6% to 2% as it will benefit consumers, thereby benefiting the state government,” said R K Arora, chairman of NAREDCO.UP stamp and registration department’s assistant inspector general  S S Pal, UP’s stamp and registration department’s assistant inspector general, said, “We have not yet figured out how many objections have been filed so far. It will be done on August 16 and an appropriate decision will be taken in this regard.”In Noida’s A-category sectors 14A, 15A and 44, the circle rate is proposed at ₹1,94,250 per square metre (sqm) against the existing ₹1,03,500 per sqm — an 87% hike. In B-category sectors such as sectors 11, 12, 22, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78, which are hubs of middle-income group housing complexes, the rate is proposed at ₹72,000 per sqm against the existing ₹52,500 per sqm — a 37% increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-residents-realtors-oppose-proposed-circle-rate-hike-101628103707307.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||40-year-old woman found naked on terrace of Ludhiana civil hospital||A 40-year-old woman was found naked on the terrace of the three-storey Lord Mahavira Civil Hospital amid mysterious circumstances in Ludhiana on Tuesday afternoon.A sexual assault forensic examination was conducted rape is being suspected. “The woman was still not fit to record a statement about what happened. We are waiting for her medical examination report following which further action will be taken,” Division Number 2 station house officer (SHO) Satpal Singh said. No FIR has been lodged yet.Came alone in ambulanceSenior medical officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur said after preliminary investigation they found that the woman was suffering from diarrhoea and referred from Community Health Centre, Sahnewal.A 108 Ambulance brought her to the civil hospital on Monday with no attendant in tow.“According to the emergency medical officer, after physical examination, the patient was found alright and given the requisite medicine for relief. She was advised bed rest at home, following which she left,” the SMO said.On Tuesday afternoon, hospital workers found her unconscious and naked on the terrace, with her clothes lying nearby. They alerted senior hospital authorities and the police were sounded.Some social activists also arrived at the scene and alleged that the woman was sexually assaulted and abandoned on the terrace.Family untraceableThe woman had provided her name, address and other details to the hospital staff when she was attended to on Monday. However, the police realised the address was incorrect while trying to reach the her family on Wednesday.Police are recording statements of the hospital employees and also checking CCTV footage to establish the sequence of events leading up to the woman’s discovery on the terrace.Panel to probe medical negligenceSenior medical officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur said a three-member panel had been constituted to investigate whether the woman was denied treatment, as she was suffering from diarrhoea. They will also probe how she managed to reach the top floor of the hospital without being noticed.The patient has been admitted to the hospital and female staff has been deployed to look after her, as no attendant has turned up so far.A psychiatrist will conduct a mental assessment and counselling once she recovers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40yearold-woman-found-naked-on-terrace-of-ludhiana-civil-hospital-101628103649572.html
05-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation to hire agency for collection of e-waste from households||Residents in the city will soon be able to dispose of their electronic waste in an environment friendly way and even get some value back as the Ghaziabad municipal corporation has decided to hire an agency for collection and transportation of e-waste for disposal in a scientific manner. The corporation officials said that a framework will be put in place in one and half months and they will soon be floating an expression of interest (EOI) to hire a firm for the purpose. E-waste includes old discarded electronic items such as television sets, refrigerators, cellphones, laptops, and chargers, among others.According to the officials, the city at present has no mechanism to collect e-waste that generally finds way to local scrap retailers and causes environment pollution as it is often burnt to extract metals such as lead, zinc, and nickel. “We will authorise a vendor for collection of e-waste from households. An EOI (to select a vendor) will be floated soon. The vendor will be paying up to the consumers and some amount will also be received by the corporation. For the purpose, we will be tapping the extended producers’ responsibility (EPR) mechanism,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. EPR refers to responsibility for management of the disposal of products by producers once those products are no longer in use by the consumers. “We will also come up with a control room and an app for the purpose. Residents can call the collection agency for collection and transportation of e-waste from households,” Tanwar added. The corporation officials, however, declined to give an estimate of the quantum of annual e-waste generation in the city. Another official familiar with the development said that disposal of e-waste by scrap dealers is generally prevalent in places like Loni bordering Delhi. “The unscientific disposal of e-waste takes place in Loni. Such an activity is prevalent in areas where the border is difficult to ascertain and operated in households and even in illegally setup factories,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. However, officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the activities of unscientific disposal of e-waste have been curbed to a large extent in Loni. “During the past one and half years, there has been a crackdown on about 600 such units in Loni and they have been shut down. We have 21 authorised recyclers of e-waste in Ghaziabad and Hapur. At present, we do not have estimates about generation of e-waste in the city,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.Environmentalists said that the city has no mechanism at present for collection of e-waste items. “Mostly, the households give away the old electronic items to local scrap vendors. Later, the waste finds its way to locations where they are generally burnt to extract metals and the leftover chemicals are also drained to ground. This severely impacts environment,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-to-hire-agency-for-collection-of-e-waste-from-households-101628103650100.html
05-08-2021||Noida||Man shot dead, friend hurt as seven open fire in Jewar||A 35-year-old man was killed while his friend sustained injuries after at least seven people, including two brothers, opened fire at them at Chanchli village in Greater Noida’s Jewar area on Tuesday evening, said police. Both the victims were rushed to a private hospital in Khurja, where the deceased, Pintu Rana, who worked as a home guard, was declared brought dead. His friend Monu is currently undergoing treatment for the head injuries, which police suspect are from a blunt object, sustained in the attack, said police. According to police, the two, along with a friend identified as Hari Om, were meeting a few other people. Hari Om is one of the accused in the Ikhlaq murder case of 2015. He was nabbed during a police encounter and is currently out on bail. “The two victims, along with Hari Om, had some personal enmity with the other group of people over a woman. Both the groups have registered cases against each other in Meerut and the investigation is still on. Things escalated last night and shots were fired,” said Umesh Bahadur, station house officer of Jewar police station. Monu and Pintu sustained injuries while Hari managed to flee the spot, said police. Cops rushed to the spot after they received information but the suspects had fled by then. Senior police officers visited the spot on Tuesday night. Based on a complaint from Monu’s family, a case was registered against seven people for murder and rioting under sections 302, 307, 147 and 148 of the IPC at Jewar police station. Police said that the prime suspects are two brothers, who chased the victims on a motorcycle for almost 2km with a countrymade pistol. A senior police officer said they have been identified and will be nabbed soon. Multiple teams have been formed to investigate the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-shot-dead-friend-hurt-as-seven-open-fire-in-jewar-101628103586181.html
05-08-2021||Noida||27 travellers from high-risk states traced in GB Nagar, no one found positive so far||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department, in the past four days, has traced 27 travellers who came to the district from states reporting high Covid-19 cases. The samples of these travellers were collected for Covid-19 test, said officials, adding that 25 samples turned out negative while the results of two are pending.The surveillance of such passengers was started in the district on July 24 after the Uttar Pradesh government mandated travellers coming from states having a weekly Covid positivity rate of 3% or more to carry a negative RT-PCR report not older than four days, or a vaccination certificate indicating that they had been administered both doses. Between July 24 and July 31, no such traveller was traced by the department. “The surveillance teams of district health department are collecting data from various sources that include nigrani samitis and residential bodies,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, GB Nagar. The measures have been taken to prevent a possible third wave of Covid-19, he added.The health department is relying on 600 surveillance teams comprising ASHA and Anganwadi workers. “We have also alerted big hotels in the district to inform us if they get any passenger from the high-risk states,” said a health official.Now, the health department will also add an option for self-notification of travellers on the Integrated Command Control Centre helpline (18004192211) of the district. “A passenger from one of the high-risk states who wants to notify himself to the district health department can call on the ICCC helpline from Thursday,” said the official.Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter), said that precautionary measures will go a long way in fight against Covid-19. “It is a tough task ahead for the surveillance teams as the district does not have any interstate bus or train terminal, nor any domestic airport. We hope citizens will be vigilant and will report such travellers to the health department,” he said.Meanwhile, GB Nagar on Wednesday reported just one new Covid-19 case, according to the state’s health bulletin. The state has 686 active cases with 27 in GB Nagar, showed the data.Travellers from high-risk states including Kerala, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, and Sikkim are under surveillance since August 1. As per the government order, every week, the list of high-risk states will be updated on the official website -- http://dgmhup.gov.in -- of director general (medical health), UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/27-travellers-from-high-risk-states-traced-in-gb-nagar-no-one-found-positive-so-far-101628103526181.html
05-08-2021||Noida||Noida: 59.23% children have Covid antibodies, finds ICMR study||The results of the serological survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), that was released last week, have revealed that 59.23% children in the age group of 6-18 years in Gautam Budh Nagar have developed antibodies against Covid-19.The nationwide survey took place between June and July this year. Ten teams comprising members from the ICMR’s National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) and the district health department collected 400 blood samples from Gautam Budh Nagar between June 29-30 this year. According to the national level figures released by the medical body on July 25, 28,975 people were tested, of whom 67.6% tested positive for the Covid antibodies.“Sero positivity means that the individuals have been exposed to Covid-19 in the past and have developed antibodies to fight the virus. However, having antibodies doesn’t mean that the person was symptomatic, nor does it mean that the person will be immune to the infection in future. Considering the lack of information at the national level, there was a need to generate evidence on SARS-CoV-2 infection among the population, more so in light of the ongoing planning and prioritization for the vaccination,” said Dr Shalini Singh, director of ICMR-NICPR. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the results found that 66.7% of the of 400 samples collected have the antibodies against Covid-19. GB Nagar was one of the 70 districts across India that was chosen for the survey. “As many as 130 samples of children below 18 years and 270 samples of adults were taken. An additional 100 samples of healthcare workers working at Sector 30’s district hospital was also taken,” said Dr Amit Kumar, district public health expert. Now, an analysis of the data reveals that 77 (59.23%) of the 130 children have Covid antibodies. Of the 130 samples, 40 were of children between the age of six and nine--22 (55%) of which tested positive in the sero survey. Fifty-five (38%) of the 90 children between the age of 10-18 years, whose samples were collected, have developed antibodies. According to the national data, seroprevalence among children of 6-9 years is 57.2% while it is 61.6% for those between 10-18 years. According to the survey’s findings, “More than half of the children (six to less than 18 years) were seropositive.”According to infectious diseases expert Dr Ishwar Gilada, the seropositivity among children is lesser than that of the general population, which is all the more reason to expedite their vaccinations in the country.“The Union health ministry is working towards starting vaccination of children. The trials are still underway and vaccination of children is likely to start by September this year. As per the data in sero-survey, seropositivity among children between 6-18 years old is less than that of general population which is between 66 to 67%. As schools are about to start, it is all the more important to inoculate children,” said Dr Gilada, who is also the secretary-general of Organised Medicines Academic Guild.When asked, chief medical officer Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma said, “I am yet to see the data of the GB Nagar serosurvey. Once I have assessed it, the health department will strategise its public health response”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-59-23-children-have-covid-antibodies-finds-icmr-study-101628103466127.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Launch of Delhi Metro Grey Line extension pushed back over delays in restoring approach road||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday postponed the inauguration of the extension of the Dwarka-Najafgarh Grey Line to Dhansa Bus Stand, “for about two weeks’ time” as the officials wait for the restoration of an approach road that caved-in more than two months ago. The inauguration of the missing link of the Pink Line, connecting Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri, will however be inaugurated on Friday, as per the original plan announced on Sunday.“A portion of a vital road link connecting Khaira Mor with Gopal Nagar had to be blocked for heavy vehicles due to construction work on the reversal facility beyond the Dhansa Bus Stand station. However, following the completion of tunnelling work in the reversal area, the road is now being restored and will be ready soon which will facilitate easy access to the station from various interior areas beyond Najafgarh,” said a statement issued by DMRC.On May 20, a portion of the road near the then under construction Dhansa Bus Stand Metro station caved in after a spell of heavy rainfall, following which Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot inspected the area the next day and directed an inquiry.On Sunday, DMRC said that the extension of the Grey Line and the missing link of Pink Line will be inaugurated on August 6. Senior Metro officials said the Pink Line section will be inaugurated by Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday.The Metro said the date of inauguration of the Najafgarh–Dhansa Bus Stand metro extension “will be intimated shortly following the completion of this pending work”.In a letter to Mangu Singh, managing director of the Metro body, on Monday, Gahlot said, “Due to the construction of the Dhansa Bus Stand Metro Station and laying of the underground tunnel up to Khaira Mor, the stretch of Dhansa Road from Najafgarh Phirni up to Gopal Nagar has been blocked for more than one year... I fail to understand what purpose the inauguration will serve if common citizens are unable to reach the station due to blocking of the said road...”Gahlot also highlighted that DMRC has been submitting different timelines for completion of work, adding that “the assured timelines were never met and the said stretch of road has not yet been opened for normal traffic”.DMRC officials did not respond to queries seeking comment on the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrc-postpones-inauguration-of-grey-line-extension-101628103346707.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||‘The men told us to go home and sleep... But I couldn’t keep quiet’: Mother of 9-year old rape victim||For the nine-year-old Dalit girl, whose alleged rape and murder touched off angry protests, her mother was her best friend.Residents of Purani Nangal village remember the young girl as fiercely protective of her mother, tagging with her everywhere as the older woman collected garbage. She would sit around, talk or sing and come back to their airless one-room house at 5pm every day.“If she saw anyone misbehaving with me, she would quickly retort to silence the abuser. In return, all she wanted from me was to tie her hair into a nice plait,” the mother recollected.She was the only child of the couple, who belong to the impoverished Valmiki caste and made their living by picking off scraps and rags and begging near a local Muslim shrine.Stories of rape and molestation from across the city often echoed in the neighbourhood, spooking the mother who refused to let her daughter out of sight.Neighbours often insisted that the girl be sent to school, but the mother would cite safety concerns. Still, during the past year, she was slowly convinced of the benefits of education. “Finally, during the lockdown, the mother decided that when schools open, she would send her to study,” said a neighbour, Geeta Devi.That was not to be.As dusk fell on Sunday, the girl’s dead body were found at a local crematorium. A local priest, and three of his associates, claimed the girl was electrocuted while using a water cooler but the girl’s family alleged she was raped and forcibly burnt to erase evidence. The priests and others even advised the mother to bury the news and ward off scandal.“They told us to go home and sleep and not mourn the death. They said if we called the police, they would steal her organs. But I couldn’t keep quiet, so the moment I got back, I screamed at the top of my lungs…my girl was gone,” said the mother.Talking to the girl’s parents, police and other investigating officials, eyewitnesses and local villagers present at the spot, HT recreates how the tragedy occurred.2Around 5.30pm on Sunday, the mother suddenly felt ill.She asked her daughter to fetch water in a bottle. The girl strolled into the crematorium with an empty bottle in her hand. The woman started walking back home. Her husband had left for the market.The couple had no immediate reason to suspect trouble. The crematorium – which faced the shrine where the woman often sought alms -- was one of the few places she let her daughter alone. A water cooler in the crematorium premises was a big draw for the mother and daughter on hot, dusty days. The family was no stranger to the crematorium staff either. “The pandit ji (accused crematorium priest Radhe Shyam) would sometimes ask my daughter to make tea or bring him water,” the mother said.The couple was sometimes called also to clean the premises or move piles of wood. “He would give my daughter ₹5-10, but never paid me a penny for my hard work,” the mother said.Local residents knew the 55-year-old priest for years because his father presided over the crematorium before him.“Until then there was no way to know what the pandit ji had in mind,” the girl’s father said.3About 30 minutes later, when the mother returned, her daughter wasn’t around. Instead, it was priest, Radhe Shyam, looking out for her.The woman said – and the case FIR corroborated – that Shyam walked her into the crematorium and told her that the daughter died of electrocution from touching water cooler. “I saw my daughter on a bench. Her hands and feet were stretched out. Her eyes were closed, her lips were blackish, her nose was bleeding and water was oozing out of her mouth. But there was no mud or dirt on her clothes,” the mother recollected.She alleged four men were present: Shyam, Kuldeep Kumar, 63, Laxmi Narayan, 48, and Mohammad Salim, 49.Shyam rode out on his scooter to find the girl’s father. “He picked me from the market, but revealed about the death only when we were on the flyover near the crematorium,” the father said.By 7.30pm, the pyre was on fire -- all religious cremation formalities sidestepped.“But a mother’s heart couldn’t accept this wrong and she decided to call the villagers. Each time my wife and I tried to run away, they would drag us back in. They kept the crematorium’s gates locked until the pyre was fully burning,” the father alleged.The woman said they were eventually allowed to leave a little before 9pm. “They offered to feed us before leaving, but I refused. They said that if we did not let anyone know about the cremation, they would help us perform the last rites in the Yamuna,” the mother said.The woman’s neighbours remember her running towards them around 9pm, screaming that her daughter was killed. Soon, dozens of residents were outside the crematorium, knocking down the gates. The funeral pyre was raging by then. “Only the legs were not burnt,” said Ajit Kumar, a local resident.A statement by Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west) said that a call to the police control room (PCR) was made at 10.30pm.4Kumar said many residents were enraged and thrashed the four suspects. “One of them confessed and then blamed Radhe Shyam for planning everything,” said Kumar.The four suspects were eventually rescued by the police.The DCP’s first statement said that the PCR call was about “rape and death of a minor girl and her being cremated”, but neither rape nor murder was mentioned in the FIR registered at Delhi Cantonment police station.On the issue of the FIR not mentioning rape, the DCP said that such cases are not registered based on the allegations made by the PCR caller. “The girl’s mother did not mention rape and murder in her statement for the FIR, or even in her statement the next day under CRPC section 164,” the officer said. The mother disputed this.On Monday evening, police added sections of rape, murder, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) and the SC/ST Act after the mother’s statement was recorded before the SC/ST Commission.The post-mortem of the victim’s body by a medical board comprising three doctors from Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital came back inconclusive on Wednesday because only her charred remains were recovered.“The autopsy was inconclusive and no cause of death has been ascertained since very few body parts were available,” the DCP said.5Back at the village, there is a clear divide. Many of the victim’s neighbours and members of the Valmiki community are galvanized in their demand for justice. Many have mobilised activists, called reporters and recorded every statement since Sunday night.Others – especially on the upper-caste dominated section of the 7,000 strong village – see this as a political conspiracy to whittle their power.Among them is the family of one of the arrested, Laxmi Narayan.Narayan’s wife, Kiran Devi, said her husband was not an employee at the crematorium. “He is a painter who returned from work, handed me a part of his daily wage, and then went out for a shave. Since the saloon was crowded, he strolled out to find a gathering. He was a part of the crowd, but some local residents jealous of him framed him in this case,” said Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/they-asked-us-to-go-home-and-sleep-and-not-mourn-the-death-101628103107807.html
05-08-2021||Lucknow||Ex-BSP MLA arrested for arson at Rita Bahugana Joshi’s house in 2009 joins BJP||Former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmaker Jitendra Singh Babloo, who was arrested in 2009 in connection with alleged arson at the then Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s Lucknow residence, was inducted into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), along with leaders from various other political parties, in the state capital on Wednesday. Rita Bahuguna Joshi, too, is in the BJP now and currently an MP from Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh.In a video statement released from Delhi, Joshi said, “In July 2009, when my house was targeted and burnt, Babloo was leading the arsonists. The charges against him have been framed. I am sure that he joined the party after hiding facts (about his alleged involvement in arson).” She said that she would appeal to BJP national chief JP Nadda as well as state BJP president Swatantra Dev to cancel Babloo’s joining.“The BJP’s doors are open for all but Babloo surely must have joined the party by hiding facts,” she said. Joshi is in Delhi, attending the monsoon session of Parliament.When the alleged incident of arson took place at her Lucknow residence in 2009, Joshi was lodged in the Moradabad jail for allegedly making defamatory remarks against the then Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati This is the second allegedly controversial appointment made in the BJP after that of Arvind Tripathi as the state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the party. People familiar with the issue said Tripathi had 16 cases registered against him at Kanpur’s Kakadev police station. Tripathi and BJYM chief Pranshu Dutt Dwivedi, however, claimed that the cases were political and that Tripathi had been exonerated in most of them. In the latest development, Babloo, who had represented the Bikapur assembly constituency of Faizabad (now renamed Ayodhya) was inducted along with other leaders into the BJP in the presence of senior leaders. He was not only named in the arson case that took place in Lucknow on the night of July 15, 2009, but also subsequently arrested by the CB-CID. Joshi’s house in the high security Lucknow area was allegedly targeted by BSP leaders following her alleged remarks against BSP chief Mayawati, who was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister at the time. Babloo claimed he was innocent. “I had no role in the arson case. In fact, this is one of the reasons why I fell out with Mayawatiji. I was arrested in the case despite the fact that I had no role in the case,” he said. Asked how he felt being in the same party with Joshi, he said, “She is a senior leader and there is no question of any bad blood (on the arson issue).”The Congress took potshots at the development. “Now, the accused and the victim are both with the BJP. It is for the BJP to decide whom it wants to induct into the party, but people surely are watching as to the kind of appointments being made by a party, the leaders of which love to take the moral high ground on various issues,” said Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi. Other leaders inducted into the BJP include former Congress general secretary Pankaj Mohan Sonker, who had also contested the Lok Sabha polls from Azamgarh, former BSP coordinator from Ghaziabad Manoj Sharma and former BSP candidate from Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat Pravesh Singh.Agra-based social activist Dr Beena Lavanya also joined the BJP. Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev welcomed the leaders into the party.“Now, as I welcome you into the party, it is your responsibility to embrace the policies and ideology of the party and take the various initiatives of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s government to the masses,” he said. The UP BJP chief also named DP Bharti from Badaun as the party’s state unit secretary. He appointed Ram Chandra Kannaujia from Lucknow as the state chief of the party’s scheduled caste (SC) cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-bsp-mla-who-was-arrested-in-arson-case-in-2009-joins-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-101628103106649.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC disposes of plea on Khaira’s disqualification||A high court bench on Wednesday disposed of a plea seeking disqualification of Congress leader and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira.The plea was filed in 2020 by one Harsimran Singh, a Kapurthala resident, demanding that the speaker be directed to decide representation of January 10, 2019, in which disqualification of Khaira as an MLA was sought after he quit the AAP and floated his own party, Punjab Ekta Party (PEP). In June this year, Khaira joined the Congress.Khaira has invited disqualification on the ground of 10th schedule of Constitution of India. As per 10th schedule, a member of the House belonging to a particular party would be liable to be disqualified if he voluntarily gives up his membership of such a political party from which he is elected, the plea had argued.The high court bench of justice Deepak Sibal disposed of the plea taking note of the submissions from the state’s additional advocate general HS Sitta that as communicated a decision on the representation of Harsimran Singh will be taken within three months by the Speaker’s office.Last week, too, the high court had disposed of a plea in which directions were sought to the speaker to disqualify six MLAs, including Khaira, who won on the AAP ticket in 2017, but later left the party.Last week, too, the high court had disposed of a plea in which directions were sought to the speaker to disqualify six MLAs, including Khaira, who won on the AAP ticket in 2017, but later left the party. Then state’s advocate general had submitted that these MLAs have already been served notice and a decision would soon be taken by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-disposes-of-plea-on-khaira-s-disqualification-101628102926496.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Guards’ role under lens after gangster found dead in Tihar jail||An alleged gangster, Ankit Gujjar, was found dead in a cell inside Tihar jail No 3 on Wednesday morning, even as his two cell mates complained that they were assaulted by the prison guards, officers aware of the matter said.Until his arrest in August 2020, Gujjar,29, was one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted persons. Accused in at least eight murder cases, along with other criminal cases, Gujjar carried a reward of ₹1.25 lakh at the time of his arrest --- ₹1 lakh announced by Uttar Pradesh police and ₹25,000 by Delhi Police.Delhi Police and Tihar prison officers did not elaborate on the events that led to Gujjar’s death, but Tihar director general, Sandeep Goel, said a magisterial inquiry is being conducted in the matter.HT spoke to several police and prison officers who confirmed that on Tuesday, three inmates, including Gujjar, fought with prison guards during an inspection of their cell. The inspection was conducted following a tip-off that the prisoners were hiding an “improvised sharp weapon” in their cell, the officers said.“Gujjar was lodged in a cell with two other prisoners Gurpreet, 22, and Gurjeet, 22, both residents of Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. Jail officers conducted a search inside their cell, but they resisted. During the search, the three appeared to have clashed with the prison guards. After this, the situation was brought under control and Gujjar was transferred to a solitary cell. Gurpreet and Gujjar were lodged together in another cell,” said an officer, who asked not to be named.At 7am on Wednesday, when jail officers were taking a head count of the prisoners, they found Gujjar unconscious inside his cell. He was rushed to the dispensary of jail number 3, where he was declared brought dead. His two cell mates, who also alleged that they suffered internal injuries, were taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where they are currently under treatment.“It is possible that Gujjar may have suffered internal injuries. Only the post-mortem report will clear what led to his death,” a police officer, who asked not be named, said.Delhi police officers said they were awaiting a post-mortem report before proceeding in the matter.Gujjar, a resident of Baghpat, was arrested by UP Police in 2015. He was released on bail in 2019. He then shifted his operations to Delhi.Delhi Police said Gujjar joined hands with Delhi-based gangster Rohit Chaudhary, and together they formed the Chaudhary-Gujjar gang. There are several fan pages of Gujjar on social media with his photographs and videos. The photos show him carrying weapons. He has been addressed as a “top gangster” in many of the fan pages. In July 2019, Gujjar killed a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Vinod Pandit, during the panchayat elections in Chandi Nagar, Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh. He also pasted posters threatening his rivals.Last month, the Delhi high court asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe an inmate’s murder inside the jail in May. Delhi Police arrested four prisoners, lodged inside the jail for the murder. But the family of the dead prisoner, Srikant Swami, has also held jail officers responsible for his murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-guards-role-under-lens-after-gangster-found-dead-in-tihar-jail-101628102747034.html
05-08-2021||Other||Shops stay open till 7pm; police, PMC begin to take action||PUNE Defying the state government’s restrictions on shop timings, hundreds of shop owners and traders kept shops open passed the 4pm deadline on Wednesday.The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) had announced that shops would be open till 7m from August 4, as the state government has not given any relaxations from the current Covid curbs to Pune city. Many shop owners in the city who kept open their shops past 4pm drew action from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pune Police.“As we had already declared our plans, we remained open after 4pm. The state government needs to understand our survival. Thousands of small and big shop owners and traders are struggling and there is hardly any business. We will now keep our shops open till 7pm. Policemen came and started threatening us with action. PMC officials were also fining shop owners, but we are ready to face the action and won’t stop from running till 7pm,” said Fatechand Ranka, president, FTAP. “The state government has opened up 25 districts, which includes Mumbai and Thane. Then what is the fault of the Punekar traders. They should not combine Pune city and Pune district. Our only demand is that our shop timings should be extended till 7pm and we will get some time to do business,” added Ranka.At around 5 pm the PMC officials along with the police officers and policemen started taking rounds of the city, photographing shops which were open and taking down the names of shop owners. PMC officials fined some of shop keepers.Shop owner Rohan Nalawade from Navi peth said, “There are already so many restrictions due to Covid. Limited shop timings are adding to the daily life problems of shop owners and even citizens. If the situation goes on like this, I will have to close my shop soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shops-stay-open-till-7pm-police-pmc-begin-to-take-action-101628102505843.html
05-08-2021||Other||3 of family reported missing booked in chit-fund cheating case worth ₹2 crore||PUNE Three members from a family have been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Tuesday, for cheating 65 people of ₹2 crore in a community chit fund scheme a day after a relative reported the family members missing.The three accused include Pushpa Satpute, her husband Parshuram Satpute and their elder son Sagar Satpute, all residents of Sajjangad Colony in Rahatani, Pune, according to police.“Their’s is a 10–15-year-old business which had earned lots of goodwill in the neighbourhood. The wife of their younger son has reported them to have been missing since a few days. The investors said that they could not get a hold of them since July 28,” said sub-inspector S Jagtap of Wakad police station, who registered the case. Another official of Wakad police station is now investigating the case.The Satputes are accused of duping at least 65 people of a total of ₹2,04,24,110, according to the police. The number will go up if more complainants come ahead, according to the police.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 3 and 4 of The Price and Chits and Money Circulation Act, 1978 has been registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-family-reported-missing-booked-in-chit-fund-cheating-case-worth-rs-2-crore-101628102447655.html
05-08-2021||Other||Stems, stalks, seeds of cannabis not ganja: Bombay HC grants bail to man caught for possession||PUNE A man booked for possession of a commercial quantity of ganja was granted bail by the Bombay High Court (HC) four years after being arrested by the Pune rural police. The reason: A chemical analysis of the drug seized revealed that it contained flower buds along with pieces of stalks, stems, leaves and seeds whereas Section 2(b) of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, defines ganja as “the flowering or fruiting tops of the cannabis plant (excluding the seeds and leaves when not accompanied by the tops), by whatever name they may be known or designated”.The arrested accused, one Haribhau Mahadu Valse, was arrested by officials of Manchar police station on August 1, 2017 for storing ganja in his warehouse allegedly for the purpose of sale, according to the FIR lodged in the case under Section 8(c) and 20(c) of the NDPS Act. As the drug packed in gunny bags seized from Valse’s warehouse weighed over 51.4kg and anything over 20kg is considered a commercial quantity according to Valse’s lawyer advocate Ganesh Gupta, Valse was booked under the more incriminating Section 20(c) for being in possession of a commercial quantity of the drug, the punishment for which is more than 10 years’ imprisonment and/or a fine upon conviction which makes it difficult to get bail. By contrast, the punishment for being caught in possession of a small quantity of ganja (anything under 1,000 gram) is less stringent.On August 1, 2017, the police seized the ganja packed in gunny bags from Valse’s warehouse and got it verified by the panch while his co-accused escaped into a pomegranate field in which the warehouse was located. Ten days after seizure of the drug, it was sent for chemical analysis to ascertain whether it was ganja or not. The material packed inside the gunny bags was found to weigh over 51.4kg but it was also found to contain pieces of stalks, stems, leaves and seeds along with flower buds. While the ganja seized qualified as a commercial quantity by weight, the presence of stalks, stems, leaves and seeds went against the legal definition of the drug.Accordingly, the order passed by Justice Anuja Prabhudessai of the Bombay HC on July 29 and uploaded on August 2, read, “It is however to be noted that the chemical analysis report reveals that the material forwarded for analysis contained flower buds with pieces of stalks, stems, leaves and seeds, without quantifying the weight of the flower tops. This fact prima facie raises a doubt whether the ganja seized from the warehouse of the accused was of commercial quantity as to attract the provisions under Section 20(c) of the NDPS Act.”Valse was thus granted bail on a bail bond of Rs40,000 and at least one surety of the same amount and regular police station attendance. S V Gavand was the public prosecutor in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stems-stalks-seeds-of-cannabis-not-ganja-bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-caught-for-possession-101628102446497.html
05-08-2021||Other||Online theft cases using remote access apps on the rise||PUNE: An increasing number of people are falling prey to online theft using screen-sharing applications that allow remote access to mobile and computer devices.The two screen-sharing applications most widely used by fraudsters to steal money from people online are AnyDesk and Teamviewer Quicksupport, according to officials of the cybercrime cell of Pune city police. These applications can be used by the same person for multiple personal devices owned or for remotely accessing other appliances including mobile phones, laptops and desktops.According to Vidya Jadhav, police inspector of Unit 2 of the cybercrime cell of Pune police, “These applications are generally used under the guise of know-your-customer (KYC) fraud or updating SIM and ATM cards so people tend to grant access easily.”An official of the cybercrime cell who records data for the cell said, “Every single day of this year, we have had at least one or two cases of remote sharing applications used for stealing money. Since these applications are most of the time used to steal card data and misuse it, it gets registered as bank and card frauds. While individual amounts are always small compared to other methods of hacking, given the number of such cases, the collective amount is substantial.”Even the website of one of these screen-sharing applications states, “With your first session request, you will also receive a security message urging you not to grant access to anyone you don’t know. Make sure that you trust the person contacting you and only then accept the request. Thereafter you can start your presentation and everything you do on your phone will be visible to your guest.”Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime cell, warned, “The methods to protect yourself from such attacks are to format your systems regularly. Do not click on unknown links or download applications unless they are sent by people well known to you. Even if you do use screen-sharing, do not share the screen with unidentified people.”Due to the risk associated with these applications, many companies are avoiding using them. An IT professional, 30, who did not wish to be identified, said, “Most companies have consciously decided not to use AnyDesk as it is highly unreliable. There is a code on the screen which, upon sharing, gives complete access to your screen. A lot of companies have found it to be problematic.”The elderly in and around the city however, who find it difficult navigating new technology without guidance, are proving to be soft targets for fraudsters. A man, 79, from Warje Malwadi was duped of Rs1 lakh in a credit card fraud after the accused managed to acquire his credentials while tracking a courier sent by the complainant. A case was registered at the Warje Malwadi police station on June 1. Turns out the accused got access to the senior citizen’s mobile phone screen and urged him to use his credit card to pay Rs5 just to know his confidential information like the CVV. Using this information gathered unbeknownst to the senior citizen, the accused used his credit card for online transactions worth Rs1 lakh, according to the police.It is learned that the trend of online theft using screen-sharing applications began in 2020 when major financial transactions started taking place online. For instance, the pandemic-induced lockdown necessitated cancellation of multiple flights leaving many passengers in want of refunds on their flight tickets. In one such case, a woman from Pune, 54, was duped of Rs3.2 lakh while trying to claim a refund on a cancelled flight ticket. On October 20 when she was trying to get a refund on a flight from Chennai to Pune that she had booked, she got the number of the concerned airline online and made a call. However, the person who answered the woman’s call made her download two applications which gave him remote access to the woman’s mobile phone in which her bank data was saved. Once she downloaded the apps, he asked her to send a message and using the same, he managed to siphon money from three bank accounts of the complainant and her family members.App attack· Callers ask victims to download the applications from app stores, or send links· The applications cannot share screens without sharing the code number which appears initially· In most cases, bank card or third-party payment application transactions are carried out using this method· The accused gets access to the screen and by extension, the OTP for payments without the victim’s knowledge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-theft-cases-using-remote-access-apps-on-the-rise-101628102445878.html
05-08-2021||Pune||Pune’s four dams filled to 94.42% of capacity||With good rainfall in July, Panshet dam and Khadakwasla dam are now filled to capacity, while the two other dams servicing Pune are filled to over 80 per cent of capacity. Rainfall collectively, in August and September, will be above normal in Central India, as forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the Water Resources Department, Temghar dam on Wednesday was 82.10 per cent full, whereas Warasgaon dam is 91.70 per cent full. The four dams are collectively at 94.42 per cent of capacity, with 27.52 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water. Last year during the same time, the four dams were 34.16 per cent full, with 9.96 TMC of water. Between June 1 and August 4, Panshet reported 1,605 millimetres (mm) of rainfall. During the same time, Temghar reported 2,281mm and Warasgaon reported 1579mm of rainfall. Khadakwasla reported 489 mm of rainfall in the catchment area since June 1. Last year, between June 1 and August 4, rainfall recorded in the catchment areas lower than this year. Panshet reported 733mm from June 1 to August 4 in 2020. Warasgaon reported 698 mm and Temghar reported 1040 mm. Khadakwasla, last year, reported 331 mm rainfall in the first two months of monsoon. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, IMD Pune, said that after a good spell of rain in the past few days, rainfall activity is likely to reduce now.“Reduced rainfall activity is likely to continue over Peninsular India and adjoining east Central India, Maharashtra and Gujarat state till August 7,” said Kashyapi.He added that in the forecast for August and September, IMD has predicted normal to above normal rainfall in central India which includes Maharashtra.“Normal to above normal rainfall is most likely over most parts of peninsular India and adjacent central India in August and September this year,” said IMD officials.From June 1 till Wednesday, August 4, IMD officials noted that Pune city has reported a total of 355mm of rainfall as against the normal rainfall of 345.2 mm. Pune city has reported excess rainfall by 9.8 mm so far said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-dams-filled-to-94-42-of-capacity-101628102386403.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT questions accused SP, four other cops||The three-member special investigation team (SIT) led by ADGP LK Yadav probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident on Wednesday questioned five cops, including superintendent of police Baljit Singh, also an accused in the case. The SIT had summoned cops who were deputed at various locations during the protest and firing incident at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. Apart from Baljit, SP Balbir Singh, DSP Gurjit Singh Romana, inspector Amarjit Singh Kular and sub-inspector Hari Krishan appeared before the SIT member, deputy inspector general of police Surjit Singh at Faridkot, and their statements were recorded. Last week, the SIT had recorded statements of 14 cops, including then Faridkot SSP (now commandant, 9th battalion, PAP, Amritsar) Sukhminder Singh Mann. Meanwhile, the SIT is waiting for the confirmation of the date from a forensic lab to conduct a lie-detector test on suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal. On July 9, Umranangal appeared before the court at Faridkot and gave a written consent to undergo a lie-detector test in the Kotkapura case. The SIT had filed an application in a court last month, seeking permission to conduct the narco-analysis, polygraph test and brain electrical activation profile of Umranangal, former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini and ex-Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma. However, Saini and Sharma had refused to undergo the test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sit-questions-accused-sp-four-other-cops-101628102268516.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||640kg of lahan seized, six held in Tarn Taran||In a joint operation with the Punjab Police, the excise department arrested six persons with 640kg of lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor) and 100 litres of illicit liquor during a search operation at Kalsian and Marimegha villages falling under the Bhikhiwind sub-division on Wednesday. Those arrested have been identified as Baldev Singh, Randhir Singh, Hira Singh, Sukhpal Singh and Lakhwinder Singh of Kalsian village, and Gurjant Singh and Gurlal Singh of Marimegha village. Tarn Taran excise officer Navjot Singh said a team led by excise inspector Amrik Singh conducted the search operation along with the police of the police station concerned following a tip-off. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said they have registered six cases after the recovery. He said they have adopted zero tolerance policy against all those who are involved in illicit liquor smuggling business. “In the last one year, we have registered 483 cases under the Excise Act in Tarn Taran district and 388 persons have been arrested,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/640kg-of-lahan-seized-six-held-in-tarn-taran-101628102146578.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Can’t open up trains for all as 1/3rd of citizens still susceptible to Covid-19, says Maharashtra’s task force member||Even as more relaxations in Covid-19 curbs have been introduced in Mumbai owing to a steady decline in the number of cases, restrictions to access local trains have been retained. Members of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force have emphasised three important aspects before opening public transport for all – achieving 70% vaccination coverage, random testing at stations and stringent implementation of double masking. Hindustan Times spoke to task force member Dr Shashank Joshi on the rationale behind their recommendations: Why can’t local trains be opened for all when other relaxations are being implemented? There are three important yardsticks for any city to relax their norms – the RT-PCR positivity rate has to be below 5% consistently for two weeks, there has to be 70% full vaccination coverage and zero tolerance for non-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. We haven’t been able to achieve 70% vaccination coverage as yet. If we take into account the number of citizens who are vaccinated and those who have been exposed to the virus, there is still at least one-third of our population that is unexposed. The circulation of the virus is shrinking, but this one-third population is susceptible. Let’s say if local trains are opened, it is this susceptible population that will be fast infected. Should people who have taken both the jabs be allowed on trains? Yes. However, conducting such checks will be cumbersome. With more relaxations and no local trains, buses are bearing the brunt with overcrowding. Won’t they become a breeding ground? It continues to be our fear. That is one of the reasons why we have been emphasising on creating safer travel environments before allowing everyone to take public transport. Safer environments will be created as we achieve 70% vaccination coverage and implement strict double masking. One should understand that Mumbai has immense challenges in its fight against Covid-19. The city’s humidity is conducive for droplet transmission and for the virus to thrive. Its population density is among the highest and Mumbaiites generally tend to crowd and congregate. Any potential crowding can upset the declining trend that we are experiencing now. Another crucial challenge is the Delta variant that has been rapidly transmitting. Mumbai predominantly has the Delta variant in circulation and a little bit of the Kappa variant as well. Therefore, a calibrated approach to reopening is important. How soon can more relaxations like local trains for all be implemented? Mumbai will open up more, gradually. It’s all about striking the right balance. The opening also depends on the readiness of the healthcare infrastructure for an unprecedented wave, the R0 or R-naught (which determines how transmissible the disease is) among other things. Overall, Maharashtra’s R0 has shown a decline, but any potential crowding situations can upset this trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-open-up-trains-for-all-as-1-3rd-of-citizens-still-susceptible-to-covid-19-says-maharashtra-s-task-force-member-101628102086940.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Case filed after drone spotted near Red Fort||Ahead of Independence Day celebrations, the city police on Wednesday registered an FIR after security personnel spotted a drone flying over Vijay Ghat, behind the Red Fort, caused a security scare. Police said the drone, which was seized, was allegedly being used for shooting a web series but added that they only had permission for on-ground shooting.Officials said the issue of drones was discussed in an interstate meeting held between police officers of different states ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-scare-after-drone-spotted-near-red-fort-101628102085865.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir opposes plan to appoint full-fledged administrator for UT||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday termed the proposal to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the Union Territory by divesting the Punjab governor of this charge an another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to Chandigarh. “We will oppose this tooth and nail. Chandigarh is an inseparable part of Punjab and should be transferred to the parent state as soon as possible,” said Sukhbir in a statement. The SAD chief said there was no reason to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the UT from outside the state. “If at all an administrator has to be appointed till the UT is not transferred to Punjab, the officer should be from the parent state. Earlier also, the chief commissioner of Chandigarh used to be from Punjab.” Asserting that all decisions taken at the time of reorganisation of Punjab were being violated one after another, Sukhbir said the Centre was not following the 60:40 ratio for posting of officers in the UT. “Separate cadres have been created to reduce the strength of Punjab service officers in the UT and now even AGMUT officers are being posted on key posts in utter violation of the 60:40 formula,” he said. Stating that instead of correcting the wrongs being done to Punjab vis a vis Chandigarh, the SAD chief said it was condemnable that the Union government was now planning to dilute Punjab’s role in Chandigarh even further. “It was unfortunate that the NDA government was following the path of the Congress government by proposing to implement an anti-Punjab move which was also against the spirit of the constitution,” he said. He said the SAD had earlier too opposed a move to appoint a separate administrator for Chandigarh in 2016 by divesting the Punjab Governor of this charge. “We will launch an agitation to ensure this move does not fructify again,” he said. The SAD chief said Punjab had the first right over Chandigarh as the UT was established by uprooting people from villages belonging to Punjab. He said even though Chandigarh was still the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, efforts were on to dilute its stake in the UT on one pretext or another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-opposes-plan-to-appoint-full-fledged-administrator-for-ut-101628102029347.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Rakesh Asthana chairs first interstate police meeting ahead of Independence Day||Newly appointed Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana emphasised on preventive measures such as conducting tenants’ verification, checking hotels and guest houses, and ensuring strict border checks to curb movement of weapons and criminals into the Capital, as he held his first interstate police coordination meeting on Wednesday, ahead of the Independence Day celebrations.The meeting was attended by senior police officers from Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Jammu & Kashmir.“The objective of the meeting was to share terror-related intelligence and inputs, take necessary measures in the run up to the Independence Day celebrations and also to deliberate upon plans for bigger coordinated action among states in areas of policing which have implications for national capital,” said the deputy commissioner of police, Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the Delhi Police’s spokesperson.“The need to keep a watchful eye on movement of paragliders, drones and other flying objects from open areas on the day of (Independence Day) function was discussed and it was agreed to share advance information about the movement of any suspicious elements,” said Biswal.Ahead of the Independence Day celebrations in the national capital, several police teams across the city are being trained by Air Force and the National Security Guards (NSG) in dealing with unfriendly objects in the air.In Old Delhi, where the Red Fort is located, police will have 360-degree surveillance of the air space to check for drones, which could be used by terror groups.Only last month, the Delhi Police issued an order prohibiting the use of drones across the city. The order came about after drones dropped explosives at the Air Force base in Jammu on June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emphasis-on-preventive-measures-as-asthana-chairs-first-interstate-police-meet-ahead-of-iday-101628102026377.html
05-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Man goes berserk, shoots in air; rescued||New Delhi: A Delhi police team from Shahbad Dairy police station in outer Delhi managed to save the life of a 38-year-old man who was firing in the air from the balcony of his house. The man, police said, appeared to be mentally unstable and was threatening to shoot at everyone and at himself. Police said he had also locked his wife and daughter in one room;then tried to hang himself; broke windowpanes with his hands and then came out on the balcony with a gun.DCP(Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh tweeted a video of the man with a gun on his hand standing on the balcony of his house.“Exhibiting brilliant professional skills prompt action by staff of police station Shahbad Dairy helped to save the life of a man and others. On receiving information police reached the spot immediately. A team indulged the man who had a gun and was firing in air, in talks, while the other team via roof reached inside the apartment and saved him from taking drastic step. Man was medically counselled and after registering a case investigation is in progress,” Ranjan said.Police said the man is a builder, who claimed he was depressed over business losses. Police said he had illegal gun that has been . “We sent him to IHBAS for examination. The doctors examined him and said that he does not need any treatment. He has been arrested and a case has been registered. He fired in the air but no one was hurt. We are probing the source of the weapon,” an investigating officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-man-goes-berserk-shoots-in-air-rescued-101628102025822.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Calls for justice mount after Dalit girl’s rape||Mounting protests over the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in southwest Delhi took a political turn on Wednesday as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited the victim’s family and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the Opposition of politicising the tragedy.Kejriwal ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident, announced financial assistance of ₹10 lakh for the girl’s family and said the city government would appoint top lawyers to represent them.“The injustice done to the family is unfortunate and cannot be compensated, but the government will give ₹10 lakh to them and order a magisterial inquiry into the matter,” he told reporters. “There is a need to strengthen law and order in Delhi. I appeal to the central government to take firm steps in this direction,” he added.In the morning, Gandhi met the parents of the girl and assured them of all help and support.“The tears of the parents of the girl say one thing – that their daughter, who is the daughter of the nation, deserves justice. And, in this journey towards justice, I stand with them,” he tweeted in Hindi after the meeting.The BJP accused the Opposition of politicking.“It is unfortunate that they choose to see rapes and deaths of girls in those states where they are not in power and not in the states like Punjab and Rajasthan, where they have their governments,” Union minister Anurag Thakur told reporters.The girl, from a Dalit family, in Purani Nangal village near Delhi cantonment, was found dead by her parents in a local crematorium on Sunday night.The accused — a 55-year-old priest and three of his associates — say the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler but the family alleges that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her.The four accused -- who have been booked under sections pertaining to rape, murder and threatening charges, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act -- are in jail.Brinda Karat, leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah, demanding his intervention.In a statement, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “We have assured the family that they shall get justice and the persons held guilty will get the strictest punishment... We demand that the police file a chargesheet in 15 days and the case to be taken up in a fast-track court.”Autopsy inconclusive, protests swellPolice transferred the case to the crime branch and seized clothes worn by the four suspects on the day of the incident and sent it for forensic examination. An investigating officer said the clothes will be tested for DNA samples to ascertain if the nine-year-old girl was raped on the day of the incident.The three-member medical board conducting the autopsy of the child’s body told police it will be impossible to arrive at a conclusion because only charred remains were available for them to examine, said a senior police official.Since Sunday night, an arterial road near Delhi cantonment has been blocked by protesters from the Dalit community who accuse the police of lax action and demand justice.On Wednesday, demonstrators swelled with people arriving from across the National Capital Region and towns further away, including Panipat in Haryana and Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh.Several demanded capital punishment for the perpetrators.“We learnt about the protest on social media. It is necessary to show solidarity in such matters. Cases of violence against Dalits are increasing across the country,” said Rajesh Raj Jeevan, a 35-year-old social worker from Aligarh.Jaswindra Pahalwan, a 30-year-old protester from Haryana’s Sonepat, said: “The perpetrators should be hanged. It is an instance of violence against children, against women and against vulnerable groups. Only harsh punishment can help set an example.”Local moodDalits form roughly 20% of the Capital’s 20 million population and Valmikis -- the caste of the victim -- form around two-thirds of the scheduled caste population.Purani Nangal has a population of around 7,000, according to records of revenue department of the Delhi government, including around 100 families belonging to the Valmiki caste. Most of them are sanitation workers, drivers, factory workers or people engaged in menial jobs.Many houses have blue-coloured walls and tiles with pictures of Ravidas – a 14th century saint revered by Dalits — along with other Hindu deities.Over the last 30 years, the village has turned into an unauthorised colony with concrete houses, said Ram Sahai, a migrant from Rajasthan who settled in the village around 40 years ago with his family and took up sanitation work.A part of the village is inhabited by upper castes – many of whom are Brahmins, Thakurs and Banias.“The village has no record of enmity between caste groups. However, there have been at least two incidents of rape in the last three months. This is a major law and order issue...,” said Arun, a resident of the Valmiki colony in the village who uses only his first name.Amit Sharma, an upper-caste resident of the village, said, “This is more of a law-and-order related issue. The police and government should be more vigilant. This has got nothing to do with caste. This village has no record of caste violence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-calls-for-justice-mount-101628101966596.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat, Bittu engage in verbal spat in Parliament complex over farm laws||Two Punjab MPs from Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday engaged in a public spat inside Parliament complex over the passage of farm laws.Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu and Bathinda MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal traded charges just before the day’s session started.Both Akali Dal and Punjab Congress MPs have been standing outside Parliament house for days to protest against the three farm laws and in support of the farmers.Bittu accused Harsimrat of being part of the Union cabinet that cleared the three farm bills and also aiding their passage in Lok Sabha.Hitting back, Harsimrat accused Bittu and other Congress MPs of staging a walkout and helping in the easy passage of the agriculture bills in the lower house.Harsimrat was standing with Akali Dal and BSP MPs and protesting when Bittu accused her of being a part of the cabinet that cleared the bills.The face-off took place in full public view and in front of the media.Bittu later attacked SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, asking where was the Lok Sabha member while Parliament and Kisan Sansad were on.“Where is Sukhbir Badal? Why is he not protesting and coming to Parliament? He is holding press conferences elsewhere but not coming to Parliament to raise the farmers’ issues,” Bittu said amid continued squabbling.Punjab MPs of Akali Dal, Congress and AAP have been demanding the repeal of the three controversial farm laws and have been giving adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss farm issues.Leaders of various parties have been going out of their way to show solidarity with farmers ever since the farmer unions declared that they would assess the performance of MPs on farmers’ issues and then decide on extending their support in elections.Punjab assembly elections are due in early 2022 and all parties are working overtime to keep the farmers on their side.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had earlier driven a tractor to Parliament to highlight the problems of farmers. The monsoon session of Parliament, which started on July 19, will conclude on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harsimrat-bittu-engage-in-verbal-spat-in-parliament-complex-over-farm-laws-101628101907658.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three nabbed for road rage after video of victim being beaten goes viral||The police on Tuesday arrested three men over an incident of road rage -- in which a man was allegedly hit with a brick multiple times in Central Delhi’s Ranjeet Nagar -- after a video of the assault went viral on social media.The video, which police said was recorded by a local on Monday night, was shared by Aam Aadmi Party MLA Amanatullah Khan, who also commented about the worsening law-and-order situation in the national capital.According to police, they received information about an incident in which some men had allegedly assaulted a man named Naushad Ali in Ranjeet Nagar at around 10.30pm on Monday.Ali’s wife, Gulnaj, who spoke to reporters outside the police station on Wednesday, said they were taking their daughter to a local doctor when the suspects fought with her husband for reportedly parking the scooter “on the middle of the road”.“They attacked my husband with bricks, which is seen in the video clearly. They also hit me and my daughter, who was unwell. She had fever so we had come to the clinic to get medicines for her,” she said.Police said that the fight started after the three men removed Naushad’s scooter from the road to make way for their Maruti Ertiga car. “Naushad scolded them for touching his scooter. In the process of taking their car ahead, it hit the scooter and a fight broke out. This is a case of road rage,” said an investigating officer.Police identified the suspects as Nikhil (only first name) and Atul Maan, who work as cab drivers, and Mehar Singh, who works in the admin department of a school in Dwarka.“Ali was being treated at the hospital and he was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday morning. Efforts were made to record his statement, but he did not cooperate. We registered the FIR on the basis of the DD (daily diary) entry and arrested the two persons,” said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (central).The officer said Naushad was yet to record his statement till Wednesday afternoon because he wasn’t well enough yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi3-nabbed-for-road-rage-after-video-of-victim-being-beaten-goes-viral-101628101845832.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt lowers rate of Covid-19 RT-PCR tests to ₹500 at private centres||The Delhi government on Wednesday slashed the price of RT-PCR tests — the gold standard in Covid-19 testing — from ₹800 to ₹500, and for the first time fixed the cost of a rapid antigen test (RAT) in Delhi at ₹300.The cost of home collection of RT-PCR test samples was also slashed from ₹1,200 to ₹700.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, while announcing the move on Twitter, said the new rates will help common people, and boost Covid-19 testing in the national capital.Both types of Covid-19 tests, however, will continue to be offered for free in all Delhi government-run hospitals, centres, temporary facilities and dispensaries, and the reduced rates notified by the city administration on Wednesday will pertain to tests conducted through private laboratories or in private hospitals.The order, issued by the state health department, said the new rates were applicable with immediate effect, and directed all labs and hospitals to display the reduced prices at “prominent places” within 24 hours.Covid-19 testing rates were last changed on November 30 last year, when the state capped the cost of an RT-PCR test conducted in a private facility at ₹800, and a home collection at ₹1,200, down from the flat ₹2,400 rate charged before that.A senior state health official said the order will also help patients being treated in private hospitals who have to mandatorily undergo an RT-PCR test before any medical procedure.Wednesday’s order for the first time fixes the cost of a rapid test in Delhi. “Until now there was no fixed price of RAT in Delhi. As a result, some private hospitals used to charge up to ₹1,200 per rapid test. The government received such complaints and, as a result, has fixed the rate of a rapid antigen test,” the official quoted above said.If any facility is found exceeding the government’s rates, the facility will be liable for penal action under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code.The order came days after PathStore, a French firm and emerging pathology start-up, introduced a Covid-19 RT-PCR test at ₹299. “The precedent was soon followed by the Haryana government, which brought down the cost of an RT-PCR test to ₹299. Now the Delhi government has also brought down the rates,” the company said in a statement.Anubhav Anusha, global CEO and founder of GeneStore and PathStore France, said, “Amidst the pandemic, the high cost of an RT-PCR test is a major challenge for the economically weaker sections in accessing high quality Covid-19 testing services. We hope other state governments will appreciate the precedent set and introduce similar interventions.”The decision comes at a time when the Covid-19 caseload in Delhi is at lows not seen since the early days of the pandemic in April last year. On Wednesday, the city reported 67 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths, according to data shared by the health department. The daily positivity rate stood at 0.09%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-lowers-rate-of-covid-19-rt-pcr-tests-to-500-at-pvt-centres-700-for-home-collections-101628101488127.html
05-08-2021||Pune||State can consider relaxations in Pune city if PMC sends proposal: Tope||PUNE Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, on Wednesday, said the state government will reconsider its decision on providing relaxation to Pune city if the local authorities recommend the same.Tope was talking to HT on the deadlock emerging in the city after traders decided to be adamant in defying the 4 pm deadline following the government’s decision earlier this week not to offer any relief to Pune.“If there is a need of keeping the shops open till 8 pm then the local authorities should recommend this to the state government. If the local authority like municipal commissioner recommends shops to continue remaining open till 8 pm, and if he recommends the decision to the government, we will consider it,” Tope said over the phone.Tope said this after discussing the issue with chief secretary Sitaram Kunte. “I am conveying this after discussing it with the chief secretary,” he said.On Wednesday, defying the state government’s restrictions on shop timings, hundreds of shop owners and traders kept shops open past the 4 pm deadline. To end this deadlock between administration and traders health minister has suggested civic body send recommendations to extend shop timings to the state government.He, however, clarified that sending a relaxation proposal to the government does not mean it would be approved, but it just means that state administration would consider the recommendation would think over it.“BMC had sent a proposal to ease relaxations and the government gave a nod to that. On this ground, if PMC sends recommendations to Chief Minister’s office then we will think over it,” said Tope.Meanwhile, Tope accepted that the government has considered a city and rural parts as one unit while evaluating the positivity rate and recommended the continuation of testing and tracing. He also claimed that considering the positivity rate in Pune, the government will consider giving the district more vaccines than its allotted quota.While the city’s positivity rate for the past fortnight was around 3.3%, making it eligible for relaxations, Pune did not make the cut because the entire district’s positivity rate was above five per cent for July. This was despite the government’s previous order clearly stating that Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, and rural parts be considered as three separate administrative units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-can-consider-relaxations-in-pune-city-if-pmc-sends-proposal-tope-101628101486392.html
05-08-2021||Delhi||Create a buffer stock of oxygen, Delhi high court tells Centre||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen even as it also expressed anguish on the slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination in the country.“Today also in the vaccination we are lagging far behind. God knows whether we would achieve the target of December 31 that we have set,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.On setting up oxygen buffer stock, the court said there is no clarity and the issue cannot be deferred for long in wake of the much anticipated third Covid wave. “Today, the situation may look fine but then everyone saw what happened in April-May. There is no escape from this (buffer stock of LMO). This is like insurance,” the bench saidA total of 10,295,389 people were vaccinated till Tuesday in Delhi, according to HT dashboard.The remarks by the bench came during a hearing on a bunch of pleas seeking better facilities to manage Covid crisis.Central government’s standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said the Delhi government has done enough for creating a buffer stock, and the state counsel could elaborate it.Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra said they have a buffer stock of around 420 metric tonnes of LMO at different places with the suppliers and they will transfer the stock by August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/create-a-buffer-stock-of-oxygen-delhi-high-court-tells-centre-101628101246445.html
05-08-2021||Lucknow||Meeting UP electricity regulator’s deadline for meters on power staff’s premises may be a tall order in poll year||Taking a serious view of non-implementation of its earlier directions on installation of energy meters on the premises of power personnel till date, the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) has set a deadline for UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) to complete the task by the end of the current financial year. “The commission directs that metering of LMV-10 connections should be completed by end of FY 2021-2022,” the commission said in its tariff order issued on July 29. The LMV-10 category refers to the unmetered power staff.A senior energy department official, however, said: “Considering the fact that there are assembly polls early next year, it is impossible for the state government to give a go-ahead to the UPPCL to install meters on the powermen’s premises and invite their wrath.”  The powermen in UP are very sensitive to the issue of metering of their residences and have strongly and successfully opposed attempts in this regard in the past despite the fact that UP is believed to be the only state where power employees and pensioners enjoy the luxury of using unmetered and unaccounted electricity. UPERC, in November 2017, abolished LMV-10 category, putting consumers in this category at par with any other domestic consumer categorised as LMV-1 for the purpose of billing. The move implied that the UPPCL was supposed to charge the same tariff from unmetered power personnel as applicable to unmetered domestic consumers. This step, however, did not achieve the purpose and the UPPCL/discoms failed to provide any information to UPERC on the number of meters installed on the power staff’s residences whenever it sought details on the subject.“Despite repeated directions of the commission, the same (installation of meters) has not been done by the licensees,” the commission observed in the July 29 tariff order and fixed a higher tariff for them so that it would act as a disincentive to using unmetered power. “Hence, the commission is forced to re-compute the revenue for LMV-10 consumers (power staff) considering the average consumption per consumer per month to be 700 units and at ₹7.00 / kWh (the rate of LMV-1, other metered category – highest slab),” the regulator ordered and clarified that the revenue deemed to have been realised from would be added to UPPCL’s final revenue realisation and same would be taken into view while revising the tariff in future. For the power staff, based on the balance sheet data and past trend, the commission has computed deemed revenue of Rs. 61.05 crore, ₹70.18 crore, ₹55.28 crore and ₹140.68 crore of the state discoms namely DVVNL (Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd), MVVNL (Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd), PVVNL (Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd) and PuVVNL (Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd) respectively. As per the data provided by UPPCL to the regulator, there are 98,218 power men consuming unmetered electricity at their residences with their total electricity load having been estimated to be 4,15,912.88 KW. The power personnel together consumed 577.52 million units of electricity in 2020-21, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/meeting-up-electricity-regulator-s-deadline-for-meters-on-power-staff-s-residential-premises-may-be-a-tall-order-in-poll-year-101628098006990.html
05-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra plans to expand SDRF for quicker response to disasters||To ensure an efficient and speedier response to disasters, the state government is working on expanding the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) by stationing these teams in State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) camps across Maharashtra. This brownfield expansion of the SDRF’s facilities will do away with the need to acquire land to set up these units, which often causes delays in building stations for rescue teams.It is also looking at creating synergies between the disaster response teams and agencies like the home guards and civil defence during any adverse events.After the floods in the Konkan and parts of western Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that a separate force on lines of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will be established in all districts and that the SDRF will be strengthened. The state government drew flak for the delay at the beginning of the rescue operations at most of the affected areas. One of the reasons was the delay in reaching the rescue teams to the disaster sites.Vijay Wadettiwar, minister, relief and rehabilitation, confirmed they were planning to locate SDRF units in SRPF camps. In the first phase, the department is planning to focus on the most affected districts like Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur. It also wants to have two teams for the three districts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, added Wadettiwar.“This proposal will be discussed in the meeting of the state cabinet,” said Wadettiwar, adding that they were also planning to acquire a helicopter for undertaking rescue operations.Modelled on the lines of the NDRF, which is a specialized force to respond to natural and manmade disasters, the SDRF has a strength of 428 personnel and officers. It has two companies at Nagpur and Dhule.Officials from the relief and rehabilitation department of the state government said they were planning to establish SDRF units in the existing State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) camps. The SRPF groups—there are 16 groups at 13 locations in Maharashtra—will have a small unit of the disaster relief force, which will be used exclusively for disaster response.SRPF camps are located at Pune, Daund, Mumbai, Solapur, Navi Mumbai, Kolhapur, Jalna, Nagpur, Dhule, Amravati, Hingoli, Aurangabad and Gondia. The SRPF also has a training centre at Nanvij in Daund. Locating SDRF teams in SRPF camps will do away with the need to acquire land for these facilities.“There is a strong need to enhance the state’s disaster response capacity,” he urged, pointing to how the frequency of cyclones on the western coast was on the rise, while parts of Konkan, western Maharashtra and Vidarbha were prone to flooding.The SDRF personnel are drawn from the SRPF. However, the official said that they would have to recruit personnel for the new SDRF units as the reserve police may have little manpower to spare. “The SDRF handles a diverse range of challenges like chemical disasters, civil disasters and building collapses, which requires a different level of qualifications and training,” he explained, adding that this staff will have to be recruited afresh.“The idea is to have more bases than we have today for an immediate response (to disasters),” said Aseem Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department, adding that the SRPF idea was among the options on the table. The integration between the SRPF and SDRF was being discussed and the state is also looking at synergies with the home guards and civil defence and the creation of disaster response capabilities at the local level.The NDRF has a battalion consisting of around 1,149 people stationed at Sudumbare at Talegaon near Pune to cover Maharashtra and Goa. It has stationed three teams consisting of 45 men each, including engineers, technicians, and medical staff, and two sniffer dogs in each at the Andheri sports complex in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-plans-to-expand-srpf-for-quicker-response-to-disasters-101628097705692.html
05-08-2021||Pune||No CET for regular undergraduate courses, tough road ahead for admissions||Even as there has been a 9% increase in the passing percentage of students at the Higher Secondary School (HSC) year, for 2020-21, the Maharashtra education department has decided not to hold a common entrance test (CET) for any non-professional undergraduate course. The state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Wednesday announced that there will no CET this year for regular UG courses at the college and university level. Admissions therefore for the UG courses in Arts, Science and Commerce courses will be done based on the Class 12 results. While Samant clarified that colleges will be allowed to increase seats, the decision of not conducting a CET means top colleges in Pune, as well as the rest of the state, are likely to have higher cut-offs as compared to last year, which will lead to more competition among students for admission. The minister also made it clear that CET will be held for other professional courses by the state CET cell. Samant was speaking at a press conference in Pune after a joint meeting with all the education department senior officials and non-agricultural vice- chancellors. This year more than 1.3 million students have passed Class 12, while seats available for different non-professional curses in 11 state universities stands at 1,211,620. “There is a huge gap in the number of students and available seats in various courses, including professional and non-professional courses. Still to conduct the CET for regular Arts, Science and Commerce faculty is not possible due to the time period. To discuss this we held a joint meeting with all the vice-chancellors and it was decided not to conduct CETs for regular UG courses. Admissions would happen on Class 12 results. And if any university or college wants to increase seats they can apply to the education department till August 31,” said Samant. As many as 99.63 % of the 1.31 million students cleared HSC (Class 12), the results for which were declared on Tuesday by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). In absence of an exam due to Covid, the board used an assessment formula, leading to a rise in passing percentage by 8.97 % as compared to 2020. In Pune Division, the passing percentage for Class 12 students this year is at 99.75%. According to officials from the education department, there are various steps involved in planning to conduct the CET exams, which usually takes four months. “Currently, we have Covid restrictions in the state and in such a situation, conducting one more examination for non-professional courses won’t be feasible for the department,” Samant said. For professional courses, CET examinations will start from August 26 onwards, though a detailed schedule will be declared only after talking to concerned authorities. There won’t be any CET exams for courses which did not have it last year as well. “The professional courses CET exams will be held online though students need to go to a centre to appear for it”, said Samant, adding “We are planning to increase the number of CET exam centres for this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-cet-for-regular-ug-courses-tough-road-ahead-for-admissions-101628093984030.html
05-08-2021||Noida||'You are in cahoots with them’: Supreme Court roasts Noida Authority over Supertech towers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday chided the Noida Authority for its “shocking exercise of power” in sanctioning two residential towers of real estate developer Supertech on a green area, and then blocking right to information requests from homebuyers about the building plans.The two-judge bench, which heard the Noida Authority blamehome buyers for complaining too late, told the authority that it should, as a public authority, take a neutral stand.“From the way you are arguing it appears that you are the promoter. You cannot be fighting against the homebuyers. As a public authority, you have to take a neutral stand. Your conduct reeks of corruption from the eyes, ears and nose and you are trying to find fault with the homebuyers,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said.The bench also reserved its verdict on appeals by Supertech and Noida authority against the Allahabad high court verdict on April 11, 2014, to demolish two towers, Apex and Ceyane, constructed as part of realty major Supertech’s Emerald Court project.The high court, which sought prosecution of officers concerned for collusion with the developer, ordered the demolition in 2014 because the two towers were built too close to each other and violated the Noida Building Regulations of 2010 that requires the minimum distance to be 16 metres. Further, the high court noted that the developer hadn’t taken the consent of homebuyers as required under the Uttar Pradesh Apartment Owners Act, 2010.During arguments on the appeals on Wednesday, the bench noted how the authority helped the developer.“It’s a shocking exercise of power by the Noida Authority. When flat purchasers asked you to reveal the building plans for the two towers, Apex and Ceyane, you wrote to Supertech and refused to part with it after the company objected. Only after the Allahabad high court order, you provided it. It is not that you are in league with Supertech, you are in cahoots with them,” said the bench.In defence, lawyer Ravindra Kumar who represented Noida Authority, said the homebuyers did not complain when Supertech was increasing flats and floors in this project with each successive building plan. Supertech’s original building plan of June 2005 provided 550 flats and 14 towers. This was increased to 689 flats in the revised plan in December 2006. The Apex and Ceyane towers with 24 floors came in the third revised plan of November 2009. And in the final plan of March 2012, these two towers were increased from 24 to 40 storeys.Kumar said: “Between the second and fourth plan, the number of proposed flats were increased from 689 to 1,573. So it was not that the original plan was sacrosanct. This was never challenged by the homebuyers.”The real estate firm, too, blamed homebuyers.“The homebuyers did not go to the high court in 2009 but only after 2012. What were they doing for three years, negotiating?” asked senior lawyer Vikas Singh who represented Supertech.Supertech cited other housing projects in Noida which had a distance of six to nine metres between towers while in case of the company’s twin towers, the distance between the towers is 9.88 metres or 32 feet. Singh said it is the discretion of the builder to create a building block by keeping the buildings adjacent to each other or separate so long as the FAR (floor area ratio) permits.The two towers facing demolition have 915 flats of which 633 were booked. Of them, only 252 flat buyers still remain as 133 homebuyers have re-invested in other Supertech projects while 248 have taken a refund.The Emerald Court Owners Resident Welfare Association, which secured relief from the high court in 2014, attributed the delay cited by the real estate firm and the authority to their attempts to collect information.Senior advocate Jayant Bhushan, appearing for the homebuyers, said that, since 2009, residents were seeking information about the two under-construction towers that were coming up in the green area shown to us while purchasing flats. “I applied under the Right to Information law for the building plan from Noida authority which they refused. That is when I decided to approach the high court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/you-are-in-cahoots-with-them-sc-roasts-noida-authority-over-supertech-towers-101628088643369.html
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal makes Covid-19 test must for unvaccinated tourists||With Himachal Pradesh seeing a spike in Covid-19 infections, the state government on Wednesday made it mandatory for visitors to carry their Covid-19 vaccine certificate (single or both doses) or a negative RT-PCR test report issued not earlier than 72 hours. The state government decided to monitor the situation till August 10 and if the infections continue to rise, it will put a cap on social gatherings, public events besides imposing restrictions on crowded places. “The rise in Covid-19 has become a concern again. In view of the situation, it has been decided to re-impose restrictions,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said during the state assembly session in Shimla. He said people should stay alert and follow Covid-19 safety norms strictly. Mandi reports most cases Himachal Pradesh has 1,414 active cases at present with the highest number of 318 cases being reported from Mandi district, while Sirmaur has the lowest number of 12 active cases. Coronavirus cases in Chamba, Kangra and Shimla districts have also crossed the 200-mark. A total of 3,507 people have died due to the contagion in the state. No mask-no service policy in force The state executive committee has issued guidelines and asked the field implementation authorities to ensure people observe Covid appropriate behaviour at markets, malls, restaurants, bus stands, railway stations, parks, gymnasiums, banquet halls and sports complexes. The state will continue to observe no mask-no service policy strictly. People will be allowed to board public, private transport and enter any government or private establishment only with masks. All departments and district authorities have been directed to ensure compliance. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-to-bring-back-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-101628063320186.html
